as you imagine, or anyhow as Someone imagines. If I wasn't already right about physical reality this couldn't have happened; it is a kind of dream, but I was not the dreamer. It was dremt for me. Of course I could go the route which religious mystics usually go and say, "I was taken out of mundane space & time and transported back to ancient Rome" or "...shown ancient Rome, and then I later was shown a vision of the Promised Land," without going into the mechanics of it. This, then, presumes that the two visions were a form of language, to com¬ municate something to me. Most of all: I saw Nous obscuring its plays with dokos, so the Adversary could not fathom its moves; I saw continuous creation as Nous joined two weak, imperfect or bad sections to become a good one; the veil (dokos) is necessary because of the Game & Nous' ad¬ versary .. .who seems to be either in this world or actually this world, which is the stockpile for Nous' building. Nous is invisibly building a new heavens and earth, using this earth for raw material, despite the adversary's efforts. Concealment of this is necessary, even from us, who seem portions of this world. (We're on the wrong side?) In summation: one of the greatest (and most vital) weapons the spirit has is her invisibility, which extends to the pattern of her plays. Thus I deduce that it was a great privilege that she gave me a glimpse of herself & her activity; also I deduce that I am not with the Adversary, or she wouldn't have let me see what I saw. One must be taken over by the spirit to see her & her activity, evi¬ dently. In which case I might say that the ultimate secret of the universe, the major undisclosed thing, is the spirit & her activity. She works within the world, unseen. This is the ultimate entity, as far as we and our world are concerned. What is her name? I guess St. Sophia, or Nous. I saw more than I realized; I saw all. This is the logos, the ultimate active agency in our universe; our salvation depends on her & her alone. I loved her smile. Teilhard was right: she is also the ultimate goal, Omega, of the universe: the teleological principle and agent and force and outcome. 5- If I view her as the ultimate good agency of our universe, then surely I have been grated the greatest vision possible. I will always wonder why. Anyhow I cherish it. Wow. To see her defeat the baleful force over & over again, and always smiling, always wiser than that huge blind drive of efficient cause (ananke). The Bible is right (about her, the logos) but also Plato is right in Timaeus. What I saw was the, not just a. We are within a construct which she is building; it is a kind of body. I am more & more convinced that the agency (or entity) which brought me the 3-74 experience (visions) is the agency (or entity) revealed in the visions, since the more I am sure that the female figure is the guide of the universe and hence St. Sophia the more see seems the sole agency or entity capable of producing such visions. There is only one steersperson for this universe; my experience is by St. Sophia and about St. Sophia. This adds to everything else she was shown capable of in the visions themselves the ability to (whichever it is) restore the lost faculties or to confer miraculous sight; in either case this is an aspect of the salvific process, and identifies her again as the Cosmic Christ. The totality of atributes which she possesses certainly makes her the Pantocrator; for instance, she was not only witnessing the acts of the conspirators but she was judging and punishing those acts; who is this if not the Pantocrator? Then I say, I have been granted the miracle of beeing allowed to see the Pantocrator judging. What is this if not the Parousia? By definition of the Greek word: His Second Coming. In history, the invisible nucleus of evil has been replaced by the invisible nucleus of good; the plans of evil did not come to fruition but were removed with it (the plans were to recreate the ancient slave society, with the plutocracy living off it, as in Roman times). (I.e the reestablish the worst aspects of the Roman Empire, inside and out.) But, as in TEARS, which depicted all this, the turning point came when the wise old king burst through the breach with his armed hosts; amelioration began, justice set in, and the slave state withered away in the end. What happened to us (the bad: the slave state, then the heavenly intervention) is depicted in TEARS; what has been invislbe here is visible there. Thus TEARS, which was written and published before the intervention, is a very important book when viewed this way (i.e. as apocalyptic, showing what was going to happen — and it did). It is because of TEARS most of all that I was shown what I was shown; mark what I have said here, and recall, too, the material from Acts in TEARS, and the topic of Pauline agape or love. TEARS, then, is a vision of two things hidden by the dokos: a vision of the evil & its plans; a vision of the good & its intervention, and the nature of both set forth (the five police marshals against the wise old king). It is the police against God, with God turning the tide (i.e. the internal change in Buckman which causes him to do something absolutely not in character). "Love your enemies," epitimizes what he does: from the Sermon on the Mount, the highest form of love, and salvific. The Great Change begins in Buckman, and spreads out from there, with the vindication of Taverner. -6- It is interesting how the insertion of my actual dream into TEARS exemplifies the joining of two items by St. Sophia, since in my own life the dream when I dreamed it had nothing to do with my society or the extension-into-visibility of it which I had already laid out in the novel. But juxtiposed, they made their historic (apocalyptic) point. I think now that there is a certain justice in conferring the 3-74 experience/visions on the author of TEARS; justice and appropriateness more than mercy or kindness. TEARS says: "This bad situation exists or will soon exist or anyhow is planned, and it will end — in the following way," and it discloses the way (the Intervention). The wise old king breaches through & raises the siege. We were prisoners in a great prison, until he broke through to redeem us. The stegenographia in TEARS is not limited to the dream section but is throughout, with the dream section the heavenly insertion, within the evil body (our world, the depictment of it). It is of another color — the logos speaking itself. It was to all this understanding that the dream in Canada referred, in which Kathy & the others took off their masks. Again I wonder, Did anyone exist who received TEARS and decoded the message? but knowledge of that is mercifully denied me. (I really would not want to know; it is too heavy. But I think yes, two groups, one inside the evil tyranny, the other outside.) Maybe it was the popular tune played over the Catholic radio, signal that... I wonder. Well, that is beyond my purview. The idea "Prisons are a source of wealth" has been defeated. The return to Roman ways occured in the U.S., in the Civil War, espoused by General Sherman; the Germans learned from him. The antique tyranny broke through once more! The empire on the north (King of the North), the slavery on the south (King of the South). Now, let us start with TEARS as the paradigm print-out, of our society. What, then, does TEARS tell us as to the saving force? What is it? Why, clearly it is God; clearly Christ the King has come; again, by this route, we come to believe that the Parousia took place, for TEARS said it did. People do not notice the event in actuality, nor understand it when they read TEARS, mainly because they are not looking for it and would not know it —did not— were it to come; in TEARS there can be no doubt — the Ancient of Days is clearly depicted. Also (il) He judged; (2) He judged against or downward; (3) He executed his own judgment. In this world the 3-eyed lady (1) Judged; (2) judged downward; (3) Executed her own judgment, which is an extraordinary coincidence. The breaking through (sudden manifestation) by the King-Who-Judges is essential in our concept of the End Times, speci. the Day of Judgment; it took place in TEARS & in our world identically (Daniel & Revelation may have overstressed the calamatous aspects for cautionary purposes). In each case, one man is to be destroyed, and then the apparatus of the state withers (see epilog in TEARS). But the main indication is that what most fundamentally takes place in each is the introduction, into the world, of the power of Christian love,b brought by God; and this is what ameliorates conditions, causing the state apparatus to wither, this, despite she overt negative judging; it is negative judging to remove one man in order to usher in this power of love brought by God from His realm to Earth. This is the essential basis of Christianity. In -7- TEARS this is expressed in the scene at the all-night gas station with the black man; in this world the only moment of that sort I saw was in Senator Weicker’s speech about "enemies are to be loved." But that did take place right after the intervention. It was the initial turn of direction. All this makes the most sense if it is assumed that Nixon’s evil transcended the ordinary, that he, like Hitler, was diabolic: the kingpin of evil. Joel pointed out last night that the U.S. is the pivot point of the world in terms of freedom; if the citadel (Washington DC) falls, the rest of the world will fall automatically, in terms of freedom. As he said, "Will Iceland intervene for us?" This strengthens my case regarding the . intervention, for self-evident reasons; Nixon, at the heart of the citaael, was at least functionally diabolic, if not intentionally so. (Joal, by the way, declared the Xerox letter pro¬ bably a US forgery, when I told him about the two letters; he is probably right; the assistance to me then makes more sense if this is the case. And it fits my two or so dreams later on.) So I say that TEARS, which was written in 1970, parallels exactly the events of 1974: in depicting the slave state, the reduc¬ tion to total despair followed by abrupt intervention and judgment, the (implied) removal of one man and finally the withering away of the state after the manifestation of love. It is as if the reign of power is followed by the reign of love, the latter entering the world from Heaven, and requiring for its manifestation the removal of one evil man — which is to say Satan at the heart of the citadel. -1- But subjectively speaking, the most astonishing events, in contrast to the great historic intervention plus the material in TEARS, were the elaborate changes made in me, end-time changes I am certain, the shaping me up to make me acceptable — for the day which in August did come (the pale white light). If there had been no historic changes or perceptions of them; if there had been no TEARS, what was left was still overwhelmingly miraculous and complicated and unprecedented...that is probably the