and the appearance of new ones, sui generis, as ir were. I may not be any less fucked up in terms of phobias, etc., but I do have new values (esp. Christianity et al.). My impressions from rereading the Vaughan poems shows that change in me, and this 2 and a half years after my experience (3-74). These are permanent new values (e.g. my antipathy toward the USSR). The golden rectangle which I saw at the end of the experience would stand as a symbol of psychic wholeness: a quaterrity as mandala, having the attributes of balance & harmony, perfect form, and being also a gate or way, perhaps mediating between this world (me) and the next (unconscious). Therefore it also equals Christ, who was the Mediator. The sparsely populated landscape on the far side (moonlight, still water, the quiet statue of Aphrodite) shows a depotentiated unconscious, with the energy being kx now a part of and available to this side, the conscious. So expressed ergically instead of topographically, all psychic energy became available to me. Living energy (the plasmatic life form). -14- From a Jungian viewpoint, that which characterized my birth of the whole self, or rebirth (of the soul), was an experience with spiritual realities & values. It is these values, obtained from this experience, which must serve me in the second half of my life, and they do seem to be permanent & doing just that. If anything they grow stronger as times passes. I then am that wise king first shown to me as he breached through into this world in '70. I must accept my whole identity; it is not an invasion of the ego by unconscious contents nor an inflation of the ego, although there was possession by an archetype briefly in 3-74 when the collective unconscious merged with my consciousness. Seizure by the Wise Old Man, whereupon he dealt with the problems at hand (e.g. the Xerox letter, the income tax, etc.). It shows what is potential in a person. Potentially available at the midpoint life-crisis. (The razor's edge Augenblick.) This puts it will: the resources and values of the first part of my life showed themselves banckrupt at that mid-point crisis, and so perished, but then were replaced by a structure adequate. The ego died that the self might live, and the self ably proved its worth within the first days. It is probably psychologically good that the archetypal possession was short-lived, that assimilated contents have come under control of consciousness or the ego or whatever. (They are not experienced as alien or the not-I or manipulatory. ) A mantic life like that could not be rationally lived for long; it was a form of intoxification. intoxication. Also divine: divine madness, a theolepsy, such as the sibyl experiences in the AENEAD. The collapse and death of my ego in early March of 74 allowed contents of the collective unconscious to usurpe control, but they proved rational in the long run, and were already a new but genuine self-system which had evidently been forming in the unconscious. The authentic self which Jung talks about was already there, waiting its chance. Or rather for its time to come. It was anticipatory. The little girl with blonde pigtails is the child self, also a new anima; now she has grown up — as witness my conversation with "Mrs. Jack Vance." She is now 28 years old: a young adult. White hair shows she is free of the shadow entirely. She is pure, and related to divinity. I certainly am on good terms with her, inasmuch as she is informing and correcting me, speaking words of wisdom ("Mother Mary" who "comes to me"). I listen to her; I crave to hear anything she can or will say. She is wiser than I. I see her as mediatrix standing between this world (me) and the next, which is the collective unconscious (also the pleroma, to give it an objective existence). She mediates for the archetypes, which is the ultimate job of the anima, herself an archetype: the first one. Behind her I have seen the Godhead, which is the ultimate archetype (the Wise Old Man once more). He instructs and corrects her, with authority and power; she instructs me with the Logos, the word, wisdom itself. She is Wisdom, Lady Wisdom, St. Sophia, probably the highest role or Identity the anima could have (also she is Aphrodite and the sibyl). Then, in Jungian terms, it was my anima who first spoke to me, in the 3-eyed form I called the sibyl, and informed me, which is to say, the spokeswoman of my unconscious warned and informed me: anima as angel, saying, "You are in danger; do this, do that." She spoke of, and showed me, a group of conspirators in business suits & ties who were murderers; but they had been seen and would be dealt with. What a -15- message that was, and how historically correct in all regards — past present and future. The magnitude of my situation, in terms of its danger, was too much for me; and so I fell into the hands of arche¬ types of my unconscious who could fathom and understand and deal with the situation — they were equal to it, as great in themselves as it was in itself: they had the time-span, the historic sense; they exist over thousands of years, like it, vast and intense and strong. Only archetypes could deal with such an archetypal situation: a total tyranny, like that of the Empire. How could I, the former ego, hang in there once it had assessed the actual reality-situation? I can remember how it was when the Estonian letter and then the Xerox letter came; it was just too much, on top of everything else. But the tran¬ sition to the new self had already begun (as witness the phosphene activity). The old ego died before the letters arrived, died from despair and fear and hopeless and helplessness. It was burning a votive candle in memoriam of itself. This is not to say that God didn’t help; this is not to subjective-ize everything. God entered via the arche¬ types of the collective unconscious. They presented information-rich visions; they swept the world to obtain accurate knowledge of what the situation consisted of. Like AMORC says, we are light bulbs in strings, powered from an external common generator, the Cosmic Mind. Probably the ego can be extinguished by death but not the soul or greater self. That which relates to this world dies; that which relates to the next & previous does not. It's all in Wordsworth's "Ode." To remember immortality is to experience it, and to anticipate it lying ahead as it lay behind: coming from that same place as one is going, as if life is a parabola. If I were to define & depict on my own the archetype which took possession of me in 3-74 I would name him The Steersman, because he steered me through the reefs and rocks to clear water (as seen through the golden rectangle gate), to safety; and then he sank back to leave me in charge again. As he first announced during my high school physics test when initially he spoke to me: "It is all very simple," and then he untangled the problem for me, simply and accurately. It was the image of the demiurge himself, I think. It was divinity itself, and being so, as the Magdeburg jars concept shows, it therefore saw the external world as divine; It was able to do that, by projection. The theophany was within and without: everywhere. I see in my mind's eye the Orphic egg, like a pearl, the pearl of great price, glowing with pale white light, one color of moonbeams; the egg of Leda, derived from Zeus; the light in the tomb. This is Firebright, now, a great light, a pearl, a closed egg pregnant with life. It is retractile now, dormant and waiting. It is within my mind, placed there by God; it lies within a receptacle that is infinite in extent, into space & time: my own self. The glowing pearl bobs, too, as if in a grotto on the ocean's floor; so it must be virtually weightless. The idea of a grotto suggests that not only is it retractile, slumbering and waiting, but that it is concealed — protected, too, by me. I shelter it. But it is not doing anything right now. It is merely there. One asks, What will come out of it at the proper time? Thinking of the pearl buried in the field which Christ spoke of, one recognizes it as an intrinsic treasure, so precious that one gives everything one has to acquire it. But what is it? One has sacrificed everything to acquire it. Maybe the haze of white light around it provides a clue. -16- If this Orphic egg is there, then the steersman, the archetype, divinity, who was present and temporarily occupying and directing, was its father or source. I merely received it, gave it a place within which it could be. I am not its father; I am its recipient, which means host or mother. I shelter and hide it; no one knows it is here. I look the same; I act the same. Is this why the steersman took over my life, to be sure I'd be safe so that it, the Orphic egg/pearl, could be safe? Ah; is the Steersman the Holy Spirit? What happened in 3-74 was done in relationship to what is still future. (The birth from the Orphic egg.) Jung says that just prior to psychic integration & wholeness, the projections are withdrawn; the "spinning woman" is no longer present & at work. Certainly this is indeed what I experienced. Man, the person involved, is restored to his original state (of wholeness) before the Fall. The human soul is the bride of Christ, in which Christ is the King who comes & restores it. All these events took place in me in 3-74; I could see for the first time in my life when my projections were withdrawn. The unity (reconciliation) of all the opposites in my mind — hence the release of psychic energy. The God-image in me was restored. I keep saying —and thinking— that there was a 2,000 years elipsis in the time span of my 3-74 experience: Rome to now, with nothing inbetween. But that is wrong; there was the "Jagdstaffel Beamt" scenes which seemed to deal with World War One. It was as if the tape lapsed in 100 ad and then picked up in 1915 AD. Now, for what it is worth, I learn that the JWs believe that Christ returned invisibly in 1914. Maybe madness lies this way, but my 3-74 experience would tend to dovetail with this palpably mad assertion. He is certainly here now, and he, as they say, is the bodiless cosmic Christ, not Jesus; he is invisible and he is everywhere equally. Also, He evidently has great, even absolute, power, in that I saw Him depose the tyranny here. And this, the Anglo-American Empire, is, to the JWs, the last of the empires mentioned in the "Book of Daniel," in fact the one of iron with clay feet. And thus it did indeed prove to be. And there was indeed a stone, "not cut by man," which was hurled at it to topple it, which maybe hasn't ever happened before (maybe, maybe). Could they be right? Well, I know what I know; He is here with power; He did topple the tyranny; and did anything like this happen during the 2,000 previous years? Back to the anamnesis-memories: no. Absence only. Since I know him to be here, either he has always been here or he has returned. Nobody I ever heard of has reported an experience like mine; I will assume he has been gone virtually all this