and since he was God, then we should submit to our suffering because even God suffered and went through all this. Response: This doesn't wash because many human cultures don't know that God came here and suffered and had to endure all this, and some know and don't believe, and don't see how it helps anyhow (supra) Conclusion: Christ did not come here to suffer. His suffering was also not for the purpose of ending or easing ours, because it didn't and doesn't. His suffering was a price he had to pay in coming here, just as we have to pay it. We dwell on this too much. He must have had a purpose that had nothing to do with human suffering, because his coming here had no effect on it one way or another, and that is the plain fact. Whatever purpose was worked remains invisible to us, and probably beyond our comprehension. He probably altered the ontology of the world, or at least widened crucially the power which our assisting spirit Santa Sophia has to offer. This, however, remains a damned world. He did not take the curse off it. (3) A good argument is that the wisdom books (e.g. "The Wisdom of Solomon") stated that St. Sophia could confer immortality, but the incarnation actually proved it. The Logos used itself as a demonstration, as a guinea pig. It resurrected itself, under the most adverse, even dreadful conditions. For the early Christians, the message or meaning was probably clear: what had been claimed in the scriptures had now been proven. They could turn to those scriptures and know that they told the truth, probably not only in that regard but in all regards, although that would be the most vital to them. Two things must be remembered: Christianity was a Greek mystery religion, and the purpose of Greek mystery religions (at that stage) was not to confer immortality, but to reveal it and then utilize it as a means to union with God. The line in Mülller's poem about death, "Die noch keiner kam züruck" is wrong because the Logos or Santa Sophia or the Holy Spirit simply arranged its own birth) on Earth, lived as men lived, died as men die,x covered all bases, mmm made clear both its divinity and its humanity (it was woman-born and material) and then returned in a ubiquitous plasmatic transcendent body, which Thomas couldn't recognize because the "body" of the Logos does not resemble ours. That is an anthropomorphism. However, nowhere in all this was a promise that our corruptible bodies would be immortal. We had to put on other bodies; this was Paul’s secret, there are other bodies, of another kind. This transformation, from the first to the second, will not slowly take place but will be a sudden transformation. We are sown in the grave as seeds, as Christ said, and will rise in collective glory. In this, he gives us an invaluable clue, that our incorruptible bodies will be a mystical common body, the plasmatic body of Christ Himself; we will be joined with him. Creed Christians seem to have no understanding of their own Scriptures. This is not personal immortality but immortality in the sense of returning to God, who is at the same time available to us and possibly even moving toward us as we move toward him. It is within his power to infuse this world; I know because I saw it. He can for any man in an instant transform this material, substantial dead world into his own living organic composite body, of which everything, "living" and "dead" is a portion. There is no time-lapse in this process so I assume it exists outside of time. He merely makes it available to this or that man as he sees fit; it is the removal of the blinders, and the man sees where he really is. A point which Father Rasch made was that God achieves a victory created out of, or brought out of, defeat, as in the crucifixion. I can understand this, because Christ, as the Messiah, was the rightful king and had hat his disposal all the armies of heaven to seize his kingly throne to govern earth (cf Dionysos in THE BACCHAE, in contrast). All I ask, though, is what is the victory which was brought of of this defeat? If Christ had not died, then our and his immortality —and the truth— of the scriptures would not b have been demonstrated. By "winning and defeating him," the prince of the earth proved that Jesus was who he said he was, and that the promise was true. Wasn't this a larger victory than a earthy victory of physical power? We have the entry of the artificer into the artifact. Or, as in the Sufi saving, "The workman is invisible within the workshop." "Out of evil God brings forth, at last, good." This may have been the two-player contest I saw, the two contending moral forces. I did see that the power of evil was or appeared always greater and took the initiative, but that it lost due to what I realize just now (!) was Santa Sophia knowing exactly how Justice (good or God) should play its cards, so as to resolve everything in the situation in a good way. I saw that she had a perfect & absolute knowledge of what moves to make when; it was definitely St. Sophia, having as the basic "talent" by which she played this knowledge; by this she made her plays (and so moving, i.e. making moves, that they appeared intrinsically evil or contributing to evil, so as not to be moving toward a resolution to good; her pattern of play was not comprehensible to anyone but to her!) But this means something terribly important: St. Sophia is in constant contention with another, antagonistic power, which is iron, or evil; thus, she is not the only force here, though she x may have made this world originally. She contends with an adversary who is our adversary, for us. And she always wins, in each play of the game. What is this adversary and how did it get here? It is a basic power, as in yin and yang, or with Empedocles; especially it is like the war between the Sons of Darkness and the Sons of Light; it is, above all, a war. The dream in TEARS contains the ostensible command, "Die," but under the steganographic covering is the Logos-word "Felix," which means precisely the opposite; it is embedded secretly in the surface picture of damnation. Thus, those not equipped by the Holy Spirit receive a "die" message; the ethers, a "live and prosper and be fruitful and multiply and be joyous and healthy," message, which was God's first command to man. This embedded Logos-word "Felix" absolutely identifies the white-haired old king on horseback as God. There is a exoteric message (die) and an esoteric (live); here, perhaps, the goats-sheep division mentioned by Jesus. This happens to be the entire issue at Judgment Day: death to the evil ones; life to the flock of Christ. Am I to presume that there in fact exists on Earth actual persons who, via the Holy Spirit, receive the "live" message coveredover in this section, and if this is so, there must be countless other written materials presented which carry to them a covered-over message, similar to this at least in method of presentation, that is, steganographic material for them alone, quite possibly absolutely opposite to the exoteric material. Then there must be, logically, a remnant or minority of God here capable of so reading, because it is not reasonable for the Logos to put forth this covered-over esoteric message if no living man can perceive it (i.e. uncover it and blur out the surface "die" message which is directed at the others, the evil ones). I can reach no other conclusion, and this relates back to the girl with the golden fish necklace and my later sense of a small body of secret (sic!) Christians at work. Is there indeed an active secret authentic Christian underground? When I saw all this in TEARS I hadn't read the ICC literature telling about steganographia yet. I must never allow myself to wonder at the real meaning of the dream in TEARS per se, because the real meaning is not in the dream (although there is some kind of meaning to it; it refers to something actual) but in the embedded single Logos-word, "Felix." It points to the Biblical nature of the dream (i.e. from the Book of Daniel and of Revelation). I just read somewhere that all apocalyptic literature (of which only 2 books are retained in the Bible, of many) tell of Christ returning as a king on horseback with other horsemen, other Christian soldiers. I wrote an apocalyptic piece, with the essential covered-over message associated with apocalyptic writing. What is the message in toto? Just a repeat of the first command from God in Genesis? No, because this isn't God, this is Christ returned, the Second Coming. "Felix" versus "die" just points more clearly to the judgment, the separating of men into two groups, associate with, and essential to, the apocalypse. Well, if this be so, thend if DEUS IRAE comes out next, which it may, the message Is continued! It may have begun back in UBIK, then MAZE, FROLIX 8, TEARS and next DEUS IRAE. It is even possible that SCANNER carries some of it, for instance all that about St. Paul; seeing by reflection; why, the title itself, and how it is expressed in the final version, in the text itself! Even COUNTER-CLOCK WORLD could be included...a continual stream of messages, all to point out the approach of the Parousia, which evidently I see more and more clearly. And have seen, in book after book. Now, take what Eric was saying about the American Founding Fathers and tneir belief that history exactly repeats itself, and their study of it, esp. of Greece and Rome. Suppose a great 2,000 year cycle has turned so that we are superimposed over the First Century A.D., as I saw (following this idea, Vico-like, about history). Again we are back there, but it is now, too. Rome One and Rome Two superimposed, as in a film montage; but also, the First Advent and the Second, with this time the Christians unseating the Prince of This World (the anti-Christ). So to speak, they, the Christians, learned from history not to repeat their mistake that lead to the cross. The Second Advent could not occur until the great cycle rolled round to a reprise of the First Century A.D., and chat wasn't until the Nixon Administration, with RMN as 666. The Christians mmmm literally couldn't try again until now; there had to be the superimposition, Rome Two. Conditions had to be topologically superimpose-able. They could not defeat the "Great Harlot" (Rome) until Rome literally was restored by the cycle of history. The first time God (Christ) entered history (to use Harnack's phrase) he did nothing to change history or the world system; he just demonstrated His reality, his presence & existence. Then, murdered, he went underground. This second time, He has come as King and has changed history; defeated the anti-Christ who sat in the citadel of power. The key word for what I saw in 3 74 when I literally saw Rome around me was transparencies. Cne over the other, as they congrued. There is just no way to cut it otherwise; at his first advent, Christ did nothing to change man's lot, or history, the course of empires, . their strength, their hold. He was a spectator, powerless. But this time: vide THE BACCHAE. Also vide HAMLET and the strange dallying to seize power, to make his move. Well, the key answer is, The time has to be exactly right. "Remember, Hamlet says, "The times are out of joint." I.e.