September 17, 1975 Dear Doris, When I last saw you I mentioned that I had been reading the apocryphal book, "The Wisdom of Solomon" and was very impressed by it. As you probably know, our church recommends we read these books now. "The Wisdom of Solomon" was written in the first century B.C. and was part of the Septuagint, which was cited in the New Testament as the holy scriptures which the early Christians used; thus, to them, "The Wisdom of Solomon" was as sacred as any book of the Hebrew Scriptures. These are the parts I wanted to quote to you, taken from here and there. They impressed me very much. You might note that they probably influenced the early Christian concept of immortality, which really is lacking in the Hebrew Scriptures. ". . .For God did not make death, and takes no pleasure in the destruction of any living thing; he created all things that they might have being. The creative forces of the world make for life; there is no deadly poisons in them. Death is not king on earth, for justice is immortal. ". . .But the good man, even if he dies an untimely death, will be at rest. For it is not length of life and number of years which bring the honor due to age; if men have understanding, they have grey hairs enough, and an unspotted life is the true ripeness of age. There was once a man who pleased God, and God accepted him and took him while still living from among sinful men. He was snatched away before his mind could be prevented by witchcraft or his soul deceived by falsehood. . .in a short time he came to the perfection of a full span of years. His soul was pleasing to the Lord, who removed him from a wicked world. The mass of men see this and give it no thought; they do not lay to heart this truth, that those whom God has chosen enjoy his grace and mercy, and that He comes to the help of his holy people. Even after his death the just man will shame the godless who are still alive. Men see the wise man's end without understanding: the Lord has purposed for him and why he took him into safekeeping. . .then the just man shall take his stand, full of assurance, to confront those who oppressed him and made light of his sufferings. At the sight of him there will be terror and confusion, and they will be beside themselves to see him unexpectedly safe home. . ." The knowledge of personal immortality existed in all the Greek mystery religions, of which Christianity is one. However, what is not realized is that immortality was not sought as an end in itself, but as a means to something else: to a more complete union with God. After all, there could be unpleasant immortalities, such as in hell. Consider this: ". . .But the souls of the just are in God's hand, and torment shall not touch them. In the eyes of foolish men they seemed to be dead; their departure was reckoned as defeat, and their going from us as disaster. But they are at peace, for though in the sight of men they may be punished, they have a sure hope of immortality, and after a little chastisement they will receive great blessings, because God has tested them and found them worthy to be his. Like gold in a crucible he put them to the proof, and found them acceptable. . .the true beginning of wisdom is the desire to learn, and a concern for learning means love towards her; the love of her means the keeping of her laws; to keep her laws is a warrant of immortality; and immortality brings a man near to God. Thus the desire of wisdom leads to kingly stature. . ." Is was the great victory of the Greek mystery religions that first a person discovered his own personal immortality and then he used it as a means to attain something higher. The pursuit of that "something higher began here on earth, as a pursuit of Haggia Sophia, or Holy Wisdom. Philo of Alexandria, who lived at exactly the same time as Christ, and was a Greek-educated Jew (he knew no Hebrew) equated Haggia Sophia, Holy Wisdom of the Hebrews, with the Logos of the Greeks. Slightly after that, as you know, the Logos was equated by St. John with Jesus Christ, and thus Hebrew and Greek thought converged, not in an idea, but in a man. Well, dear, I hope you get some comfort from what I've quoted. I have been reading the "Wisdom of Solomon" again and again, and getting a lot out of it. The Britannica says that it is an unusual book in that it presents wisdom as personified, i.e. as Lady Wisdom. It is obvious, from a reading of the book, that Philo was right to connect her/it/him with the Logos, but how interesting to think that the Logos may have come down to us originially in feminine form: The use of the word "she" is not merely grammatical, but actual. The author of the book says: ". . .For in wisdom there is a spirit intelligent and holy, unique in its kind yet made up of many parts, subtle, free-moving, lucid, spotless, clear, invulnerable, loving what is good, eager, unhindered, beneficent, kindly towards men, steadfast, unerring, untouched by care, all-powerful, all-surveying, and permeating all intelligent, pure and delicate spirits. For wisdom moves more easily than motion itself, she pervades and permeates all things because she is so pure. Like a fine mist she rises from the power of God, a pure effluence from the glory of the Almighty; so nothing defiled can enter her by stealth. She is the brightness that streams from everlasting light, the flawless mirror of the active power of God and the image of his goodness. She is but one, yet can do everything; herself unchanging, she makes all things new; age after age she enters into holy souls, and makes them God's friends and prophets, for nothing is acceptable to God but the man who makes his home with wisdom. . ." Isn't this beautiful, this description. And she is alive, the Logos, our Savior. Expressed here in the first complete form, before Christ. I am sure, Doris, that she is the active spirit which came to me last year, in March, when I had come to the very end; I had to suffer a kind of death, a real death, and then suddenly there she was, taking over and untangling the troubles and afflictions around me. She told me then that the great tyranny which this country in thrall would be broken, because, as she showed me then, in a dream, the conspirators had been seen by her, and she would see that they were revealed and destroyed. And so they were. The last thing she told me was, "Saint Sophia will be born again. She was not acceptable before." I talked to my priest and I studied and studied and there is no doubt about it; the Savior is indicated here, in the form expressed in the "Wisdom of Solomon," that particular name: Holy Wisdom, which is more than an attribute of God but one of the Persons of the Trinity. First she told me that the unjust ones would fall, which they did, and then she helped me and healed me, and then she gave me this general prophecy to pass along. I pass it along to you now. Our Savior lives; He is here all around us. As Father Teilhard de Chardin says: "He to whom it is given. . .to see Christ more real than any other reality in the world, Christ everywhere present and everywhere growing more great, Christ the final determination and plasmatic Principle of the Universe, that man indeed lives in a zone where no multiplicity can distress him and which is nevertheless the most active workshop of universal fulfilment. . ." I think --I have faith-- that this is the experience I had back in March of 1974, lasting all the way to March of 1975, which is Passover to Passover, the vernal equinox. It was one full year of Spring, living within Christ for me, or within Haggia Sophia, Holy Wisdom, or the Logos. For my new novel I'm working on, I've done a year and a half of hard long research, notes and thought, but what I've put down in this letter is the best of it all. This Earth, this planet, is protected by a spirit which is the first-born and most beloved of God, and He or She or It is always surrounding us, even though we can't discern this. I want to write about this in my novel, the world itself secretly brought to salvation, to deliverance from the evil which has held it, by a process much like or even exactly like transubstantiation. This is the secret I thought I would reveal, but I find that Father Teilhard de Chardin has already done it; Christ is the mystic body into which our world is turning, like the wafer and wine, with the outer form (the accidents) unchanged. The true essence, the ontology, of our world is turning from evil; God, like some great holy alchemist, is transmuting out of sickness and evil and pain and frustration a new world for us, even though outwardly it doesn't show. Individually, it is a healing. . .even though it may not show. On a world basis, it is the Kingdom, which we all will enter, someday. Love to you, Doris, and God be with you, dear.