intended to subject my work to the "structured critics"; this is stated by Lem in his article accompanying UBIK and by Jack Vann; Vann names the desired critics: Lem & Rottensteiner. Lem says, "There is no telling what his work might have become had he come under the scrutiny of good critics" or some such statement; their plans & intentions are conspicuous here. Falling into the clutches of either would have doomed me, and in 3-74 I was about to fall one way or the other — it scarcely matters which. I would never have been my own man again..,and I was so close to this. Strong, vigorous actions were required by the spring of 74 to evade falling into one of their hands — actions I couldn't foresee needing to do. Responding the way I did to the Xerox letter was only the start; look what more I had to do vis-a-vis Lem et al. Certainly my fight along these lines was masterminded from the supralunar realm, throughout, not just at the start. -4- In a purely deterministic, karma^-dominated world, my period of independence would have ended in the spring of 74. In analyzing the situation then I would have to say retrospectively that only ”vertical” intervention would have saved me from falling into the destructive vector one of of the twin megastates. My in ate weakness, my fears, my isolation, my financial insecurity, my depressions & hopelessness — all would have assisted this transformation into a kept, managed thing. But the trumpet sounded; help arrived. I go on as I always did, free to write as I please. Beholden to and controlled by neither, barely having steered (been steered) between them. I clearly discern two hostile megaentities seeking to control and subsume my free work. Hence my perpetual, chronic confusion as to ”which” it was that menaced me; why, it was both at once, in competition. Between them they had occupied all stations — except invisible unanticipated (along the causal lines) ones. In essence I had to do two things at once: take on both and fight both off simultaneously, which appears virtually impossible to do. There was no playing one against the other or taking false sides. What ally did I have? The Greatest One, unseen. I keep thinking they needed the Xerox letter to arrest me. No they did not, but without it I would have received much sympathy, esp. since TEARS had just been published. With the Xerox letter found in my possessions they could have built up a case by reason of which I would have obtained not only no sympathy but scathing hostility. After that I would have fallen into line and, if I had written at all, written safe tame things (such as SCANNER and DEUS IRAE). Had I been netted in the other direction by Lem's people no telling what they'd be having me write by now; certainly not SCANNER and DEUS IRAE. It is all a very melancholy thought, this resum6 of a world without the vertical intervention by God, God's grace, from the supralunar world, i.e. from heaven, to lift the deterministic destiny of the planets. What a dreary world it would be, with nothing new in itI Everything rolling inexorably downhill to a predetermined termination. The dream showed a far more realistic view of what my situation would have been than I ever had: I was paroled, because there was nothing to be gained by keeping me in prison, since there I couldn't write. But I wore a modern polyester suit (like the conspirators did!); I was part of the U.S. establish¬ ment. My probity would be shot vis-a-vis my legitimate audience — e.g. regarding such religious writing as my exegesis and DEUS IRAE. And I could not write protest books, probably — or rather the fact that I was not would be taken wrong...in any case my use would be shot. Hence the spirit intervened; this way, free, my religious conversion must be accepted as authentic (.e.g as up in DEUS IRAE, as by my friends abroad.) ”After his arrest and parole he only wrote religious and anti-drug novels.” Think how little effect SCANNER would have had! After all, it is pro-establishment...the heavy handed US authorities would have messed up something of use to them. Whereas had they left me alone — which is how it worked out, due to the vertical interven¬ tion. Perhaps they wound up convinced of this, sincerely, which makes for a permanent detente. This would be the best possibility: that they would come to see this. * * If I ever get over the depres¬ sion which this dream & realization have caused me, I will better appreciate the actions of God-in-this-world; as it stands, I am in the ”alternate world" space very much -5- What is most depressing/distressing is to realize how totally I'd cave in under the duress of being nabbed, what massive persona¬ lity defects & weaknesses I have. They wouldn't have to do nothing to me; it'd just happen naturally; I'd be their nigger. In the dream I shouted "Kill the bastards,” ala Joe Hill, but wore a modern poly¬ ester suit, dog-shit in color, just like the conspirators; I might have felt some vestigal resistance, but I dressed the way I was told: like them, so my deed did not follow my heart any longer. Being curious about the mark of the beast, without which being written on you you can't buy or sell anything, I reread Reve¬ lation, to find that those who beat this marn —imposed on them by what the J. Bible says refers to the Roman Empire— are contrasted to the saving remnant of 144,000 who are with the lamb and who bear the mark of the lamb, x, "the faithful Christians who have survived persecution and who are to begin the restoration of God's kingdom when its enemies have been destroyed." The Bible says: "They follow the Lamb wherever he goes; they have been redeemed from amongst men to be the first-fruits for God and the lamb. They never allowed a lie to pass their lips and no fault can be found min them." This is a critical passage. The first-fruits, in contradistinction to everyone else; they don't bear the Beast's mark, which is a number. (550-38-3080.) Isn't this the time when his enemies have been destroyed? And the first-fruits have been separated out. At this point in history the first great selection is made. Note that they are no the sole fruits (of the harvest) but only the first. The enemies cast down are Rome and its Empire, tools of Satan. The first-fruits, who did not bear its buying & selling mark, begin the work of restora¬ tion of God's Kingdom; they are the Christian activists, not the body of the saved as such. The (second) beast "deluded the inhabitants of the Earth" so that they erected a statue in worship. When the 144,000 first become visible it is immediately said that the hour of God's judgment has come; we are into the Parousia. An angel says: "Whoever worships the beast and its image and receives its mark on his forehead or hand, he shall drink the wine of God's wrath, poured undiluted into the cup of his vengeance." And much more. Then the son of man is seen with a sickle; an angel says, "Stretch out your sickle and reap; for harvest time has come, and earth's crop is over¬ ripe." These are the "Visions of the end." The harvest undoubtedly exceeds the number 144,000; the two evidently get confounded. At the start of Revelation there is a scroll, given by God to the Lamb, which foretells the doom of the persecutors (undoubtedly Rome and its empire). (Extensions of Satan.) What is interesting about this is the descrip¬ tion of the vast deluded population, as in a hypnoidal twilight state, doing what they're told, obedient —espousing in fact— the values of the new rome. They do not object to its mark on them, this computer¬ like numbering. In fact they back all this. Is the Christian remnant which I saw actively undermining Rome the Prison the 144,000? I think the symbolic visions which John saw are eternal archetypes, continually fulfilling themselves from out of eternity into linear time. The proto¬ type situation is always true, and these constituents always obtain. This is, in fact, the ultimate layer of actuality, revealed to John's eyes; this in Revelation is how it really always is. It is not a vision but the vision. -6- I have the feeling that as linear times moves along, the full complement of the "144,000" is completed, drawn continually out of the "deluded mass which worships and wears the mark of the beast." The critical choice which would elevate one out of the mass of the deluded with the beast's mark is always available, in all lifetimes for all men. A small minority at any given times makes that choice and is so elevated, whereupon he sees the opened scrolls and is made to understand in the symbolic visionary terms which John experienced originally (like Daniel et al). Thus an elect is drawn together across time, spanning it. Change is an illusion; it is always as it is now: Rome at its worst, the prison versus the palm garden. Linear time is unreal, and the transformations within it are irreal. What is real remains the same, as seen by John. This is so. The only event in history was the first incarnation, so to speak; the true time is slightly past that. My dream of the stagnant ocean with the so few helium filled balloons occasionally zig-zagging up — that represented the occasional few who rise from the "deluded mass" to join the "rem¬ nant" of the Lamb. They are put to work. They have been at work all this time (since Jesus' death). Rome is unchanged because it is Satan's front organization on earth and he is supernatural; this is why Rome never disappears (not yet anyhow). It is the earthly city of evil, of imprisonment and persecution. The choice is join (which most do) or be persecuted unto death (the remnant). The Parousia, the saving presence/intervention of Christ the Lamb, is always here for the perse¬ cuted elect to destroy their enemies and elevate them; this goes on perpetually. Only the elect experience the perpetual saving presence at the moment that their persecutors are thrown down and they them¬ selves arei lifted up, shown and explained to, made to understand who they are and what their future will be (entry into the Kingdom). Meanwhile the deluded mass goes on; the beast goes on; Rome as physical extension of Satan goes on, but in eternity he is always defeated. The elect are, were and will always be saved (thus I remembed back thousands of years). Eternity does not lie at the end of linear time but above it; the saving presence (the Parousia) lies above, not at the end, although when linear time ends it probably collapses back into eternity, so that is nominally true. My whole basic mistake in all these 300,000 words has been to accept on face value the reality of linear time and the changes therein. The Parousia did not set in on linear time in 74; I was lifted up out of linear time, to see the Parousia which is always there. Thus it did come — for me, in this manner: ray reward, so to speak, as I was exalted up from the "deluded mass" into the "remnant." (I think anyhow.) I saw what Daniel & John saw because that is how it is in the eternal world of Platonic forms; that is what is, and it was then when they saw it. Thus I adopt the Zoroastrian "game-board" view of this world, as a place where the two antagonists play it out through hand after hand in linear time. My