form of forms, the Summum Bonuum, whose contents were (1) the form and balance of Apollonian philosophy, and (2) primary Christianity, as a further development along the lines of Christ as Platonic-archetypal-form exemplar. In a nutshell, that is it. There was no one from 2,000 years ago who came here; the S.B. exemplar form in itself (which is what I saw as phosphene activity) incised from outside of time, and is always encising to some degree on every person within Western Civilization; it is perpetually printing out, very much like my "teaching satelliteVALISYSTEM A idea". My attainment was philosophical, not theo¬ logical, to be technically accurate; primary Christianity is now a category —in fact the ultimate category— of a priori knowledge in Plato's sense. Every "theolepsic" change in me was due to the S.B. exemplar archetypal form of forms encising balance and proportion, ratio, harmony, on me; I became, for reasons I don't know, the receptible of being, which is to say passive matter. I achieved the goal of the Platonists...also, my politcal activism at that time was the actions of a "philosopher king," in Plato's sense. God is not involved in this, nor Christ qua Christ, but all were exemplars and a priori knowledge of the ultimately highest order. The key word here is contemplation — and the received (incised) contents of the hignest form; I know that primary Christianity is within the contents of the Sumuum Bonuum and thus true, but my experience is Platonistic, i.e. with the forms as containers of ultimate knowledge & the experience (reception) of that knowledge. The universe works exactly as Plato says; in a way the structure of Platonistic cosmology subsumes Christianity, which is unknowable except as received information from the Sumuum Bonuum, the ultimate form of forms, with Christ as exemplar within that form. This is the how. Apolonnian philosophical balance and primary Chris¬ tianity are the what. The why is due to a lifetime search, as is demonstrated by the contents of UBIK, also acquired this same way. Thus, the Platonistic philosophical material in UBIK and the material in TEARS from Acts came as the result of Platonic forms encising on me and informing me, a priori categories of knowledge given direct, not through any living person or agency, but directly by the forms themselves. -14- Plato himself states that knowledge comes by anamnesis, but I say that the knowledge is encised downward from above, by the forms, and isn't intrinsically there, but is adventitious in the above sense of being given & received by the person, probably in stages. I say, too, that in a sense the Sumuum Bonuum is alive, thus having the attributes of God or a god. But, as I say, as theological as the contents were, the structure falls within the philosophical cosmology of Platonism: knowledge of God by way of the forms, that is it. In my revelation last night, the first century Rome Christian world which I received was called "the matrix," of our civilization, which means the paradigm or source of its values: not back 2,000 years in linear time (this is where I went wrong perpetually) but standing above, very close to us, a molecule away, so to speak, always there, always unchanging, the form of forms, archetype of archetypes. The sine quo non of revealed truth, by its own standards, by Platonistic standards. So I must stand corrected, and say that the Parousia did only come for me, encised through the form of forms as an experience by me alone; which means, simply, that I have entered the Kingdom of God, through the agency of the Sumuum Bonuum; the mystery of subjectivity versus objectivity is solved, it is neither but rather an experience with the superior world of forms in which the Parousia, contained in them, does/has occurred. I realize, too, that in Maslow's sense, this was indeed the second half of my entelechy's systems firing, to bring completion and wholeness to my life; I was moved along the entelechy growth line to final things (for it and me); but this is not true for other people or the world; we are talking about a micro-universe, myself, in which a certain kind of personal time moved to its end-time stage, and properly so, for purposes of fulfillment & completion (almost in a Jungian sense); this involves an idea of time unknown before, and recalls the idios kosmos versus the koinos re time per se; it is all very good, very thrilling, not in accord with any theory I know of, yet it is so (that in essence I moved ahead of world or koinos time into the last stages of idios time, to the Parousia there; it was real but within my micro-universe only). (Vide "The Eletric Ant" for explorations of this kind of personal but real time.X) Last night, too, I had the eerie insight that "Mrs. Jack Vance," my tutelary spirit, is my sister Jane (i.e. Jack and Jill, the brother and sister, are me and Jane. 28 refers to when she was born, same year as me.). And I must be wary that she is drawing me away from life and toward her. The 3-74 material, then, was about St. Sophia but not from or by her; it came through the forms in the normal way they encise; perhaps through my life I worked up to the point of reception of the Sumuum Bonuum normally, by degrees & stages (of preparedness). This does not detract from the value of the information about Christianity; quite the contrary: it confers the value of absolute truth to it (only absolute truth could be contained in the form of Sumuum Bonuum), but there is the Apollonian balance & proportion truths there as well; Christianity is absolutely true, but other concepts are equally absolutely true, the wisdom of Greek culture, of Pericles' time, as well. -15- I already knew my tutelary spirit wasn't perfect, since I overheard the Godhead blasting it for partiality. Christianity is indeed (as is said) a revealed Religion. I would know; it was revealed to me (through the forms, being a content with other contents of the Sumuum Bonuum itself, the form of forms, with Christ the Exemplar). The highest value is assigned to primary Christianity, via my experience; I am even more a witness than ever, for this is the structure itself of the universe, of all higher (highest) things. Also, it was eschatological Christianity, not Augustianian, which was revealed to me. The First Advent had just occured; the Savior was gone but would soon return — suspended at that point in time, and the campaign against Rome, ren-enacted in archetypal, eternal form by the campaign against the Nixon gang. An eternal verity beneath the surface of our society: archetypal forms revealed, never changing; no "heavenly" time has elapsed since about 100 A.D. Linear time repeats, as on a wheel, the cycle renewed continually; no change in the forms, the higher world, only the accidentals, the externals, flow in their flux. Beneath the surface of contemporary landscape the discerning (third) eye distinguishes now all that was there then in the first century. Nixon is Nero and Nero is Nixon; both are the beast with its 666 stamped on it. Nothing has changed. The paradigm reigns and rules now as then. We have only spread out laterally. I saw sub specia eternitatis; the forms obtain then and now and are eternal; the cosmic wheel has not turned in 2,000 years; the next turn will be the Second Advent, which in the superior world of absolute forms lies imminent. Our proper stance is to wait for his anticipated (immediately) return, to make things ready for him. Our mood should be joyful, as befitting the imminent return of the Bridegroom; the sorrow of the labor-pains of the passion has passed! He is arisen; he has left temporarily; our gaze is directed ahead, not back. The news is good news. For some reason it actually seems more shall I say verifying or vindicating to me that the good news reached me via the forms rather than say through an angel or other Christian intermediary; perhaps because I now see the very nature or structure of the universe, of reality it¬ self, conveying the news about Christ; it bonds Christ to the world of reality in an ultimate way, as if previously I had one system or one god among many possible systems and gods...but the Summum Bonuum is what it is, and if its contents are these, then intellectually there is a quintessence approachable by no other route, no other good news, no other reality, no other meaning: the ultimate mm is after all the ultimate is the ultimate. And to tie Platonism in with Christianity — that is good news, too, since the reasoning philoso¬ phical mind need not be debased to faith's requirements, the two being harmonious, in agreement: God found through philosphical inquiry and insight as content of the form of forms, the S.B. form, archetype of the cosmos itself. Christianity (primary) is not a creed, an ideology made by man, a system among systems, one out of several possibilities, but revealed by the structure of the universe itself; this overleaps even Amquinas, for although it cannot be arrived at by reason it can be by revelation. -16- The qualities of the Sumuura Bonuum: truth, justice, know¬ ledge of harmony & ratio & proportion, which is to say balance & beauty combined, to be contemplated, Christ as exemplar to be sought for and found —reunion with him— and God's intervention & will expressed on Earth, reconciling the cosmos to him at last. Implicit in this: freedom versus Roman tyranny, versus slavery & the slave state-empire, the megastate as foe and devil. Satan as manifest in the enslaving empire (Rome as paradigm), the greatest enemy that Christianity has (as in The Bacchae). The parameters are visible now of the struggle, and where God stands in the struggle. What went on during the Nixon years sub specia eternitatis: the mark of the beast being file numbers, e.g. social security numbers for each US citizen. Humans reduced to numbers. The megastate has branded us, as John foresaw. Well, then my Ramparts resistance, my refusal, broke the branding on me, and so help came in 3-74; I still believe that. Most others submitted to the branding, the mark; but on Ash Wednesday in 74 I inscribed the cross in palm ashes and oil on my forehead, led by the spirit (the S.B. printout encising) to do that. I received in 3-74 the rebirth or new template (to use Platonistic terms). The intrinsic entelechy failed and perished; a new one was impressed from above, via the system of archetypal forms. -1- The one melancholy aspect of these insights & revelations is the discovery .that the megastate is absolutely diabolical. What was taking place in 1971 through March 1974 was absolute evil at work, the Prince of Darkness assailing & enslaving man. That it has a superior adversary is the only saving thought. No wonder I sensed the odor of Nazism in Solarcon. The grinning skull of Satan lurked behind their Nacht una Nebel activities, right up to 3-74 when they were deposed. Tom Disch was right; "My name is Legion" (ir leg); that refers to the Devil. It is a shame that Christianity & Neoplatonism couldn't reconcile each to the other, since it meant the death of Platonism for 1400 years, and philosophy reduced to the "handmaiden of theology," but since primary Christianity is the main element in the content of the Platonic final form, the Summum Bonuum, then in a real sense Christianity is the secret victory of —not the system of thought called Platonism— but of the Platonic system by which the universe operatexs. The S.B. has imprinted its information down through the centuries, unsuspected as the agency of its revelation to men. My reconciling Christianity with Platonism is all the