of perception, not reality in itself. I saw it; I smelled the air; I felt it; in all ways I experienced it, totally. The normal reality gave way to an ultimate form lying within or behind it. God uncovered the essence within. It was the last thing of a supernatural order that I saw. It was the final revelation, (in both senses of the word final.) Plato's Timeus: divine intelligence prevailing (teleologically) over ananke, chance, is exactly the two-player conflict situation that I saw, with the demiurge (steersman) behind intelligence; I first under¬ stood this structure noetically, and then later at the time the infor¬ mation about Chrissy was conveyed to me I experienced the infusion of divine wisdom over chance from an exponential perceptual standpoit — I experienced it actually at work around me, this infusion. Plato uses the term "reason" (versus "necessity"); if I identify his divine reason with St. Sophia, I have bridged across to Christianity. Thus in asking myself what permanently acquired new information I got from the 3-74 experience I can place this high on the scale, this twoparty dialectic which moves the universe of becoming (change) through time. The Christian stamp, which is to say the element of Grace, enters where I saw reason (or Divine Wisdom or Christ) infuse a local section of ananke reality in order to inform & assist one person: me. It does not have a mere abstract, impersonal quality. But what I ex¬ perienced was not just a perception of wisdom at work in and in the world, but also wisdom entered me as a Holy Spirit, bringing this per¬ ception: wisdom within and without. A sanctification & ordination, I think. Wisdom, when she came to me, certainly was not miserly with her secrets. -5- But the truly remarkable thing is not what I know but how I came to know. In view of the way I came to know, I know with absolute certitude; there's that as well. To extericate me she had to infuse me as well as my environment; she had to get inside me, and so I came to know her secrets. One good thing, which I've noted before, is that the provider of the information is identified within the information; also her reason for giving it; also how she gives it, general y speaking (Aristotle's idea of the triune soul, with one part divine & an analog of divine wisdom herself). It has been some time since I developed any conflicting theories about my experience; now it's an elaboration and a filling in, lapidarywise, of detail. I have created a consistent explanation based on the experience and on research. I doubt if it ever will undergo any substantial modifications. It was an epiphany; that much is certain: an epiphany rather than a theophany. Throughout, the key concepts are Greek, the key terms are Greek; it is Greek Christianity evolving out of Plato. Any other language -other than Greek- would be out of place & make no sense; the Greek words I heard are the corner¬ stone, the key to the cypher, and even perhaps a gracious act toward me to assist me in unlocking the entire picture. There is only one important issue that I'm not sure of: has Holy Wisdom who visited me been present during the past 2,000 years, or was there an elipsis, and now she/he/it has returned to man to assist him? The memory of the spirit contained nothing between the first century A.D. and World War One; that is a clue that an elipsis did indeed occur. Also, there are no reports that I can find, down through the ages, of a Neoplatonistic total printout such as I got, the grand sum of Neoplatonistic mystery gnosis. Surely someone would have reported it before now. I have received the greatest gift which the universe can bestow. Today I was thinking that as a child I always wanted desperately —I yearned— to hear the "still small voice" which Elijah heard, and now I have heard it. Also I realized that if at the end of my search for God I learned that there is no God, then whatever I accomplished, experienced or acquired would mean nothing; conversely, this makes up for anything and everything, and creates meaning of an ultimate order in my life. The 3-74 experience was "vaster than empires"; the exegesis which uncovered the significance of the experience is vaster yet — infinite in sum. "What do you want out of life?" I could ask, and answer, "This." Especially to have had the historic intervention by God disclosed to me — this above all, I think, despite the value of other aspects, for it is in such broad events that the nobelest power of God is manifest, above and beyond assistance (however needed and appreciated) by any given individual. This is why the parting of the so-called Red Sea is so significant in the Bible, above individual-oriented miracles; it is when an entire people is delivered from harm that the magnitude of God's power, wisdom and love becomes delineated completely, in relation to man. The only snag is that I can't tell anybody; I have no proof of any of this. But this has always been true for witnesses. I guess God wants each person to come to salvation individually, based on his own faith. The epiphany was intended for me. Even the apostles had limited proof to display. What I did say in DEUS IRAE is probably -6- all I ever can say; in fact DEUS IRAE was a godsend as a vehicle in which to insert the material obtained from 3-74. I saw my chance & I took it, and I guess that is that. I guess it is God's plan to.save man on a one-to-one basis, with no mass salvation. I have testified to several people, believers & unbelievers, and the result is always the same: indifference. It doesn't even seem to matter if they believe me; when I talk about it, it comes out in hollow platitudes. "I saw God; do b you doubt it? Do you dare to doubt it? I saw the Almight Man." It's been said better than I can say it countless times. What happened to me was a reward, not a mandate. I found the pearl of great price, buried amongst the trash in the alley. Anyhow, it permanently changed me. The one bad thrall in my life (alliegence to the worldwide CP apparatus) was burst forever. I separated myself from that awful mother-womb, turned against it as I saw it for the tyranny it is; or rather, I had always seen it that way intellectually, but could not cut the cord and hence could not really take a stance against it, as its enemy. Now I have. It has no claim on me any longer, which I discovered, to my horror, it had had since I was born. I was severed from an earthly bond which was in the process of destroy¬ ing me forever (soul included). The spring of 74 marked the point of my greatest partici¬ pation with the world', guided & animated by the spirit in me. The battle was won and then the war itself was won; that time ended, and now we have peace. Probably my withdrawl from the world will continue, in that I am probably retired from the struggle, having done my part at the most critical time in history (!!!). I was there and I did everything I could. That's over and it came out just great, for me personally and for the world of man. Since then I have progressively looked more and more inwardly. Politics and the struggle have given way to theology, meditation, and isolated note-taking; how could it be otherwise? The tide turned favorably, probably forever (I feel that strongly). How lucky I am, that I was able to participate in that final vast struggle, in the Zoroastrian sense. The War Between the Sons of Darkness & the Sons of Light. I was born to fight in that fight. Vast tyrannies fell; vast governments fell; the people remain. Whatever happened to me, whatever significance the epiphany had for me personally, can't be severed from the intervention by God, suddenly, in world history. That is the main event, and everything else was coordinated to dovetail with it. ("The trumpnet's loud clamor doth call us to arms.!" to guote Dreyden.) People such as I were moved about over the previous years, placed in position, held there until the hour had struck, and when it struck, in the spring of 74, they were then informed of their mission & task, and given the strength & wisdom to accomplish it. They were thrown into a struggle the outcome of which was foreordained, a struggle first pictured by Zoroaster. The white-haired old king on horseback with his hosts had breached into our world. The veil split open. The seals were broken and the books opened (as I saw so vividly in my first series of "dreams" in 3-74). Die Stunde ist da! Well, it is evident that I have developed my thesis of all this; I know what I know because I experienced & saw. The usurpation of my own will in 3-74 would have been justified if it was to save my life, but undoubtedly it was done in order that historic necessity be fulfilled, in which -7- a tremendously greater and self-verifying, justifying dimension was involved; historic necessity, animated and with full personality, took me over and steered me, which is to say, the historic process of unfolding in the medium of time is in itself alive and possesses motivation — which few humans have ever known, including Karl Karx, who recognized its imperative but not its living quality. Thus instinct, such as animals have, was in me peaking at sentient level, which is astonishing, to say the least; yet that is precisely what took place, in and around me in 3-74. Can the meaning of this be overstated, that the historic process possesses conscious will and motivation? Lock what I know from that alone; I was coordinated into the historic imperative by a wise & conscious force, a force which at that time gripped the entire reality of our social and political structure to act out its desires. Such a moment may be rare, even unique, at least to peak at such an articulate level, to gain a personality within a human one (e.g. mine). Unconsciousness, in a sense, attained (Lord God!) consciousness, and held itself there for almost a year before it sank back. A whole new cosmology is implied by this. We find ourselves confronting the world soul, within and without, operating in unison. Surely this is Tielhard's noosphere. Well, perhaps this is the greatest datum among the extraordinary data: that a living soul drives human history forward along the lines it consciously and wisely intends, and that at certain unusual and highly important times it throws off all disguise and operates designated humans with manifest deliberation, to the amazement of those humans. "Your role is as follows," it says, having entering them and totally taken control, usurping all motor centers. And you do it, wondering all the while, and not even being able to judge what the consequences will be of the acts you are compelled to do, at the bequest of another will. What is the center of this? What is the ultimate source? Some¬ thing above & outside the historic process, greater than & older than, certainly. The demiurge, I say. No option was given me for dallying or refusing...one recalls Jonah. When the Lord will use you, there is no place to hide; he gives you the power & wisdom, and also drives you forward unhesitatingly, but it is for your good, your life, your freedom, not at its expense; it is for the good of all well intentioned men. But how extraordinary!