and the retrieved memory is not of an event in linear time but of an absolute event on an absolute landscape, which penetrated our landscape on a vertical axis, bringing —and this is a superlative insight— absolute events into our relative universe. Those ab¬ solute events and figures and landscape don't change, and must be understood as breaching our world then (our date 4 AD or BC or whatever), disclosing forms that neither change nor perish — which is in accord with what we know and believe about Christ already. The extraordinary thing is that if I am right, when the second coming —advent—takes place we will be at the first again with no real lapsed time; probably a theological theory could be made out of this insight. How could time pass in the real (eternal) world? Logically, it doesn't have linear time and the constant flux (change) which we have; one breaching followed by another at whatever our date may be would show no change there. The beast Rome, too, is a part of this landscape; here the judgment will be made. I keep discovering this: I did not see Rome back in our linear past but an archetypal eternal Rome, and everything else was outside linear time as well. I guess what I remembered is that we are really there (still), and never left, and the battle is decided there, the sides taken, and the judging done. What occurs to me now is the realization that upon the Parousia, everyone will all at once see this landscape, as the dokos lifts. They may hold relatively different positions; I believe I was with the small Xtian remnant. That doesn't mean everyone will be; the dokos or veil will roll back, and we will all be revealed in our actual positions in that goats-sheep struggle (sons of light vs sons of darkness). This is what the Day of Judgment will reveal. How we stand. Of course, to Him and to God we stand on that landscape already. Memory is not always of something past; I can remember what I must do tomorrow; I can remember who I am now. This was memory of what is, rather than what was; it has more significance than recollection of an event that took place long ago in history, like the Battle of Hastings. It had the reality of a living, enduring, present situation, as present as any other: on-going; the anticipation was so great, and preparations (against the tyranny) were in progress; this fits what the 3-eyed sibyl said, I think; pulling the regime down was a making way. No other explanation would account for my conviction that Rome is present now, in the dokos 1976 landscape which we see, under other names. Memory of a mere past event would not explain that. For example, what I saw as Roman police (ir leg) were present realities: the secret police; they were just seen under a different aspect; they were there anyhow, as the Enemy entrapping (as in TEARS; remember TEARS in this exegesis). This thoroughly reinforces my earlier conviction that what I experienced was an apocalyptic vision - i.e. of tha and timas. This Roman landscapa is another, and very important, aspect of that Parousia-vision; I have more reason to construe it as that, now, with this factored in. I.e. Rome as apocalyptic landscape, not past memory. To go back to another aspect: the fact that I judge the severity of my 3-74 situation and the evilness of the tyranny not sufficient alone to produce the general or personal intervention, that it seemed to me that the "St. Sophia" utterance was in answer to "Why?" — this and my view of Rome as actual landscape behind the dokos rather than memory of a past life of a past person: both point to the Parousia! By two indirect routes I again reach that conclusion! No matter how I approach it, we wind up with the same conclusion; but if we take different views of the meaning of 3-74, theory peters out. Rome as memory by an early Christian who died and was resurrected is the only alternate theory to Rome as apocalyptic background. Of course, there is the hardnosed their of suggestivity by the golden fish, but that wouldn't account for my knowledge of Koine Greek et al. That merely set it off; set off memory of Rome in the past? No, that Rome exists now; I am, rather than was, in Rome. Seeing the golden fish triggered off recognition of the true (concealed) reality situation; like the real meaning of the Bible, reality is stegenographic — concealed. The book the Bible is an analog of reality. • • Perhaps it can be said that I have seen the landscape slightly before the Parousia, since the presence is not there yet (the Xtians I saw were eagerly awaiting the Second Coming). But it is imminent. Yes, we are to prepare for it, as by overthrowing the tyranny; so it is minutes before the Parousia. Who prepares the way? Elijahl Elijah it was who came to me, maybe; he had been John the Baptist and so feared and hated the Romans! 74 was the time of preparing the way; the spirit that came to me was fiery and zealous. I did dream about Mt. Carmel, about Elisha, about Elias — 3 dreams. And it was Easter time, near Passover. And my spirit was a baptizing spirit...if I take into account what I never thought of, that Elijah returned as John the Baptist, well, the latter certainly was an early Christian, the first to recognize Jesus, and a baptizer, and killed by the Romans. And he comes a bit before the Parousia! That's why it had the distinct per¬ sonality of a fierce, earthly man, but also Xtian! Such a fighter — not mild nor meek. Earthy, a prophet. I knew it when I talked with Tom Disch; I'm sure of it now. But...could he also be the Holy Spirit? Elijah, who never died, who has seen heaven and hear the still small voice. The Bradbury program: Ahab vs Moby Dick; Elijah vs King Ahab. Me equals Moby Dick, I know from the sign I drew. I think this confirms it...and I think I have always had a part of Elijah's spirit, from birth: the changling on the raft. With Nixon as Ahab. * * Watching the "Depression" episode of Star Trek. "Adjustment Team." People, highly advanced, from the future, changing the past..."her death was meant to be but McCoy saved her." The HS I saw moving retrograde, and changing history. The "St. Sophia" statement is also important for a reason I hadn’t realized: it means that what I saw —the overthrow of the tyranny— was not all that the supralunar forces intended, but that it was to be followed by another event, an even greater one: the return of the rightful King. So what I witnessed in 74 was not the totality but an initial part of a sequence. Had I not heard the "St. Sophia" statement I would reasonably compare what happened to the defeat of Egypt for the sake of the Israelites, and nothing more than that; mere intervention in history in the form of the removal of tyrants. The "St. Sophia" statement shows the comparison not to be correct (comparison to Egypt). Without the St. Sophia statement I would have misunderstood what I had been shown, basically misunderstood it. Now, if I take what I saw and was told by the sibyl, and what was done for me personally, and add the "St. Sophia" information, what do I arrive at instead? The Parousia. The throwing down of the tyranny in 74 is linked to the Parousia, and must be considered a forerunner, perhaps the stage of Elijah, a theory I favor repeatedly. Before the rightful King comes to claim his thrown, is it now logical that the ursurper is previously removed? Is that not step one? Would we not expect that? To see that happen first? "They killed all our leaders" - then God dispatched Elijah as our leader - he + holy widsom (The voice with whom Elijah spoke).