respect my (bad) karma was cancelled, which is to say, determinism was abolished and I was freed. All this can be said without reference to any one religious system, without naming any names, such as Christ, God, the Holy Spirit, etc. This is the founda¬ tion of it all; the Good Mind (Ahura Mazd) perhaps. ONCE UPON A TIME there was a California golden groundsquirrel, who went running around & running around with all the other squirrels, until one day he fell into a trap. "I am in a trap," he said to him¬ self in despair. "I do not know who built it, but what I do know is that I can't get out. They will come and kill me." And in his despair he cried out for help. All at once a gigantic figure appeared, and, to the squirrel's amazement (and fear), bent down and showed the squirrel how to get out of the trap. The gigantic figure was not a squirrel but something else. It discerned that the squirrel was injured, and took him to a strange place where the squirrel had never been before and did not know existed; it was obviously the place where the mysterious gigantic figure lived. Strange lights glowed, strange sounds were heard; the squirrel, as the gigantic figure healed him, caught mysterious glimpses of first one inscrutible thing and then another. Finally he was healed; whereupon the mysterious gigantic figure returned him to the familiar pasture and let him go, after which the mysterious gigantic figure departed. The squirrel ran to tell the other squirrels what had happened, but since he could not say who or what the gigantic mysterious figure was, or where it had taken him, his story fell on unsympathetic ears. He could not even prove he had been in a trap. He could not prove anything at all. In the end he gave up trying to convince the other squirrels and simply enjoyed knowing that there was such a gigantic mysterious entity wich helped out squirrels in distress, because he could be sure of that anyhow. The only clue that ever came to him regarding who and what the mysterious figure was consisted of the fact that he overheard the mysterious figure talking to another mysterious figure very much like it, and it was talking in Koine Greek, a language which squirrels had used 2,000 years ago. That told him that the mysterious gigantic figures had once been squirrels long ago and had died and become what they were now, and it did not take much intelligence on his part to extrapolate and say, "Then it follows as the night the day that when I die sometime I will reappear as a mysterious gigantic figure, too, equipped with magical powers of healing and great sympathy for squirrels in trouble." Even a squirrel brain could figure that out. And, he reasoned, if the mysterious gigantic figures from another place entirely had at one time been squirrels like himself, then it followed naturally that they would use their exhalted powers in the manner that they had. What would be more likely, than to put those powers at the service of contemporary squirreldom? He would probably do the same thing one day, when thus metamorphosed. So he now knew what became of squirrels when they died. Which was a very important thing, he being a squirrel. -end- P.S. He picked up another clue, too, which fitted in with his explanation. The gigantic mysterious figure had a great fear of the Roman authorities, and it was the Romans who had been in power at the time his ancestors had spoken Koine Greek. The gigantic mysterious figure was so scared of the Romans that it seemed to believe they might overhear and show up any time, whereas in point of fact, as the squirrel knew, the Romans had disappeared 1,700 years ago. So he was surer than ever that the gigantic mysterious figures, all of them, were his own ancestors somehow glorified & transformed. This was a very pleasing thought, and he told it privately to his squirrel friends, who said, "It is wishful thinking on your part, all this that you tell," to which he replied, "Yeah, the trap, too? Wishful think¬ ing, to be trapped and injured?" Because he remembered that, too. And he remembered what the gigantic mysterious figure had said about traps: that those who had set out the traps had been seen, and an end to them was coming. The squirrel noted, after a passage of time in which he ran back and forth freely, that there did not seem to be any more traps. The gigantic mysterious figure had kept its promise. Having been a squirrel once itself, and perhaps having wound up in a trap itself, it did not like things which trapped squirrels. In fact he one time picked up a frightening memory by the gigantic mysterious figure: it was in a tiny cell under the colloseum at Rome, and horrible things were coming to get it to kill it. So the squirrel x said to himself, "QED. I know who helped me and I know why. And maybe someday, such as after I die, I will see my mysterious gigantic friends again, when I go to join them." Last but not least, one day the squirrel read in a religious tract that the angels had once been very good squirrels who had lived on the earth and after death been rewarded for their conduct. So he knew everything, now. There could be no doubt of it. There was something else he remembered, but he did not like to think about it because it made him sad. The gigantic mysterious figure had shown him himself as a very old squirrel, moving feebly along, and then becoming injured or sick —thing ftal had happened— as well. And then all at once he heard lovely musical notes, like bells ringing, and with joy he realized that the gigantic mysterious figures were once more back, only this time instead of coming down to him, he would be going up to them. The sad part was that he would not see them again until then, and it probably would be a very long time. But anyhow he had all the facts and knew what he knew. He was a lucky squirrel, and also L squirrel which knew more than he had ever expected to know. Of course from a strictly logical standpoint he could not be sure that just because certain ancient squirrels had been transformed into mysterious gigantic figures with enormous powers upon their deaths that he would be, too. Maybe the process had stopped some time ago. Maybe only a few unusual squirrels had been involved in the first place -- those with exceptional qualities. In fact maybe it had happened only once or twice in the history of the world. On the other hand, his experience with the mysterious gigantic figure proved that it could happen, that indeed it had happened at least once, and if it could happen once, logically it could happen again. In other words, it was quite possible it might eventually happen to him. The barrier into the next world had been broken by a former squirrel, and the veil to knowing about the next world had happened to him, due to the interven¬ tion of that arisen former squirrel. Sometimes he wondered what the arisen former squirrel's name was. Finally it occured to him to go to the public library and look in the history books to see if there was an account of any squirrel from Roman times said to have arisen from death and returned — resurrected, as it were. Sure enough, he found such a claim made for one squirrel, although many squirrels then and later disputed it. The squirrel had lived at exactly the right time: at the first century A.D. His name had been Jesus, and his followers maintained he was the Christ and that he had risen from the tomb, shown himself, and then disappeared, promising that some time later (date not given) he would return. "Well," said the squirrel when he read that, "now I do know everything." And he shut the history book, satisfied at last. "I know the name of my mysterious gigantic helper who was formerly a squirrel. He met a dreadful death at the paws of the Romans, and so he is interested in helping people like me who fall into a trap as he did. Probably he could have gone on to heaven, but turned back to help others. What a remarkable squirrel. How much he must love us." And, he thought, how great & powerful he has become over the ages, since the Romans killed him. He is no longer small & helpless. If the Romans could see him now — the layers of traps. What would they think! The fear would be theirs! That is the end of the fable. As I read it over I think, Could it be, the fear of the Romans I discerned in it, the wariness...could Jesus have been afraid? He did keep running from them, until there was no place left to run. How terrible and how sad, if so; whatever the spirit, whoever the man, he feared and hated the Romans so — it was such a force in him, trying to avoid them. The trauma of the cricifixion still in him? Who has ever thought of that, that after He went through the cricifixion he would be very wary and afraid of them, because of his awful suffering and humiliation — it is almost unbearable to imagine, to think of. But look what they did to him. My god, how He would then have empathized with me as I lay in dread night after night. I am thinking now about the vision in 2-75 of the land of palm trees where it was warm & peaceful. The palm tree motif shows up three times: (i) In the vision; (ii) coming out of the fish sign; (iii) in the James-James dream, where the Afrika Corps appears as savior carrying the palm tree insignia, and I tell them, "We need medical assistance." It seems to be a person (Christ), a place (the Holy Land) and a condition (salvation). The view of the Holy Land which I saw up in Placentia near the new post office was really the most noble and the most extraordinary thing I saw; that God could take one's perceptions of reality and transform them so that one would see the goal...I am almost tempted to say that He transformed the reality itself, but I think it is technically more accurate to suppose it was a metamorphosis of perception, not reality in itself. I saw it; I smelled the air; I felt it; in all ways I experienced it, totally. The normal reality gave way to an ultimate form lying within or behind it. God uncovered the essence within. It was the last thing of a supernatural order that I saw. It was the final revelation, (in both senses of the word final.) Plato's Timeus: divine intelligence prevailing (teleologically) over ananke, chance, is exactly the two-player conflict situation that I saw, with the demiurge (steersman) behind intelligence; I first under¬ stood this structure noetically, and then later at the time the infor¬ mation about Chrissy was conveyed to me I experienced the infusion of divine wisdom over chance from an exponential perceptual standpoit — I experienced it actually at work around me, this infusion. Plato uses the term "reason" (versus "necessity"); if I identify his divine reason with St. Sophia, I have bridged across to Christianity. Thus in asking myself what permanently acquired new information I got from the 3-74 experience I can place this high on the scale, this twoparty dialectic which moves the universe of becoming (change) through time. The Christian stamp, which is to