1914. Maybe madness lies this way, but my 3-74 experience would tend to dovetail with this palpably mad assertion. He is certainly here now, and he, as they say, is the bodiless cosmic Christ, not Jesus; he is invisible and he is everywhere equally. Also, He evidently has great, even absolute, power, in that I saw Him depose the tyranny here. And this, the Anglo-American Empire, is, to the JWs, the last of the empires mentioned in the "Book of Daniel," in fact the one of iron with clay feet. And thus it did indeed prove to be. And there was indeed a stone, "not cut by man," which was hurled at it to topple it, which maybe hasn't ever happened before (maybe, maybe). Could they be right? Well, I know what I know; He is here with power; He did topple the tyranny; and did anything like this happen during the 2,000 previous years? Back to the anamnesis-memories: no. Absence only. Since I know him to be here, either he has always been here or he has returned. Nobody I ever heard of has reported an experience like mine; I will assume he has been gone virtually all this time & has recently (sic) returned...why not circa 1914? Wow. Well, in 3-74 He came & healed up my head, withdrew my projec¬ tions and caused me to see & understand. He's still here, but the projections are back — not because He did a bad job, but because — I can't do it alone, without him, and He drew back again to where he was before: concealed * Christus absconditus, I guess. Parousia: the invisible arrival or coming of Christ; evidently that has taken place. The invisible presence is now here, at cloud level (i.e. in the atmosphere) which is the vantage point some of my dreams saw us and our world from — also I knew that the spirit which had taken me over in the theolepsy was atmospheric in location and plasmatic in nature. Epiphaneia: appearing of Christ. He appeared to me in 3-74; parousia turning into a personal epiphaneia. (And no doubt to others.) Apokalupsis: revelation, be revealed; this would be His general manifestion visibly and palpably to everyone; this stage has not yet occured. This is what everyone is waiting for. This is probably what the "St. Sophia" message meant. In mid 74 I thought for some time, and gave up the idea reluct¬ antly, that the Parousia had come. Guess I was right — Parousia but not Apokalupsis. The "cloud level" idea agrees, actually, with Pere Tielhard de'Chardin & his noosphere, which is the growing mind (wisdom) of the cosmic Christ. I cite now enormous further verification. If Christ returned, what would he do? Already, not returned, he saves men after death; returning, he would impinge on this world in certain ways. What ways? To relieve men’s condition. In what way? To over¬ throw the tyranny, to relieve the oppression of war abroad and injustice at home. He would do what was done, what did happen. As in the BACCHAE, as in Hamlet, he toppled the iron & clay empire & the Prince of This World, the most powerful man in the world, who was evil. If he were here we would note his effect on history, in precisely the way it was visible — to me, anyhow. There is only the question, Is it God or Christ at work? and if the latter, then the Parousia is indeed here. Well, it was Christ who came to me in the epiphany, so it is likely that it was he who overthrew the tyranny; it was the figure of Haggia Sophia whom I saw with the third eye of wisdom who said she had seen the conspirators — Christ, the cosmic Christ. Also, recently I dreamed I was looking up epiphany, and KW#3 says "an epiphany is a manifesta¬ tion of o God; usually, of Christ, as divine." And also the time I dreamed "Cantata 4," Which is about Christ. Another thing which I might consider is that whereas I know that some divine power overthrew the tyranny in 74, previous reports of such matters, as in the Bible, are known only through report & faith in that report. He certainly did not overthrow Belshazzar, since there was no such king. There has been no promise of God's intervention in history since Daniel — before Christ. Are we not, by our faith, to think that any intervention since Christ would be by Christ, hence would be the Parousia, i.e. Christ's presence? Yes; I am sure it was the Second Advent, because the plasmatic spirit which came to me came to judge; he came for justice, which is how Christ will return, it is said always: Christ as Lord who judges. (Debbie said, "You will notice a change in the animals." Pinky.) Ah! I recall suddenly how I used to (as with Jane Burton) cry out in anguish: (to heaven) "Father! Take me back!" I knew then that I came here from the pleroma, which is those same stars I looked up at in 3-74. Anamnesis brought back memories of my ancient celestial origin; maybe I am a fallen angel.; in any case I am a fallen something. I remembered how it was before the Fall.. a racial memory? In 3-74 my exile ended, not by my returning up there, but by Him coming down here (as into the stagnant ocean). Recall my dream about.the little boy Philip, on the raft, approaching England (San Francisco, it looked like), a sort of changling who got past Scotland Yard, which is to say the authorities... and then rose up stage by stage but then revealed himself as he was: the coocoo egg. They could not tell until it hatched...and there is the egg motif again. The dream in which on your Zenith TV set a circuit detects when Christ in his invislbe form returns; it causes three lights to come on. You then remove the spindle and base and take from it a dark green cylophane strip and replace it in the TV set, where presumably the 3 lights come on even more or anyhow some further development occurs, in line with the event. I ask myself, Why 3 lights? And it occurs to me that 3 lights equal three eyes, the coming on of the 3rd eye, which means the restoration of the original faculty, taken away at the Fall, of sight. Unless the 3 lights simply refers to the trinity and nothing more, this is most likely what it signifies; also, the removal of the strip of very dark green cylophane suggests the removal, at the right time, of an occluding membrane which filters out most of the light, allowing only a token amount to filter through. Just enough, in fact, to give a register (on the 3 lights) at all. The veil must be torn aside for the light, which has returned, to shine. In the dream I was extremely surprised to find I had such a circuit in my TV set; I called the multitude that I might show them, but none was interested. At last I buttonholed my old friend Pat Flannery, because he was a Catholic, but even he wasn't interested. It seems as if the dream is saying, Without our knowing it, we will see a sign; 3 eyes will come on (inside us) at his return, and then we must respond and cast off the veil of ignorance or delusion, whatever — anyhow remove some¬ thing inside us (i.e. down in the assembly & circuits). It is a barrier to the passage of the light, and is made to be torn off, removed, at the proper time. We don't just sit passive when the signal comes. The dream says, We will know when he returns. If it is said, "He has returned but is invisible; no one can see him"; that isn't true; the 3 lights will light — there will be evidence, a registering of his presence. Note it was my (ahem) set; no one else had one. Did I in 3-74 register (like the Zenith TV set's unsuspected registering circuit) his return, by my experience L restored sight? Ah — the green cellophane was a strip, which probably refers back to Calvin's statement that our original faculties were stripped from us. It is a pun. The dark green cello¬ phane was much like the color and appearance of very dark sunglasses. Zhe darkness shades (!!) possible. I remember thinking in the dream, What about if the owner of the set doesn't look in the manual, and oneday the 3 lights come on, and he wonders, What does that mean? and looks it up in the manual then — wow, will he be surprised at what it indicates!" The manual almost certainly equals the Bible. One sees the 3 lights come on and of course consults the Manual for an explanation; I reversed the order by discovering the circuit before the 3 lights came on; in the dream they had not lit up yet. They were dorment (crypte). The change of color of the lights (from dark green to uncolored) reminds me of the light symbolism of the Bardol Thdol. "The three lights coming on indicate the return of Christ.” And the lights are in my TV set. A circuit few people know about. Nor are they interested. It is my set, my discovery, my excite¬ ment. Analysis: "I have a way of telling when the Parousia comes! One of my circuits which os usually dormant will light up! No one else has it!" Power flowing through an electrical (wiring) circuit for the first time to light up lights is a good mechanical analog for first neural firing along a circuit of the brain. The rod & conebase resemble the rod of a nuclear reactor; atomic power: a good metaphor for the source of psychic energy. I'm going to know while he's still invisible; the others won't know until later, until he becomes visible. Interestingly, the dream placed me back with my high school friends, which sets it circa the time the voice explained the physics test to me; perhaps that was when I discovered I had that unusual circuit (in my head). I can see, from reading about Brahman, that in 3-74 what happened was that the Lord of the Universe lent me his mind, or a part of his mind, to meet a situation which would have enslaved me or imprisoned me or destroyed me. This is God's grace. Everything else developes from this. That vast mind triumphed, as part of a world historic pattern of triumph; it was in harmony with his historic plans. In another respect my (bad) karma was cancelled, which is to say, determinism was abolished and I was freed. All this can be said without reference to any one religious system, without naming any names, such as Christ, God, the Holy Spirit, etc. This is the founda¬ tion of it all; the Good Mind (Ahura Mazd) perhaps. ONCE UPON A TIME there was a California golden groundsquirrel, who went running around & running around with all the other squirrels, until one day he fell into a trap. "I am in a trap," he said to him¬ self in despair. "I do not know who built it, but what I do know is that I can't get out. They will come and kill me." And in his despair he cried out for help. All at once a gigantic figure appeared, and, to the squirrel's amazement (and fear), bent down and showed the squirrel how to get out of the trap. The gigantic figure was not a squirrel but something else. It discerned that the squirrel was injured, and took him to a strange place where the squirrel had never been before and did not know existed; it was obviously the place where the