mmmm literally couldn't try again until now; there had to be the superimposition, Rome Two. Conditions had to be topologically superimpose-able. They could not defeat the "Great Harlot" (Rome) until Rome literally was restored by the cycle of history. The first time God (Christ) entered history (to use Harnack's phrase) he did nothing to change history or the world system; he just demonstrated His reality, his presence & existence. Then, murdered, he went underground. This second time, He has come as King and has changed history; defeated the anti-Christ who sat in the citadel of power. The key word for what I saw in 3 74 when I literally saw Rome around me was transparencies. Cne over the other, as they congrued. There is just no way to cut it otherwise; at his first advent, Christ did nothing to change man's lot, or history, the course of empires, . their strength, their hold. He was a spectator, powerless. But this time: vide THE BACCHAE. Also vide HAMLET and the strange dallying to seize power, to make his move. Well, the key answer is, The time has to be exactly right. "Remember, Hamlet says, "The times are out of joint." I.e. not right for him to make his move and seize power.) I think for us in 1974 the times ceased to be out of joint and became right, and it happened. Every minority revolutionary knows that, about the exact moment. Eisenhaur knew that about D Day. We may be talking about a relatively weak force! The holy wisdom side or entity has never had much mekkis type power; this made timing super critical. This world is or rather was in the grip of the adversary; it held power. Evil had to centralize and concentrate in a citadel, to be overthrown, at least by such a mild (meek???) force. These are holy men (restored men) with holy powers; they aren't going to take over with tanks and cannon and armies in the physical sense. I could tell back when I knew Kathy and Stephanie that something --a battle-- was shaping up. Vide my "masks off" dream in Vancouver, and also what I wrote in my Vancouver speech. The battle was going on then, in 71. * * * The manipulation of a single ontological category --time-- mmmm would make possible all the events of the Parousia, and man himself (i.e. Dr. NK) is experimenting with this. Superimpositions, loops, cycles, meldings, montages, etc. Thus the dead return, all is restored, and, of great importance, the battle between the two opposing forces (good and evil or love and hate, whatever) are at last ended, and the opposites reconciled (lion and lamb, etc). The dialectic strife is resolved. This per se would probably abolish time as we comprehend & experience it. For it is this dialectic (cf Empedocles) which probably produces linear time. In Taoism the contending forces (yang and yin) produce all change. If they were to reconcile, or as in Christianity, there is a victory by -3- one ever the other (roughly, yang or life or love or attraction over yin or death or coldness or decay). Form One of Parmenides: the dry or fiery principle. What kind of world would we have, then? Quite different. I saw (3 74) the two contending forces. I think a victory was scored by Form One (Christ), but was it the victory, or only one along a developing (evolving) process? (See intro to Slavanic "Secrets of Enoch.") Balance of contending moral forces struck for one day (or 1000 years, after which (sic) time is abolished). Note: balance, not victory by either side: balance. Or: palintonos harmonie. That there is another (eternal, i.e. outside of time, unchanging) universe (Plato’s real world) I am certain, by experience, but whether its "will" or nature will superimpose on this world eventually, literally enfolding it, I can’t figure out (Augustine versus the literal millenialists). I ask: do we go there (as Augustine figured, to the City of God) or does it finally come here? ••• The obvious has eluded me. The left hemisphere, processessing and experiencing (perceiving) digitally, experiences linear time. The right hemisphere, working on an analog or pattern basis, experiences either another kind of (non-linear) time or else timelessness itself. I somehow (3 74) extinguished the left-hemisphere self-system (ego), and obtained, not bi-lateral hemispheric parity, but first the annihilation of the left-hemisphere self system, but then the coming into full firing (via the w.s. vitamins?) of the right, which many men have sought but few have found (the Mantra must have helped). And thereupon the universe was seen inside out, and time flowed backward! Viewed inside out specially, and flowing backward temporally, entirely new gestalts (patterns or entities or forces) were visible to me, as if one had suspended trying to read Hebrew from left to right and abruptly read it (properly) from right to left, etc. Since left-h. linear time, as is scientifically known, leads toward entropy, then I saw movement toward the formation of growth, or entelechies. Of the assembling of chaotic parts into wholes. Not only that, I saw saw the assembling force (the Logos) and the counter-force as well (unnamed), these two forming, I think, a dialectic of strife as Empedocles expressed; perhaps the Logos was above both (which twe then could be viewed as yang and yin, etc) and made use of their interaction and contention to build with and on and by means of. But this only visible from right-h. apperception of time flowing backward, and the special properties reversed as well. Left-h time apperception sees flow and change, evolution and process, but not the constructs of the process, since the process (which is real) is viewed in the wrong direction, as a decomposing one (like a tape or film run habitually backward). To the left-h, things pop into being in time and then pop out of being, meaninglessly, going nowhere; but to the right-h sense of the process (reversed), assembling, and toward a goal, is clearly visible. The goal is total assembly of everything into a single entity, probably a totally stable (palintonos harmonie) gestalt or kosmos. But the con¬ structs or gestalts being formed — although the entity at work operated in reverse time, those gestalts lay in our linear future. it was "writ¬ ing backward" to arrive at cur terminal end. 5 26 3345 hellane The Logos came into our world (as Christ), into the idios kosmos of Heraclitus, to draw us into his/her/its world, the koinos kosmos, or corpus christi. First move: the Logos created the koinos. Then men fell from it into idioi kosmoi. How does one restore them, get them back to the koinos kosmos (to wake up)? The Logos is born in the flesh here as The Way. (The path.) By a process of opening men's eyes, an intricate process which takes place through God's Grace (which means man can't achieve it; it must come to man as a gift). What came to me was St. Sophia, the Logos, Christ. Where it took me was into the koinos, or the Kingdom of God (which I think is also the Garden, and from where we originally fell out of and down from and into drowsy slumber). As Bruce showed, this is all put forth in UBIK. My Nazi, porno, underground cartoon, homosexuals, etc. dream last night suggests that it is how one views reality which determines which reality (idios or koinos) one experiences. Would the koinos be a group mind, like the noosphere? Yes it would. This is what we would notice most in entering it: that's what "koinos," the word itself means: shared. Head shared mind instead of shared physical world. And this is what I felt (the noosphere) I entered back in 3 74. In fact I felt the material world cease to be material but pellucid, a glimmering through. The material substantiality which we perceive is a symptom of the idios. But I cannot achieve entry into this but rather God or the Logos through His act of grace must lead me there. Hence the pylon doorway I saw at that time: the narrow way meaning Christ. And few men are saved; the work of salvation for mankind is far from complete. If by "salvation" is meant losing the idios and entering the koinos, where you cease to be the epicenter. This means that Christianity can be viewed in terms of Heraclitus' admonition to leave the idios and wake up to the koinos, the idea of the Logos as Redeemer itself acting to bring man/men in. The graphics 3 74: I, a station, was signalled to fire (act) in response to a stimulus (the Xerox letter). A station in a vast system or network. I was then aware of being linked or hooked in to a system or mind, and that I had been "disinhibited" as I called it then actually I was as I now put it signalled, but I as a station in a network So of course for a time (3 days) I saw the system itself of which I was one of many stations, and was aware of the "traffic" of signalling going on. The veil was lifted because I had been signalled to fire (act in a very specific and complex way; I was given information-rich signals, for complex activity. This revealed to me the War in progress, which is how I see it; my response was combative to the stimulus (letter). Mostly, this bears out the Zoroastrian Sons of Light vs the Sonys of Darkness and their struggle. Prior to this, for several years, I had either been on hold, or was being moved into proper position in spacetime for this evidently important (to the overall picture) response. Naturally, this exposed for me temporarily the true nature of reality, compared to the merely manifest or evident, bringing me to Parmenides, the true being so radically different. 1 can’t doubt the two-entities in their struggle. But it is veiled under convention struggles, probably cutting across all manifest lines. I must never forget that I did not fire in response to the Xerox letter, but was programmed slightly in anticipation of its arrival, i.e. in advance, by an evidently thinking entity. (Living.) But I must never forget or overlook that the graphics came as a result (were preceeded by) the girl with the gold fish-necklace at the door, which was the actual disinhibiting or anamnesis-inducing first step. I saw the gold fish, then the graphics came, and what followed. Her own statement was about early Christianity, which agrees with the experience of 3 74 intrinsically right down to the "St. Sophia" message at the end, this year. Thus the Sons of Light are identified, by her and by her gold fish necklace, as "early Christians," meaning authentic Christians, which is Hellanized, Iranian Hebrew religion. The process, I say, did not begin with the graphics but with the recognition of the golden fish sign. What it meant. Then I began to remember (anamnesis). And this remembering specifically included: what my duty was, my task, vis-a-vis the Xerox letter. I would say I was temporarily given back all my faculties in order to deal with the Xerox-letter situation (God's grace"). I take this to mean, es¬ pecially in view of the girl with the gold fish necklace, that they or he or she or it, the VALIS A, is right here with us. They never left, or anyhow they are back; we don't see them because we are occluded, and they/he/she/it has/have the power to de-occlude us when desired. My sensation of anamnesis suggests restored powers, faculties, rather than me being raised to superhuman or divine levels new » to me and not mine, so to speak. It was, as Calvin says, a restoration of what I once had. If "VALIS" placed material (e.g. from "Acts" in TEARS, plus stuff in UBIK0 in my work, then "VALIS" would have no intention