else could hear it...it prepared the way to (1) transliminate the daimon, and (2) the Xerox information. The veil, inside and outside, was off. Gnosticism: "The true purpose of Gnostic develation was to free spiritual man from astral determinism." Especially if man knew his origins in the pleroma. It is Gnosticism & Gnosticism alone which denies the patriarchal Jewish-Christian religion and enshrines Sophia as the creator goddess. So says Neumann in the E.B. My experience of the lady — it is exactly Gnostic. None else. In my revelations all roads & aspects lead to her; this is Gnosticism. I've seen her, heard her, in many guises, and finally the name "St. Sophia." Gnostic revelation has broken through into my head in the modern world. I think anyone versed in Gnosticism who read my notes would say, "You're a Gnostic." I am not happy about this, but it is so, based on 3-74. Simon Magus lives. Also, it is a thoroughly Greek syncretistic system. I must go where truth (as I've experienced it) takes me; my experience is of St. Sophia. Well, this is a modified Gnosticism, with Sophia sanctified as Wisdom of Proverbs and the book "Wisdom," so that it can be made to jibe with the Bible; thus Christ becomes the female spirit Sophia in a male body, a syzygy. Ah! Yes! This is the complete person! The missing half which Plato wrote about. In Jungian terms, psychological completeness; psychic integration. Not either or but both and. At last; the repressed female goddess Prinzip breaks through into Christianity, in a Third Testement or Covenant. Father (0. T.), Son (N.T.) and daughter or mother (3rd T.). The first emanation from God, according to the O.T., so I guess daughter as demiurge (cf Plato). The Godhead remains behind her; I experienced that; she is the Pantocrator. Ma'at. Or rather Pantocratrix. Two aspects differ from Gnosticism: It is holy Wisdom, not just Sophia; and: she was born before and rejected, which identifies hers with Christ, hence the Logos. This restores the cosmological quality to the system, lost in Gnosticism; the creating spirit (universe creating) is holy & good, not fallen (blech). And this maintains Christ correctly as the Redeemer and Revealer. Pantocrator: ruler of the universe. Creator and Savior com¬ bined. Also judge. He is represented as holding a book, bound, of the Gospels. But if the Pantocrator is/was creator (which is so) then it is close to Gnosticism, with their Sophia as creator, but the same exactly as the Bible with Wisdom (or Christ) as the actual creator of the universe, rather than God. In a sense Gnosticism is a correct exegesis of the Bible (i.e. Proverbs 8 and "Wisdom"). (And Paul in assigning the role of creator to Christ, who equals Holy Wisdom.) The Gnostics were grappling with the problem of why the space-time universe is so inferior and we are cut off from the pleroma — the answer of the Christians being the fall of man by Adam. Why are we in this dim place when we once were in that bright place? is the q. for both. We were once there; it is a far better place; we are going back; our father is there; it is our natural home — all this is derived from revelation and has passed into general Christian belief (like in the spiritual "Going Home"). Anamnesis (as with the Orphics too) brings recollection of celestial origin. The continual unanswered question is how come we fell? Nobody knows, and none of the answers is convincing; they're all obviously guesses & myths and arbitrary. Recall the story about the son sent on an errand to a strange land, who forgets his origins and lives there believing he's a native, and then a letter comes from his real parents, which restores his memory (Book of Thomas?), and he starts the journey back. Why was he sent to the strange land? and why did he forget his origins? Really, there are two unanswered questions. Anyhow, that is the state of things: exile and amnesia. But also: the Redeemer who restores us to our original estate, which seems to be after death (I guess), or else in the coming of the Kingdom of God here, which doesn't imply after death but an as simulation of the space-time universe and an abolition of the conditions of exile & estrangement & amnesia, which would mean not only that we would be restored (evidently that takes place after death anyhow) but that future lives would not have to go through this interval at all, but would be born into their original condition and remain in it, knowing nothing else. Things would be as they were & were supposed to be. The abnormality would be gone. The Gnostics teach that despite acquisiting of the gnosis or saving knowledge, restoration doesn't occur this side of death. What you learn here enables you to make it back up to the pleroma when you die, which is like the Bardo Thodol (hmmm; recall my experience at onset in 3-74!!). This is obviously true, since we are here in this space-time sublunar world — except that when the Kingdom comes, it will change. Until the Kingdom comes there can be no change prior to death; this is obvious, but what is interesting is to ponder the Neoplatonism (and 3-74 and other mystery) experience, where briefly (sic) one experiences what is to come permanently; it would be only an interval, by definition derived from the dynamics of the situation (i.e. otherwise you would have to die, or the Parousia would have to take place). God could foreshorten time (cut off the time of tribulation for the elect) and give you an experience of the Parousia, then extend time for you again normally. In 3-74 I experienced backward 2,000 years and forward into the Parousia. Thus I experienced from alpha to omega in terms of time-extension, not just backward as I tend to suppose. I think the name for what I experienced is Eternity. I can as definitely say that the Parousia is ahead as I can say (on the basis of my 3-74 experience) that Greek & Rome and Crete lie behind us. It was all telescoped & collapsed so that only a short interval lay between the two Advents. Truly one generation, with time folded over so as to bridge 2,000 years. Or more, since/if some lies ahead, as obviously it does, before End-time. (Didn't seem long, though. I define end time not as a day of tribulation —we have that now-- but by the return of the king, the Second Advent.) (As in the dream in TEARS, the king brings first sorrow & grief and tears, then love.) (The king has come "to wipe away every tear.") (Christ's statement, in his First Advent, as to the purpose of His mission here.) (Quoting from Scripture — I think Isaiah.) (I am wrong; this is not what He said. Nothing about tears; but it is somewhere in the Bible, I guess about God Himself.) The best statement I ever recall reading about the Kingdom was when Christ said it is like yeast, which when mixed with fifty pounds (half a hundredweight) of dough, (eventually) leavens the whole mass (equally; is everywhere). Starts out small and then transsubstantiates the universe, I would guess. If it was myself (who assumed control in 3-74) then I am an immortal entity, stretching back thousands of years into the past, originally from another star, lasting on into the future, possessing the knowledge of the secrets of the universe, loyal to God and in touch with him, being mostly in eternity already, having been present near or around Christ as well as the great culture of Greece L Rome, one of the great healers and wise men of this race. How can that be? "For this mortal must put on immortality..." -13- Also, I entered this world (c. AD 1928) with a definite & fine mission: to fight tyranny; I was born with that goal, entered to fight this fight, and I have done so, done well, came here with a lofty purpose and have discharged it with great risk, encountering great suffering, and was saved by that which is divine in me, in my God and in the world, and lived to see the tyrannies, left and right, hurt by what I have done: the two mega-states. The last two empires. Maybe it isn't a question of who it is, but who I am. Out of the ego and into the self, and, my God — what a self came into light. Evidently with the new self being born it could still, as Wordsworth describes in his "ode," see God and the pleroma. Much of what I experienced in dreams (e.g. the alchemical symbols) were symbols of transformation and psychic integration. Gradually the new soul lost its contact with the previous world from which it came. Even the dream in TEARS could be interpreted from a Jungian standpoint: the wise old man, all of these (such as the 3-eyed sibyl) could be archetypes from the racial unconscious, as integration took place; the new conscious self, not ego, assimilated these contents to itself, turned them from the not-I into the I. Prior to this new birth, the old ego died, which explains the Bardo Thödol experience. Gradually over the period of a full year the new self became me, and conditioned to this world, which means that it acquired the boundaries of this world and ceased to see as it had originally seen; hence my sense that after 3-74 I fell. This world imposed itself on it, inflicted itself on its vision. Replaced the previous reality (supralunar) which it had witnessed; it is now a stranger in a strange land, here. It came from somewhere else? Then we must all come from somewhere else. For everyone else, what happened to me in 3-74 happens at birth (physical entry into this world). The mystery religions are right about our origins and the need to remember (anamnesis). I am not so sure now that in 3-74 I experienced anamnesis; the birth, the event, wasn't recalled, it was actually happening. What new and very ancient memories I suddenly had were its current memories of the world from which it had just come. Pythagorias was right; this was a transmigration. This was a rebirth for me, and the values of this metaself point toward the future, which is to say, toward the next world (which was the world it knew already). Thus it fits Jung's depiction of the second part of a person's life and the new values he needs to make that second half meaningful: the collapse of the inade¬ quate values of the first half and the appearance of new ones, sui generis, as ir were. I may not be any less fucked up in terms of phobias, etc., but I do have new values (esp. Christianity et al.). My impressions from rereading the Vaughan poems shows that change in me, and this 2 and a half years after my experience (3-74). These are permanent new values (e.g. my antipathy toward the USSR). The golden rectangle which I saw at the end of the experience would stand as a symbol of psychic wholeness: a quaterrity as mandala, having the attributes of balance & harmony, perfect form, and being also a gate or way, perhaps mediating between this world (me) and the next (unconscious). Therefore it also equals Christ, who was the Mediator. The sparsely populated landscape on the far side (moonlight, still water, the quiet statue of Aphrodite) shows a depotentiated unconscious, with the energy being kx now a part of and available to this side, the conscious. So expressed ergically instead of topographically, all psychic energy became available to me. Living energy (the plasmatic life form). -14- From a Jungian viewpoint, that which characterized my birth of the whole self, or rebirth (of the