then makes more sense if this is the case. And it fits my two or so dreams later on.) So I say that TEARS, which was written in 1970, parallels exactly the events of 1974: in depicting the slave state, the reduc¬ tion to total despair followed by abrupt intervention and judgment, the (implied) removal of one man and finally the withering away of the state after the manifestation of love. It is as if the reign of power is followed by the reign of love, the latter entering the world from Heaven, and requiring for its manifestation the removal of one evil man — which is to say Satan at the heart of the citadel. -1- But subjectively speaking, the most astonishing events, in contrast to the great historic intervention plus the material in TEARS, were the elaborate changes made in me, end-time changes I am certain, the shaping me up to make me acceptable — for the day which in August did come (the pale white light). If there had been no historic changes or perceptions of them; if there had been no TEARS, what was left was still overwhelmingly miraculous and complicated and unprecedented...that is probably the most remarkable aspect of it: unprecedented. The only way my theory about the Parousia having arrived could be wrong would be if somehow I experienced it in ad¬ vance, a sort of mini-Parousia, but this does not accord with the fact of the great historic intervention, which was anything but mini and personal and subjective. I was brought up to —I can't say attained— certain extraordinary levels of character, as well as given certain extraordinary perceptions and insights — which fits, as an event, a sub-event, with the matrix event: the Second Coming, around which everything else revolves as planets around a sun. My involvement in this great event is certainly there, although uncertain (to me). What role did I play? Who was I? Especially the latter. Who was I historically or supernaturally? I certainly was not myself at that time; I was taken over. Those were momentous days, and therein lies the fact: uniquely momentous days in the history of the world & in my experience as well. It must be that others, many other persons, were brought around, changed, to reach their absolute best, for this occasion, but I can know that only as an article of faith; they are as mute as I. Who can I tell? Who can they tell? There must be a Christian community, a body of the faithful (the elect?) who experienced the crucial changes I experienced...but it is all internal, the changes, the judgment (or awareness of it, anyhow), and the results of that judgment, which are for the future. Perhaps we are supposed to be —remain— invisible. I have the greatest knowledge of all: that when he judged me, the Lord found me acceptable, but I also know that I was acceptable because —my godl— He stood in my place and was acceptor of the judgment in my stead I It all fits; it was He, and He judged; and as the EB says about Luther's view, when God judged me God saw His own perfect & spotless son, and so found me acceptable. But by then there was enough of me to make the judgment just. I had come to be what he had shaped me to be. And he did not do it because I was good; if I had been good he wouldn't have had to do it, change me... so no use seeking to identify my special merits. It was due to his love, his mercy. And, most of all, rescue: for someone who believed with all his heart —had faith— that someday the Paraclete would come to his door with that very rescue & redemption. But in the vision of me as the crab I saw myself as He sees me: the crab who when given or offered something turns to what it has to give something back, not to profit but to exchange in barter: an honest creature, not bright enough to take without trying to give back, perhaps; never acquiring because with each new accrition it has given back something equal, thus keeping only a constant ratio, never gain. Never besting; never getting the better of. And thus I see my whole life as it is. A virtue. I never got the hang of accrual, of profit. The man Peter, with the shaved head, at X-Kalay, to whom I gave the radio because he -1- Augustine says that at the Parousia the veil will lift, and the City of Man will be visible as separate from the City of God. This is what I saw: the Iron City, Rome, was the first; then in 2-75 the palm tree kingdom, that was the City of God; so further evidence that the Parousia was here. No blend, no ambiguity; each had parted company with the other. The prison versus the palm garden. No, I guess the Parousia hasn't come yet in linear time; I was lifted up (into sacred eternal time) the way an adult lifts a child to witnes a parade; I saw it the way John and Daniel saw it; I am an apocalyptist. When the Parousia comes it can be seen with the unaided eye; whereas I needed aided eyes, enhanced percep¬ tion, to see what I witnessed. So, again: I did not reach or attain this condition; it reached down (back) to me. In attempting to determine the relationship between the events I saw and the world of linear time in which we live, I have the verbal statemtn, "St. Sophia will be born again etc." to go on, indicating that these events lie directly ahead, since the rebirth of St. Sophia is in itself the Parousia or Second Advent. The Parousia refers not to the presence of the Cosmic Christ, but to the Second Incarnation, reffered to as "St. Sophia being born again," Teilhard de Chardin to the contrary. Thus he/she/it will be visible to all, with unaided eyes. The Cosmic Christ, as resurrected spirit, is indeed present now (it was he probably who came to me, as Holy Spirit), but to our normal eyes nothing is visible; he can only enter inside, as does the Holy Spirit, not be visible as he was as Jesus, and will be again (incarnated in a physical body); but preparations are now being made: the anticipation & expectation are high; the herald angels are here already. Mankind, all of them, will see with unaided eyes precisely what I saw with aided (enhanced) eyes, such as the transformation of the animals; the dividing apartly clearly of the City of Man versus the City of God; the pale white light coming on which signals judgment, etc. This finally resolves my confusion as to what I saw, which was manifestly now, and the promise of a future rebirth. However powerful, actual and real the spirit is (the Cosmic Christ is), this constitutes no incarnation, and it specifically, with a fine economy of words, is an incarnation that was promised (foretold). The foretelling is by herald angels (v. Mathew). The event itself is still future (for all to experience). This was, of course, a Christian rebirth for me (3-74), a being born again from above; but the material I witnessed had specific content beyond the personal experience itself. I recall the "James, James" dream in which advance scouts of the Afrika Corps rolled into manifestation; this was the Second Advent, which I requested medical help from. The implication of this dream was that it would come soon. It came upon the smashing-down of the defective lamb, which seems to me present now. Well, to preview the Parousia is to experience the Parousia is to live through the Parousia, is to experience Christ as returned now. Thus my confusion between the idios and the koinos. The idios now, the koinos later (for everyone). This is the first time I've considered my experience from the standpoint of Heraclitus' distinction. His distinction makes it possible to suppose that I did indeed have the experience, even if no one else did. -2- More important, Heraclitus' distinction makes it evident where the Kingdom of God is (among you, within you); evidently it is currently limited to the idios kosmos. (Koinos later?) (As in "Thy Kingdom come," etc.). In fact without the distinction of Heraclitus it is impossible to comprehend or explain how I could have the experience, and it be real, and others could not. Aha. In his discussions of the Kingdom of God, Jesus clearly indicated a finding of it by individuals, as distinguished from its general arrival. So certain persons could individually enter it, as I did, before His return and the Kingdom arrived in the koinos. It seems to me that what Jesus said about his first incarnation —its purpose— was that he came here and sowed a small seed (the mustard seed) and someday will return to harvest the crop produced from that tiny seed. As Judge, Christ is the Reaper Himself, of the final harvest which He originally planted. * * The phosphere activity, drop in GABA, signalled anamnesis: memory restored of who I was (secondarily, why I was here). Thus I could not, would not, do what the Xerox letter et al. demanded. My true self & destiny were recalled (to me). Purpose, mission, identity. Reason for being here — where I had been and was, where I would go L see (the Parousia). Even the verdict upon z me. And: I was restored to what I had once been (powers & faculties), and restored to my fellows (who instructed me, the plasmatic atmos¬ pheric entities. The curtain for a time, long enough, was lifted. I saw the landscape as it truly was, and the powers behind it, good & antagonistic. The grand design (secrets of the cosmos), origin (the stars), agency (logos), and outcome (restitution), and the historic events I was part of (overthrow of the tyranny). visinhibition took place, firing began; the missing circuits came on at last; their time had come. And mine. Today I dreamed that on March 21st (siclI I) I was released from prison, to write my 300,000 word theological exegesis. I gather (1) throwing off the Xerox letter et al. was means, writing is the end; (2) it is the U.S. who have a vested interest in my not writing, not Soviet (obviously). (I was singing Joe Hill's final statement.) The 21st! They would have nabbed me the next day! Had they nabbed me, I would have broken fast, being a weak & frightened person. My defiance was always out of weakness, not strength. As to the Marxists, they always intended to subject my work to the "structured critics"; this is stated by Lem in his article accompanying UBIK and by Jack Vann; Vann names the desired critics: Lem & Rottensteiner. Lem says, "There is no telling what his work might have become had he come under the scrutiny of good critics" or some such statement; their plans & intentions are conspicuous here. Falling into the clutches of either would have doomed me, and in 3-74 I was about to fall one way or the other — it scarcely matters which. I would never have been my own man again..,and I was so close to this. Strong, vigorous actions were required by the spring of 74 to evade falling into one of their hands — actions I couldn't foresee needing to do. Responding the way I did to the Xerox letter was only the start; look what more I had to do vis-a-vis Lem et al. Certainly my fight along these lines was masterminded from the supralunar realm, throughout, not just at the start. -4- In a purely deterministic, karma^-dominated world, my period of independence would have ended in the spring of 74. In analyzing the situation then I would