March 5, 1975 Dear Ursula, Did I thank you for what you said about Mr. Tagomi in your London speech? I forget. Anyhow I have word of that, and so thank you. It is only one of many thanks which I give and which I owe you. The lovely lady of s-f; that is how I think of you. Ursula, I suppose that by now you've seen SFS which deals with my writing (March '75), and which has in it one article, by Ian Watson: "Le Guin's LATHE OF HEAVEN and the Role of Dick: The False Reality as Mediator." You and I must sit down one day and talk, to see what is going on. From Ian Watson's analysis, I can readily discern that much of the underlying experiences from which my own work have come somehow underlie your work and perhaps you, if you see what I mean. It strikes me that whether you are conscious of it or not, whatever is influencing my work --I mean, making use of me, really, to put forth this work-- that entity or drive is making use of you, too. It is not that I affect you or you me; it is that we are twin outcomes of a single underlying experience. What that experience is of -- that we must discuss, for I know by now that it is a most important experience, having to do with the nature of the substance of reality (in contradistincion to the manifold appearances of reality). Once I read somewhere: "We do not dream; we are dreamed." That is, someone or something which is a Not-I dreams us when we are asleep. A prime mover confronts us, and designs the fabric of our night's events. I say, truly say, in no idle fashion, Ursula, that are we sure, are we really sure, that He Who dreams us at night does not also dream us during the day -- and as He so dreams, or so builds (I personally conceive of him as an artificer, a workman) our koinos, perhaps He changes and erases backwords, and also now and then places us under something much like a spell: a spell of enchantment, so that we imagine --do you see?-- imagine whole areas which are, as an archetect much construct of necessity, what they call false work amid the permanent... I quote from page 32 in Fred Jameson's article in the same issue of SFS: "Every reader of Dick is familiar with this nightmarish uncertainty, this reality fluctuation, sometimes accounted for by drugs, by schizophrenia, and sometimes by new SF powers, in which the psychic world as it were goes outside, and reappears in the form of simulacra or of some photographically cunning reproduction of the external." Now, Ursula, this is the dream-universe cast over us perhaps, in the daytime, benign and not to be feared, but still it is the True Dreamer dreaming us along; my work and your work together show an awareness that the dream does not end when we wake up, nor begin when we shut our eyes. In the article by Ian Watson, the work of Charles Tart is mentioned. I know his work (although only recently), also the work of Robert Ornstein (I just now wrote to Ornstein, via some friends of his I met: the New Yorker interviewer and pal who came here to interview me). Aspects of this dreaming of us take these forms: Our reality can be manipulated retroactively; that is, our past can be rewoven, and without hesitation, as an automatic process, our several memory-systems will fill in the blanks and make smooth the reweaving (i.e. we won't realize that alterations in our lineal-time past took place). A certain portion of the phenomenal world which we encounter is hologram-like, projected and false, to fill in missing spaces, as in the time extension, missing elements are filling in along similar lines. Therefore we see total continuity in both extensions, time and space, without awareness of dysfunction or rupture. But in truth, there are dysfunctions which (to return to my former term) the Dreamer causes us to gloss over, or allows us to -- perhaps it is less a manipulation that a permission, if you see what I mean. In a meaningful sense, portions of our reality extensive in time and space are false; other portions are real; we have no way of determining which is which or even if this proposition is true -- but this proposition is true, because I saw in March of last year a roll-back of the artificial portions (the term "the veil of Maya" comes to mind). After ten months of studying and speculating, I have come to these conclusions: (one) There are two types of time: lineal time; and orthogonal time, the latter being Real Time in that within orthogonal time you have successive layers of deepening Being; this is ontological time, and wihtout it, there would be nothing but illusion, nothing but Maya, so to speak. (two) Lineal time is mere process or accumulative time, which conceals orthogonal time from our gaze. (three) The Dreamer who determines both our sleeping dreams and our waking dreams (vide Tart) wishes us to suppose the reality of the phenomena extensive in lineal time. But, upon the command, "Wachet auf!" these accretions within lineal time roll back to expose the ground of being. The Dreamer (i.e. He who dreams us) can perform this absolute act at any time He wishes (called by the Christians God's Grace or God's Mercy). (four) The landscape thus exposed, not deformed, is quite a shock to us, when abruptly visible. What is disclosed is that the smaller cycle of the year (rotary time) is an analog of a greater "year" which is extensive for our species; i.e., instead of this Greater Year lasting a matter of 365 days, it lasts thousands of years, which is beyond the range of man as individual but well within the purview of man the race. Seen thus, we are confronted by the stark discovery (or rather disclosure to us by the Dreamer) that the time period --of lineal time-- lasting from the Second Century B.C. to date is Winter, with all the attributes we correctly associate with Winter in the small year-cycle familar to the individual. (five) This landscape of Winter (200 B.C. to 1974 A.D.) has determined the quality or nature of the lives of all living beings within the lineal span which it underlies: like Kan as the trigram in Taoism, its aspects are Slavery, pain, hopelessness, ignorance, limitation, etc., the true darkness by which we have come to sense our past two thousand years as heavy, a burden, a tribulation, a condition of sin and ignorance, of being but off from God, etc. (six) Now the great orthogonal time axis rotates into the next "trigram" which is that is Spring, the arousing of life. This was signified by the throwing down of the tyranny here and in Greece and in Portugal, plus similar but less visible declines of physical power over men in the Soviet Bloc. The coercive enforcement of mere power, the ability to compel men, to reify them -- this all constitutes qualities of Winter and is passing. I don't really mean this as a metaphor, because orthogonal time is geniune, and although its axis is by definition at right angles to lineal time (the only time we've recognized until now) its direction is retrograde, in terms of stripping off or melting away the accretions built up as layer after layer of progressively less real reality. Within, deep at the heart of Being, lies the final goal of orthogonal time, which is Restoration of Moisture (cf aspects of Dionysos, as God of the philosophical principle of moistness, versus the evil principle of desiccation, as embodied by the Egyptian god of death, Sit or Set). (seven) The Dreamer who has kept us dreaming until the moment for awakening arrived (expressed as an intrusion into lineal time, a penetration from without the "Final Days" of Christianity and Zoroastrianism) -- this is best expressed by the discovery that the authentic reality of Springtime lies beneath the inauthentic layers of snow, or of barren and sterile "death," and now revives -- as is always the case in Spring. There is only one Spring, not a procession of many of them; it is the same Spring again each cyclical year. Thus, in the Great Orthogonal Year, this Springtime is the Springtime, not merely a springtime, since the orthogonal time-axis is one of ontology. In our koinos kosmos, now, as in our idios kosmos, or more properly, in our idioi kosmoi, we are being intruded on, as Runciter intruded on those in half-life. The symbol of half-life in UBIK must be viewed as an accurate dramatic representation of our true state of Being: we are only half-alive, or slumbering in our icy coffins, severally, and individually, as shown in the novel. (eight) Those in half-life are not dead, nor is the root slumbering under the snow (the symbol of both Christ and Dionysos: it looks dead but is only asleep, waiting to be awakened by the voice of spring). We are those slumbering roots. We are dormant. It is difficult intellectually to understand this, that we are neither fully alive nor fully dead (Aristotle taught us that we have to be A or not-A), but in fact these thousands of years for our species, and for our animal friends as well -- these are nothing but a long winter in which half of us (expressed neurologically, perhaps, by the fact that we use only one of our brains, or the left hemisphere) is alive and the other half has not yet come to life. Many of the parables of Christ, familiar to those who knew the cryptic sayings of the mystery religions in general, refer to this (the grain of wheat which must be planted; we are now sorrowing in childbirth, the treasure buried in the pasture, etc.). That the Final Days should be in fact a springing up into full life, complete life, going from seed (vide the parables and especially the Pauline Texts, plus the Orphics' doctrines and Neo-platonism, etc.) -- going from dormant seed slumbering under the snow of Winter and then hearing/feeling/sensing/knowing the voice of moisture and warmth and Spring, the voice of God saying, "The time has come! Wake up!" These are authentic commands coming to us in dreams, and are no less real and no more real than what the ordinary seed experiences in its own fashion; we are all one in that regard...except that our orthogonal Winter has lasted for one hell of a long lineal period; it seemed as if it would never end. But Winter always feels that way; each seed, each slumbering root and bulb, must in its half-life state, buried in ice and waiting, experience all of this: we share a common reality. From this is can be seen what Paul meant by such terms as "You are the first fruits of the harvest." We read this and assume mere poetry. That is was literally meant -- did that occur to us? But to take it literally we had to grasp the existence of (1) lineal time versus orthogonal time; and (2) the Active Dreamer who instead of saying, Dream on, dream on, sleep on, suddenly begins in our dreams to say, Die Stunde ist da! Throw off the chains, the net of thorns; it is Cantata 140 and Cantata 4 together. The Bonds of death (the thrall of Winter equals the bonds of death) have relaxed, and as exemplar, the Christos leads us into full-life, out of the half-life we've been in. Sorry to take so much of your time here, Ursula, but in my dreams I saw the words CANTATA 4, and when I had read the text, I began to understand.