melancholy aspect of these insights & revelations is the discovery .that the megastate is absolutely diabolical. What was taking place in 1971 through March 1974 was absolute evil at work, the Prince of Darkness assailing & enslaving man. That it has a superior adversary is the only saving thought. No wonder I sensed the odor of Nazism in Solarcon. The grinning skull of Satan lurked behind their Nacht una Nebel activities, right up to 3-74 when they were deposed. Tom Disch was right; "My name is Legion" (ir leg); that refers to the Devil. It is a shame that Christianity & Neoplatonism couldn't reconcile each to the other, since it meant the death of Platonism for 1400 years, and philosophy reduced to the "handmaiden of theology," but since primary Christianity is the main element in the content of the Platonic final form, the Summum Bonuum, then in a real sense Christianity is the secret victory of —not the system of thought called Platonism— but of the Platonic system by which the universe operatexs. The S.B. has imprinted its information down through the centuries, unsuspected as the agency of its revelation to men. My reconciling Christianity with Platonism is all the more impressive because I did not set out to accomplish this, but was lead there by the material & reason alone. Now, what do I do with this, that I've accomplished? I guess UBIK will have to stand alone, doing the evangelising for me. Yes sir; Platonism made it through to the modern world in the form of revealed religion: Christianity as encised on our minds pertually anew from the archetypes of archetypes, the form Summum Bonuum, without us suspecting. Plotinus and Origen were both right: the first form, the second content. So I know now that as fast as the eikons die, the eidos (eidola?) will renew everything as the encise downward into our world. It is the lives, the lives, the lives that die. I don't see how this differs from the foretold primal battle between Christ and his adversary, the latter being Rome, which is to say our megastates here and now. So I am back at my old corner once again, claiming that the Parousia, or anyhow certain stages of it, have taken place. The J Bible calls Rome "the great and only real enemy of the new chosen people, the Church." With this in mind I can see why the superimposition was shown me, because I could then identify the protagonists in the situation correctly — without which I really could not. I might point out that things got worse, much worse (under Nixon) before they got better (due to the intervention). This too is in accord with prophecy. In a sense, Nixon was to the U.S. government as Satan was to Rome: the ultimately worst figure. We saw the modern-day Satan growing within the Government, gain¬ ing more and more power, and using it to persecute the anti-war dissidents. It was Rome made worse than ever. "Look," the spirit said, disclosing the paradigm superimposed. "Here is Rome, and THIS is what we do to it, to the conspirators we see," and it did. Now, if the JWs and Fere Teilhard are correct, that Christ has been grow¬ ing stronger constantly, then perhaps (if I may essay this), He was not strong enough before to overthrow it. The JWs say this emphati¬ cally. Then he did it as soon as he could, and not a moment too soon. Maybe he has God's wisdom (omniscience) but not power. But the event anyhow finally happened. The extreme centralization of the modern day megastate proved to be the feet of clay for it, and undid it. I remember the exact second when I personally felt the oppres¬ sion lift. It was after I turned that Xerox letter over to the Fuller¬ ton fuzz. Ana I heard the lady singing opera as she went down the stairs outside in the night. The universe itself seemed to rejoice. That was March 74; for the nation it lifted in August 74, the very day I went into surgery; when I went in he was still in office, but boxed into a corner; when I woke up he had resigned, or was reading his speech — whatever. It was over. It is with great difficulty that I abandon the theory that this was a residual memory of Rome by someone just now from there; I think rather that, through the superimposition of the paradigm form I was caused to see Rome as the essence outside me. Fullerton 1974 in accident; Rome c. 60 AD in essence. Well, either way I understood; but the fact that even now I agree that Rome c. 60 was the essence (uncovered) then indicates my more recent theory of form superimposition. But perhaps I still mis¬ state it. There was no superimposition; rather, the accidentals melted away, and the Platonic form ROME became visible to me: it was already there, but disguised: veiled, so to speak, by deliberate gingerbread arranged there to conceal it. So it was a revealing & an unveiling, not a superimposition; I was allowed to see what was really there all the time. Like I say, the clock in heaven hadn't advanced since 60 a.D. Put another way, I witnessed the sort of form regression I depickted in UBIK; Fullerton fell away, and the ancient form was disclosed — instead, say, of seeing desert land and pasture and Indians. If this is so, that the accretions melted away as in UBIK, then perhaps the analogous changes in me were the melting away of personality accre¬ tions: back to primary urbs; back to primary homo. We confronted -3- each other in our primal guise, our authentic guise (once again?). The city was Rome & I was an early Christian. Form regression, exactly as I stated in UBIK: "The man contains —not the boy— but the former man." Likewise the city: the former city. Regression, as I stated by way of analysis in UBIK, along the form-axis. Thus proving (to Joe Chip anyhow) Plato's theory of forms. I think in my experience of form regression, in me and around me, that I would have to agree, too. Thus anamnesis, a stripping away, a harkening back; NOT a superimposition either on the city or on me. I simply was as I really was and saw likewise, the Magdeburg belljars of Heinrich Zimmer. Then the entity which replaced me (and thought in Greek) was really me, the authentic me; and it was me thinking in Greek. The motion was from here to back there, not from back there to here. Anamnesis for sure! Another person entirely different from my contemporary ego-self was exposed. But later the accretions of time re-established themselves, which seems natural; again I saw Fullerton and again I was my present self. The palimset theory, which I worked on long ago in this thesis. To make sense out of this one must hold to Plato's theory of forms. (Of course, one could cynically explain this all away by saying that due to the sodium pentathol and seeing the golden fish necklace and hearing the words, "This was worn by the early Christians" that extreme hysterical sensi¬ tivity and suggestivy caused me to fall into a hypnoidal state, and I imagined everything...but how come I thought in correct Greek, then? I believe that the sodium pentathol and sight of the girl wearing the fish necklace were necessary causal agents, but what they did was release ^x me from the control of the contemporary object; they did not hypnotize me but rather caused me to remember; they released me, really, from bondage to current appearance. Anyhow my experience was way out of proportion to seeing one fish necklace. It might have disinhibited me, but it could hardly do a one-year job on my head. Anyhow, nothing happened until at least forty days later. TEARS was published; the Army bought it — at least a month. I knew that something absolutely dire was shaping up. Oh yes; I learned about Lorraine, and I lit the candle. One night the phosphene activity began, and soon afterward the landscape melted away & I melted away in unison with it. And the dreams of seeing great books help up open started. If the golden fish did anything it was to open the original crack, as if of a door, making me think for an instant that these were the early days of Christianity again — and that instant later became a world. By momentarily falling into that space the door was opened for me to pass through (cf the Golden Rectangle doorway I saw at the end of the experience; it led back to the Ancient World). (Which is to say by then I had returned to the modern world, and saw the ancient world, which I had been in, on the far side; and then not at all. I had made my way back, and the door disappeared, perhaps forever. What I saw beyond it was where I had been.) Well, I can hash & rehash whether he came forward or I went back, but what I am sure of (in contrast) is that both realities were present simul¬ taneously, and the Rome one was more accurate a representation. The real battle was there; the real dynamics were there. The real me was there. -4- The real enemy was there, and the real Cause to which I was committed, and my real identity, as if I had suddenly remembered (anamnesis!), remembered who I was (an early Christian), who I fought & fought me (Rome) and what I had to do (help topple the tyrant or beast). It all came back to me: the real purpose of my life. Everything made sense in those archetypal terms. But the extreme interruption of the normal landscape —and normal personality & identity— could not be explained except in terms of the Platonic forms. It was in a sense a reconstruction of me and the landscape rather than merely rolling back the accidents to expose what was already there, since after all Fullerton was only really Rome in the Platonic archetypal form sense, and I was only an early Christian in that sense, too, as shown in UBIK. It's amazing what you can accom¬ plish by control over the forms. They are the mechanism without which what I experienced inwardly & outwardly is inexplicable. Certainly the view of reality I've expressed in all my books and recent stories was born out when I saw Rome about me — the illusory quality of reality I'd long ago intuited. The soap bubble effect. The "idea in the mind of God" silly putty universe, where things are as you imagine, or anyhow as Someone imagines. If I wasn't already right about physical reality this couldn't have happened; it is a kind of dream, but I was not the dreamer. It was dremt for me. Of course I could go the route which religious mystics usually go and say, "I was taken out of mundane space & time and transported back to ancient Rome" or "...shown ancient Rome, and then I later was shown a vision of the Promised Land," without going into the mechanics of it. This, then, presumes that the two visions were a form of language, to com¬ municate something to me. Most of all: I saw Nous obscuring its plays with dokos, so the Adversary could not fathom its moves; I saw continuous creation as Nous joined two weak, imperfect or bad sections to become a good one; the veil (dokos) is necessary because of the Game & Nous' ad¬ versary .. .who seems to be either in this world or actually this world, which is the stockpile for Nous' building. Nous is invisibly building a new heavens and earth, using this earth for raw material, despite the adversary's efforts. Concealment of this is