place “after” it is really what took place before it, which is there to explain it. I, the little boy like Christopher; that’s me completed. Oh God, Claudia; the “explosion” is throwing is throwing us backward into lineal time away from the moment of completion/perfection of each of us. What age do you guess? The Savior didn’t say “babies.” I think about 3 or 4 years old, maybe up to 6. One could say, Before the World took the little child and taught it to see and think only its small way. Yes, maybe so, Claudia; while the teacher was still the universe. I remember how God, as body-of-God, the universe, taught me, through bugs and bees, the sight of an old blind lady in a great wheel chair. I knew about being bushwacked (by a bee) about old age and death; I knew about the Fish sign, too, the Savior: I called him “Tunny,” from a del Monte billboard for some canned food. We had to travel under the Oakland Estuary in the Alameda Tube, and I saw the tube like a can; at the end we emerged in the sunlight and I saw the billboard with “Tunny” on it. I loved ol’ Tunny, the great fish (like Charley the Tuna now must be to kids). Claudia, I tell you the truth: through (via, not from in, within) such shapes, the true living Archetypes speak to us, especially as children, but now, too, if we liksten. In my kids’ story book the figure of the old king… through him God actually moved toward me, later appearing in a “dream” about my story book,” If you see. I saw this last night, how the drawn figure of the old king is: The drawing your parent an archetype The mind receives so well during young childhood. It was wonderful, enchantment, when things spoke, pictures and bugs. Well, God spoke through them via, by means of, them. Utilized them as conduits of resemblances; there we encountered the Queen, the King – and the pieces of the chessboard. I realized the other night, And now, that Christopher is born, I am the wise old king. I will never find him; I can only become him. Bummer. Sad. But I looked at my great arms (I have great arms) and I thought, One must eventually become ones own parent. And the beautiful cruel queen is Tessa, of course. That story, THE RED FEATHER by Dorothy Canfield Fisher (I had my copy until 1972 when I was in Canada and they robbed me a final time), that was what they call my Script. A little girl, Rosemary, was born, but the fairies came and they swept her away in a shower of sparks (this is what I saw when I was aware of Erasmus: magic fairy sparks). They put a changling baby in her place. Later, that changling grew up, a fairy child in the mortal world not knowing why she could not and then do magic which none of the other children could. Later, a wise old lady in a rocking chair showed her the doorway to fairyland, where Rosemary kept wanting and wanting to go, for some reason (oh yes – she felt alienated in the mortal world; unhappy, restless). She crosses to fairyland. There is the palace. The queen puts her to work in the scullery. She drudges and drudges, and the – oh yeah, now I remember. The whole idea was, the fairies stole the mortal baby to use in their fairy scullery because mortals are well-known to be better at housework. So the mortal Rosemary grows up in the PALACE and is unhappy, and not only that, she is lousy at dusting (the Queen is neverysatisfied, but the wise old king is gentle with Rosemary, saying “There are laws for some people to keep and some people to break.” The Queen always nags him and he says, “Coming, my dear.” He is always civil to her. A woman wrote this, so don’t get your feather in a twit, Claudia). Anyhow, the fairy girl in the mortal world (supra) does magic and can’t fathom why; the mortal girl in fairyland at the palace fucks up at scullering. They meet. It turns out that – I forget. Everyone fucked up. The mortal girl finds her way back to the actual world and is happy, but see, I didn’t dig the end; what I dug was the little – fairy – girl here in mortaldom doing magic by accident and wondering how come she was different. The rest is a lot of plot to make it come out. The moral of the novel was that you can be different and the King will understand but no one else will, and if you show you can do magic they will be vexed in spirit to see this, but wow, is it a trip, to turn for instance a strip of cloth in deepest winter into a garland of poppies which sizzle when they hit the snow (locale: Sweden). Rosemary (no, Rose; the other was Mary; how clever); the fairy child here in mortaldom: she could make Spring come during the deep winter. This is what she did that I remember; the snow man who winked because she made him alive; anyone can cause a golem to come to life. But the sizzling rope of poppies, in winter, which had just been cloth, just pretend – that is a superacid trip, Claudia, and you know it. The heat (thermal units), the life (Dionysos, Kore, Demeter) – she had a boyfriend for me to identify with, in case some body kid read the book, like me. He was a fairy prince named Stephen. He knew (i.e. why she could do magic). Rose: “Stephen, how come I can do magic and I’m living here in Fullerton like everyone else, eating at McDonald’s and knowing Willis McNelly.” Stephen: (MYSTEROUSLY, BUT AMUSED) “I can’t tell you yet, Rose, or Mary, or Rosemary, whaterver.” (EROTIC INTERCHANGE OF GLANCES BETWEENB THEM: SHE FALLS FOR HIM. HE IS A NEAT DUE, SHARP DRESSER, ETC. OLDER) It’s odd that I recall the sizzling rope of poppies in the snow so clearly and not the rest. What I saw the other night, the swirls of vines up the vestment of my saint statue – that was like it: the bursting forth into life of Spring, in the midst of stark winter. Now, this is obviously a mescaline type of experience. We know that. And I was loaded. And yet, perhaps Ms. Fisher who wrote THE RED FEATHER based that episode on something she experienced once, and in those days no one in the U.S. took mescaline; no one got loaded. The reproach, “Phil, you experienced that because you wanted to; i.e. the swirling vines of new life” is no better an argument than, “You experienced selling UBIK to Doubleday because you wanted to.” Also, “You experienced it because you read about something like that years ago in a child’s book” – of what real meaning is this argument, since we don’t know how the passage got into Ms. Fisher’s novel in the first place? It doesn’t explain why I recall that section, which was minor, which in the novel just showed the child that her difference from the other children included having strange powers; it was exciting, but not good. She didn’t want to be different. (We knew, because of the scene of the baby exchanging.) Obviously, in that scene, Ms. Fisher intentionally or otherwise incorporated something of the Fruhlingszauber: the magic of springtime, as it really would be: those poppies would have sizzled in the snow, being hot. They were hot with life; the fact that Ms. Fisher saw the equation death/winter/cold versus life/Spring/heat isn’t an invention of her head; it is an actual truth. She did, however, equate magic with springtime; fairy power used to turn the winter to spring, to bring life, and therein she touched on something very deep, at the heart of her small readers, like me, who were astonished and touched, but didn’t know why (we knew nothing of the mystery or fertility religions of Greece et al, did we?). Magic equals life equals warmth equals poppies. Now, poppies are an exotic flower, with intense colors, identified with foreign lands (this I’m sure is why Ms. Fisher chose them). Magic is the power to bring to life that which is only a picture of a flower on a strip of cloth (this is how it was in the novel; they tied a strip of poppy-printed cloth around the snowman’s neck). And then poppies, in a rope, came to life, fell to the snow and sizzled; I still remember that touch – what verisimilitude that gave… I felt those hot flowers sizzle, and who ever heard of flowers, even in spring, being hot? See how much is conveyed? These are maypole and mayday rite anyhow: the flower garland, winding it around the snowman figure. And the way by which Rosemary made the flowers actual (and hot) was by singing a song. So you can see how much is here – song, the winding of the flower-imprinted garland, the great inert figure of the deity! And then life comes – she wanted the Sprint to come, they all did. In the novel the poppies, alive, were explicitly equated with Spring. Taking a leaf from Marlo Thomas – the best thing a child’s book can do is teach what the child may be and do. Which he otherwise never would have thought of (the worst is to say, no you can’t do or be that. To limit him). Did THE RED FEATHER teach me something our people have forgotten they can do? I leaned otherwise? They are going to find that orthogonal axis, Claudia, and when they do, they will find it retrograde and exactly what Joe Chip saw, and it is the time-stream I entered. And the effect of that – it looks like our past. But it is not; it is related to our past, since it moves in that direction. The Bible is a book of the future. The New Testament and the oracles of the Old Testament: they are about tomorrow. The setting, the backdrop, will be familiar to us; the events will be played out against that setting… but the events are new. We must separate set and ground, here. The ground is old; set is new. We are participants in the set. Ground equals WHERE Set equals WHAT The WHAT is Final Reckoning Time or Out-of-Time, and after accounts are settled, we get to go to the seashore. Okay? But first the poor rat has to die; poor creature; and then we’re released. Life- Spring - Zagreus March-June Dead Winter Nov-March Rebirth: Zagreus was not deadbut asleep, under the snow: spring March-June One year's cycle, or: The Cycle locale: the Earth Greco Roman times (esp. Attic Greece[)] Spring Jesus From then on: dead winter 100 AD to 1970 AD Rebirth These are not metaphoric or poetic analogs - but simply that this "year" or cycle was what Jesus taught & I meant: he has not been dead, but sleeping, during this 2000 year winter, under the "snow" Locale: the earth "and when I, the root of the vine, slumbering under the snow of winter, seemingly dead - when I return to life, you who follow me (are me, possessed by me) - while that spring day (- you will return to life with me + share the spring with me. My endless rebirth will be yours too - through the flood [...] What accretions I saw rolled back, making me imagine I saw the world of 2000 years ago - was the analog of the snow melting to reveal the Earth below - as it was before the layers of snow covered it i.e. the world of appearances is the world of "snow" (along "orthogonal