book by my friend Paul in an early visionary dream: "A Marin County writer will have troubles..." etc), you can better see how I came to be picked in 3-74 for a reward; I hope this isn't hubris, but I did pay heavily for my anti-war stand, and that is a fact. That was the well-documented Time of Great Tribulation — cut short in 3-74 by God, to spare me. And then the restoration of all things began. My last act against the regime was when I fired off TEARS and it was published. So from the standpoint of efficient causes the experience can be understood (a reward following what I did and what was done to me), and also in final-cause terms, it gave me wisdom and strength to do what I still had to do; such is the dovetailing of a true cosmos. In 28 months I've created an enormous exegesis of my 3-74 experience, which is what you are supposed to do: subject the mystical to the rational and see what comes of it. Look where I wind up. Now what can we expect? A return of the early saints, such as St. Luke — I believe this, too, has happened, and that I witnessed it in regard to one of them anyhow. The tribulations occured; the intervention and judging occured; the throwing down of the Prince of This World occured; now the millenial age is with us, but just as secretly as was the rule by Satan (as the JWs point out). I saw that millenial age in the palm tree universe. The Secret Garden, as I have called it: The Kingdom of Christ or God. But to appreciate this age completely we would have to have experienced where we'd be now if God hadn't intervened: probably completely downtrodden by the tyranny, our freedoms gone, and probably at war. It is the contrast which reveals, and we will never experience the contrast. Like me personally, we have been freed from a prison before it was built; God interceded in advance. So we can only guess what the alternative world would have been like. I personally would not be here at all. In DEUS IRAE the vision of the palm land,’the Holy Land, by Dr. Abernathy, signifies that the curse has been lifted; I deduce that my seeing it indicated too for us or for me, too. This is how the world ought to be; or, put another way, this is how we ought to see/experience it (Form One of Parmenides). The tyrant Nixon "died," like Lufteufel in the novel...and the curse was lifted; it is another absolute sign of the end-times. -11- I say, then, that there has been a secret take-over of gov¬ ernment by the rightful king, Christ. Probably He will reveal him¬ self by slow stages (most secret coups work this way anyhow). Now I ask, How does Jimmie Carter, our next president I guess, fit into this? I think, He is either very good or very bad, an absolute in one of those two columns for sure. Either he is God's mouthpiece or he is an even worse tyrant. It is obscured now, but time will tell. If he is a greater tyrant, perhaps the ultimate one, God will rise readily to the challenge. God did not depose Nixon to allow an even worse person in; that seems self-evident. "The trumpet's loud clamor" will be heard again, if necessary. I personally am pessimistic. We are going to get the form of virtue, the externals, without the content, I think; I intuit this. The ultimate hoax, which is the anti-Christ wearing a Christ suit; the smile masks death. In Revelation, there is first the 666 beast (which I have identified as Nixon) and after he is thrown down, the Anti-Christ appears who is worse yet, who is Satan himself; but Christ throws him down, too. Hmmm. Nixon, then Carter. (I've been looking through Revelation and I see there are two beasts, but evidently the second beast is the Antichrist. It's very confusing. Also there's a dragon, before the 2 beasts. Beats me.) One very interesting thing said in the Jerusolam Bible: That Rome and its empire is the sole real enemy of Christianity, and is the Antichrist (I recall how Rome figured in my visions, the memory of the spirit of evil Rome, his enemy; also I think, too, that the modern day US is an extension into time of Rome, which never fell but underwent external face-lifts. Anyhow this remark & analysis in the J. Bible corroberates my visionary experiences vis-a-vis Rome; also I've remarked that the government in TEARS is not only like the Soviet government but like Rome, and Moscow has been called the third Rome.) (The J. Bible's remarks about Rome in intro to Revelation nails down my visionary tneoleptic experiences for sure as early Christian; beyond doubt.) (If an authentic early Christian saint were to be resurrection within one, he would feel and convey such sentiments —and preoccupation— re Rome.- (And who else would, pray tell?) (Wow, for my tutelary spirit it was the burning issue, the adversary. Thus my contention about what took me over is strengthened. (I have not ever really grappled with this aspect of my theolepsy, the intense fear & aversion and suspicion it felt regarding Rome; now I think it was a clue of enormous magnitude, offering me a further opportunity to pin down absolutely who and what had usurped my ego. It conceived every secular antagonist as an expression of Rome. "Rome" was the critical opera¬ tional word; it literally saw Rome when it looked around itself here in this world, after it first arrived. "The one authentic enemy which could destroy Christianity"; well, that was his/its view, all right. Jeez; if it was an early Christian resurrected to second life in me, then the Parousia for sure had come! If I said to any learned person, "An early Christian saint fearing and detesting Rome has come to life in my head — what does it mean?" he'd reply, "Good Lord! The Parousia is here!" -12- Also, he was raring to go; he just kept on truckin’, as if his wheels were still turning from the spin out on them in his own time. He certainly hadn’t been anywhere in the meanwhile! (I.e. he came directly from Rome right to here.) That shows you where we go when we die: again the JW are correct, we're asleep until awakened on —yeep— judgment day, as evidently he was, and again we're back to the Parousia; he certainly hadn't lived an interem existence, in Heaven or anywhere else. And — he correctly apprise the situation, here, as the final battle: the situation and the enemy (the twin prongs of Rome, US and Soviet). Bewildered as he was he knew what was expected of him; the situation which greeted him was exactly the one he had prepared for & anticipated. No, there was no short km circuit; nothing which he expected had gone wrong or failed to materialize. It all took place according to their original plan. His feet were moving before he touched group. He was thrown right into the battle. Well, people such as him were/are the first-line troops at Armeggedon. The commanders or officers, as it were. They would be the ones who would understand the situation; I certainly didn't until I assimilated it from his mind. (Test: show in what ways the situation here in 94 would differ from what he expected. Answer: in no ways.) Like Doris says, "How could anyone miss seeing the Parousia when it comes?" but the first main event is the overthrow of the beast (the Antichrist), and if people don't/didn't see the beast qua beast anyhow, but voted it into office with the biggest mandate in history, they might see it overthrown without attaching any religious or supernatural significance to its passing, especially if the foe of the beast, the champion of man, Christ, were invisible; they would see the effects but not the source or cause. This is a secular age. The atheists would deny it, and the fundamentalists who are the main body who're waiting think in concrete terms regard¬ ing apocalyptic literature and would expect true physical beasts with ten horns, etc., nothing being symbolic to them. If you strip away the lurid symbolism of Revelation and Daniel you get this: the modern analog or descendent or form of Rome, the despotic empire and tyranny, will be overthrown by the Cosmic Christ during a time of great tribula¬ tion generally, in terms of war and famine, etc. After that, things will get better, since the rightful King now rules. a tyrant and an empire get overthrown by mostly invisible heavenly powers, but how much overt epiphany would there be? Maybe the Cosmic Christ would manifest himself only to a faithful elect (ahem). Put another way, Only to those actually involved. (As few as necessary? Who sees the religious material in TEARS? to give a small example; even the author who had the dream didn't, not until his eyes were opened for him (we get back to the stripped-away theory of Calvin). They will see it only if their faculties are restored, maybe; and that may be a long, slow process lasting generations. The main thing is the event, whether or not seen, which means the end of the oppression (of true Christians especially), and that has indeed happened. I don't see any incarnations (into flesh) in the cards, then or now. After all, Tessa couldn't see the white light that signified the presence of the Angel of Death that night when it came to claim Pinky; his death a -13- few days later demonstrated the reliability of my supernatural percep-system and by extension validated my other perceptions, but I doubt if I would see it now, I having lost those perceptions and returning to the deformed norm. But then, too, it wasn't Pinky but the Savior himself in there, as He was in me too. Pinky or Christ passed through the stations of the cross (we mocked him, etc), and returned once more to his origin: Heaven. It was all very real. Pinky returned because He returned; He led Pinky back home, and stayed with us from March through August, until after my surgery & mending. Thus I saw (correctly) in Pinky what was also in me. PAY-OFF TIME! Last night I had a mystical insight about my 3-74 mystical insight; viz: As to the contents of my 3-74 experience I am right (supra), but as to how I acquired the knowledge & experience, wrong. What took place actually stamps my experience as Neoplatonistic, inasmuch as what encised on me was the form of forms, the Summum Bonuum, whose contents were (1) the form and balance of Apollonian philosophy, and (2) primary Christianity, as a further development along the lines of Christ as Platonic-archetypal-form exemplar. In a nutshell, that is it. There was no one from 2,000 years ago who came here; the S.B. exemplar form in itself (which is what I saw as phosphene activity) incised from outside of time, and is always encising to some degree on every person within Western Civilization; it is perpetually printing out, very much like my "teaching satelliteVALISYSTEM A idea". My attainment was philosophical, not theo¬ logical, to be technically accurate; primary Christianity is now a category —in fact the ultimate category— of a priori knowledge in Plato's sense. Every "theolepsic" change in me was due to the S.B. exemplar archetypal form of forms encising balance and proportion, ratio, harmony, on me; I became, for reasons I don't know, the receptible of being, which is to say passive matter. I achieved the goal of the Platonists...also, my politcal activism at that time was the actions of a "philosopher king," in Plato's sense. God is not involved in this, nor Christ qua Christ, but all were