Tielhard's noosphere. Well, perhaps this is the greatest datum among the extraordinary data: that a living soul drives human history forward along the lines it consciously and wisely intends, and that at certain unusual and highly important times it throws off all disguise and operates designated humans with manifest deliberation, to the amazement of those humans. "Your role is as follows," it says, having entering them and totally taken control, usurping all motor centers. And you do it, wondering all the while, and not even being able to judge what the consequences will be of the acts you are compelled to do, at the bequest of another will. What is the center of this? What is the ultimate source? Some¬ thing above & outside the historic process, greater than & older than, certainly. The demiurge, I say. No option was given me for dallying or refusing...one recalls Jonah. When the Lord will use you, there is no place to hide; he gives you the power & wisdom, and also drives you forward unhesitatingly, but it is for your good, your life, your freedom, not at its expense; it is for the good of all well intentioned men. But how extraordinary! How unglimpsed in — peacetime. The Call of God is a command that none can deny. This is what distressed Jamis when I told her. But I trusted the not-I, finding it wiser than me. Anyhow I had no choice. God is after all our parent. What took me over was quite parental; it put all of my affairs in order before it left, health and finances, and getting rid of spraycans as well. I think, What God did in history at that point, 1974, was to prepare the way. Maice the world ready; it was a clearing. Not a end in itself, but preparation for something great to come. If so, then it was the Time of Elijah, as I guessed, because the initial onrush was so fierce. I think, Before the Redeemer came, later in 1974, there was that fierce zealous spirit Elijah. "First Elijah will come," and then, the way paved, Christ returns. If I were to say, Did the Parousia come or did it not? I would say, It did come. The stages were and are being enacted & unfolded, stage by stage, as foretold. Exactly as foretold. And yet few men see or know that the Parousia has come. But as the JWs point out, they never saw Satan all these years; thus they do not see Christ returned either, nor anything else, except the ex¬ ternals, only the externals. The most powerful tyranny in the history of the world was deposed, and what stood against him in worldly terms? Nothing; yet he resigned. Contrast this with Egypt, where the remnant of Jews merely wascaped through God's power, but the empire remained; Phaoroh remained. This time the empire was crushed, with its head, its sovereign, first pitched down. All the forces of heaven stood matched against all the forces of this world and its soverign. What a mighty battle it was! First the tyrant, and then the empire itself fell the next year. And Greece as well, and Portugal. All gone! All fallen! The Bible records nothing like this, even the fall of Babylon, really, which is doubtful as fact anyhow, being merely an interpretation of natural events I think. Heaven summoned its forces; Earth summoned its; Heaven prevailed. The will of Heaven was at last fully done on Earth, as we have prayed for, these 2,000 years. Heaven conquered Earth and assimilated it; surely this is the Parousia! But such is the secular world that it does not know; I would not know, I, too, had the spirit not opened my eyes; I realize that. I saw only because it caused/allowed me to see. Many were lost in the battle; Pinky, my guide, died; I was injured and later almost died; I lost much. But God saved my life at the end, and restored me. All this being taken into account, my final vision, that of the Holy or Promised Land, falls into place; it informed me that the war had ended in victory, and this, what I saw, now lay around everywhere, a sanctified world. This is my wrap-up, after 28 months; I say the Parousia came; I know it. Libera me Domine. In dies Ilia. Judgment, then, was made, rendered, on us all, whether we realize it or not. The ultimate judg¬ ment evidently —perhaps, only perhaps— excluded many from the category of lambs; I say this because how many are aware? The books were opened and then closed. Yet time continues, events continue. Perhaps, I say only perhaps, the eschotolmgist writers such as John and Daniel made the Parousia sound too blatant, too lurid. Too conspicuous, which it was not. To me it was a lurid, if that's the word, as they foretold; to others it was only a great political, constitutional contest. But to prove my contention, I offer the dream sequence in TEARS, which is clearly an apocalyptic vision of God the King or Christ the King breaking through into our world, to judge —against— the man shut up inside the house, which is of course the tyrant, that he must be destroyed, as he was eventually. That dream could mean nothing else; the only question was, When? the answer coming a month and a half after the book was released — along with the rest of the material from ACTS which was inserted into it. The dream foretold the events; the events bore out the dream. QED; it is so. Said Nick Bottom, but this time he was right; well, he was right then, too; what he remembered as being a dream was no dream but memory of events which could not have been real (so he thought he had dreamed) but did. May I offer one more item as proof that it was the Parousia? There is no report I know of in recorded history where anyone had the experience I had in 3-74; if I had it, then, unique circumstances were involved, to permit open intervention by heaven, and what other circumstances would qualify? -9- This, that the Parousia did come, would explain what I otherwise just cannot explain; it would explain very well: if the Parousia came one would expect individuals to have such experiences. And I cannot argue that it was only end-time for me, since what happened was an overt historical thrown-down of the tyranny, not just subjectivity on my part. The secular events are of a magnitude to testify to the invisible behind them. Let me ask whether or not if Daniel & John were to preview the secular events of 74 and 75, with the invisible causes which I saw evident to them, too — would these events & causes be sufficient to explain their writings? I say yes. Imagine how the externals and internals, visible to those men then, would strike their imaginations & fire up their pens! What more would have to happen to justify their apocalyptic books? I say nothing more; it is sufficient. If they saw what I saw and nother more, they would write as they wrote. Let's tackle it from yet another standpoint, that of trying to test out the JW assertion that Christ has returned invisibly. If He indeed had (the Parousia) we could expect such historical intervention by the Rightful King as toppling the tyranny of the Price of This World. These events, based on heavenly intervention, are absolute signs of His Return. It fits. The JWs are right, were right. As far as I know, they are the only group which believes He has returned. They hold it as faith; they did not see (as far as I know) the invisible inner-workings of the events of 74-75. First we trace terrible world disasters (WW I and WWII, etc.); but then we trace the breaking-through, the anticipated intervention! Good events! Well, then thousands of years of wrong angle, or bias tilt, is being, was corrected; our world is back on course. Now that I've got the cobwebs out of my head, and am facing the extent & meaning of 3-74 et al, I can see a myriad of details in my experience which cinch it up; like my sitting in judgment on my father & mother, and for instance when the white light, the angel of death, illumined the bedroom, and took Pinky. If we did not recognize the presence of the "obscure dominion" of Satan over us, are we going to recognize its removal? One had to see the first, to identify its defeat and understand that it is now gone.Prior to 74, one would have had to identify the evil of this world (esp its governments) and would have had to split off and oppose it/them, thus attaining a vantage point to witness the meaning of events coming in 74. I was in such a position, due to my moral attack on the war, my willingness to go to prison, be destroyed financial etc., rather than pay for bombs to bomb children; this is a new insight (the rest above is consolidation of what I've long thought). There were very few people who did what I did. But I must not exalt myself. I did what I had to do, but my reward was even greater than what I did/risked. I got back more than I lost, or might have lost — risked losing. I gave up the world and gained heaven, really; exchanged this world for the next. "The Lord of Hosts will suddenly come to His temple," meaning the human beings who are his. it sure was sudden. The drawing Debbie showed me — the changes in the k animals which one looks for as absolute signs; I had seen those -10- already, in the cats (esp. pinky). So many indices. But this all means: Christ reigns now; the Lord has come back! He didn't topple the tyranny and then leave; his reign begins, now. This is the good news, as of the JWs. The godspell. I can substantiate this, that Christ is here. The JWs know it by historic and Bible analysis and by faith; I know it by experience. I was your perfect mad fool for Christ, and I did pay for my resistance; i.e. Nov 17, 1971, in which I lost everything I owned, and was subjected to great hassible by the authorities (the ir leg). I was driven from my land, made an exile in fear, made penniless and a wanderer. I keep forgetting this; I not only risked, I actually paid, almost with my life. When you reflect on that (it appeared in the book by my friend Paul in an early visionary dream: "A Marin County writer will have troubles..." etc), you can better see how I came to be picked in 3-74 for a reward; I hope this isn't hubris, but I did pay heavily for my anti-war stand, and that is a fact. That was the well-documented Time of Great Tribulation — cut short in 3-74 by God, to spare me. And then the restoration of all things began. My last act against the regime was when I fired off TEARS and it was published. So from the standpoint of efficient causes the experience can be understood (a reward following what I did and what was done to me), and also in final-cause terms, it gave me wisdom and strength to do what I still had to do; such is the dovetailing of a true cosmos. In 28 months I've created an enormous exegesis of my 3-74 experience, which is what you are supposed to do: subject the mystical to the rational and see what comes of it. Look where I wind up. Now what can we expect? A return of the early saints, such as St. Luke — I believe