theolepsy. But the lore was lost, when they were killed by the Romans. Thus people ceased to attain the Kingdom, because, I think, they did not know and perform what was needed. Well, the Holy Spirit came to me, but I think I had to do many things in preparation; I have been certain of it, without relating this to the parables or early Christianity. The votive candle, and I had to be shown the golden fish; there must have been others. The fish, right then and there, caused anamnesis. Doesn't this sound like the Orphic and perhaps other theolepsy mystery religions? I saw Rome and believed in my anamnesis experience before the spirit came; of everything I think the golden-fish-induced anamnesis made the thaiepsy possible. And I think anamnesis wouldn't have occured if I hadn't just been given the sodium penthathol, which probably served to replace some trance¬ like state of the mysteries. Something known to Christianity, a state very altered. There was some ancient equivilent, perhaps even drug induced. It is very significent that someasthing outside of and prior to the theolepsy caused anamnesis, although only for a split second; still it did. * * I just brought something to consciousness about my fear, lasting for a year prior to 74, about Soviet letters. It explains my discomforture about Antibi's "money and film" letter from Austria. I now know consciously what I was expected: a Soviet letter (Soviet in origin) which was a burn or Addressat Unbekannt letter, because of what I'd said to Lem. I was primed for this, due to our quarrel. My assumption was, with each letter, "This is it, what I've been expecting." Neither Party summons/instructions nor US was anticipated. Why did I think this? Well, anyhow I did. Well, I now ask myself, What did I think when I saw the Estonian letter? Did I think that? Yes (which it wasn't) and on the basis of that FALSE assuption about Roogna’s letter I anticipated —correctly]— the Xerox -3- letter. Now, here was a false assumption (proved so later) leading to a correct hypothesis: that in two days another Soviet letter would follow. Had my theory been correct, I could assume more "hitletters , but my theory was false. How, then, can I account for a false theory yielding correct, absolutely correct, prognosis, without recourse to parapsychology? Only if someone else was following my reasoning about the Roogna letter, in a fashion, and they themselves sent the Xerox letter. They took the Roogna letter to be something other than what it was. who could or would do this, the Soviets? More likely the U.S. authorities. The Roogna letter was passed by Soviet censors and assumed to be what it was. The Xerox letter following was parallel to my assuption of its following, and since the assumption was based on a false premise, probably the Xerox letter being sent (i.e. following) was falsely premised, and about the Roogna letter, too. The false premise was: The Roogna letter is more than it appears. I thought that; someone else thought that. Who besides me would think that? Not the Soviets. "It could not have gotten into the mails," I say in V A "except for the cooperation of the U.S. authorities." True, I think. What I said on the phone to L.A. had to get me off the hook in either case. I guess the Xerox letter was someone fishing; I can't be sure yet which side it was. The "Cabalirros" dream suggests I brought what I found accidentally back to the loser, read sender. Well, I hate ’em all. I still say, that Xerox thing had subliminal material in it, designed —if not to cause me to actually do something— at least to unconsciously convince me of it, and the direction that went was, Party. "If subliminally he thinks this is from the Party, what will his reaction be, even if consciously he doesn'£ know what it is." I think the subliminal material was, "Con¬ tact the party," to see what I did given that material. My right hemisphere was told, "Contact the party"; my left, nothing, no in¬ structions. THEREBY I COULD NOT SIMULATE, FEIGN OR FAKE, COMPARED TO LIMINAL OR LEFT HEMISPHERE INFO OR INSTRUCTIONS. They got —would be sure of getting— a real or Rohrshack response. Bypassing conscious intentions to fake it. I would feel a compulsion to contact by whatever means I had at my disposal -- i.e. I reacted to the hammer and s^cle in the Martyrs ad. It did effect a compulsive nonrational response, all right. What a device/test that was I They could smoke out any Party person that way. I suddenly realize what the old wash¬ erwomen in white in the dream were: laundering the federal shield! No wonder I started in realization! And it was connected with my possessions stolen in Nov 17 71, which certainly wasn't by the Party. The antipithy toward Communism the spirit instilled in me assures that such terrible things as Nov 17 71 and March 20 74 won't ever happen a^ain. * * The parables taught the disciples how to receive the Holy Spirit; they did at Pentercost; when they died, their spirits were to loop back (via the third eye) the way Elijah's did with Elisha, but those who received the disciples' spirits had to prepare, as the disciples had; but then the Romans killed the Xtians and destroyed the oral tradition of knowledge started by Christ, so when Christians died, there was no one trained to receive their spirits, so they couldn't return, loop back; the continuity was broke?; their spirits stayed in the atmosphere. I think I received the spirit of an early Christian...did he wait that long I must have somehow "accidentally" (sic) performed the rites; I think the Holy Spirit taught me to do them, set it up, like showing me the golden fish. Maybe this is it: The Holy Spirit fathered Christ. Christ died, and his spirit, as the Paraclete, the Second Comforter, returned to the 12 disciples — it split so to speak into 12 sections; the immortal Christlike conditioh-entity was now 12 in number. They died, and their spirits returned say to 144; each of these 144 entities was a Christlike person, since he partook of the original spirit of Christ; these were Christ persons, a corporate body of which Christ was the head. But then the continuity was broken, due to loss of the oral tradition as to how to prepare to receive this spirit. The paradigm is Elisha receiving 2 parts of Elijah's spirit, which is why I dreamed so much of Elijah; it goes back to him. I guess the only q. I have regards the divisibility of the spirit, whether we can speak of spirit or spirits; so I ask, Did the spirit come to me, or one of the spirits? In any case, even if it started out as Christ, the last person(s) it inhabited were killed by the Romans...well, so was Christ; they all were; hence its fear and hatred of the Romans, and its stealth regarding them. It is accustomed to a theolepsy with people who are in Roman times & who get killed by the Romans, and it is from the Romans that this must be concealed; the spirit went into one or more persons, I guess, following Christ, and certainly the disciples, for openers; they alone would explain its attitude. But I obtain, as usualy, the implications that it hasn’t had theolepsy with anybody since then, in the interem, between Roman times in which Xtianity was illegal and now! The theolepsy experience itself must be an experience with the Kingdom of God, which the receiver again experiences upon death. The spirit has brought it with him when theolepsy occurs. Thus the receiver has the unique experiencing of experiencing the Kingdom during this life¬ time: as I did! He knows what lies beyond the grave, as I learned! For a spirit which has been there has entered him, the spirit of a dead Christian comrade...a holy spirit since it goes back to Christ and from Christ to the Holy Spirit per se. Look how I treasure (sic) my 3-74 to 3-75 experience; they did even more, since they sought it and understood it. Christ could correctly speak of it as "My Kingdom" since it was contained in him, in his Paraclete spirit, found in it by the receiver who received the King (Christ) as well as the "realm." It was not just the afterlife but a Christ-ified sanctified holy afterlife experience of oneness with Christ. This gives me a new insight into what I experienced: not just Christ, not just the after¬ life, but the afterlife Kingdom (Kingship) of Christ, both together. Experienced now, as the migrating spirit arrived. Thus the true Christian has certitude in the resurrected Christ — not for the reasons that seem to be, in the Bible, but as experience of, not mere faith in. It is a partaking of, and now. Hence Christ says, "This is my blood; this is my body; drink, eat of it"; he doesn’t mean the body which hung on the cross, he means the resurrected body. Partake of it — share it. Absorb and imbibe of it. Have it enter you — but, again, it is my physical. The original Holy Spirit took one a piece of mankind in Jesus, and the admixture upon entering the disciples took on further pieces of mankind; this is why when it came to me I recog¬ nized in it, but could not account for, the human qualities and human memories as well as the divine. It had after all, if this theory is right, gone through several human incarnations, although not of the kind that Christ represented. It was, is, no longer all otherworldly spirit; it, the admixture, has had human experiences — hence its fear of the Romans. This ends my two year dilemma in trying to decide which it was: Holy Spirit or early Christian; it was Holy Spirit having been incarnated (or whatever the word is) into early Christians, an admixture, I guess. Both. We are talking about a tradition, begun with the fathering of Christ and being passed on; but a break came. After all, the theory about Christ is that Jesus was a human incarnation of the Holy Spirit, and this spirit continued to be spirit-having-been-incarnated-in-factseveral-times . Christ was to be the beginning. A man-spirit (God?) immortal composite-mind new race was to have been formed thereby: the yeast in the leaven. Proliferating. But the graft —yes, graft is the noun I wanted; even better than egg— the graft failed. Yes it did, leaving the man-Holy-Spirit spirit atmosphere bound, unable to return. Thus St. Sophia must be born again; the process must begin again from the beginning with a new absolute incarnation, a fertili¬ zation of some woman by the Holy Spirit. "She was not acceptable before" takes on new meaning: had she been, a second birth would not be necessary! "Not acceptable" is a concise description of what went wrong, all that I say regarding Romans. This second clause ("she was not acceptable before") stands as meaning: "She must be born again because she was not acceptable before," which means, "She must be born again because she was rejected before." I believe this clause verifies or anyhow tends to verify my theory that the great tradition died out, probably after Pentercost, not before. But rejection of the graft did occur, so she/he/it will be born again, soi that the graft, the unbroken tradition, takes hold. Oh yes; another necessary precursor for my experience was the desert winds which blew, uniquely, through the Cameo Lane apt. As with Moses hearing God's voice in the desert winds. * * So it was the spirit of Christ which came to me, descended from the Holy Spirit, further descended through at least one later Christian (I think). Yes,