September 15, 1975 Mr. Jack Scovil, Scott Meredith Agency, 845 Third Ave., N.Y. 10022. Dear Jack: This letter had to do with the original loan of $500 which you made out in the form of a check on September 3. Since that letter and that check, which I presume was dated September 3, has not reached me by now, I think we can assume it is entirely lost. Your bookkeeping department should put a stop payment on that September 3rd check to me, the loan check, for $500. If by some freak chance it should later arrive, I will consider it void, and not cash it, but return it. On September 5, SMLA received a movie option payment for me, for UBIK, in the amount of $1750 (see your letter to me dated September 5). From this amount, you took $500 to pay off the September 3 loan: "$1700 total, less $500 which repays the advance of two days ago, and less $1.29 the bank transfer charge on our check of August 24th for British monies on CLANS OF THE ALPHANE MOON which we failed to deduct at the time due to a bookkeeping error." Payment to me from this gross sum of $1750 was your check for $1073.71. Therefore I paid back a load which I never received. (I'm sure you follow this.) At that time you had no way of knowing that the $500 loan of September 3rd would never reach me. Thus, in essence, I was still owed exactly $500. Later on, as you recall, you wired me $500 because the check and letter of September 3rd never arrived, so I did incur a $500 loan/debt to you, but this in actuality stood as cancelled by the deduction of $500 from the movie royalty check for $1750. The total of all this is that, if you will void the September 3 loan check, which I never got and hence never cashed, we stand even. I literally paid back the wired money before it was sent (on September 5th). Today I recieved a letter from Dallas Mayr (dated September 10) which states that I have earned $216.90 from DAW Books, which you have put toward my advance, bringing said advance down to a balance of $283.10. What you must do is after putting a stop payment on the original $500 uncashed loan of September 3, then send me this $216.10, inasmuch as no unpaid loan exists. Naturally, there was no way for you to know that the September 3 $500 loan check and letter never arrived. But that is the situation. Thank you very much, and I wonder what ever happened to it. Cordially, Philip K. Dick 2461 Santa Ysabel Ave Fullerton, Calif 92631 Thumbs up. So as foretold, despite what happened before Christ will return - for the same purpose: The light of the world. 1) First -Elijah improved the world to make it acceptanble to God (March) 2) Next, late august, after Nixon's resignation, God viewed it + found it acceptable; 3)+ so will send his son again (St Sophia) at the time of that white light He (God) assessed it, whether he would save or destroy (or let get destroyed) the world, because of Elijah's work he acceded to redeem it - St Sophia being reborn is the instrument of that redemption [uninteligible?] In all the months since my 3/74 experience I have still been unable to say "where" the Kingdom of God (which I found myself in) came from; "where" it is now (immanent or transcendent, etc, but I am certain of one thing: how I got there; viz.: I truly ran out of time; that is, I accelerated in time until I passed (evidently) out of linear time in some fashion, which is to say, the Kingdom of God lies ahead of us in time; we are moving toward it. I arrived there in 3/74, ahead of everyone else, for some reason; but this is in accord with Scripture; the Kingdom lies at the end of time: it is the goal, the outcome, when this system ends. All this also suggests that rather than time moving us along (qv the Britannica macro on Time, we move through it. (As we move through space.) It suggests individual prewound clocks, too. The synchronization of the koinos kosmos. Time is not a general stream but a rate at which we individually progress. I progressed suddenly to the end and out beyond. But then, after one year, fell back to the standard agreed-on race. Time (i.e. when) not where is the key to it all; that is in answer to the question, "Where is the Kingdom of God?" to which Jesus gave various cryptic replies. "He ran out of time the way a driver driving too fast runs out of road." The answer, therefore, to the question, "Where did it come from?" would seem to be, "From the future." Which tends to place the experience in the category of the visionary (apocalyptic). A preview of what is to come (perhaps for the world itself). For me, one kind of time fulfilled itself, with judgement and all passed (the open books, my name written in one of them, the Day of Wrath, etc.) and finally the beatific vision. But it ended (3/75) with a herald angel announcement of the approaching divine birth, thus indicating the chosen (i.e. God chose me, I didn't do it myself) aspect of the entire experience. Also it must be kept-in mind that apocalyptic material had, outside my volition or knowledge, appeared in my wriing (e.g.TEARS). (Esp. the crypteform word "Felix," referring back to God's'original mandate/convenant to man in Genesis. "Go forth ana multiply and be prosperous." Are sucn crypteforms Gnostic? It has been said that (as in PALMER ELDRITCH) I am a precog, in which case the 3/74 experience is the ultimate precog experience, with me standing, at that point in time, with part of me extended ahead to the ultimate conclusion of things. The "where," then, is here; it is a transformation of, not another place (an afterlife in heaven, the next sphere, etc.). But it hasn't happened yet. Thus the millenialists are correct (e.g. the Witnesses). I didn't have to die and go to an afterlife (Heaven). The very trash of the alley of this world was transformed — in the twinkling of an eye. This refers us back to the question raised in the EB macro article on time: do events pop into being suddenly, as they enter the present, or are they already there "somewhere"? (The Mindkowski block universe.) (But tne magnitude of the parousia might give a spurious sense of its proximity. Any hint would appear vast and hence close at hand.) (The dream in TEARS is of course the primary statement of the Parousia: God breaking through, with his troops/host into history.) The dream is almost a pure graphic representation of Megiddo itself:a place cf God/a place of troops. 0 Jesus emphasized to the descriples that it would be to their advantage when he was crucified, because then "a second Comforter" (or Paraclete) would come who, it is implied, could be of more aid to them. What is obvious, so obvious that one overlooks it, is that the Logos qua Jesus was bound by the limitations and laws binding all men, and could not do anything "cosmic," either for his friends or for himself. It is equally obvious that the "Second Comforter" is another form of himself, but, being released by the above laws and limitations, could render aid on an unlimited basis, in ways that are transcendent and supernatural, and not the mere "magician's tricks" which Jesus was required to do, merely to show his divinity. What I see now, from reading "The Wisdom of Solomon" is simply that St. Sophia entered human form and during this time lost the various capacities (or some of them) which she had possessed as a world-builder and maintainer; it was essential that His/Her time incarnate be brief, which is exactly what Jesus says to his descriples, comparing his pain to that of childbirth. So there was Santa Sophia ranging the world, then limited to the human form, then released after the crucifixion — to become what? There is mention in "The Wisdom of Solomon" of St. Sophia coming to good and holy men and inspiring them such as to make clear an evident similarity if not identity between the Holy Spirit (and receiving the Holy Spirit) and receiving St. Sophia. But there may be a difference. St. Sophia, prior to the incarnation, may, as is said, x have been limited to coming to very special certain men, a very few saints and holy men, excluding the mass of mankind. Once, however, she had enduring and entered earthly life as we men do, then there would be no circumscription as above; she would be able, as the Holy Spirit, to range within every human soul. The crucifixion and resurrection was a demonstration of exactly what the writer (first century B.C.) claimed for Saint Sophia, that she conferred immortality. The Logos or St. Sophia or the Holy Spirit is the key to immortality, but that is only a means (i.e. immortality) the end being to bring man closer to God. This is almost universally overlooked. Where are we going to live while immortal? In Southern California? What is meant by "immortality" must be, as Henry Vaughn figured," to live somehow with or within or a part of God; there can be no figures in white robes; those are messengers, not departed spirits. What the whole thing is about is to draw man back into union with God; that is the ultimate goal. The means required the incarnation, because although Santa Sophia could temporarily x inspire certain men, evidently she was a farranging plasmatic demiurge which could not be bonded to what are called "fallen" or "sinful" men. It is precisely these men whom Christ lived with, and who became available to the post-incarnation spirit which formerly (according to my theory) could not suffuse or infuse anyone but special --which is to say, a very few-- men. Once incarnated, the mystic body of her/him/it could transubstantiate this entire material world, and us as portions of it, making use of all substances here, without regard to their special mm piety (see Luther, on Christianity as the religion of the unfit, the unworthy, and the very damned."). Two common Christianity theories which probably are false are: (1) God, seeing man suffering, came here to suffer with us because he loved us so much and he couldn't stand seeing us suffer. Response: The fallacy is that God has the power to end our suffering, and that would have been a better way. (2) Christ suffered, and since he was God, then we should submit to our suffering because even God suffered and went through all this. Response: This doesn't wash because many human cultures don't know that God came here and suffered and had to endure all this, and some know and don't believe, and don't see how it helps anyhow (supra) Conclusion: Christ did not come here to suffer. His suffering was also not for the purpose of ending or easing ours, because it didn't and doesn't. His suffering was a price he had to pay in coming here, just as we have to pay it. We dwell on this too much. He must have had a purpose that had nothing to do with human suffering, because his coming here had no effect on it one way or another, and that is the plain fact. Whatever purpose was worked remains invisible to us, and probably beyond our comprehension. He probably altered the ontology of the world, or at least widened crucially the power which our assisting spirit Santa Sophia has to offer. This, however, remains a damned world. He did not take the curse off it. (3) A good argument is that the wisdom