March 4, 1975 Dear Dr. Ornstein: Recently I met Mr. Henry Korman and Mr. Tony Hiss (Tony had come by to interview me for the New Yorker). I got into a marvelous discussion with Henry about Sufi and I mentioned my admiration, bordering on fanatic enthusiasm, for your pioneer work with bilateral brain hemispheric parity. Thus, I, having learned that they know you, and am summoning my courage to write you and ask, What has become of me, since experimenting with bringing on my right hemisphere (I did it mainly by the ortho molecular formula vitamins, plus a good deal of concentrated meditation). By this I mean to say, Dr. Ornstein, ten months ago this took place, and for ten months I have been a different person. But what to me is most extraordinary (I am writing a book about it, but in the form of fiction, a novel called TO SCARE THE DEAD), is that -- well, let me give the premise as I placed it into the novel: Nicholas Brady, an ordinary American citizen with contemporary worldly values and drives (money and power and prestige) suddenly has inside him a winking into life an entity which has slumbered for two thousand years. This entity is an Essene, who died knowing that he would be given the promised resurrection; he knew it because he and other [Qumran] individuals had in their possession secret formulae and medications and scientific practices to insure it. So suddenly our protagonist, Nicholas Brady, finds that there are two of him: his old self, at his secular job and goals, and this Essene from the [Qumarn] wadi back circa 45 A.D., a holy man with holy values and utter antagonism to the secular physical world, which he sees as the "City of Iron." The [Quamran] mind takes over and directs Brady in a complicated series of acts until it becomes evident that others such as this [Qummran] man are coming back to live here and there in the world. Studying the Bible, along with this [Quamran] personality, Brady finds that the New Testament is in cypher. The [Quamran] personality can read it. "Jesus" is really Zagreus-Zeus, taking two forms, one mild, the other utterly powerful, on which his followers can draw when in need. The [Quamran] personality, who, for fictional purposes, I call Thomas, gradually informs Brady that these are the Parousia, the Final Days. And to be prepared; Thomas will prepare him by reminding him of his own divinity -- anamnesis, Thomas calls it. Thomas develops a special parity relationship with Brady, but evolves as a source of teaching for the incredibly ignorant Brady the entity known as Erasmus, who is in fact a station in the noösphere, which is now so fully charged around Earth that if you are aware of it you can consciously, rather than un- consciously draw from it; these are the "Seas of Knowledge" which were known back to the Sumerians, and upon which the Sibyl at Delphi drew. But this is a cover, because Brady realizes that in point of fact, the Quamran men had as their god not the mythical Jesus but the actual Zagreus, and by doing research, Brady soon learns that Zagreus was a form of Dionysos. Christianity is a later form of the worship of Dionysos, refined through the strange and lovely figure of Orpheus. Orpheus, like Jesus, is real only in the sense that Dionysos is become socialized; born here as a child of another race, not a human one but a visiting race. Zagreus has had to learn by degrees to modify his "madness," which is now kept to a low ebb. Basically, he is with us to reconstruct us as expressions of him, and the m.o. of this is our being possessed by him -- which the early Christians sought for, and hid from the hated Romans. Dionysos-Zagreus-Orpheus-Jesus was always pitted against the City of Iron, be it Rome or Washington, D.C.; he is the god of springtime, of new life, of small and helpless creatures, he is the god of mirth and frenzy, and of sitting here day after day working on this novel. But in this novel, Thomas says, "The Final Days have come. The overthrown of the tyranny is that which, in lurid language, John described in 'Revelation.' Zagreus is seizing his own, now, one after another; he lives again." During Winter, it was believed that Dionysos, the god of the vine plant, of vegetation, of the crop, slumbered. It was known that no matter how dead he seemed (James Joyce's FINNIGANS WAKE is a wonderful acount of this) he was actually alive, though you'd never know it. And then, --not to the surprise of those who understood him and believed in him-- he was reborn. His followers knew he would be. We are speaking here of the mystery religions, all of them -- including Christianity. Our God has been sleeping, during the long winter of the human culture ([x] not for one year's rotational cycle of seasons, but from 45 A.D. through the centuries of mental winter to now); just when Winter holds all in its grip, the snow of despair and defeat (in our case, political chaos, moral ruin, economic ruin -- the winter of our planet, our world, our civilization) then the vine, which was gnarled and old and seemingly dead, breaks into new life, and our God is reborn -- not outside us as such, but in each of us. Slumbering not under the snow over the ground-surface but within the right hemispheres of our brains. We have been waiting, we didn't know what for. This is it: this is Spring for our planet, in a deeper more fundamental way. The cold chains of iron are being thrown off, but by what a miracle. As with my character, Nicholas Brady -- I've had Zagreus awaken in my right hemisphere, and felt the flooding of renewed life, his vigor, his personality, and his godlike wisdom: he hated the injustice he saw around him, and remembered "the dear lone lands untroubled by men, where amid the shadowy green / The little ones of the forest live unseen." (Eurypides) Dr. Ornstein, thank you for helping bring Winter to an end, and ushering in --not just Spring-- but the living life of Spring alive but [xl] asleep inside us. Cordially, Philip K. Dick 1405 Cameo Lane 4 Fullerton Calif 92631