it was me ascending or God descending, all my dreams (esp. the dream in TEARS, and the "so many breaches" dream) suggest that it is God descending...with the proof of this (motion downward) being the intervention in history in 3-74, by God; He came here, with the purpose of taking charge of history. The supralunar penetrates the sublunar and assimilates it to his (its) will. Through the agency of the Logos, which is St. Sophia. All this would suggest that the world I left was bounded by the condinates[sic] of space and time, and that I entered another which which was not; so the distant past was --specially-- present to me, not lost, and the future was in another way also distinctly present & real. The Bradbury TV experience also shows that: reacting to things before they occurred, and the eerie sense that the data of reality limits or programs a person (this is related to being freed, by God's grace, from a programming which prior to the experience was my total lifelong reality). The entire space-time world was seen then as a circumscribing of freedom, but this sense could not have taken place unless I had achieved a vantage point, entirely new, above that space-time continuum. Events fell into a deterministic frame of reference, and I could see how they controlled me and made me their object. All this confirms my later view that God's grace was involved. -5- After 3-74 I recapitulated the original fall, into the state that Vaughn correctly calls "corruption," and hence I am acutely aware, as he was, of the difference between the two states, bliss versus the fallen, corrupted state. I have to believe in the fall; I've lived it. Now I know where I am (again). Now I know where I was (in the primordial state of God's grace, as described by Wordsworth in his "Ode"). I briefly regained my sight and saw as Adam and Eve did in the "Book of Adam & Eve," before they entered the cave of treasures; no wonder I kept saying I'd been blind all my life. Why I fell again I don't know. Why I was given my faculties back briefly I don't know. I can contrast the two states as few men can; I don't need Calvin's description and contrasting, but he certainly put it well. Stripped away entirely or deformed...as Adam says, now he can only see "close up objects." During that brief period I could see a thousand miles into space, and two thousand years into time. And now, as with Adam, only objects near at hand. * The task is nothing less than restoring man's lost faculties (of perception and mentation), but how can this be done if men don't know/believe they have lost these faculties? If they do not understand what is being talked about? ( And memories, too.) How can I say to someone, "I will cause you to see?" if they already believe they are seeing? The doctrine of Original Sin must be retained; from it we can understand. It may have something to ao with the pineal body registering missing spectrums. But if Calvin is right and the missing segments are adventitious, then they can only be restored from without, which is to say, we require the Redeemer to restore them; nothing on the order of inner surgery etc would do it. As they were taken away so must they return. I have the feeling that it took enormous effort, or anyhow enormously complex planning and multiple arranged causes, to even temporarily restore my faculties: a whole string of circumstances that I could see, plus a lot I couldn't. Extraordinay planning, probably going back years, went into it. It didn't just happen. Also, vast historical changes were being brought about. Put another way, God lifted the curse of the fall in order to bring about (or anyhow facilitate) these changes, and when the changes had been made the curtain returned. The I.C.C.'s views are less advanced than Pere Teilhards, since he stressed (correctly) the role of the Cosmic Christ described by Paul -- that Cosmic Christ or St. Sophia who is assimilating the - universe. But in some respects they have something to say, except that they seem to imagine that Christ can fail, whereas he cannot (vide Zoroaster). St. Sophia will be born one more time and this time accepted. This was always predicted (vide Isaiah). At his first advent, Christ planted a seed; now he reaps the crop. It and He have been growing for 2,000 years. The crop and He are organically one, probably; they each of them grow into his cosmic being. Maybe it is a double growth: them to him, he to them. The I.C.C. is like the R.C. and thinks we need priests. We need only Him. The true membership is not of any church but consist of all those whom He takes, and He goes "where he pleases," to quote Vaughn. He is assembling a great dominion. The sublunar determinism which it (grace) set me free from was: pro-CP involvement & punishment by the US authorities. If I ask, Were there permanent effects? the answer is, Yes; I am free from both, from both sides of that (one) coin. This is how the CP involvement figures, along with the anti-US & esp. fear of the US police. The US wanted my ass; the Soviets my mind & the products of my mind. The Holy Spirit led me through the labyrinth & out — hence the ntaauanlmalDmiato dream about Minos' palace & Arachne's thread. And here's the capper: Why were the Soviets interested in the products of my mind? Because they decided I was politically reliable; i.e. "progressive," on their side. Hence my dire danger, as soon as Lem wrote his S-F piece in '71. ital/My early origins & B.G. showed in my work. Doom city! Scott pointed out that I couldn't reverse my stance (e.g. by attacking Lem) without "being branded as a reactionary + losing my French- German audiences." so how could I extricate myself? I couldn't . St Sophia had to do it for me. The first step was for me to sense - even to a delusional paranoid mystic [degree?] - a fantastic Soviet threat to one equal to that posed by the US secret Police, + thus had to be done in days, even just hours, + such a violent change (we are talking about a lifetime of being "soft" almost brainwashed ) that a new personality (in me) was necessary, which I thereupon received (for the [duration?]). The ICC doesn't seem to realize that Christ will not merely be reborn as he was before, the re-establish the lost Gospel; the Second Advent is fulfillment of what was done before, and will be different. In rereading the ICC DECODED NEW TESTAMENT I discover it is based on a false premise; viz., that the gospels date from the Fourth Century and no earlier, and are therefore cut off by time, space and corruption from the original gospel; but in point of fact John for instance dates from only 30 years after the apostles. What the ICC is is a Gnostic group peddling Gnostic doctrines as the alleged original lost authentic gospel; specifically, you can only attain salvation by esoteric knowledge. "A closed, secret society," as they call themselves, claiming Xtianity to have been that originally (it was not). The original gospel was preached to whoever would accept it, openly; as many were converted as could be. -7- If the New Test, as standing is so corrupt, why then would the ICC quote from it whenever it suits their purpose? And why do they assume authenticity on the apocryphal writings? Basically, the identification of Christ with the sun is not Christian, but reintro¬ duces Mythrism, of which the ICC has much to say. The ICC statements that the N.T. was taken from "ancient scrolls" is untrue; 30 years is not very long, and there is no proof that any elipsis took place at all! It is very important for me to break their claim, because if it is true that what we have is nothing, and what they have is everything, then whether one liked it or not one would have to join them, and the cost excludes virtually all men, which is not in accord with Christian ideas, as I understand them, nor with Isiah. I've felt for a long time that there was something wrong with the ICC but I couldn't prove it; all I have now to go on is their spurious claim of "our N.T. documents go back only to the 4th century," but that is something. They cannot possess the "authentic documents" if there were none (other than what we have.X). If there are none, then they have nothing to sell, and the N.T. as we have it is authentic by and large, although some things may be lost or garbled. They claim that only Christ can restore what is lost anyhow, that all they can do is prove what we have to be false & misleading. They haven't proved that, because their claim requires the several hundred years elipsis, which doesn't in actuality exist. The ICC has no monopoly, and the N.T. as it stands is our best guide. They reduce the Savior to impotence, and exalt arcane knowledge in His place. (Whereas I have concluded that if we are lifted up it is not due to acquired knowledge, but due to His descent, which is all-powerful.) As regards the Forces of Darkness & the Lie perverting and defeating the Gospel (once again?), I witnessed myself firsthand how Christ deposed the great central authority of the Prince of This World in 74; if He can do that, then the restored Gospel is safe. He is not weak; He can —and has— deposed them within the historic process and on the historic stage. Good Lord, the theolepsy L theophany which I experienced was overwhelming and took total control of me; I am a witness to His strength, which is absolute! As when Elias called on JHWH, versus the prophets of Baal, His power is sign of his divinity and reality. The 28-year-old woman I saw in the dream (identified as "Jack Vance's wife") had the same thatched-cut white hair of the figure in Greek toga & greaves I saw 2 years ago accompanying the Greek fragment from "Romans." Always behind me...hadn't I felt her there? she asked. And, like the white-haired youth, she held books. If 28 years old, she was born just about the year I heard the voice explaining Archimedes' theory. In the EB it says, Christ may have been Wisdom herself (!!!). (Or a teacher of or envoy of- But it says "herself." Wow; my whole theory. And about John, that John says He was rejected by His own people. And re "Acts," the true gospel —authoritative, official message— that He has been received in heaven and will come at the end of time to vindicate and judge those faithful to him. Not anything else which Jesus said or did during his life. Then it is the end which is important, and if this is so, one could expect a long period of time for people to accept or reject him, and so be judged. "...Leads to the empty tomb." (Degrees of sight or understand¬ ing, which culminate in this, or understanding this.) A transmutation of His physical body, not just leaving it. The tomb was empty; the physical body was gone. This is implied by what I heard, that /she will be reborn inasmuch as he/she was not killed on the cross; had he/she been, how could he/she be reborn? The entity departed. This is the greatest mystery of all. Where did it go? Back where it had been before birth: it was pre-existent. The empty tomb points to this; it, the entity, only sojurned here. Was not truly