November 5, 1975 Mr. Gene Savoy, International Community of Christ, 100 North Arlington Avenue, Reno, Nevada 89501. Dear Mr. Savoy: Thank you so much for writing me. Yes indeed, I would like to take your study program. Perhaps you could have somebody write me as to costs, etc. It has been nineteen months since my "conversion experience," as my priest calls it, began. It lasted, I discovered to my surprise, almost precisely one year, from March 18, 1974 to March 23, 1975. The last words I heard in hypnagogic state, which is the ASC I heard the most in, was, "The Buddha is in the park." I rushed to my reference sources and of course discovered, as I'm sure you know, that "the park" refers to the place where the Buddha was born. The voice speaking to me, which I had identified as Haggia Sophia, had as its utmost revelation told me, "Santa Sophia will be born again. She was not acceptable before." I had no idea who "Saint Sophia" was, and was astounded to learn that she is the logos, the firstborn of all that was created. That "Saint Sophia" referred to Christ was evident. I was being told, in other words, then, that Christ would return, after having been rejected before. Later, "The Buddha is in the park" I took to mean that in fact the Savior had returned. As to my experience itself, in the initial four days I was seeing in the sense of formerly having been blind, and experiencing reality as it was, rather than pictures (in Plato's sense). I actually thought I had been blind, and so differently did I see and experience the universe that I was never after able to be at home in it, as we normally see, what little part our normal percept system brings to us. I am now deprived of what I experienced almost as that which the hylozoistic philosophers believed in (for example, Spinoza in his doctrine that God possesses the attribute of physical extension, so that in fact He is an immanent God, and the universe is in some way His soma, of which His psych4 is another expression or attribute). But certain portions of my experience were specifically tied in with Christ. (one) The experience took place at the vernal equinox, and probably on or about Christ's actual birthday. (two) I was conscious of bells and a transformation of the landscape, especially the landscape, which both Goethe and Wagner describe as the "Good Friday Spell," in other words meaning that the Savior, in His transformed morphophos, was present. -2- (three) The language I heard turned out to be the Greek of the New Testament, in particular Luke's, and was both religious and healing in nature, which goes with the notion of the Good Friday Spell (let me say at this point that I had been very ill for almost two years, and was bedridden most of the time; this ceased when the experience began). (four) The specific reference to "Saint Sophia." (five) In the book "The Wisdom of Solomon" I have discovered an exact account and description of the very inner nature of this entity which entered me or somehow revealed Itself to me both outside and in¬ side. It was indeed Haggia Sophia. (six) a passage in "Colossians" which a person recently brought to my attention: 1:13, in particular: "He is, moreover, the head of the body." And, prior: "The whole universe was created through him and for him. Ana he exists before everything, and all things are held together in him." Anu: "He is the image of the invisible God." We are speaking of the Pantocrator. What I have finally come to think, after making my 200,000 words of notes of research and thoughts, is that a true mystical body of the Pantocrator exists, and that the Holy Spirit coming on the original followers of Christ was to cause them to fully experience themselves as parts of this corpus, which was alive, which was completing the universe, the Holy Spirit being the agent which brought the "second birth" to the person, used him as a receiving entity, and tnen this "second birth" within him, which was a newly made creature of light (I called it within me "firebright," supposing it to be of fire and of light and to have come from the stars, somehow) would grow until it had consumed what Paul called sarx with such distaste. That I was, for four days, within a living universe or entity, which spoke to me and healed me, in the most loving terms — there is no doubt, since it also compelled me to get some medical help for my year-old-son who had a birth defect which the doctor told us "wasn't really there." It required an operation, in fact, and my son's life had beeen in peril from the time of his birth. Saint Sophia through me absolutely accurately diagnosed Christopher's birth defect and told my wife, "You must take him to the doctor now; don't wait; phone the doctor." Surgery was scheduled as soon as possible. Anyhow, enough of this. There is, as "Colossians 1:13" says, a mystical invisible corporate body of which we are the members, but the sacred knowledge of entry into this has been lost probably for fifteen hundred years. Yes indeed, I would like to take study from the ICC. And thank you so for writing me. I had my head buried in research. Cordially, Philip K. Dick 2461 Santa Ysabel Ave Fullerton Calif 92631 Watching the TV program about Dietrich Bonhoffer, I realized that heaven does not usually step in to physically save someone who is about to be a martyr. But in March 1974 heaven had begun (hr had before that) its war against the tyranny, and the other side of the coin was its assistance to the impending martyrdom of someone who had renounced his comfort, his freedom, his career, his future, fled to a foreign country and then returned... the help given me was offered because the Presence of the Lord had "broken through," as shown in TEARS, with His host. Had my capture not coincided with heaven's Augenblick of intervention into history then there would have been no rescue this side of the grave. The two events —the bringing down of the conspiracy, as I was shown— and the help given me were of one piece. God attacked the powerful and wicked, and He assisted the weak, the victims who had made moral stands. I was lucky. My capture had not come too soon. This is why the Nov 71 attack was not "defended," in the sense that there was a defending by the Helper in March 74. As I was caught up in the (moral) war, so I was caught up in the victory, rescued by the celestial victors; but this all puts a new light on the scene in TEARS in reference —not only to the attack on the tyranny— but to the help for me. After all, would not the act of intervention to defeat the tyranny include logically the release (as in "Fidelio") the release of its unjustly injured prisoners and victims? CAN THE TWO ASPECTS BE SEPARATED? This puts my experience in perspective, as a portion of one vast fabric that took place at that time. Watching the TV program about Dietrich Bonhoffer, I realized that heaven does not usually step in to physically save someone who is about to be a martyr. But in March 1974 heaven had begun (hr had before that) its war against the tyranny, and the other side of the coin was its assistance to the impending martyrdom of someone who had renounced his comfort, his freedom, his career, his future, fled to a foreign country and then returned... the help given me was offered because the Presence of the Lord had "broken through," as shown in TEARS, with His host. Had my capture not coincided with heaven's Augenblick of intervention into history then there would have been no rescue this side of the grave. The two events —the bringing down of the conspiracy, as I was shown— and the help given me were of one piece. God attacked the powerful and wicked, and He assisted the weak, the victims who had made moral stands. I was lucky. My capture had not come too soon. This is why the Nov 71 attack was not "defended," in the sense that there was a defending by the Helper in March 74. As I was caught up in the (moral) war, so I was caught up in the victory, rescued by the celestial victors; but this all puts a new light on the scene in TEARS in reference —not only to the attack on the tyranny— but to the help for me. After all, would not the act of intervention to defeat the tyranny include logically the release (as in "Fidelio") the release of its unjustly injured prisoners and victims? CAN THE TWO ASPECTS BE SEPARATED? This puts my experience in perspective, as a portion of one vast fabric that took place at that time. -1- There is an implication in "St. Sophia will be reborn; she was not acceptable before” that I haven’t noticed. All other reali zations aside, this single sentence links Wisdom of The Book of Wisdom and Prov. 8 with Christ, as Christian thought has done, although it isn’t explicit —stated— as such in the Scriptures. This shows that this identification is correct. Thus this one single sentence contains even more information that I had thought, and I already got a great deal from it. And it is a further piece of information which I myself could not have known. It is truly an adventitious statement. Well, I done placed it in DEUS IRAE whithout fully comprehending it, which is okay; let someone else do so...of course, put in print like that there is no implication that I didn't consciously know what I was saying, tiahat I hadn’t researched it. I will just look awfully versed in theology, esp. Hellenistic theology. Aristotle's distinction between the sublunar world and the supralunar world, leading into NeoPlatonism (in the latter it is believed that the supralunar world —the band of fixed stars— can reach down into this world, which would be the same as grace). Determinism rules here; freedom there. This agrees with the mystery religions view of God freeing man (through His intervention, which is to say, grace again; cf the worship of Sarapis et al.). (Christ would be one of these.) Hence I saw in several dreams a viewpoint from above looking down into a stagnant ocean, with us as creatures of that ocean...the sublunar world seen from the supralunar world (above). This agrees with Jesus' "...On earth as it is in heaven," heaven being supralunar, earth being sublunar. This sheds much light on the Christian idea that when you die, if you performed well here, you get to ascend to Heaven: i.e. you rise (or more accurately, you may rise) from the sublunar realm to the supralunar realm. However, you may fall even lower: to hell. All at once the whole Christian worldview no longer seems vague, hopefulmerely or orbitrary; in context it makes sense, and must have made that sense to the whole Hellenistic world. Heaven is the heavens, the realm of fixed stars, or even above ("Ubrem Sternanzelt"),. If, during one's lifetime in this the sublunar realm, one finds favor with God, then upon one's death one ascends. Merit is acquired here; it is decided here if one ascends or descends. A demonstration that one has found God's favor would be an intercession by God here, during one's lifetime, the supralunar entering the sublunar in the form of grace. It all fits together. This is why in 3-74 I sat outside at night watching the sky, the stars. Could it also be said that the mere phenomenological world which I