March 2, 1975 Mrs. Phyllis Boucher 2643 Dana St. Berkeley, Calif. Dear Phyllis, I have long thought about you, wondering how you are, and my having just now written the short enclosed piece, which is about Tony, gives me pretext to write you as well as the opportunity to extend this copy of the piece so that you might read it. My love and memory of Tony are combined in this, although I must admit in a rather odd way; the reason is that this was commissioned by the Sufi Magazine The Real World, which is a very good magazine (it is put out by Tony Hiss, you writes the “Talk of the Town” in the New Yorker, and boasts such people as Robert Ornstein in its staff; it is what they call (ouch) a class magazine. The paper is high quality, too. I hope that you like this piece (they may not). They just accepted a poem by my wife Tessa, and then told me that they’d like to be able to get both of us together in an issue. So the heat is on me to Come Through (I’ve been working since seven-thirty a.m.). You’ll note that I’m living in Southern California now, “north of Disneyland,” as Tony Hiss put it when he interviewed me for the New Yorker. I’m still writing s-f. I’ve got a lovely little 1.5 year-old son named Christopher, my wife Tessa is incredibly beautiful and very young (the pressure is on me, always, in all ways, to keep going, to not fall behind… alas, we all do eventually, I guess, but then, I have developed strongly religious convictions that Our Good Friend is watching to reach out and scoop us up, when we fall behind). I’ve enclosed two or three pictures of us… I do hope all goes well with you, and I would so much enjoy hearing from you, and knowing about you these days. I’m into screenplay writing now… also Rolling Stone is doing a long article/interview with me, and, at long last, an experimental S-F novel of mine is coming out. But I will not go Vonnegut’s route and deny s-f if I make it literarily-experimentally; even my experimental novel, CONFESSIONS OF A CRAP ARTIST, is in the broadest sense, science-fiction. Dear Phyllis. How are you? With deep personal regards, Philip K. Dick 1405 Cameo Lane #4 Fullerton, Calif 92631, USA