must be born again; the process must begin again from the beginning with a new absolute incarnation, a fertili¬ zation of some woman by the Holy Spirit. "She was not acceptable before" takes on new meaning: had she been, a second birth would not be necessary! "Not acceptable" is a concise description of what went wrong, all that I say regarding Romans. This second clause ("she was not acceptable before") stands as meaning: "She must be born again because she was not acceptable before," which means, "She must be born again because she was rejected before." I believe this clause verifies or anyhow tends to verify my theory that the great tradition died out, probably after Pentercost, not before. But rejection of the graft did occur, so she/he/it will be born again, soi that the graft, the unbroken tradition, takes hold. Oh yes; another necessary precursor for my experience was the desert winds which blew, uniquely, through the Cameo Lane apt. As with Moses hearing God's voice in the desert winds. * * So it was the spirit of Christ which came to me, descended from the Holy Spirit, further descended through at least one later Christian (I think). Yes, because I recalled the Savior just now having died, and I anticipated his return; this would make me (him) a Christian about 70 A.D. This is where progress stopped. From a superrational critical standpoint, my conviction about the reality of Rome c. 70 A.D. can be said to derive from the girl and her golden fish and her statement. But: about a month lapsed inbetween, and this does not explain the violent (unknown to my knowledge) phosphene activity, which the same superrational critical attitude must attribute to drop in GABA fluid and new neural firing from previously blocked circuits; so it is back to admitting a programming and inhibiting, then a disinhibiting signal, which it probably would agree was the golden fish. There would be no dispute that the golden fish and what the girl said set the process off, but it could hardly have been the sole excitor factor. More, as explanation, is required. The most likely alternate theory would be recollection of past life. This does not fit all the facts, only some. Better: a buried per¬ sonality was revived. We have here an identity question, an "I am" puzzle. "I am that ancient person," but how? I would accept that, and arragate that personality, assimilate it happily, as my own. -6- All that achieves is to pay me a staggering compliment, considering the nature and extent of that ancient personality. God’s grace is a better explanation, since it covers more facts. The dream of the 3-eyed sibyl and her statement about the conspirators certainly ties the epiphany of the personality to world history, which hardly fits the mere anamnesis theory, the past personality theory. Anyhow, both admit anamnesis of Christ. That is what is cardinal anyhow, that is to me the most cherished part, the bells, etc, the words about St. Sophia "hear what comforting words..."). As memory, strictly, it is along the Orphic lines: along Empedocles' lines: "I once was a god and now am merely this." The Kingdom, then, as memory of a state, but now restored by anamnesis; that isn’t bad: the kingdom or kingship restored by anamnesis!!! I did not just recall having been there; I was once more there, back again, restored as much as ever (we had hard times vis-a-vis the Romans, back in the far past; it wasn’t so wonderful). Let me consider this restoration of the Kingdom; I remember strongly feeling a general restoration, of all things; hence my disappointment in 75 starting in March, when I was back as I had been. I could not understand; yet I had had the dream in which I was old and miserable and sick, and then again I heard the magic bells, summoning me upward, to my delight. I really already had known that the Spirit was going to leave. But it did leave some¬ thing behind (the treasure, egg, pearl, seed, etc). I am more aware now of what it left behind; I still can envision it, via the eye of discernment. Firebright. As clear as ever, waiting for events still ahead. When I break so that I can't repair or be repaired...then, after an interval, the bells again. I guess only then. You can’t blame me for marking the days until that, though. "Those who hate this world," as John quotes Jesus. I have certainly at last renounced some very deep hopes about my life in this world, regarding a family. The hopes I had in 72 when I came here. It has been my 3-74 encounter which has achieved this, a resignation, a finality, but also a looking elsewhere for other things. It isn't defeat, or resignation as such, but an acceptance, and, as I say, turning else¬ where, toward what the 3-74 experience was all about. * * In trying to find some depth or severe degree of evil in the Nixon tyranny which would accouht for divine intervention, and also in my attempts to explain the help given me individually, which is to say, my whole experience (of the which I've read nothing nowhere by anyone subjected to any misery and entrapment) I came up with the Communist agent* theory, but in fact no evil degree can account for it, since greater degrees of evil can be adduced in history, with no evidence of divine intervention, either on a personal or historic scale. I see in 3-74 two interventions, personal and historic, both unexplained by the severity of the situation. Perhaps it is not to relieve a severe evil that accounts for the divine presence; if on takes the "St. Sophia "etc statement as an answer to my question, "Why are you here and what are you doing? then maybe there is the answer; the host was seeking a positive situation, the second incarnation, and merely relieved evil to "make straight in the desert a highway," esp. to pull down enthroned evil so that Christ would not suffer the same fate as before, the modern equal of Herod or Nero having been removed. Oh yes: as to the events which preceded my experience, the orthomolecular vitamins, esp. the overdose (7 grams a day) of C is crucial, in regards to improving and synchronizing neural firing. The possibility is also there of a diuretic factor, a flushing of something out of the neural tissues, a built-up toxin, etc. It's never occurred to me, but sodium pentathoi is "truth drug." Due to it and other factors I was de-hypnotized and revered to —became— my true self; recall, I sensed having just come from a cool moist climate. What this all says is: WE ARE NOT REALLY HERE; THE DOKOS, THIS WORLD, OBSCURES THE REAL WORLD. I have the extraordinary insight that I suddenly saw things are the;* really are. Which (get this!) is in biblical terms, scenes, persons, events. The world of the Bible was suddenly around me, and real, replacing our world. And I knew Koinos Greek, the lingua franca of that time. What could explain that? I had just received the "truth drug"... I guess —I make the supreme leap here in thinking about this— I guess that in reality it is Biblical times, the Bible is a printout of the real world, true in the empirical "landscape" sense, not in the past or gone; what we see is dokos, a veil. Only surface manfestation; the thing-in-itself, actuality, true reality, is the landscape and entities of the Bible, exactly as depicted in the Bible; I judges around the time of Acts or a bit later, 70 A.D. maybe. I then did not go there (obviously) or even remember, really, but discerned as here. This is a radical idealistic epistemology, because I say, They’re showing us endless color 3-D vistavision movies of a world of 1974/6, but ain’t so. That is illusion (vide Brahmanism). What is so is the Bible. The veil of illusion, the hypnotic trance, fell away, and another landscape emerged, and I identified it; at the same time I fell into naturally uttering the tongue of those times, and performed the customs of those times; anamnesis: it all came back to me; I remembered not what was past but what is NOW. We are provided —given— the scriptures as key, as clue, to this, and told they are real, inspired by God, and to believe them. (This explanation of 3-74 fits in with my lifetime of doubting my senses, as expressed in my novels & stories.) (Which is to say, I sensed all this at previous times, but not lucidly.) They're watching us down here in our toy painted dokos maze, and when we pass we're shown the Truth, how it really is; we get to see, as I did. Was I gradually or stage by stage figuring it out over the years? To a degree: I suspected. But I think I was suddenly jerked out of the maze "ahead of time," so to speak for reasons I don't know, probably connected with (1) the Xerox letter, (2) the tyranny, which relates to (1) and (3) my writing. I must hang on to this thought: everything I experienced which seemed an epiphany, extraordinary, was actually the way things really are — always. It all constellates around ceasing to be blind, for the first time in my life, and being suddenly able to see. I keep rejecting this realization in terms of assuming exceptional events, scenes, entities manifesting themselves (but now gone). What has happened is that I've sunk back among the blind...but I remember; I once saw. I am saying that my partial view (AD 1974 Calif) was not replaced by another partial view (Rome AD 70) but by absolute reality itself. If this explanation is the correct one, then I have the strong intuition that when the Judgment Day comes it will be characterized by the dokos curtain rolling up and exposing that very landscape to everyone In fact, the more I think about it the more I view that AD 70 landscape as the apocalyptic landscape, which will be exposed abruptly for all, as it was temporarily for me; this may be a cardinal significance of my seeing it, its main implication for men: certain one of the biggest surprises, too, that we have in store. We would find ourselves dis¬ tributed on that landscape in those roles, and have to make accounting sub specia aeternitatis, and that would be the "Aeternitatis." Yes, I think this may be the case; that is the true stage and true fixtures. If it is an apocalyptic landscape, then no one came from lineart Roman times, and the retrieved memory is not of an event in linear time but of an absolute event on an absolute landscape, which penetrated our landscape on a vertical axis, bringing —and this is a superlative insight— absolute events into our relative universe. Those ab¬ solute events and figures and landscape don't change, and must be understood as breaching our world then (our date 4 AD or BC or whatever), disclosing forms that neither change nor perish — which is in accord with what we know and believe about Christ already. The extraordinary thing is that if I am right, when the second coming —advent—takes place we will be at the first again with no real lapsed time; probably a theological theory could be made out of this insight. How could time pass in the real (eternal) world? Logically, it doesn't have linear time and the constant flux (change) which we have; one breaching followed by another at whatever our date may be would show no change there. The beast Rome, too, is a part of this landscape; here the judgment will be made. I keep discovering this: I did not see Rome back in our linear past but an archetypal