agrees with Jesus' "...On earth as it is in heaven," heaven being supralunar, earth being sublunar. This sheds much light on the Christian idea that when you die, if you performed well here, you get to ascend to Heaven: i.e. you rise (or more accurately, you may rise) from the sublunar realm to the supralunar realm. However, you may fall even lower: to hell. All at once the whole Christian worldview no longer seems vague, hopefulmerely or orbitrary; in context it makes sense, and must have made that sense to the whole Hellenistic world. Heaven is the heavens, the realm of fixed stars, or even above ("Ubrem Sternanzelt"),. If, during one's lifetime in this the sublunar realm, one finds favor with God, then upon one's death one ascends. Merit is acquired here; it is decided here if one ascends or descends. A demonstration that one has found God's favor would be an intercession by God here, during one's lifetime, the supralunar entering the sublunar in the form of grace. It all fits together. This is why in 3-74 I sat outside at night watching the sky, the stars. Could it also be said that the mere phenomenological world which I feel is "fake" is the sublunar world? And the real world is the supralunar? But I have never really drawn the bottom line on this: if it was indeed St. Sophia who spoke to me and for me, then it was the Logos, Christ, since she is that same Savior, God's First Begotten, the Light of the World, Wisdom Itself. What my experience has shown is that John is correct in applying the concept of the identity between Wisdom of the O.T. and Christ of the N.T. -2- How could I have known (learned somewhere previously) that when I heard the Savior's voice it would resemble (be) (be like) a woman's voice? And I would dream about the "sibyl"? It has now taken me 27 months of work; I arrive now at this point, having tracked down each aspect of this, to delineate it with certainty. There is no real possibility that I've made an error. The "first emanation from God." In 3-74 I was transformed into what I was not, which is a miracle, and I did things I would never do, which follows as an equal miracle; they were good things and absolutely necessary, and if I had not done them I wouldn't have made it (or accomplished what I subsequently accomplished, whatever that was). So, by a laborious path, checking each step thoroughly, I have arrived here. There was never a more rewarding search, nor a finer goal (final understanding and acceptance); I feel an enormous peace. The pain is gone, even though I'm still here (in the sublunar world). The supralunar broke through when it was necessary, and it fully achieved its will (as depicted to me in dreams: the destruction of the tyranny). I was brought into accord with its historic purpose, and so good came out of my damaged life...my aimless life which in itself pointed nowhere but had good moments embedded in it. Mark 13:5, Luke 21 whatever: (i) "I —Christ— will give you an elloquence and a wisdom that none can contradict you." (ii) "The Holy Spirit will speak for you" (when you are brought up on charges). Christ, returning after his death, his the Holy Spirit, evidently, if both these passages are correct. Before the Incarnation it was Holy Wisdom; then Jesus Christ; then the Holy Spirit. I think they are the same, expressed as prior, during and after. (The Incarnation.) I equals the Holy Spirit, which certainly fits with Christ saying that the Holy Spirit couldn't show up unless and until he himself left: it will be another form of whatever he is, and there was a prior form, too; but the prior and the final form aren't incarnate. "St. Sophia will be reborn" means the second incarnation, beyond any doubt. Also, Christ is said (by Paul) to be the image of the living God, and Holy Wisdom is also the image of God. The early Christians must have been (esp John) fully aware of who it was that had walked among them: the Son of God had once been the first daughter of God, and later would be neutral (the Holy Spirit). It was/is all sexes, so to speak...more accurately, they/it can be humanly apprehended in any of these ways: assimilated by us, as it were. "At each generation, Holy Wisdom enters the souls of (certain) holy men and turns them into prophets." Da kam sie an mich, Ich denke. The word "prophet" doesn't mean one who sees the future as such, but more someone who calls attention to the deepest ails of his society, esp. in terms of a tyrannical and unjust government. EB: "The prophet is the mouthpiece of the god." Through dreams & Visions, etc. Revelatory experiences, auditionary, signs, etc. The dream in "TEARS" anticipates exactly what did happen: anticipated it in 70, and it happened (for me anyhow) just after the -3- book was released in 74. Put this way, it is easy to see what the dream in the book meant. Also, a person versed in apocalyptic writing would, in reading the dream, know what it meant (by and large). Therefore it is possible that the message (the dream) did reach some kind of audience, which then knew what to expect, or what was already at that time taking place; prediction or analysis, depending on when they read it. It was virtually synchronized, which strikes me as very very meaningful (i.e. that my experience of the theophany took place almost exactly when the book came out -- one month later was all). Also, my personal experience (theophany) did not occur outside a (the) vast historical process; it could not have occured earlier or later, since the whole process of the removal of the tyrant was involved. My theophany had to take place then or (as in the case of other people) not at all. The book somehow got delayed until then, was scheduled them because, although I had finished it, I could not get it to Doubleday any earlier; I was blocked. But then the block went away, and they scheduled it as soon as possible; and so it came out at the same time as the theophany. Put another way, the nature of my theophany confirmed the message (apocalyptic) of the dream/book. It bore it out. After the dream in the book, the tyranny there begins to crumble; the black man has 3 children; it is already another, more just, world. The grief which the general feels at the death in the dream is a repudiation of the injustice of his world, and is connected with the title. "This is wrong; it can't go on or even be." Hence the title. On an emotional level Buckman cannot support even his own individual unjust acts. The society was thrown down in that instant; Jason was cleared and Buckman retired to write his memoirs (like Nixon). Jason's trial could be compared to the Ellsberg trial or any of the others. Things went wrong for the government prosecutors. It should also be said that this might help explain what for me is the most unusual: the material from "Acts" that appears toward the end of "TEARS." The tutelary spirit of 3-74 was already at work. Anyone reading "TEARS" who had enough apocalyptic insight would probably also discern that. By the time they reached the dream they would be aware of it. However, I think that the presence of this material in "TEARS," the "Acts" material, means only that the tutelary spirit was present while I was writing it, and wasn't intended to be there surrounded by the book qua book. It just leaked across. There is little possibility that the spirit was not present, given the "Acts" material in the book; how else could it have gotten there? It looks to me as if a lot of careful dovetailing and preliminary preparation went into this thing, step by step: a lapidary construction so that there was no way it could misfire; a point came where a true determinism had been put into motion. As it was an invisible tyrannt, like in THE MARBLE CLIFFS, what was needed was to inform people here and there, mysteriously, opening their eyes and causing them to speak out. To call attention to it was to destroy it. "During part of its cycle Brahmin sleeps; in part it dances. We think it is dancing now, but actually it is asleep, and therefore what we see isn't real." Maybe in 3-74 Brahmin awoke briefly (the theophany). Certainly I did see us within a great living body. -4- "Break a stick and there is Christ." What if the "supralunar World" is only one molecule's distance away at all times? All that needs to be changed is our own powers of perception (the change is solely in us). Then He (Christ) is here already, and has been. It is not part of me (within me); I am part of it. (Corpus Christi.) The shepheard with arms extended to farm dimensions of His flock. It takes some time for Him to reach the far off sheep and enter (theophany, theolepsy) them, when they are in distress: His fingers reaching out. The flock as parts of Him, parts of the Good Shepherd. In 3-74 I saw a rollback (regression) in time like in UBIK, although vaster: back to the first century, rather than just to the 1930s. Prior forms, contained within the forms of the present, then emerge -- both in UBIK and for me in 3-74 (e.g. the Greek words et al). Thus to my statement in UBIK re Plato, about the man containing not the child but the former man (the great exegesis on UBIK about Plato's forms; the new modification). Such an experience as mine provides the possibility of empirically proving that Plato's form idea is correct, which is what Duvic and Fitting and Richard realized. But before I could see these external transformations I had that crucial continuous shift in viewpoint, as if (as I thought at the time) I was bailing back into the real (sic!!!) universe by stages; I think now truly into the real in Plato's sense!!! This "vertical" motion certainly sounds like what Plotinus described, as rising from this, universe into the next (i.e. into Plato's world of forms, etc). What is unexpected and baffling is that lifted (or ascending) to the celestial realm I find it dominated by a feminine entity, which if she is not St. Sophia I do not know who she is, and cannot understand what this signifies. As to the q. if whether it was me ascending or God descending, all my dreams (esp. the dream in TEARS, and the "so many breaches" dream) suggest that it is God descending...with the proof of this (motion downward) being the intervention in history in 3-74, by God; He came here, with the purpose of taking charge of history. The supralunar penetrates the sublunar and assimilates it to his (its) will. Through the agency of the Logos, which is St. Sophia. All this would suggest that the world I left was bounded by the condinates[sic] of space and time, and that I entered another which which was not; so the distant past was --specially-- present to me, not lost, and the future was in another way also distinctly present & real. The Bradbury TV experience also shows that: reacting to things before they occurred, and the eerie sense that the data of reality limits or programs a person (this is related to being freed, by God's grace, from a programming which prior to the experience was my total lifelong reality). The entire space-time world was seen then as a circumscribing of freedom, but this sense could not have taken place unless I had achieved a vantage