always defeated. The elect are, were and will always be saved (thus I remembed back thousands of years). Eternity does not lie at the end of linear time but above it; the saving presence (the Parousia) lies above, not at the end, although when linear time ends it probably collapses back into eternity, so that is nominally true. My whole basic mistake in all these 300,000 words has been to accept on face value the reality of linear time and the changes therein. The Parousia did not set in on linear time in 74; I was lifted up out of linear time, to see the Parousia which is always there. Thus it did come — for me, in this manner: ray reward, so to speak, as I was exalted up from the "deluded mass" into the "remnant." (I think anyhow.) I saw what Daniel & John saw because that is how it is in the eternal world of Platonic forms; that is what is, and it was then when they saw it. Thus I adopt the Zoroastrian "game-board" view of this world, as a place where the two antagonists play it out through hand after hand in linear time. My task has been to explain (1) How the Parousia came and did not come; (2) How everything, in 74, happened and did not happen — at the same time. In think now I have done this. --- END --- -1- AFTERWORD What I have been drawn more L more to in my exegesis is the realization that linear time is somehow not real; which is to say, the changes in it (time as a reality is debatable, but as the k? encyclopedia of philosophy says, "change is real") are somehow not real. I am not back in Biblical times, but somehow John & Daniel & I found ourselves in the same reality or time frame, an eternal unchanging world above & beyond time. It is real, and the changing world within time is not. Without accepting this it is impossible to explain my experience and theirs. For, Where were we? and, What did we see? Another world. And certain things are always there, and certain events are always happening. It was true in Daniel’s time, in John’s and mine. What is real is the Apocalypse. Or, put better, what we call a "vision of the apocalypse" is in fact a vision of authentic eternal true reality lying behind the deceptive linear-time world of change. Inescapably, as I tried to account for my experience, I have been led to realize the irreality of linear time & the changes therein. What I did was I got outside time in 3-74. Kb More ac¬ curately, I was lifted out of, by another mind. I am now back in it, like everyone else; but I saw what I saw. I would say that our linear time world is framed for us, veiled, so that we may perform under the scrutiny of selection (judgment). The veil serves a valid purpose, and is not lifted until after judgment, at which time the game is over, and the veil not necessary; as a piece we have been lifted from the board forever. Although we remain unaware of supernatural entities they guide and direct us. I assume us to be in a growth process the final end of which is invisible to us. Selection as to who grew, who didn't and in what way is not ours but theirs. Since Daniel wrote before Christ, I assume this eternal world existed then, and Christ came from it to acquaint us with it. It was his purpose to give men the clues, to unravel the riddles of existence so that they could surmount the linear-time world and enter the Kingdom. Without Christ and his clues, no one could or would ever unravel the riddles, so it was not until the First Advent that men began entering the Kingdom. He then withdrew, like his father the steersman, to a detached point, and gathered (s) up the harvest he planted; i.e. those who act rightly. (Follow the thread, like Arachne’s thread, through the maze we are in.) (The main riddle is to locate the side of Light in its struggle against Darkness, to join it and act for it.) (It is here but hidden, as is the darkness; they are not evident or evidently unmixed, and choice is difficult.) (Intent is a good first step, as in it is contained basic knowledge —assessment— of the situation.) (In a very true way it can be said we have been placed arbitrarily away from home and must find our way back; that is the goal.) I would say in conclusion: "We are here to choose the true from the counterfeit, and we will be given much time, perhaps thousands of years, and when and if we do chose correctly at last, we will then be shown what we have chosen: shown what reality is like. And not before; for during the chosing all is reduced, as in a child’s play store." -2- We live as children and choose as children, but once we choose correctly we become true adults. Only then does the real purpose of life become evident; before that it was a dream and a guess and a search among mists. Only the forms are real; and they are alive...such as Holy Wisdom. Holy Spirit — born from above — adoptionist view (of Christ: the dove descending at baptism) — fertilization. The superior life fcrm parent was present, then left. The seed/egg/treasure/grain/ pearl remains, to hatch upon death of body. I.e. upon falling away of corruptible body (sarx). Christ was the first one the spirit came to, when John the Baptist was baptising him; then after Jesus' death the Holy Spirit (the "second comforter" or Paraclete) came to the others. And created immortal incorruptible bodies in them, too, such as Christ had (obtained). This is what happened to me in 3-74. The incorruptible body is the offspring, so to speak, of the parent, the Holy Spirit; it gives birth to it, the second birth or being "born from above," born of spirit and water, not from the womb; without you do that you cannot inherit the Kingdom of God. My experience is connected with the promise that the Holy Spirit (or Christ) would come and speak when one was hauled before the magistrate, but I think it/she quickened while here, as well. It was moving backward, secretly, from the conclusion of time, and so knew in advance what was going to happen. The Holy Spirit is birth¬ giving; in the Bible it impregnates Mary, so she "is with child," Jesus, or else it adopts him; in any case later on when it comes to a person one speaks of a second birth, not from the womb, but of water and spirit, a birth from above. This is amazingly con¬ sistent: Christ is not the son of Mary and Joseph, but the son of Mary and the Holy Spirit. The disciples, born of human parents, were born again in a manner resembling the way Jesus was originally born; they became the progeny of the Holy Spirit, perhaps more literally than we think, in this second birth, from above. It is important that Jesus says that ONLY by this second birth, ffom above, that a manz can inherit the Kingdom of God; therefore this must produce the nonsarx body, as when it is said, "Flesh cannot inherit the Kingdom of God," and Paul speaks of the flesh, sarx, changing into something else. I have a feeling that receiving the Holy Spirit produces an actual second birth, and starts a process by which a second incorruptible nonmaterial body, such as that which Christ had after the resurrection comes into being, a "light" or ergic body; as in mentioned in V A, my novel, the many parables about the treasure buried in the field, the seed, the grain, plus that about the pearl, all refer to the impregnation or fertilization or implantation or anyhow the quickening achieved by the Hoiv Spirit upon the person it comes to. Clearest is the "yeast which leavens the whole mass," which when considered with the treasure, the mustard seed, the seeds, the solitary grain "buried in rich soil" — as in V A, they suggest something valuable placed in a recptacle, and, as with the yeast, it changes the receptacle. "Leavening" it throughout, eventually. The mustard seed one suggests it starts out astonishingly small. Remember, at the time Jesus told these parables, the Paraclete hadn't come to the disciples to achieve this with them; Jesus was preparing them for this event, which came *had to come* after he himself lost his sarx and acquired his resurrected body. Yes, the parables prepared them for what was to come, as in ACTS. In the gospels they do not yet understand. Also in the parables, such as the goats-lambs one, he suggests those who are the lambs, or are his crop, are called by him or harvested by him; they join him, in what I construe to be a corporate life beyond the grave. "Lambs" are a good symbol because lambs can hear the good shepherd, whereas treasures and pearls and seeds can't; at the very most grain or seeds sprouted can be harvested. They, who are twice born, wind up with him, obviously meaning the Cosmic Christ who I think is closely related to if not identical witn (at least in certain ways) to the Holy Spirit. I say, it is the Holy Spirit having gone through incarnation and being resurrected. * * The manifestation of the Holy Spirit to rescue me (God's Grace) conforms exactly to Plato's concept of Noos "persuading" ananke along the lines of wisdom; i.e. the inter¬ play between efficient causes —which would have led to my doom— and final causes, Holy Wisdom, follow Plato's schema precisely: I felt Wisdom take over control and direction. The dialectic which is described in Timeus. A situation of blind decay was leading into a cul de sac. Yet — I performed the early Xtian sacraments, and experienced the Xtian anamnesis, so it was the Holy Spirit; and I heard the bells. In the parables Jesus taught his disciples how to attain the Kingdom of God; he didn't want outsiders to know. Integral in this is receiving the Holy Spirit — I adjudge this to be the x prime event in it all. So evidently certain things, secret preparatory things, must be done in order that —if I am right— the Holy Spirit will come. I think I am right. This lore, this esoteric knowledge, was passed on by Christian to Christian; through it, spec, the practice of it, their obtained the theolepsy. But the lore was lost, when they were killed by the Romans. Thus people ceased to attain the Kingdom, because, I think, they did not know and perform what was needed. Well, the Holy Spirit came to me, but I think I had to do many things in preparation; I have been certain of it, without relating this to the parables or early Christianity. The votive candle, and I had to be shown the golden fish; there must have been others. The fish, right then and there, caused anamnesis. Doesn't this sound like the Orphic and perhaps other theolepsy mystery religions? I saw Rome and believed in my anamnesis experience before the spirit came; of everything I think the golden-fish-induced anamnesis made the thaiepsy possible. And I think anamnesis wouldn't have occured if I hadn't just been given the sodium penthathol, which probably served to replace some trance¬ like state of the mysteries. Something known to Christianity, a state very altered. There was some ancient equivilent, perhaps even drug induced. It is very significent that someasthing outside of and prior to the theolepsy caused anamnesis, although only for a split second; still it did. * * I just brought