of cancer. Thus, this was real in an existential way; I thought the pale white light, which exposed him and me, meant death had come for me; but the fact that I saw that light, and that light was real, that event was real, Pinky was going to die -- the rest has not been a mere head trip; I know the differencel the acid trip in 1964 was the head trip. Time had to run out for me before the Final Things could take place. I at last reached God: the beautific Void. I think He gave me a guide to replace Pinky; he gave me Erasmus the way he gave Dante Virgil. I did and do have a guide. Erasmus is my guide now. I guess I am in need of that; I remember the other night (Feb 25) when I got so loaded...as I prayed I remember I said, "I am so lonely. Give me [understand?]. Why is it? I don't undersand." Late I did understand: that it was because I still missed my father, god bless him whom I'll never see again. But God gave me (1) a friend (v. last line in Grey's "Elegy": "And found in heaven a friend," which always appealed to me); God gave me as of my prayer on the 25th (2) understanding, that I missed my father; (3) He also gave me the only absolutely Platonic ideal perfect stoned out trip of my life. And most of all, as I sat praying, (4) I realized that Erasmus was with me and had been. I need not be lonely any more. Erasmus replaces my father; I haven't been alone since March 1974. The gifts of the spirit. Oh yes, before I forget; when I had kiled the poor rat I tossed the St. Christopher's medal into his grave with him, poor rat who only wanted to live. But you see how I had been educated by that dreadful morning: the rat had to be killed because of my little girls. It was a lesson for me, uniquely my lesson: that death was unavoidable in more than the descriptive way: that creatures do die. I saw that day that sometimes they should die; that it was of a moral necessity that I literally kill that rat. I never had that rat's karma on me, not really; I had that lesson in me, that understanding. Yet -- I felt sorry for the rat, since it didn't want to die. The lesson was for me the hardest of all: that things must be done in response to decissions or considerations or needs or directive or to accord with a higher morality which make it binding on one to take life. Therefore I saw the role that death had in the universe: a necessary one (clay pots have to be deliberately thrown back as long as they remain unsatisfactory, and the that rat, honey, was he unsatisfactory.) It showed me that death could not be avoided. But -- I still grieved and I still prayed. Rog Phillips story had a lot to do with my empathy; I had read the story a bit earlier, as I recall. And got the autograph later. The rat came inbetween. This was my baptism into reality, my having to kill this huge gutter-water rat which had gotten into the house and was hiding back in the girls' rooms. As their father I knew what to do. I guess our father (God) knoww what to do, too, when he judges, and now we come to Judgment Day and why it must be so. Exactly as I had to judge and condemn and execute that rat, so must God do this -- judge us all and spare some (accept them) and execute others; he would like to save them all, but the necessity of the structure precludes it. If the fucking rat had only left the house I would have spared it. Thus we too, all of us, are given clues and help; we ar guided so that "we can leave in time." And be spared. I didn't draw a personal lesson though that I should shape up or ship outl my lesson was one regarding the universe, outside me: that death was required, as a deliberate thing. It was a terrible shock to me. I was anti-war, a passifist, raised as a Quaker. Now, having read Empedocles, I see that strife or disunion must be present in the univese to balance love or harmony; together they keep changing going. I always succumbed rather than struggled. Strugge is strife and strife is war and war leads to deliberate killing. Last night on the phone, though, I called Laura again, and got my former wife Anne. I had the opportunity to share some of my thoughts with her, about working out the ionosphere plasmic entity theory about the Holy Spirit, where upon Anne said, "Well, that's the sin of pride, what you're doing; that is hubris To think that you, Philip K. Dick, can figure out God -- that is a sin." Instead of feeling bad I pointed out that judgment had been rendered on us all already, by the Divine Judge; whereupon Anne belatedly recalled that "he who is without sin" and so forth and apologized. But I didn't say, "The Divine Judge has arrogated this to him and will judge," I said that He had. Now, you can regard this as my saying that He was/is/always will be, or you can think to your-self, Maybe Phil said what is so: the Day of Judgment came and went, and hardly anybody noticed. Except they noticed something. Straaaaange things went on during 1974. I think that in 1974 my entelechy was completed, but I never heard of anyone having his entelechy completed (watch it, Claudia), be-cause this means that the time has ended, not by God intervening, but because the last frames ran through the film ended naturally. Well, see, here is your clue: when the last frames of my film (entelechy) passed faster and faster through the projector, I wasn't perfect; I'm still full of alll sorts of shit (you noticed). Well, then it was an intrusion into time, into ordinary time, before entelechies were complete; like God’s grace which saves you even if you’re worthless, this intruded and saved our world even if we hadn’t completed the test (which was what we were doing: doing it over and over until we got it right, and none of us hardly had gotten it right yet. God did suddenly intrude, without warning… for me it was like a thief in the night; it came at night, and I was amazed. I was caught by surprise. But what filled me was in itself flawless; the Holy Spirit or myself completed, either one – but as I stand I am wicked and think wicked thoughts, same as always (I am right now trying to get Victoria Principl – Principal’s phone number; Erasmus says it can be done). This is wicked. I am motive by a leopard skin rug miles and miles of tawny skin (but she has a funny voice, a Sid Caesar imitation of the miles and miles. Well, we’ll use lipsynch). I do not see where I am changed, but I was spared the Wrath and I was of use (against the tyranny): “Zeus protects those who defend the Perfect Kingdom against those who would nibble it away.” It is as if that rat might have proved worthy in some way yet still a rat (it was where the rat was, not what, which doomed it; it was away from its natural order, out of its spot in the Scheme of Things). Thus, we may stress changes in our Being too much in terms of being acceptable, and forget that being at the Right Place at the Right Time – after all, God will motivate us if we’re there (I think always of the black dude, the guard who found the door at the Watergate Hotel taped back and reported it to the D.C. fuzz). Maybe my letter (don’t laugh) to the Wall Street Journal… no, that was after. I guess then TEARS was what I had to offer. Think of the touching story of “The Juggler of My Lady.” That always had a lot to say to me. Yes, if I did anything in the Final War Against the Beast it was to write and protect TEARS and bring it out strategically, and also be living in Fullerton where I could write Wiggins. You must put in your thesis about my correspondences back and forth with Mr. Wiggins during the impeachment, Claudia; I am so proud to have argued those issues with him. We both drew on all we had in us. (RS will mention.) Hey, I figured out (you laughed) Nixon is the best – beast. IX From nIXon That’s Latin for 9 IC from dICk That’s Latin for 99 The universe must be read backward; so the three 9s are 666; its’ a – ohhhhhhh. The other night, “Erasmus” laughing. All the codes and number codes (a lot I haven’t told you, but hope to some day). Seeing the numbers. I saw 555555555 a “good” number. (Tessa just pointed out that the “d” in Latin is 500. So RMN;s number is 9-599, which just goes to show you. Oh I have it. The “d” shows that he will be destroyed in the 500th year of his reign. He did reign for 500 years; anyhow it seemed like it. Or its page 500 of my Bible, or something. Wait. You read vertically. Look above. The IX is above the IC. It’s a grid code (see “Cryptology” in Brit 3.) You know, if they do discover the orthogonal time axis (along which the Forms move) they will find that it leads to the Parousia. Forms have a point of completion. Like a novel. They don’t go on and on. That axis isn’t just “process time” like in GODOT. It goes to completion and then stops. It is retrograde to what we see (vide supra hoc libra). Our lineal time then is cyclic in the “spinning ones wheels” sense of going around and around without incorporating true growth; we are declutched, purely in this time; but in reality we partake of movement toward form completion, too. And yet we experience it backward. It was, as you put it, our childhood. “We see – the universe – as by reflection from the bottom of a burnished metal pan, but now directly for a moment,” said St. Paul. This is all a flashback: our life, a post vitam. Like the squib, the interoffice memo before THREE STIGMATA which is the novel, and what takes place “after” it is really what took place before it, which is there to explain it. I, the little boy like Christopher; that’s me completed. Oh God, Claudia; the “explosion” is throwing is throwing us backward into lineal time away from the moment of completion/perfection of each of us. What age do you guess? The Savior didn’t say “babies.” I think about 3 or 4 years old, maybe up to 6. One could say, Before the World took the little child and taught it to see and think only its small way. Yes, maybe so, Claudia; while the teacher was still the universe. I remember how God, as body-of-God, the universe, taught me, through bugs and bees, the sight of an old blind lady in a great wheel chair. I knew about being bushwacked (by a bee) about old age and death; I knew about the Fish sign, too, the Savior: I called him “Tunny,” from a del Monte billboard for some canned food. We had to travel under the Oakland Estuary in the Alameda Tube, and I saw the tube like a can; at the end we emerged in the sunlight and I saw the billboard with “Tunny” on