it says "herself." Wow; my whole theory. And about John, that John says He was rejected by His own people. And re "Acts," the true gospel —authoritative, official message— that He has been received in heaven and will come at the end of time to vindicate and judge those faithful to him. Not anything else which Jesus said or did during his life. Then it is the end which is important, and if this is so, one could expect a long period of time for people to accept or reject him, and so be judged. "...Leads to the empty tomb." (Degrees of sight or understand¬ ing, which culminate in this, or understanding this.) A transmutation of His physical body, not just leaving it. The tomb was empty; the physical body was gone. This is implied by what I heard, that /she will be reborn inasmuch as he/she was not killed on the cross; had he/she been, how could he/she be reborn? The entity departed. This is the greatest mystery of all. Where did it go? Back where it had been before birth: it was pre-existent. The empty tomb points to this; it, the entity, only sojurned here. Was not truly born as we are, but was an epiphany, a manifestation of someone eternal. The judge is feminine, like Ma'at — the girl with the feather. Now I think, How Egyptian was the cut of hair and face of the "Jack Vance's wife" whom I saw! And skirt! And slippers! ("You must put your slippers on/ to walk toward the dawn.") Mark 4:11 says that the parables were intended to confuse and not inform everyone except the desciples, the latter under¬ standing the esoteric meaning, the outsiders getting only the exoteric meaning which would fail to save them; this was especially true regard¬ ing parables about the approaching Kingdom of God. I keep forgetting this. How much of the real inner meaning has come down to us? The written gospels record probably mostly the exoteric parable meanings, not the inner core. Whether we like it or not, it is there in Mark (if not elsewhere), and this favors the view of an elect within the body of mankind. At least so far as Jesus went. Maybe now there is a Third Covenant which will include all creation or anyhow all men. I am thinking in particular of the grain of wheat sown into the ground to rise again, a mystery theme common to Greek mystery religions; in fact evidently the basic one. What it really means —to know this— enables the hearer to achieve what is achieved: eternal life. The how is contained, as well as the what. I think that in 3-74, at the height of despair and fear and grieving I stumbled into the Kingdom, stumbled around for a while and then stumbled back out, none the wiser as to how I got there, barely aware of where I had been, and no idea as to how I stumbled out, and seeking always to find my way back ever since. Shucks. Drat. If it wasn't the Kingdom I don't know what it could be, with its bells and the lady singing and the void, with the trash in the gutter glowing, and the golden rectangle doorway with the sea and figure beyond, and the moonlight. There were people living there, especially the lady. It was all alive. It had per¬ sonality. It explained everything to me. Now I don't see or under¬ stand anything. At that time I could even remember back to my origins. My real origins: the stars. What am I doing here? I forget, but I knew once. Amnesia has returned; the veil has fallen, back where it was. The divine faculties are occluded as before. Obviously I didn't accomplish it; I was given it, since I don't know how to find it again. "Man is not as wise as some stones, which in the dark, point toward their homes." My soul, sunk down in ignorance again. Blind & deaf. Ensnared by gross matter, limited. The long dark night of the soul is a lousy place to be. Heraclitus says the Logos can be heard. My goodness. Heraclitus also says the world (universe) is uncreated, by kept together by the Logos, which I guess is immanent/transcendent. Men do not listen to the Logos nor see it, but are asleep. Loren K. says that the essence of Christianity is an "inward suffering before God," which makes me a Christian I guess, especially today. The pull of matter is very great. I escaped for only a little while and then fell back further than ever. As Elton John says, "I've got ray memories," and it did induce some permanent changes in me. Mark says that God can cut short the time of tribulation for the elect, before it gets unbearable; maybe that's what He did in 3-74. Mark: "Those closest to Christ thought he was insane." So his mother and friends came to get him, but he rebuffed them. Shades of Dionysus; also, that the apostles appeared drunk to bystanders when the Holy Spirit came to them at Pentercost. Thinking about this I feel rushing back to me many many experiences around 3-74 and during the year after: the name Jesus in the Bible opening up to form ZeusZagreus, the dots on the alb of the saint becoming grape vines; the vine quality of the washing ladies' plaque; the dythramb being danced; the article DIONYSUS IN AMERICA and what it meant to me; the imagery of Pindar (root and star); the similiarities I noticed between THE BACCHAE and the passion story and Hamlet; the fact that Dionysus is a breaker of prisons and a destroyer of tyrants (e.g. King Penteus); Christ turning water into wine; Christ as corn god and lunar fertility god; the mystery religions et al; the fact that Dionysus was a god of metamorphosis; the Greek words & aspects of 3-74; the madness or intoxification I felt; the breaking down of the Nixon gang tyranny; my whole preoccupation with Dionysus during this...was Jesus an avatar of Diony¬ sus, a evolution of him via Orpheus into ultimate spirituality? Was this one of the cardinal mysteries revealed to me direct? The mad/god/ stranger who cannot be killed, and who is persecuted, but then returns with a vengence? That's what I put at the end of my U.K. speech. Where has he been for the past two thousand years? Locked in a death-struggle with authority: first the authority of his own church, then the secular authorities, all of them; bursting the prisons gradually. Or perhaps the human who experiences the theolepsy (like the sibyl in THE .SNEAD) becomes intoxicated by the energy of the spirit inhabiting it; which might include Jesus, and later the apostles. The spirit, in His case, could be Holy Wisdom, and she is quite sane (ma'at). It occurs to me at once that theolepsy must be limited to short intervals, so as to curtail the madness. But Jesus had the spirit in him most of the time...perhaps He struggled with it & conquered the madness, except for short outbursts, such as the fig tree episode. It is of note that the (1) language & (2) knowledge of 3-74 that was revealed to me took place within a "mystery" experience known only to the period (Graeco-Roman) when such experiences are known to have taken place. The key to all of this is precisely here. There is total consistency. I had an experience 2,000 years old, and heard language and knew knowledge of 2,000 years ago derived from that experience. If I were to leap to a conclusion I would say that 2,000 years ago someone versed in the mysteries planned for his own personal resurrection, and has slept through the interval, and then awoke: triggers back into existence by (most of all) the golden fish necklace. - 10 - If so, I’ll bet anything it was planned for him to see the disinhibiting agent, which would produce anamnesis, soon after his next incarnation. But something went wrong. And so he slept on, in suspension, for 2,000 years. He might never have awakened — would not, except for the golden fish. But this doesn't explain the historical events, God's intervention at that time, or the Xerox letter. He must have been summoned back into life. God —really Christ— caused him to live again, with a physical body (mine). Where is he now? Melded with me? "The dead shall join the living." Here is a better explanation: I have a daimon, as Socrates had, a guardian (tutelary) spirit within me. I heard it speak first during my physics test in high school, then in the '60s about the great turtles. In 3-74 due to the extremity of danger facing me, the daimon surfaced and took control entirely. I heard its thoughts, which were in Greek. It remembered the antique world and knew the mysteries. It was an early Christian. Then slowly it sank back down. The voice, female evidently, which I continued to hear, the voice which spoke in my head at night which said, "St. Sophia will be" etc., was/is it. It still speaks to me (e.g. the words tutelary, epiphany, etc), but at a reduced level (as before 3-74; not quite that reduced, though). It inspired, among other works, UBIK. It put the dream material in TEARS. Perhaps it is a woman, a Greek woman. I see her, then, in my dreams: as Aphrodite, as the sibyl, as Linda Ronstadt singing...I hear her voice as the "A-l" voice, the neutral voice of wisdom. What makes my daimon-experience different from what Dr. Bucke described is the fact that (I know) my daimon is Greek and from 2,000 years ago. I know (Ach Gott!) that once it/she/he lived, was a person, a very wise & educated one, evidently with great powers, who wished/intended to come back. I would guess (here a true guess begins) that if anyone brought it back it was Christ who did it. What I must never lose sight of was how, at its height, it revealed itself as part of the cosmic body of Christ all around, a living environment which I (and she/it/he) was within, fed by and informed by; tnis was its greatest vision, before it began to sink back. Next in order of significance, I guess, were its memories of a stellar, cosmic origin: the stars. I think that in Feb 76 when I tried to kill myself it was she/he/it would fought back (my creator, I thought at OCMC) and eventually triumphed. Item. A porno subtrack on an LP buried unaer other tracks is stegenographia. I was beginning to traneliminate accurately when I heard the filth on KNX-FM; nobody else could hear it...it prepared the way to (1) transliminate the daimon, and (2) the Xerox information. The veil, inside and outside, was off. Gnosticism: "The true purpose of Gnostic develation was to free spiritual man from astral determinism." Especially if man knew his origins in the pleroma. It is Gnosticism & Gnosticism alone which denies the patriarchal Jewish-Christian religion and enshrines Sophia as the creator goddess. So says Neumann in the E.B. My experience of the lady — it is exactly Gnostic. None else. In my revelations all roads & aspects lead to her; this is Gnosticism. I've seen her, heard her, in many guises, and finally the name "St. Sophia." Gnostic revelation has broken through into my head in the modern world. I think anyone versed in Gnosticism who read my notes would say, "You're a Gnostic." I am not happy about this, but it is so, based on 3-74. Simon Magus lives. Also, it is a thoroughly Greek syncretistic system. I must go where truth (as I've experienced it) takes me; my experience is of St. Sophia. Well, this is a modified Gnosticism, with Sophia sanctified as Wisdom of Proverbs and the book "Wisdom," so that it