taught, and the world is merely the reflection of this process. Bohme anticipated Hegel in claiming that the divine self-development occurs by means of a continuing dialectic, or tension of opposites, and that it is the negative qualities of the dialectic that men experience as the evil of the world. Even though Bohme, for the most part, stressed absoluteness and relativity equally, his view that the world is a mere reflection of the divine -- apparently denying self-development on the part of creatures -- tends toward acosmic pantheism" (Encyclopaedia Britannica, "Pantheism and Panentheism"). During my enormous revelations and anamnesis in March 1974 I perceptually observed God and reality combined, and progressing through stages of evolution by means of a dialectic, but I did not experience what I called "the blind counterplayer," which is to say the dark side as part of God. However, although I perceived this dialectic between good and evil, I could not ascertain anything as to the source of the evil. However, I did see the good side making use of it against its will, since the dark counterplayer was blind and therefore could be made use of for good purposes. Hans Driesch (1867-1941). "My soul and my entelechy are One in the sphere of the Absolute." And it is at the level of the Absolute only that we can speak of "psychophysical interaction." But the Absolute, so understood, transcends all possibilities of our knowing, and it is "an error to take, as did Hegel, the sum of its traces for the Whole." All considerations of normal mental life lead us only to the threshold of the unconscious; it is in dreamlike and certain abnormal cases of mental life that we encounter "the depths of our soul." . . . My sense of duty indicates the general direction of the suprapersonal development. The ultimate goal, however, remains unknown. From this point of view, history took on its particular meaning for Driesch. Throughout his work Driesch's orientation is intended to be essentially empirical. Any argument concerning the nature of the ultimately Real will therefore have to be hypothetical only. It starts with the affirmation of the "given" as consequent of a conjectural "ground." His guiding principle in the realm of metaphysics amounts to this: The Real that I posit must be so constituted that it implicitly posits all our experiences. If we can conceive and posit such a Real, then all laws of nature, and all true principles and formulas of the sciences, will merge into it, and all our experiences will be "explained" by it. And since our experience is a mixture of wholeness (the organic and the mental realms) and nonwholeness (the material world), Reality itself must be such that I can posit a dualistic foundation of the totality of my experience. In fact, to bridge -- aw fuck. In fact, there is nothing -- not even within the ultimately Real -- to bridge the gap between wholeness and nonwholeness. And this means, for Driesch, that ultimately there is either God and "non-God," or a dualism within God himself. To put it differently, either the theism of the Judeo-Christian tradition or a pantheism of a God continually "making himself" and transcending his own earlier stages is ultimately reconcilable with the facts of experience. Driesch himself found it impossible to decide between these alternatives. He was sure, however, that a materialistic-mechanistic monism would not do (Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Vol. 2). It would appear that Bohme and T -- I'm at the end of my rope; I can't even type, let alone think. That Bohme and Driesch are talking about the same thing, and that both are process philosophers (or theologians, like Whitehead). Both stress dialectic quality in God; Driesch sees the dialectic working itself out in history. This is almost certainly the dialectic that I saw during my March 1974 revelations, and I am willing to admit that it is certainly possible that the blind, dark counterplayer against which the vitalistic good element worked could be "God's own earlier stages," as Driesch viewed it. One thing I like about Driesch is the fact that at a certain point he simply said, "I don't know." That's where I'm at and have been at for a long time; I just do not know. God created everything; evil exists as part of the everything; therefore God is the source of evil -- that is the logic, and in monotheism there is no escape from this argument. If you posit two (or more) gods, including an evil god, you have the problem of, Where did it come from? But that problem exists for monotheism, too; if there is only one god, where did he come from? Answer: from the same place the two gods of dualism came from. In other words, I see this problem of origin as equally difficult for monotheism to answer as it is for a dualism. We just don't know. If we regard evil as simply earlier stages of a god in process, which he is working to overcome -- well, that does fit my own personal revelations, and is syntonic to me. I was shown how the whole thing works but I did not comprehend what I was seeing; they were showing it to Mortimer Snerd. I did have the feeling that I was witnessing a cosmic two-person board game, with our world as the board, and that one side (the winning side) was benign, and the other was neither winning nor was it benign; it was just very powerful, but hindered by the fact that it was blind. The good side possessed absolute wisdom, could therefore absolutely foresee the future, and could lay down moves long in advance of payoffs that the evil, blind, dark counterplayer could not anticipate. It was an encouraging vision. In every trick the good won; it beat the dark antagonist unerringly. What more could I ask from an Ultimate Vision of Absolute Total Reality? What more do I need to know? The score reads: Evil zero; Good infinity. Let me stop there, satisfied; the final tally is explicit. the "other universe" is an intelligent, thinking mind, + so when it impinges on our material universe, these "[impingnations]" take the form of written and audio information (words), such as is discribed in "Ubik". This is, in fact the basic situation in "Ubik" - the impinging on the irreal world they are in (while half alive) in the form of helpful information. The aim of this impinging information is "word" or: Logos! + the marxist intellectuals know that that is what 1) is happening in "ubik" + 2) Ubik itself is the Logos. What we have is sentient radation energy in electricity + plasma + ionization. Using Tesla's theories about energy + information transfer, the soviets are now asking to synthesize a sort of mundane Logos, as ionospheric information-transfer grid. However, Tesla, in his own work with such "radar like" devices, found he had made contact with a "St Elmo's Fire" [ETI] - the intrusion of which living sentient plasma must puzzle + intrigue the soviets. "Ubik" deals with all this, in reading "Ubik" anyone familiar with either the man-made "Logos" or the natural one, would assume the author knew what he was writing about. esp. they would hope "ubik" indicated the efficacy of their own system. What to me is most interesting is that this sheds a lot of Light on the enigmatic term or entity "Logos" or "the word" + wisdom of God. Only with the other universe is conceived as Xenophanes (eg Anaxagoras) conceived it as [???] does "word" makes sense as an entity which is not only wisdome itself but is a [???] + could incarnate itself here (in human form). Since the Real universe is mind (electromagenetic flux) it does not [merely] think but is [(lsse??0] thouth or word [word wisdom. Thoughts are ontologically real and not much [???] [u]descriptions] of [nature] reality. They are the [final?] order of reality Words, bursting through the material world, are in fact the real universe [(???)] penetrating a mere holographic projection. Without the understanding + awareness of the real (ultimate) reality being one of mind, the concept "the word" makes no sense since, as Xenophanes saw, the [???] [weild?] the world by its thinking, the word-wisdom is not a mere aspect of the ultimate, the [urgund???]. But its activity per se; hence in Genesis, when God says "let there be light," there is light; he creates by saying (thinking.) (Cf Bishop Bekeley.) Also, Xenophanes realized that noos? never moved about. The Tesla Grid would be ubiquitious, too, an analog of the actual Logos in sense, then, using Biblical [????}, the Soviets' tesla mind-control (informing) Grid would be an anti-christ, mimicking the Logos itself 542-3119- 541-5522 835-5433 Right to Life 311 S. Main S. A. In Box Crusade for life 962-2262 PO Box 1433 Whittier 90609 600 N. Broadway Segregated Text My experience of time-reversion (ie Back to 70 AD Rome) was due to my being either taken into the Mystical Corpus Christi or my being aware of it. The Corpus Christi is trans-temporal + spacial, + involves both the living + the human dead. This is the irreducable basis of all that happened to me in 3-74, all that I saw, all that I know, + the ground of the help given me This explains my "Post Mortem" experiences: the Corpus Christi [spacial???] Both sides of the grave - it is above death (supra mortis) I would be well advised to perpetually maintain this as my premise (credo), + derive all else from it. This, according to the EB, is the essential experience (reality, ursatz) of [xtianith]. + this cosmic body, with Christ as the psyche, expands + extends outward into space. Filling and transmitting the universe. This is the great life-renewing Logos known too to me as the message-creating + sending life form UBIK: incorporated into it forever. This is how I personally can best understand it (what I was incorporated into). The face of anti-death (ie it is totally negentropic) I need only add to this (ie UBIK) the human [incarnation?] (avatar) of the Walker-onEarth (Runciter) who is Christ incarnate, not risen. Ach! He will return in his risen, ubiquitous Cosmic form as I have long suspected! So my dependence does indicate that these are the parousia! Yes - Christ manifested himself to me externally - a theophany - an epiphany (which I perceived by means of the theophany of the [panaclile?]). But not just the Holy Spirit is here; [Zeigra?] is the Logos - wisdom Christ Interstingly, the Jews place him exactly where I place him: in the ionosphere. But in 3-74, He touched down + entered human history, altering its course + raising the [seige] in [rather] breaking the walls of the prison of which we are the unhappy prisoners (ie slaves). Interestingly, my theophany did not withdraw me from the world, but, quite the opposite, reintroduced me to the world, + in a new + active -dynamic- way, in which I impinged in it more than it impinged on me. + this was a microcosmic vision of the Logos' dynamic impinging on the world in a vast, historically important way: I replicated in a tiny way its stand - + definitely linked (syno[mong??]) to its macrocosmic impinging. Thus my role as victim ([noblect?]) of mundane force + was dramatically reversed in fulfillment of the scriptures in which the powerless would judge the powerful (a complete reversal of the extand [rule?] of things). This dramatic reversal fits my most acute analysis + understanding of the "end-times" - the vast paradoxical reversals (Big-small, weak-strong / wise-foolish / {maja?]-min[ual?] important-unimportant, etc) will without warning (ie without evident transitional stages) will set in. This is my way by which we will know - recognize - the end times. Those upheavals which are essentially reversals. A black guard + a [hippu] cup will destry the Government + send them all