barrier? It is a challenge to God as well as to man. What is he, when stripped of his power, wisdom, awareness of true identity? What will he do under these totally debasing contexts? i.e. can the Godhead destroy itself? The answer is NO, + this is the grand point of it all" God reasserts his nature even in such circumstances. So even God cannot extintuish God, therefore nothing can extinguish him. If he cannot annihilate himself, what can? ---------- At the First Advent there was just one Christ: Jesus. But in Acts, when the Holy Spirit came over all the disciples, there were Christs plural. The BIP can't find + destroy them all. The life form "Christ" (micro form of God) has proliferated. There is just no way the BIP can do what it did to Jesus to them all, since the spirit goes "where it wills." It can take over anyone. + through this, it can gain a secret control of human history, + determine its outcome. Even the persons themselves don't know at least for a while. They do not even guess. ---------- "Yin: the immutable world of cause + effect" ("Secret of the Golden Flower") Exactly + yang (Zebra) interrupts from time to time these changes - closed-system. So in essence we don't so much have two sources for (our) one world, but two worlds laminated together, which I unscrambled into yang as set + yin as ground. There are two sources as well, which explains why we have two worlds, not one. Predominently our world is yinnish, but the yang one is far advanced. Whether it was always that advanced I do not know. The First Advent was the summary of the yang introjection + penetration. The yang world does not just lie on top, passively, but "persuades" the yin [..] world - i.e. recontours its causal processes to redirect the outcomes. Or maybe Advent one was the beginning of the yanglight penetration. But the whole yin world (ground) is a counterfeit interpolation - it simulates reality but is not. It is not really here, + this is what gave rise to Parmenides suspicions about the phenomenal world - + mine, too, as witness my writing. If there is nothing spurious about Form II (yin) + the phenomenal world I have said nothing in my years of probing the theory, "What is real + what is merely seeming?" This is no small matter - for me as an artist + for all life, which is enslaved into illness, age, injury + death + loss by the yin world. The yin world cannot sustain its own creatures. How can something that doesn't exist exact coercive power over us? For one thing, we obey it by giving it our assent (i.e. we agree that it is real), + having done so we then obey its orders, we hold a selfdefeating + improper relation to it; we allow it to be the Master. Primarily, we can't sort out the yang (set) part. We are blinded. Yang allows this, since it makes us to discern the puzzle + make a choice - without clear guidelines. Yang is making use of yin for his purposes. A puzzle is presented to us. We know that absolute good (deity) exists, + yet we see a world of undeserved suffering. How can these two coexist? I say, there are two worlds + each has its own laws: one blind + rigid; the other loving + sentient since we cannot perceptually unscramble them or see both coexistent, but in fact it is 2 pictures superimposed (laminated). Also it (they) is causing dialectic strife: "Blow + counter blow, faster + faster as time runs out." What happened for me in '74 was that the yang world exerted enormous influence on me + on the yin world as it pertained to me in order to break the hold of the yin world over me. That is the programming I found myself lifted up + out of. So normally we are prisoners of the yin world, unless extricated (which is what is meant by salvation). Two antithetical domains fight for possession of us; the yin possession is a given until broken; it makes an early claim. But, secretly, God lays down teachings, in our infancy which, payoff later in life. We are moved toward a point at which we disobey or refute the yin world (which I used to call "The Artifact"). The Artifact is real, but it is not the creator of the world; it is the yin (part of the) world. The yin part of the Godhead must have initiated creation. But yin should receive, not initiate. Perhaps it did not know it was the yin part but imagined it was the yang part; it, too, "tested its powers." It must believe still that it is masc. + yang. However, the true yang is forcing it to receive the true yang's [forms] incisings! Persuading it to take on its rightful + necessary role. This is sort of the "spirit vs match" we hear so much about. So we exist in two worlds laminated together, which are "exploded" outward along linear time as sequence of events plural, but are in fact a single event: the BIP. Confronted by phagocyte - like "dismantlers" which aid it to not exist; they (yang members) are abolishing it + consigning it to its true realm of the shadowy unreal. Enslavement to the yin world (BIP) is what is meant by "being in a state of sin" - a form of slavery. The power of the BIP not only compels but directs its slaves toward evil activity - extensions of its own nature. To be enslaved by it is to extend it. The line of least resistance is to serve it in any one of its manifestations. ---------- In reading Slader's Parody of me, I get the impression that to me the universe is not to be taken seriously.➀ But that somehow a handle exists by which to unravel it + make it yield up what it really is - if anything it may not be anything at all, but I'm trying for handle after handle, poking around, trying everything reversed + backward, like it's a toy. Layer after layer reveals paradox after paradox, which in themselves I find fascinating. Also, I do seem attracted to trash, as if the clue - the clue - lies there. I'm always ferreting out eliptical points, odd angles. What I write doesn't make a whole lot of sense. There is fun + religion + psychotic horror strewn about like a bunch of hats. Also, there is a social or sociological up drift - rather than toward the hard sciences. The overall impression is childish but interesting. This is not a sophisticated person writing. Everything is equally real, like junk jewels in the alley. A fertile, creative mind seeing constantly striving set, the serioius made funny, the funny sad, the horrific exactly that: utterly horrific as if it is the touchstone of what is real: horror is real because it can injure. It all is a brave whistling in the dark tunnel - like Stephanie: funny when frightened; scare her + she will tell you a joke - the situation oddly viewed. No wonder I love her so - she experienced the affinity between - not sorrow + humor - but fear + humor. ➀ Probably because I am afraid of it, but nevertheless curious about it - fascinated by it, dangerous as I see it to be. I certainly see the randomness in my work, + I also see how this fast shuffle of possibility after possibility might eventually given enough time, juxtipose + disclose something important automatically overlooked in more orderly thinking. [Pataphysique] no wonder my stuff is popular in france - the surre absurd. Also, it is palpably autobiographical - the business firm, + the fatherly owner or world leader since nothing, absolutely nothing, is excluded (as worth being included) I proffer a vast mixed bas of it I shake coin-operated doors + God. It's a fuck circus. I'm like a sharp eyed crow, spying anything twinkles + grabbing it up to add to my heap. anyone with my attitude might just stumble sheer chance + luck - in his actual life, which is to the life of his mind - the authentic camoufl God. The deus absconditus, by trying odd combin of things + places, like a high speed (sic) computer sing everything, he might out dazzle even a wa might catch him by surprise by poking somewhere pectedly. If it is true that the real answers (+ an absolute us the merely seeming) are where we would - expect them, this "try it all" technique might one day succeed by believing what it would never to anyone else to believe, really believe - might o face value as true the most worn out, most worked long ago discarded obvious "staring us in the face time" as the crux of the mystery. To be able to mystery in the obvious - the best - camouflaged ultr t estrial life form might one day guess wrong + be briefly out of its concealment (which had always before). For one thing, a totally naive person like would believe anything might believe in what is or there but conceptually automatically rejected by m perienced people. The child has faith in what the a knows can't be + so could never see, obvious thou be; i.e. before everyone's eyes: hidden in plain sight This kind of fascinated, credulous, inventive per might be granted the greatest gift of all. To see toymaker who has generated - + is with or within his toys. That the Godhead is a toymaker at al who could seriously (sic) believe this? e t ho The key here is pattern + pattern recognition. Such a person is able to pattern (gestalt) + repattern rapidly, evidently experiencing a mercurial world. Out of [the] very many patterns he might possibly one time hit on correctly perceived + interpretes authentic traces of an object + processes. Mimicking [..] by a rapid flux of linking + relinking percept data bits. His gestalting could keep pace with the high velocity (shape changing UTI. + this description of it sounds like a joker God: Dionysos, as the humble ugly servant God, Hiefestis, the twisted gnarled old grape vine root. He would literally see it, + its secret life. Too dumb to know you don't look for God in the trash of the gutter (instead of Heaven). ---------- The proof that I've got it right on this yin - vs - yang world is the one about "once you are baptized the astrologers are wrong" - i.e that fact is Sarapis or Hermes Tristogistos or Christ frees you from "Astrology determinism" or fate - obviously the immutable cause - + - effect world of yin. Then diminishing + even abolishing the (power of the) yin world is the main route for salvation; I am aiding in this by denying its authenticity. It is possible, too, that, as in "Ubik," the yin world can't review itself - it takes the yang (Ubik) for that. Thus again it can be said that the yin world is lifeless. With ground (Form II) analyzed as yin world it was evident that, from an a priori reasoning, there would have to be an interventive yang doing the exact kind of recontouring or "melting" which I saw. So there is no doubt that stigmatizing ground as yin world has to be accurate. + the presence of Zebra would follow of necessity; the yin world would run down like a clock eventually because nothing new could come into it or arise from it. So the interventive presence of Zebra is not electric (there can be no yin without yang, for they are complimentary antitheses. Therefore I claim that at last I can characterize the interventive