column" covert "church" (+ then own presence + power. would drop our GABa fluid + disinhibit these unsus‐ pected circuits in our heads, whereupon we would then remember (back to our origins) + hence recognize "them" as our legitimate rulers returned. This disinhibition. then return, + the deposing of the illegitimate temporal power, has begun. This is what it's all as‐ so t explains what happened to me (+ to history) in 3-74. Thus they do not so much plant things in our minds as release stuff already there - there + slumbering, waiting for them to come + signal this stuff - of recognition of our true masters - to fire. This is in accord with my analysis (formulation) of us as DNA recording + storage coils, + whose time to kick over into playback has come. But now I see more clearly what this playback is for: so we will not misconstrue "them" as invaders. It is terribly important that we recognize (sic) them, + for what they are with their (or its) gradual, peaceful resumpting of power -rulership over us - the primordial rebel dion + fall of man is reversed + the rightful order -between man + "God- is restored. Thus the apocalyptic books are correct; also, we will see in this ruler - correctly - the Cosmic Christ as Panto‐ grator very likely each religious group (+ persons) will see their own God or Savior - just as I saw the sign of the ancient Xtians, + saw VALIS as the Logos to India it will be Shiva - to each his own God returned. This is an important realization: it/they will manifest themselves differentl to different people, accordin to their expectations. But all humans will recognize then/it as the legitimate ruler(s). It is more than just memory circuits opening by which We would remember + recognize them; we would also perform an intricate sener of actioni regarding them, the purpose of which we would not know. The fact that we could be programng med to perform a complex seres of nonvolitional acts upen their return has enorarous implications. 88 Ferheps the biggest change in my thinking (view) is that The information (knowledge, Gnosis) + instructions are already within the person - not telepathically transferred but rather externally merely stimulated (disinhibited). One could then infer that much else which seemed external in origin at the time was really intrinsic o immediately one thinks of the entire other personality (Thomas"). Then one could go on to presume that the whole superhuman "ETI" personality was intrinsic But if the ETI" is intrinsic, + the "ETI" (Thomas) is isomorphic with Zebra, mentally at least, then but even if it was in me it was not me, because it talked to me, + in koine. Of course in "Scanner" it is posited as an appositional right brain personality. Either idea - a theoleptic intrusion or a second intrinsic personality possessing great wisdom + thousands of years of memory - each is extraordinary Now, I am tying the firing of these circuits (which suggests an intrinsic other personality) with the return on them, that these circuits were synchronized to fire upon their return, + not before or after. + the fired off persona lity would be capable of apprehending "them" (i.e. see Valis. So we have their return (which is a complete surprise) + a synchronized firing into life of a secondi older, wiser, superior self capable of seeing them - or it - + holding a two way conversation -dialog-with it/them, thereby acting in concert with it/them. This second self goes so far back that, evidently. It existed when it/they were originally here. This superself, upon their leaving (which I equale with The crucifixion, the resurrection + departure of Christ back to his home) "shut down" into a dormant or crypte morphosis, slumbered through almost 2000 years of linear time 51 + u.e- prepared (inhibited) for however long it might take was before it/they/he/she returned; upon their return it. deliberately roused (by the Golden Fish sign), + for it as with Sodium Pentathol sleep, it was as if no time had passed since its own time-period: the apostolic age - hence its fear of the Romans, secrecy about Xtianity + its use of the koine. It is fascinating to me that it had to be triggered back into consciousness by a totally external-to-me symbol + words. Thus it could not accidentally be reborn too soon or too late. We are talking about a totally coordinated sequence of events which (as I always maintain) deliberately acted radically to deflect the course of human history for the better Then I am not so sure that there was a theolepsy. There may just have been an isomorphism between VALIS + Thomas "A Mountain + bells." Mt Carmel + Easter Bells - the first seen, the 2nd heard. Yes sir. "Alto" means "high," all right; I finally looked it up (as in altitude) problem Maybe the intrinsic reawakening vs theolepsy can be solved by recourse to a higher principle which points to both: a meeting of 2 isomorphic entities, who. Because of their isomorphism, are capable -a of a mutual blending, an assimilation of each by the other "meeting from within," not outside as we are accustomed to I refer to the corpus Christi with the idea of a head (psyche) + members (soma). Psyche to soma - yes, I was a limb for it a kind of manual extensor (v UK. speech). I think what I've done is re-arrived at much of my early formulation by a secondary, round-about route which is fine. 60 We are talking about an intrinsic long-dormant personality capable of functioning on a level high enough to allow it to see, hear + understand the supernormal universe of the divine - none of which can be perceived by the normal self. More + more I see myself as an unknowing Fifth columnist; interestingly, if this is so much of my writing not only points to it but outright reveals (discloses) it. If there are such 5th columnists, i.e. people unaware of slumbering superpersonality within them, "timed" to go off when. They" return, + if the "prince of this world" knows all this, then my writing (without me suspecting) would give me away. First, my writing presents an unvarying cosmological schema in accord with the suppressed (Gnistic) doctrines but then, when we get to "Tears" (+ perhaps earlier, e.g. "Faith of," "Ubik," "Maze," "Frolix") encoded messages which are not merely informative but command begin to appear. The writing, going all the way back to '53, has identified himself to friend + foe alike. Having asserted This (although unknowingly) he then has an overwelmingly powerful dream which must, he feels, be inserted in his novel with the exact, proper wording. Eleven drafts of that section are necessary before he is satisfied. But the authorities have already perceived that at any time what is mere truth - true revealed informatin t can pass over into encoded command. They thin i This is all being done deliberalely + consciously. Friends (marxists) think the same thing. Just like we think bowee knows something these people think I know something this is a reasonable assumption. Thus the house gets hit + the papers read + stolen, but they show nothing 61 There is no conspiracy, no group. Just as KW. + I posit a priori that a "secret true church which consciously knows in concert + Acts politically in concert" must exist. the authorities, having correctly identified me as ➀ a possessor of the Gnosis; + ➁ a retailer in my work, over + over again of that truth; it follows logically that in me they have an instance, a member, of that group. If evidence is to be found, my house + the papers therein, are a highly suspect source. What I am saying is that what I found out in 3-74 may have not only been known to the Federal authorities previously, but that since they were [to be] the target of this "true secret church"'s attack, then evidence of this in the name of national security may have been the real thing they were after in their nation wide "Black Bag" intelligence operations, I am just fitting Part A (the Goversuments illegal domestic intelligence operations) with the Part B that I know about which (unlike Part A) few people know about: namely, that a secret, powerful, underground "group" possibly linked to "ETIs" + certainly in possession of superior "technology" or "paranormal abilities + knowledge" conspired to overthrow the [Nixon] government + end the Viet Nam war, + successfully in '74, did so - invisibly even unto this day. Whether This groop is regarded as religious or political or occult or "alien" the results are the same - + very real. This group won. The logic K.W. + I (+ the authors of "morning of the magicians employed) is probaby ( correct, + ➁ 6 probaply the reasoning the authorities employed. I must have been a curious example, an enigma. My writing clearly showed that "I knew," + yet para doxically I did in fact not [consciously] know. Hal was sure "I'd remember" (sic!) under sodium penta‐ Thol. He was partly right; it took that plus the specific disinhibiting signal to accomplish retrievad + awareness. What he was leaving out was the fact that memory + awareness were absolutely blocked, not relatively blocked; only the right key could release them, + that key would never occur accidentally. This indicates, once more, that the girl with the Golden Fish sign did not just happen to show up at that moment. "Tears" had just come out. The command instructions were available. Retribution toward me was inexorably therefore on the way. Also, I had other job. to do, or rather Thomas had. It was necessary for him to surface, which included a link-up with "them, who, I am more + more inclined to think, are of an ETI nature + very literally real. As the Metz newspaper article pointed out, you see God when you're dead, + I saw VALIS while I was alive. Ergo, VALIS is not God but a superior life form. something alive + sentient is here, not just manipulating our reality but our history, + I saw it, + it informed me of what it intended to do - + which it thereupon did. That poor, shambling, pathetic figure roaming around san clamente probably still isn't sure what hit him. Now, this with he yo do ees and I 2 The "we are not alone" ufology, + you've got the "greatest story ever told," which is how scripture is described. Can it be that I know (+ have said in, e.g. my Metz speech + interview) that I not only encountered "them." but that they were secretly, in conjunction with an underground human group of vast antiquity, overthrowing governments? It is sake for me to know this now, because the very authorities who would nail me for knowing this - + participating in it joyfully - are precisely what got overthrown, + now hold no power (at least here). It's interesting, in the Metz speech etc., what I don't say. no mention of "Tanya Lee" + the Golden Fish sign - just mention of the pentathol. be they God, or Gods, or ETI, from another planet, parallel universe, the future, the past, etc - their ability to modulate (read manipulate or control or change) reality externally, + to direct us - these are awe-inspiring, even frightening. But one is aware that one is far safer with them + because of them than without them. They are not only benign + wise but also terribly protective. I think of John + what Jesus said about the 2nd Advocate comforter. Yet, one senses one's relative smallness + helplessness; one can't help comparing what he can do with what VALIS can do, what he