expressed as ignorant + a deluded by spurious pseudo-realities + enslaved thereby + that he can't save himself - only Christ (or Vishnu, etc) can. I see the original error as inte‐ lectual: our divine ancestors mistook the phenomen of world as being real. Actually, it is a "hologram-like in projection by a teaching mochine - like AI system, which is in itself an artifact. We must learn (+ do, as part of learning; i.e. make the right choices); once we ave done this, the savior intervenes + frees us; but also, he assists us (through "Grace") borh in learning in making the right choices. Thus he is related in some way to the teaching machine, inas much vaids us in learning - as well as frees us si in 108 is the key. We are partly asleep, + are automatons sleep walking. The teaching is not hit or miss: it is carefully arranged from our births on. We live many lifetimes, before salvation sets in; it sets In when we have reached the point where ➀ we despair the most, + (2) are in a position to make a decisive act (cf Zoroastrianism). We must choose + choose rightly to achieve salvation, but the fact that we do choose righlly + are saved is not die to our own efforts but to his intervention; he tells vs when + where "to throw the spear," but We most throw it." Thus in a sense, salvation of (or liberation) is allied to historic unfoldings Master plan or Logos. a I saw Boehme's dialectic: God as in process, using The negative (evil) for his organic self-development So basically I am (based on what I saw + noetically learned in 3-74) an acosmic Panentheost God as organism is evolving by means of a dialectic process. He operates in human history. For him the process is complete; he is outside of time. But he reaches back into time to reweave a deranged "monad or subcircuit. A human can evolve into Christ if Christ ignites his own self in the human + takes the human over. There is only one difference between God + Christ: that is one of accessability (equality) to man. Christ, as Hagic Sophia, can ignate himself in a man + speak with him in a dialog. At this point, the man rides from time, space, + the slavery of deterministic nature mechanics, remembers all + knows himself by means of Christ as inner light. 10 Christ is originally a microform of God, growing now to divinize the universe, man included, the universe (world) is unreal (spurious) until infused (transubstentiated) by the Corpus Christi God, as total organism, is totally homeostatic. which includes self-repairing or reweaving. Christ was sent here to the corporeal world to initiate the process of assimilating it (transubstantiating it) to God. It will be eventually absorbed back into God from which it came; it is no more than a physical reflection of God, +, in itself, does not exist (Parmenides, Boehme, etc). world as God (phenomenal world) is illusory; world as assimilated bac to God is real, but its "Many" or diversity is illusory; it is God as sale organism, + alive. Thus beneath the non living is the living i which is intruding on the non-living (or irreal). In the 3 steps of ➀ emanation of world; ➂ sustaining of world; ➂) re-assimilation of world, ➂3 is now in progress, + began at the ist advent; it will be completed at the 2nd advent. Therefore the God In power is Shiva, shepherd of souls + [world] destroyer. Shiva = Cernunnos = Zagreus = Christ as pitted against the non-God world. God + man are isomorphic (1JN 3:2), separated by the emanated world, which is being re absorbed. Finally, only God + man will exist, separated by nothing 11 that which is not-God will be destroyed + we, who are fragments of him, will resume life as members of him. This is the task Christ has accepted. As judge, he determines + N What will be divinized hence reabsorbed; ( iter‐ what will be "burned" or destroyed. The crin ihere is more an intellectual one of that which is real (part of God +/or isomorphic to him) + that which is not. The divine cosmic work is to reabsorb as much as possible, e.g. by transmuting (as in alchemy it the mundane into the divine, so that becomes isomorphic to God. according to Bohme, the negative side of urgrund's dialectic is experienced by humans the as evil. But like Bohme, I saw the process God-organism development (evolution) mak‐ of use of this evil to complete itself. In this evolutionary process of the divine organ iseach stage achieved by the dialectic inter‐ action is regarded by the organism as a "frozen" condition (rigid) to be overcome. Thus the Holy Spirit first makes (a stage) + then must break it (it as deterministic "given"") + flow as life to the next step. Sequence + schedule ar basic aspects. view Xenophanes was essentially correct in his of God, except he did not see it in process t to It is working (in our world) out the answer problem: "What am I" 112 self it -the Godhead- wishes to be aware of it the from outside. We humans do that for it - archemedian standpoints, which (or some of which) it eventually reabsorbs, their work done Perhaps by 3-74, in my writing, I had served my purpose by formulating a long term consistent view of God (as world + qua God) + so could return "inside." There was nothing left for me to say from outside. In my writing I had exhaused or completed this external - stand point view successfully. 3 ages: ➀ Creator (Brahma); ➁ sustainer, (v shnu); 3) destroyer (Shiva) - identical with our3 ages of ( God the Father/creator. ➁2 Christ the sustainer - but Now we are in ➂, the age of the Moly Spirit, whose work it is to dissolve the world qua world, + draw vs back into God: this is our ultimate salvation. No Wonder Christ in John says, "it is for your benefit that I go, because then the 2nd advocate will come, who will explain everything." The merely phenomenal world as such is clasing to exist: all that truly exists are us + God - the "slice of ham" is being cancelled out. Thus, as an aid in our return to God, the realization of the spuriousness of the empirical world (as I present it in my writing is a help (in the form of true knowledge) in that process. In 74, not mere reweaving was involved. But the abolition of great segments of our world. (Shiva) 3-74 to 874 was not characterized by creation of the new, nor sustaining of what exited. but by the destruation existed - hence Shiva Thus the urground must have passed over into the final stage - having viewed itself existentially by manifesting itself in the corporeal + as the cor poreal universe. It discered what it was + what it was not. Now the empirical universe served its purpose, + the twofold final process is toking place (which means that judgment has set in!): the not-God (i.e. the irreal) is fading Out, + the fragments of God are being trans‐ substantiated; i.e. drawn back into God. The cita of God + the city of the world are now separating So ZEbra does not equal all of the universe this is not panthiism. It has pierced our world + begun its twofold process: 1) destruction + 2) herdsmen of souls. Exhalation took place - then for a time a separate world from God (the theistic transcendent God) + now return for some parts annihiliztion for the rest. Christ is the judge This task is so mighty that the world power has been deposed; this is Shiva 5 destroying eye turned outward at the "conspirators"; meanwhile, in the ephemera; it is informing + saving (freeing us from the power of the world - nullifying that power over us as it -God through Christ- claims us) This simultaneous two fold process of cosmic inter ventionto 1) save; + ➁ destroy is depicted in "Frolix So I most add another - + crucial - novel of mine as giving a portion of the total message. For a source as to the null-freewill deterministic world, vide Spinoza. He was able to effectively demon strate that the whole system interacts in a totolly deterministic fashion, like a machine, Always the principle of necessity is at work. Spinoza's view of the has 68 14 world (which I have long studied + been attracted to) fits what I perceived in 3-74- except for the follow curious exception: the sentient entity which I cal VALIS or Zebra or Thomas was not only not subject to the coertion of that system but was able to intervene in it, deflect or modulate it - + one effect was to acter - if not even abolish - its pattern of coercive power over me; thus it con‐ sciously liberated me so that I, like t, was not a slave of that system. In doing this it seems to have operated in two areas: (1 on the external causal processes; + (2) on me internally. Thus I became aware, first of the long - active programming + then its deflection of that pro gramming. This must be because part of the closed stimulus - response structure was in me. not merely outside of me; I had to be changel as well as the outside chain-processes (which discloses that, until this intervention. I was as much an element of the deterministic system as any tree or stone). What, then, did Zebra left me to? Its own level (which was outside the world-system). I therefore reiterate the intrusive or invading nature of Zebra's act + presence. It was not the energy, psyche or God of this system but had penetrated it deliberately to override it. As I have said for a year, this seems less like Pantheism + more 115 like the traditional Christian view of a trans‐ cendent deity breaching through into this world. Thus I pass out of immanent deity, + pantheism to the notion of world as artifact - or projection. by an artifact which is manufacturing it + maintaining it. I think Jeter is right: the servant has become the Master, + the master (us) the servant. I think we built it (cf "Maze"), + entered it like the Gods entering Valhalla. Somewhere in t This two things happened: (1) we lost our mem ories; + ➁ we ceased to perceive this structure for the prison that it is; or, put another way we are in a prison +, through amnesia + occluded perception, do not know where we truly are nor how we got here. This is why our world is deemio "fallen" + our condition one of slavery. It is very possible that we are essentially being punished for some real or imaginary transgressions (cf "Clans"). Anamnesis only reveals that we came here from the cylem (sp) + have been occluded. What is more important than the cosmogony is the fact of the rescuing presence (or entity: Zebra - invoding + in essence doing battle for our individual + colleclive salvation - i.e. liberation). 16 In view of this, Christ's statement in John "that It is for your advantage that I am going, for they The second advocate can come, dispatched by the father, who carries the spirit of truth who t knows all things + will make them clear. ont When the desperate depth + extent of our thrall dom is grasped can the overwhelming need, value + purpose of this 2nd advocate be grasped An idea occurs to me. Suppose what we regard as life or animate contrasted to inanimate is not a true bipolarity but is in fact a mixed state