better time track" or "alternate future" via critical intervention was involved; a sense of this permeated my 3-74 ex perience. + in my fictional schema of Zebra for Valis he (it) has in mimicry form inserted itself into the world of nature, of blind cause-+-effect - i.e. into James James world. I must never forget such dreares a the James-James" dream - it absolutely pointed towar intervention. + the "St. Sophia" prophecy sounds to mee to be interventive a re-melding of what was not (as expressed by the highly significant words, "she was not acceptable before: 3 6 nnot acceptable before" I take to mean that the fusing of the human + divine which Hegel so correct, saw as crucial did not survive all those good things . which Hegel the pantheist saw in the first in carnation actually apply to the 2nd, about which they werent thinking back at his time. No doubt the (St accomplished some of the things he saw, or all to some degree, but the fulfillment (absolute Spirit informing all nature, history, world + man) - that must fall to the second. Yet what I saw in 3-74 would seem to reveal the assimilated melded world of the 2nd. We must be very close to it, as I keep thinking. Anyhow: 1) either this world never fell + God is immanent Pantheism is true, not monotheism, + evil is a delusion, ori 2) This world fell + became separate from God + evil but now he is immanent in it monism is true, + he is victor as/through Christ over evil as it manifests itself in the historic process Either view should cause us to rejoice; in both + + 2 God is with us, + evil has been crucially defeated but as I say, I'm convinced that 2) is correct. yet, in Plato's sense, God could, after having successfully intervened, withdrawn once more I guess he could theoretically intervent up (chthonically from below, but I prefer the "ubrem sternanzelt" better, + it agrees with my anamnesis memories. 68 There is a striking (+ probably highly significant) paralled between my personal (sic) memories of come t down here (+ helping in the fight for freedom) t God's coming down here + leading the fight (+ successfully) for freedom: micro + macro, perhaps spark to source + if I can drop the Hegelian pantheism in favor I transsubstantiated intervention (inc. kimicry) I dent have to get paranoid about the marxists. determinist forces are strong + incontravertably wing, a o but of God there's to dearth Though ife he visits this Earth best I but not for sufficiently long. determinist forces are wrong or. + irrestibly strong while of God there's a dearth determinist forces are strong. though he visits the Earth + irrestibly wrong, but not for sufficiently long + of God there's a dearth though he visits the Earth or: but not for sufficiently long. Zeterminist forces are wrong or irrestably strang determinist forces are strong but of God there's no dearth + irrestibly wrong For he visits the Earth though just for sufficiently long 6 - Arguments for the (immanent) pantheistic view (1): 1) I remembered my own divinity - God in me, which shows how not-God occurs: by the (Platonistic, essene Hinder, Pythagorean] process (or event) of forgetting. It is all God (nature, the world) + thus we humans as part of the world are, but we fall asleep" or into "unconsciou ness" 2) in 3-74 I saw God in (immanent) the world, + it is reasonable to induce from what examples (in stances) I saw in that place at that time to a universal generalization 3) The absolute spirit (Zebra, God) was doing, in history, exactly what Hegel described: overturning tyranny + promoting freedom 4) Mathematically speaking; it absolute spirit is always present in history. The odds are greated that I'd see it - but if only a one-shit intervention, how come I happered to be alive at this unique moment Arguments against (immanent) pantheism (2): 1) Material revealed to me in 3-74 + the dream put into tears portray a breacking-into, an interruption of historical processes 2) Pantheism would either mean God is capable of evil, or is not usually in the habit of abolishing it, or, evil is an illusion 3) in a non-revealed palpable fashion, known evil historic events appeared aborted, + the future (via the present) drastically altered. yi see 70 et me reason thus: the reason I could see Zebra ital was because the ancient gene pool personality Thomas' with his ancient memories, inc. knowledge of the first Advent had been restored, replacing me. There fore. I reason. The purpose of anamnesis, of restoring "Thomas" was so that I could see; this was the how t the mechanics, of [the) revelation But as to the Q on P 69 - if I, who was overwhelmed. by "Thomas") was a micro version of how historic processes were overwhelined, it ten was No, intervention not pantheism e In any case its an unfallen world no i A combination of ➀ + ➁ p 69 could be: absolute spirit. on) normally active in history to some extent, but right now ('74 we're in unique times, since the 2nd incarnation is near, thus the Spirit is decisively more active + hence discernible But if it is as Hegel described, doesn't it seem strang that God would allow the entire Christian religion of one billion believers to cold a wrong (us. Theistic monotheist) vice for 2 thousaid years? This is a deus Absconditus indeed, esc since he could reveal himself to any + all men duerly there 2000 years any time. So of Hegel (i.e. pantheism) is right, boy doe, Zebra want to stay hidden, + allow the "fallen world" wise (i.e. of his absencel to go on uncorrected. This just doesn't sedon likely, I nean, over a 2000 year perial, wouldn't someborly besides he have noticed Zebra? Mathematically speaking, then, it is more likely that Zebra jet now got here Maybe the solution to this is to return to pere Teilhard formulation of the growth of the Cosmic Christ, + regard Zebra as strictly speaking, Christ. I quote: certai "As early as in St. Paul + St. John we read that to create it to fulfil + to purify the world is, for God, to unify by uniting it organically with himself. Note] How does he unify it? By partially immersing himself in things by becoming "element." + then, from this point of (3 vantage in the heart of matter; assuming the control + leadership of what we now call evolution [Note} Christ. principle of universal vitality because sprung up as man among men, put himself in the position (main tained ever since) to subdue under himself, to purity. to direct + super animate the general ascent of con sciousness into which he inserted himself. Not by a per ennial act of communion + sublimation, he aggregates to himself the total psychism of the earth. .. then, as St Paul tells us, God shall be all in all. This is indeed a superior form of pantheism, the expec tation of perfect unity, steeped in which each element. will reach its consummation at the same time as the universe. PKD âž€ I call this assimilating the world to himself, which implies a prior separation, i.e. a transcendent, not immanent, God. (2) He as process is superimposing himself onto, into, the world, this is not pantheism as Spinoza conceived it, except as the end of this super impositionary process, or anyhow far into it. It also agrees with my impression of Zebra inserting his cosmic body so to speak between us + the deterministic world, modulating its events + processes for the good. God (or Christ) informs the world by entering - âž€ "In the heart of matter" - exactly what I saw + call "transsub stantiation" (2) The "arranging" which I saw, of the antecedent universe âž€ Exactly my contention: the cosmic plasmatic Christ-Capus is sto i here. We are talking about God qua Christ (âž€ to turn what is lifeless into conscious, living, interacting as a Gestalt new reality i Cf Hegel "inserted himself" is exactly how I'd phrase I is exactly what I saw Zebra doing 6 92 ) Christ as head of the vast supra consciousness of which we are all cells or parts. âž€ "At the same time." This expresses my feeling of perhaps having arrived at my 3-74 ultra-personal conscious ness in synchronization with, but not caused by, historical processes pere Teilhard in this is talking about point omega. His description - an abstract theoretical one, seems to bear a point-by-point congruency with what I empirically glimpsed in 3-74. Finally, I say, for me to have thus glimpsed it, not only would it have had macrocosmically to reach point omega, but I would have had to simultaneously reach that point as well. If it hadn't, I would have been the ob server, but there would have been nothing to observe; if it had reached it, but not me in my micro-evolution, the observed would have existed but not the observer. However, pere Teilhard's system (theory) makes it clear that this simultaneous, synchronized evolution to "con Summation" will by its nature happen in just this way: as he says, "Each element will reach its consummation at the same time as the universe. So his schema proposes this simul taneous arrival of the macro- + micro noospheric identity Thus I felt "Thomas" (God as Holy Spirit) within me + saw "Zebra" (God as cosmic Christ) outside me. Where God as creator was is, I think, God as final (teleological) cause - at the end, not beginning, but, as Paul says, at that final state "when God is all in all." At that point what I see as immanent God (pantheism) is (as I say supra) originally transcendent God, sundered off from this world ("on Earthas it is (now) in heaven" - it is not immanent God as such but transcendent God having achieved sufficient assimilation of the world to (as Teilhard says) "assuming control + leadership" "from this point of vantage" i.e. by "partially immersing him t self in thing." I see Zebra as descending, superimposing, inserting, not so much rising up from a sort of chthonic within (although Zebra has, by what I call 3 transsubstantiation gotten with in objects + processes by a sort of plasmatic infiltration + the reason that what I glimpsed has not been glimpsed over the past 2000 years is two fold He has only recently "inserted" or "immersed 1) himself this much down into our world (historic process) + 2) Human individual consciousnesses are just now being analogously raised to an equal point (in the synchronization I referred to; after all, we individuals are parts of this world he is, as Christ, inserting himself into: we are all one continuum. I for instance was/am an actual object or part of that historical process! Of a certainly, I even saw it enter + transform my animals So here is a different sort of "Pantheism": transcent dent God is assimilating the world to himself, abolishing the sundered condition of the divine realm vs the falle "sublunar" realm; the further this process progresses, the more immanent he will also (not instead of transcended be - + the more it will seem like Pantheism. What I saw in 3-74 indicates it has progressed pretty fore; + the consummation or culmination will be "St Sophia being born again." + the Kingdom (which is another is ward for "heaven") will there be here (as well as where it is now: after death supralunar) in answer to my Q: this, then, would be intervention insertion + assimilation) - God coming here. Not God (s being (already always] here, the beginning of this assimilation can even be dated. As Hegel I s te says, it began with the first incarnation