4) the stoic "Logos spermatikos" doctrine + the Logos doctrine in general (ie strongly Hellenistic) 5) if this brain is supposed to be pitted against blind determinism, P. 74 is in accord with most mystery religions of the Greco-Roman world. 6) If (5) then Gnosticism (acosmic - v. 9) 7) Neo-Platonism. 8) Christian mysticism (eg Eckhart, Boehme, + even Bruno) 9) if world as delusion, acosmic Panentheism. (v. 6) But: 1) No one has ever seen God, so, since I saw it (ie Zebra) it can't be God. 2) Christ has no body now, so it can't be Christ, + anyhow it had no body as such. 3) the Paraclete has no body + is only in you. This entity is inside us + outside us. So it's not the Paraclete. Therefore it is not God, Christ or the Paraclete. It is what I say on P. 74. There are only two other possibilities 1) It is the cosmic Christ whose mystical body I was taken into + who secretly rules the universe. 2) It is something new, since no accounts such as mine exist historically. A variation of (1) is: 1A) there is a certain amount of secret (esoteric) doctrine about Christ involved, pointing to a true, hidden Xtian church possessing supernatural faculties, powers + knowledge. Christ is the psychē or head of this. Conclusion: For a very large number of reasons (facts) I am sure it is 1A), + the real secret early Xtians never talk about it; viz: the voice told me not to tell anyone that I'm an "early Xtian." So I am one of them, allowed in. This brain/psyche, then, is the Pantocrator, + by my own analysis, I am part (a micro bit) of Him, or more accurately I am governed by a micro bit of Him inside of me coordinated with the macro psyche outside, this is what surfaced in me in 3-74, much to my surprise, this micro bit which then caused me to see the macro-activity outside. But Zebra (both externally in the world in macro form + in us in plural micro forms) is an invader. It is not the natural world; it imposes modulations into the natural world, ① + the same with us. This eliminates imminent deity, Brahman, etc. Zebra is not born with us naturally; it enters later. (Or so I believe.) However, it could still be the mystical Corpus Christi, beginning in history at the time of Acts. ① Aborting natural sequences (which eliminates Spinoza's monism). That's the whole point of what it's doing: breaking the lower realm powers. It (Zebra) has "plenary" overrule. Discretionary power -authority- belongs to it. I cite the 3-74 override vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. Here is a perfect example of the dialectic interaction, + Zebra always wins. It is sentience (wisdom) personified. In older terms it is the will of heaven "done on Earth." It is not an irruption of the supralunar into the sublunar, because it is located [down] here for good. (Or is it? Maybe it irrupted in '74 + then went back up through the 1:.618034 door. I doubt this is correct. Even though I can't see it, I think it's still here.) I can see what it does, to what, + why. The only thing I can't do is connect it with historic concepts; ie identify it. Could it be Christ returned? In any case it seems to be Christ. (The Logos.) Christos Pantocrator. For instance, it not only rules but judges as well. "Ubik" depicts: 1) the spontaneous generation of information 2) Ubik, the helpful entity (mind or brain) behind it. 3) the rollback of time along the form-axis. Since I posit that "Ubik" depicts the functioning of the brain, a time roll-back must be involved. Exactly what to (Acts) is presented in "Tears." The Acts material is the sole verbal analog of the brain. If presented, it is a crucial assist in producing anamnesis. We must be "delayed action" micro systems rooted in Acts, which is to say, rooted in the brain. Brain = information = Acts. Acts is information about the brain; it is the brain converted to information. But the brain is information, living information. So Acts (if the smallest bit of plasma is present with/in it) can convert back into the brain in micro form. The bit of plasma can't be there if the Acts material isn't there; the Acts material is the context necessary for the plasma, "King-Felix" doesn't become -isn't- a bit of plasma except in the context. Reading "Tears" one subliminally receives Acts, +, finally, virtually at the end of the book, the plasma. The dream was the immediate context, a subliminal piece one level deeper even than the Biblical Acts material in that it is what Paul, as described in Acts, experienced at his conversion; so the dream is an inner level/layer of Acts not present in the Bible: it is missing, since Luke did not know about it. It is an essential, revealed piece of Acts + hence the brain. At once, in fact as part of it, the plasma follows ("King" is in the dream material). As micro parts of the brain we are living in Rome CAD 45 (ie Acts). Outside the brain not so. So for the plasma to be generated, the informational "brain print" had to be there, + this specifically required the dream material (eg the word "King"). This is why I felt compelled to do so many drafts: to get exactly the right words down. Then on the form-axis, what is immediately latent in our world is imperial Rome pitted against the early (apostolic) Xtians - which means pitted against the brain. The BIP is there (which I certainly saw) but so is the brain, inasmuch as the authentic (ie apostolic) Xtians were incorporated into the brain at Pentacost + probably more of them later. But then Rome absorbed the church, which thereby excluded [them from] the brain. Rome won, + the brain lost. The psychē returned to brainless Noös. But the Paraclete cannot be defeated. Here is a paradox: sometime during the first or second century AD the Paraclete was defeated + this cannot be; God cannot fail. So from the moment of the Paraclete's loss [of the brain] on, only seeming world + time were generated. Rome's victory started spurious world + time into motion. Now to the time roll back in "Ubik." Acts lies immediately tangent to us but only along the form-axis. You have to know about this axis to understand how the world of Acts can be immediately tangent to -latent within- our world, just as it is in "Tears." Strip the surface layer off the world of "Tears" + there is Acts. We in 1974 proceeded to Acts by way of "Tears," which represents a worsening of our world: the latent evil (BIP) in it made manifest. "Latent form is the master of obvious form," Heraclitus wrote: A { Obvious form: the Nixon tyranny of 1974 (1) ...{ Latent form: "Tears" \ .......................................(2) B { Obvious form: "Tears" / ...{ Latent form: Acts (3) so (1) is related -reaches- (3) by way of (2). "Tears," then, is the informational interface or nexus between our actual world of 1974 + Acts. The reader lives in (1) + reads (2), thus absorbing it; but this leads him inexorably to Acts, (3), + once he has -- "Tears" is a doorway, not a world in itself. As you read it you pass across to the world of Acts without knowing it - the author didn't know it. It is a latency-within-a-latency. Then, latent within (3) is: (4) { Serious .....{ King } ......Felix } (5) The reader, living in world (1), when he reads "Tears" (2) passes to (3) + then to (4) + at last to (5), at which point the living plasma has him. C { Obvious form: "Serious" ...{ Latent form: "King" D { Obvious form: "King" ...{ Latent form: "Felix" ("happy") the final innermost "onion ring" is D or (5). In other words, to restore Acts, "Tears" is necessary as an interface. "Tears" is therefore an instrument (probably just one of many) of restoring the brain, because Acts = Brain. "Tears," then, is a triggering agent for anamnesis, + anamnesis + the restoration of the brain are intertwined. I don't credit "Tears" with being the doorway, but rather a doorway -- By which the brain traveled forward in time along the form axis from CAD 45 Rome into USA 1974! It bypassed the intermediate 1900 years! It works both ways. I traveled back along the form axis to Acts, due to "Tears." But Thomas, an apostolic Xtian, part of the brain, traveled forward, viz: USA 1974 -- "Tears" -- Rome AD 45 Acts This can only be understood if the realization of the brain (Zebra) as living, plasmic information is utilized. The Bible could not serve this purpose because the book "Acts of the Apostles" in it leaves out crucial information, which in "Tears" appears as the dream. Only the brain (more precisely the Paraclete) can travel along the form axis (via information; ie retrieved via information). I am sure that the brain used other "doors" besides "Tears," but "Tears" was one, which was why I had the 2-74 anamnesis. But the Golden Fish Sign + the girl's words were also necessary. Still, "Tears" prepared me. So the 1:.618034 doorway did link our world + the Greco-Roman world! If the above exegesis is correct, one could expect my experience to end with a revelation of that door. Some of this may be fanciful, but, as in my early story "Exhibit Piece" there may well have been a direct contact between USA 1974 + Rome CAD 45, + somehow "Tears" played a role in this. The brain leaped directly across, + I was one of those taken over. The secret authentic Xtians of today are linked back to Acts, but "Tears" spread the basis for anamnesis to others, such as me. ___ My post mortem experiences (such as a sense of vast space, etc) is because in the Corpus Christi there are many, such as Thomas, who are dead; the mystical body of Christ contains both the living + the dead; it spans both realms. My sense of Thomas returning the last few days -sense of vast space, dreams of a woman singing- show I'm still in the mystical body. + the post mortem experience is further proof of what I'm sure of: by invading this lower realm + annexing it, Zebra is knitting the decomposing cosmos back together - + it is the cosmic Christ who does this. Ergo, Zebra is the Cosmic Christ. I grow more + more sure of it. (Ie the brain.) Also, it is the Cosmic Christ who breaks the [astral] deterministic power of the lower realm (over us). So the brain, in which we participate as members, is indeed the Corpus Christi, since specifically it breaks this deterministic blind lower level power. {Illustration: A circle divided in four parts marked "Present", "1974", "Past" and "45". An arrow "Alive" points to the "Present" part and an arrow "Next World" points to the "Past" part.} The mystical body of Christ spans the past + the present; this world + the next. Its intervention in US history in 1974 is a supreme example of its plenary power to overrule the forces of this lower realm. I may not have understood this before. Here is an enormous override. 2/2 MU7-7491 Ralph __ What if the "upper realm" is the post mortem realm? This would fit in with the popular concept of heaven. But the brain, by participating in both realms, spanning both, would bring to its living members post mortem experiences: they would pass across + yet at the same time still be here. They would be in 2 realms at once. This is exactly what I experienced. Also, for someone dead +