which is to say, a personality not programmed (in monad-like synch) but free to act, rather than react to stimuli. It is not a product of the forces of this world, is not at their mercy. It can be killed or hurt but it cannot be manipulated or coerced into obeying was the eteology of this my refusal c. 1969 to pay out money for the war? Interesting resemblance to the power of the later, "Thomas" personality to refuse to respond to the Xerox letter the first balking. I think I'm only something major here. The person must be capable of refusing response to the enormous powers of this reality to start the redemptive entity in motion; if you are willing to balk it will assist you, but if you will not see the situation for what it is + on your own initiative balk, there is nothing for it (the redemptive entity) to assist: you cannot get there by being told this or that is wrong; mere note, turning to another external authority, won't suffice. What the redemptive entity is searching for, hoping for, is for you to perceive on your own that X is wrong +, untold + unaided, to act correctly, whereupon comes to your aid. If you do this, the illusion (delusionar it castle" or world) vanishes + you are shown the true situation in clear black - white. Good- bad terms, the ambiguities gone. until you do this your fate is a bal one: prisoner of the forces you do not question - but rather obend, the It redemptive entity remains silent; you must make the initial choice. In a sense so choosing constitutes a sue generis moment - something near not merely the result of efficient causes; such an event is in itself a miracle, for where did it come from? How did it arise! The practical consequences are disasterous + lethal. Nothing practical b acheived. Why is it done? The person delivers himself over to total ruin, + for what? No one told him to. No one thanks him or admires him. His career, his life, his future are destroyed. It is impossible to trace his act back (as effect) to some cause. The understanding which informed him was a residual spark of a once - divine nature, long forgotten, but by what he has done he has identified himself to the celestial powers, which seems be what this place is all about (cf N.T. parables). If I am right that one must disclose one's divine origin (hence nature) by such an act, before the celestial powers can identify you out of the mixture, then it is possible to construct a rationale for God intervening in his own system (world). The initial sui generis act of balking (or whatever) signals the celestial power + it responds. This unfolding strip is indeed a closed system But there are, living within it, persons who came here from a higher realm, forgot, who, like straying sheep must be or can be found- identified. Upon such identifi lation they are made recipients of divine grace" which is to say, intervention into the closed system. The process of extrication itself has begun. It does not wait for the after-death reward - existence. All that is asked for (oneeded. is for the person to identify himself. This answers all manner of questions about predestings i, who will be saved, faith vs good works, etc., + also how such questions (issues) arose at all. There has been a general intuition that you had to do or be something to get saved something from you was required, but what? The JWs seem have come the closest, also the quakers, to oe 191 There has always been an awareness that a "sheep us goats" situation - of testing or differentiating - is involved. But what is required? That's the test itself right there - you aren't told; you must act in total ignorance of what you are supposed to do - this problem is the problem. If we knew in advance we could fake it we would know, so to speaks the answer in advance to pre-know the nature of the test would be to know how to the pass it. So the great assize is always taking place) books open. The entry is made, the books close. perhaps in a sense there is predestination. The divine sparks will eventually show themselves, it is completely empirical + existential - no essence doctrine. You cannot truly be divine if no divine act surfaces: "By their fruit you shall know them." Now the American people know the truth about the Nixon government + the war, just as, finally the German people knew the truth. But by then the test was over + action meant nothing - in/for this world +/or the next the decision had to be made in a certain kind of ignorance There had to be a sufficient clue + no more, no one to tell you what to do, no promise of reward, ever. The only knowledge was that evil was going on, + one had to chose whether one would comply - hence did - it, or refuse to comply - with no reason to believe this act would help anyone or improve the situation. The pure vanity (being in vain) nature of the act - that was essential; that restricted it to the level, not of result but of nature the nature of the person. This would be all that would be revealed. + to whom? No one, or so it seemed. One would disclose one's nature to the stars + be destroyed in doing so. well thus entered a spark from another realm into This realm, + so the other, sacred realm recognized its own + flew to its rescue. "I will be with you always, yes, even to the end." So he spoke + it is so, but no one believed him, + so they reasoned out expediency + spiritually they ceased to be. In which case (if my theory is correct) they never were. We are descendent of the titans who devoured Zagreus + so swallowed sparks of the divine; + so the divine lived on in us r âž€ if one withdraws assent from the the begins the journey to destroy it. What I did in 69 (re Ramparts protest) is a theme picked up again in '74 when I withdrew belief entirely + directed it toward another reality entirely, based on a single clue to its existence - but sufficient clue, enough for me to go on at the time. The clue, the inference, proved correct. I saw it, I under stood. It was an external bit (datum) of the divine. the outer divine bit spoke to the inner. But it did more than act as a clue to the real nature of reality; it awake buried memories (of divinity) to consciousness. very old memories, which went back to a time + place before this world. I had not always been here, + I had as not always been as I now was. +, with the memories they were restored, the lost faculties were restored it the significance of this is staggering. For one thing. proves the memories to have been authentic. Here, in This body, I returned to something like my original state! There was nothing delusional or false in the memories, nor in the world which, via these restored faculties. I could perceive. The best exposition of this that I know of is the Hare Krishna image of the two friendly birds sitting together on the same branch, one eating the fruit (of this world), the other not. The episode in which I began to become freed the programming, + at the same time becoming aware of it - I drew completely insane conclusions about the programming: i.e. always it was the CP. I had the words but not the tune; I was right that I was programmed but - how odd that in all cases initially I blamed the party. At that point parity = earthly manipulation + coertion. I think that symboteually I was right: communism as it has become is the closed system determinism of this world. It is at least representitive of the closed system that unrolls like the punched tape reality in "Maze" interestingly, it is the Intercessor (Christ) who takes seth morter out of that programmed world. o e of If this closed system punched out tape world i a cosmos, wouldn't orthogonal intervention fend to promote chaos? It - any orthogonal change intro duced - would tend to upset the system + create a different future; does this imply that the '74 inter‐ vention was unique, a one - shot deal never acheived before? That would definited identify it as the "stone uncut by human hands" hurled at the feet of clay the giant statue, of could it be, then, that what I experience cirin 3/20/74 was not directed at me personally, but was a sort of general historic "time quake," much lize the poly person wave that hits all the new men in "Frolix 8" - it was Christ's birthday - all those affected got affected at the same time, then; but not everyone was changed. I became out of synch because the total world picture was altered Yet somehow the Xerox letter fits in - this new obvious reasons. scant makes me more sure it was a forgery, for I will now turn my attention to the implicative "Thomas" haven just been immediately before in moist cool climate, up high driving a different car, a etc. "Thomas" came from an abolished world, am [also] changed? I to assume variables in our past (prior to '74). The world which Thomas came from had just been there but wo was abruptly abolished, + the "Fullerton" one replaced it. For him, it was a sudden transportation from that cool mout high-altitude world to this me. For me, though, I think I did live the whole replacement segment; my "Fullertar" memories were authentic. But he could only draw on them - he hadn't really experienced that track. As I've long realized, The external disinhibiting stimuli were inappropriate for him, + he did not respond automatically but rather erratically instead. In a sense he was not only outside the system But above it. I There is a direct connection between Thomas' presenc o, freed from the deterministic system. As long as I was there I'd continue to mechanically react. He was heisted out of other world, past or present; his own memories seemed to be if me C. AD70. This linked up with the actual world disclosed talk about "abolishing the power of this world"; isn't that easely what Thomas' imperviousness to the disinhibition timuli consisted of? They were overcome. This is a precise description of what happened. This freeing from this world. sonds - chains, while still being here; it continued the process set in mation by the "no" voiced to the taxes + again in 2-74 the "no" to this world + "Yes" to the other; the Xerox letter et al. Were a logical entension of this. Those were only the beginning; the astrologers still had to be proved wrong so to speak. Thomas" then can be regarded as an emancipated me, not a product of this world + not subject to it. Therefore I reason that a Thomas personality was essential for the process to move to completion - when - or wherever it came from That's what it was for. So we have a personality created by an atemporal event (the 1st Advent), a product of the archetype of the completion of the self (cf Jung). Perhaps the appearance of Thomas was a manifestation of something newly created, without true historical past (sort of like seegfried + Parsifal: untouched by the world). His only past was "in another place": the uroself such as wordsworth