not past) which God overthrew; probably on the black iron world Rome never fell; the tinkering may have taken place centuries so, or even nearly 2000 years ago. God has gross-mended laterally; the evils are so thoroughly abolished that they never existed in the first place. + then, to improve this alternative, tinkering took place in this one 74 + not earlier affecting only our future I'm going to make a daring leap here. The tinkering in our past, in Roman times, was the first Advent. The not-I personality had just come from there. The tinkering in '74 is the start of the second Advent - as witness the "St. Sophia" prophecy. 66 the black Iron Prison world is the hell this world would have been without the first Advent (cf Tears). (The conclusion of teaks inc. the dream shows Christian agape coming into that world - it depects either the 1st or the 2nd Advent, which also can be viewed together as me event). (Thus that world is, or the endachanged.) (into one like ours). The 1st Advent set up a much better alternate historical time - path, ours, but it was still not the best, not fully corrected. The 2nd correction. The 2nd Advent, took place in '74 much more dramatically than the 1st, since at the first the temporal gentile world power wasn't affected, as it was I this time This tinkering is the cause of my perceiving what I called "False work" which later on is retroactively removed so that it was never there. Only the divine world recalls it. Perhaps the black iron Prison would is what our present would be like - was lite without the first tinkering (ist advent) - i.e. without Christ - without his having entered history even once. The people in tears know No thing of Christianity; agape only enters when the dream comes; then Buckman experiences it. New schema no advent the black Iron world. ours 2 advents palm tree world. +: the Palm tree world is complete restoration (or will wind up to when fulfilled forward in linear time) of us back to (as I have realized) our lost state or home. No more intervention s required to realign this lost fallen world, the Palm tree world ow fulfilling itself, is the goal. What must be borne in mind coithugh it is difficult to realize) is that we were or have been living -or did live - in the black iron world, as depicted in Tears, all this time; it was really actualis, the one real world for all of us; + then the first tinkering took o place back in our past whereupon we were - + seemingly always had been (as far as our retrospectively altered memories were concemed) in this one. That worse world is what the unrelenting uninterfered -with historical mechanics brought us, + it was awful. That was the "old Earth" which God 2 promised would never be remembered "or come lip into the heart (i.e. the suffering, its grief + tears, would not ever have existed, except, say, in a fictional work depicting it as a not-actualized alternate Earth). (Hence the title, flow my Tears; they are the "wiped away Tears" which the savior in fulfillment of prophecy, promised us. We, now that he die what He promised, are not even aware that he did it. The world of Tears is the world of tears abolished by the first interventur's it onever happened - a forgotten dream, thank God. We can read tears without ever remembering we have lived there. tears shows I had vestigal memories before 3-74 when than (+ the alternate personality of that world broke throude). But as always, what I know is far less than what I don't know + even what I do know is shaky. The mystery only deepens. Where (or when) is (or was) the black Iron world? I was there but am here now. How came I here? Did that world go out of existence? Did this one replace it? Is this world somehow irreal maybe stretched like a skin over (+ concealing) the other? In which case can the black iron world come back? Augustines view levels of reality view: linear time view. black lity of God 2) t ( Iron t 3 Black). (our - ou 6 o Iron is (world i ours world ha world free world flity of the ) world 70 AD 1974 as 1974 Palm tree" alternate worlds view: paralled worlds view. black iron 6) black iron ours e ours ( other Palm tree uncron Palm tree 6 8 deny of these 6 models could be correct - inc #6, the I don't know" one. I was in the black iron one; I am in the middle one; + I have seen the palm tree world -+ entered it briefly - + would like to, expect to, find my way back. I seem to have been taking a vertical trip (so say the I Ching), from the awful black iron one up to ours + then up to the Palm tree one, (hopefully). I. I changed or moved; the 3 worlds stay the same. The black iron one is still There (somewhere); all that's changed is I'm no longer in it to say it disappeared when I left it is solipsistic. This is The Pythagorian, neoplatonist, Hindu gradual emancipation (liberation) of the soul on its upward (i.e. vertical ascent) journey. 3-74 was the first breakthrough upward, from The worst to this one (I threw off the worst as it by throwing off Karmic burden). For an enlightened person I sure am confused. If only there were someone to ask (I'm So ther I'm beginning to write backunds. Either I am ascending or our whole world is ascending - this confusion equals my early confusing about whether the Parousia care for everyone or just for me. In any case, viewed from any standpoint I for sure have been extricated from the black Iron Prison which means liberated perial, + I probably someday will final my resure reward by re-finding + re-entering for good - the palm tree world. But what about everyone else! The overthrow of the conspirators points to a general, historic change, involv ing not just me but our while planet. Only difference between me + everyone else is that I saw what was happening + they did not. "We shall be changed," Paul said, + I was changed. The whole world was changed. Change by reason of intervention was about all I can be sure of, except that it was for the better which is probably why I can now look back + see the black in world of which I was a part. The only ones who were brought out of it were those who opposed it. So all the others must still be on it, they are not any more aware they are in it than I was when I was in it - it's only when you lean that you can look back + see + understand. These must be overlapping worlds Q2 the black iron would seems related to the past; ours to the present; the palor tree world to the future. Also each has pro gressive more light, with less weight + noise. They are clearly evolutions upward in sequence. My moving from the first to the second is apparently connected with the hist thical entervention of '74: our world was the black in prison but in '74 due to the intervert it was transformed the best lies ahead. into this better world : Theory of individual transformation, though, will work, because of the historical intervention which I saw tose place I will always have to discard that explanation ever time it comes up for that reason. Itlso, the "St. Sophia' prophecy doesn't fit that. Also, it doesn't follow that after leaving the black iron world fil cease to see it. the real objection, however, is the historical intervention which seems to involve us all - likewise the prophecy. This would seem to let out any neoplatonist + Hindu expla nations (+ probably Gnostic). + make way Christian or 20 astrian explanations. (This also seems to shoot down the lifted the veil of maya regardin a former life." All that would be plausible it there had been no historic intervention + no general prophecy. I return to the "tinkering with the past theory, now, as the most promising of the remaining ones. the tinkering with the past is one of the major aspects of 3-74. If this ascent out of the black iron world is something we all did collectively (but I alone remember it), that lets out rein carnation + ancient Rome as an explanation, we werent all in ancient Rome + got resurrected here or whatever. The black iron Prison is a world I was in + we were in, but it wasn't ancient Rome 2000 years ago. The clue is that I was there so recently that body-responses + conditioned responses were still in operation, although the reality they linked up with was suddenly gone. where was I? I was right here + it was right here: it was not another world but this world, only dfferent - worse. No one but me remembers. My perceptions of it longered they persevered. + one of my personalities was always in the world we have now, + the other was formed quite differently in that - suddenly gone - world. 0 t two worlds - or rather two versions of one world. Which of my personalities was formed in the Black Iron world which I don't remember because I was never in it? The tougher, wilder, more dynamic adventitious not-I, "Thomas" the apostolic Christian who feared the Romans + baptized Chrissy in stealts 3, the one which took me over, responded to the Xerox letter + the wurmbrand" ad, called dogs he + cats she, drank been + reac in the wrom place for the Dodge's arevent the black Iron version - or elements - disappeard but the PKD personality formed by it remained, not eradicated completed with some memories many subcortical conditioned responses, + a perse. vering percepting of the black I'm version. He had been - fanatical Christian opponent to the regime there, now" consider the Fish Gold necklace. That is why I remember + no one else did I didn't remember or know anything until the Gold Fish sign caused me - uniquely - to remember the other, real past this middle world, all my life has beer a skin stretched over the abolished real past, present + landscape generall; hence my "impostor" type stories, This world was substituted for the original one - hence my obsessur ider that this world is fake, a mass delusion, a stage set. Stage set outside, fake memories inside: actually the same idea. In his world Christianity existed but it was only underground, small + illegal. They were killed on discovery. Lurther clue is the world depicted in tears. the original track - black iron one. Was similar if not identical to it This clue indicates it was contemporary, all right But look: suppose some other people had retained or recovered memories of the black Iron world. They read Tears + recognize the world depicted, they think I know (but consciously I don't) So, cautiously, they contact me. These are people I never had any contact with before. I receive then cryptic letter. PKD of this "improved" time track has no understanding of what this cryptic letter means, but - the personality formed in the Black iron world knows (he masterminded tears + knows what's in it - he knew all the time + was terrified it would be deliberately destroyed because of its contents. He knew "the right people" here + There would know what it meant, esp. The dream: that that version of our world was "killed" (destroyed) by