component of irrationality, mentioned (deduced) by cornford. It (she) knows something is wrong self-repairing (total homeostasis). 21 1) The universe is alive, it has a mind, it thinks, It has audible thoughts which (under certain cir cumstances) we can hear inwardly. The mind is female. Plato says, "its discourse is always true. 2) There are counterfeit interpolations into this living thinking animal (universe) which screw it up, running counter to its evolution as an entelechy. It must detect these spurious interpolations + expose or abolish them for what they are - i.e. get rid of them, get then out of its body. These spurious interpolations are deranged + malicious. in microform the mind travels around in its own body t as seeking them out, getting them (with "bait") to disclose themselves. when the mind (St. Sophia) encounters + detects a spurious (i.e. irreal) section, it replaces it with an onto‐ logically real section of itself, by transubstantiation. it has already determined that much of this particula planet is irreal. Hence, it is making "orthogonal time" changes here, from Black Iron prison world to palm tree garden. We are none the wiser vis-a-vis this salvation, + the substitution of the benign reall for the spurious malicious we are back again to the model of construct, repairman + deranged circuit board. The messages intended for reception by The circuit board are not getting to it; specifically, the voice (thoughts) of the mind of the (total] organism. "The Kingdom of God" represents reintigration into the total entelechy, in which the voice is again audible. To overcome the barrier created by the derangement the microform came here, assessed the situation + vas elected. When it returns it will not merely determine conditions, it will repair. The two missions (advents) have quite different purposes. By the nature of the derangement, the ind had to come here personally to determine the situations There is a total information block, going both ways. 27 bulgakou (supra) also believed "that Sophia guides history by a kind of necessity." mediating between the absolute + the cosmos, uniting them both within itself, is a "3rd being - Sophia, the principle of divine reason." + "She is the principle of the divine within the created" - + "she animates the cosmos, which is an organic whole; sk, what is achieved by elevating the concept of Sophia so much? 1) A feminine hypostatication is achieved. 2) Wisdom is placed above power (omnipotence), so that we wind up with a totality guided by what Plato called reason or Noos, etc: mind as thought, not force which compels. The way is opened for a de-materialization of all reality; even God, the absolute, is subsumed by wisdom, + a female principle of wisdom at that. It's a very beautiful picture, Athene + aphrodite combined, demeter, more + dike. This certainly fits my view of the universe expressed in my vancouver speech. the original great mother is reintroduced, finally - it took thousands of years. + the secret which was revealed to me: that The God-side of Christ is female (i.e. Hagia Sophia). I can't help recalling what we reich says about the humane quality of a society which is devoted to a female deity vs the harsh solar masculine deity. The presiding (animating) force of our world is female. It also (she also) mediates between us + the absolute (God). + whatever we find in our world which is divine is Sophia. But there is a chaotic element (ananke) which Divine wisdom must subdue, the blind but powerful antagonist which is persuaded in such a way that it wends up serving the divine plan, the structure of which it cannot predict, fathom or determine 23 If St. Sophia 1) animates the universe; + 2) mediates between the cosmos + God. Then our experience of the divine would be of St. Sophia (or through). Perhaps, then, my experience was authentic. Let us say that the sophiologists are correct. What we will experience is Christ, the Logos, but contained within him (so to speak) is the female figure of St. Sophia. The great mother retreated out of sight behind the figure of Christ, + rules the cosmos invisibly. Yet she disclosed herself to me: 1) The Sibyl (visually) 2) the female (or non-male) voice 3) The "St Sophia" prophecy itself. Then a great revelation has been made to me: female hypostasis of God, which is unknown in + to the the whole modern world. It has been thousands of years since she was believed ins There is no doubt that the concepts "Hagia Sophia" + "the Logos" are identical - Philo taught that the Logos acted as intermediary between us + the unknow‐ able God, which role is ascribed to Hagia Sophia - + the Logos is readily equated with Christ I have just read the E of Ph article on evil. 1) evil + suffering both exist. 2) If God is all-knowing, all-good + all - powerful, how can evil + suffering be explained? 3) They can't. Therefore either 1) God is not all powerful. 2) or He is not totally good 3) or He is not omniscient starting with the existence of evil + suffering as premise we must void at least one of the 3 total aspects of God does not in fact apply. It does not prove that no God 27 "yists, however; that does not follow. But at least one of the 3 aspects of 3) (+ perhaps Zor even all 3) must be dropped. What he cannot be is all three. We must start with what we know. We know that evil + suffering are real, to a lesser extent we can argue that some kind of God exists - but we cannot assign all 3 total aspects to him. (the E. of Ph article correctly dismisses all arguments about man's fall, free will, evil as lesser good, etc. the argument that suffering is only illusory it correctly dismisses as not even being a real argument, inasmuch as only the problem is redefined (i.e. if evil is an illusion we are under compulsion to suffer from it anyhow). Plato's "Timaeus" is cited as a "limited" dualism from my knowledge of it I know that in its cosmology the limited element is the power to compel, not the goodness or knowledge. Good. This permits us to retain the qualities which we would most like to keep; viz: 1) It would be unspeakably terrible if God were omnipotent + omniscient but not good; or 2) equally terrible of he were all good + all powerful but stupid. The universe would not only contain evil + suffering he didn't desire. But, worse yet, there would be no coherent plan or structure on purpose or goal. best to sacrifice omnipotence (since one must be sacrificed in view of the given of evil + suffering). We must content ourselves with the consolation that although he cannot prevent evil + suffering he can "use" it - make it serve the plan through his omniscience + skill as artificer (25 like any great artist, he makes use of everything to build on. Perhaps Christ's suffering was the supreme example of the inevitability of suffering; he wanted to avoid it, but, like ananke, it had to be gone through. However, I know something not available to "non‐ i revealed perception: the miracle of divine substitution, which is an intricate, subtle, magical, unseen + ultimately revealing disclosure of the nature of God. 1) Christ's passion exists in space + time, but also outside (above) space + time; i.e. it is always taking place + everywhere 2) Any creatures including animals, who suffer are Christ (rather than just resembling him). This is a true miracle, + makes Christ ubiquitous. The precisely more the enactment of the suffering resembles Christ's own original passion the more the person or animal becomes him (analogous to the miracle of transubstantiation). 3) This is a two-way exchange; viz: i.e. the suffering creature (retries hist is transmuted into Christ o (largely outside its own I awareness) + Christ is transmuted - exchanged in greater + greater degree each into the other, The EB correctly says " the starting point for the Xtian understanding of suffering is the Messianic self understanding of Jesus himself." +: "sliffering is coupled with the specifically Xtian idea of the imitation ...of Christ, the individual christian is called to become an imitation of Christ; incorporation into the body of Christ is granted to him who subsequentialy is redy to carry out upon himself Christ's destiny of suffering, death and resurrection. The early church's characterization of the christian was that of Christophoros-- "Bearer of Christ. Suffering is an unalterable principle in the great Drama of freedom, which is identical with the great drama of freedom, which is identical with the drama of redemption." E.B. "Athanasius: 'God became man [and] under that we baecame God.' ...the intensification from 'child of God' to 'Friend of God'... in it love is elevated to the highest form of personal communication between prototype and form of personal communication between prototype and image." (the deification of man.) "In the eye of christian faith Christ is present in every man, even the most debased." "For the christian the fellow man is the present Christ himself. In the fellow man he sees, under the [unapping] of misery, degredation, and suffering, the image of the present lord who became man, who suffered, died, and was resurrected in order to lead mankind back into the kingdom of God." This dovetails exactly with my literal perception (not just abstract or theoretical). I knew who pinky was because I could discern him, and I knew that pinky (Christ) had gone ahead of me, first, to the other [shore], as a sort of guide (Psychopomp), to show the way, and I experienced trace evidence of his resurrection-- Beyond the 3:5 door. But this is merely a peice of my total perception of the sacred space-time drama of 70 AD Rome, I actually penetraited to the platonic eidos, the final... 97 + ultimate substrate, ontologically speaking. Every‐ thing we see is accretion over this one central drama which is perpetually (i.e. eternally) here. {Note] what is involved here is pattern (Gestalt) recognition. {Note For me, this abrupt pattern recognition occured through anamnesis: I could recognize because I could remember (the original Gestalts which made up the drama). The military became the Romans; the police Jewish spies. Other people were potentially fellow secret Xtians, each to be sounded out. + we were joyously preparing for the bridegroom's return - expected any moment the whole dimension of time had strunk down; centuries had become hours, decades minutes. Millenia mere days. 2000 years passed in a few days, + now, such tiny intervals as 4 years of linear time can be judged as really being only seconds. It is another kind of time entirely, speeded up so that, as in stop action photo graphy of sprouting seeds, furious change-rates shot by, with everything moving + melding, etc. I relived my way back up the 2000 years from 70 AD to 1974 + saw all like flash cut film. +, within the blur of change, eternal forms could be distinguished: that of the joyous preparations for his return. As I read about + study authentic Xtianity I gradually learn that what I experienced wasn't weird or strange at all, but, on the contrary, constituted the core perience of being a Xtian + being redeemed or born again or receiving (becoming) Christ. Only ignorance on my part prevented me from understanding the trans‐ formation, the divine alchemy at work in me ➀ The modern slavic sophiasts believe Sophia to be this ideal substrate of the cosmos. 28 This does not prove that those who haven't had my 3-74 experience are not true Xtians; but what is a certainty to me now, four years later is that I became" Christ, or, more accurately, was absorbed