"Ulna - an blique reference to Ubik by alluding to lem, who is only interested her this reference, n Ubik + in my mind strongly connected with is a slavic nome + well if any of my writings gave him (secret in me) a way it was Ubik. + it is the CP which got interested in Ubik all ont of sroportion to what you'd expect - + it was from them that he Xerox letter came. As it, as it seemed to me at the time, the ender knew, + was saying so by contacting me ( So: my enconscious self had put the material into my books (inc. the black iron slave prison of tears, which is the world I saw revealed in 3-74 when the false covering condscape rolled back), knew the material to be true + not fictional, knew the Xerox letter would come + what it signified, + came forth to meet it + deal with it (successfully). The Xerox letter is connected with the material in my books, + the material is true - + not only normally secret but so to speak prohibited (historically). I perceive now the spokesmen of truth coming here, in par ticular Christ, to reveal this the truth at the risk of martyrdom. His secret gospel was passed on to his successors, on doom through the secret real hidden persecuted despised actual Christian church. It was passed on not in writer or oral form but as I received it: theolepsy by Christ of them, during which the entire, vast, secret gnosis was communicated to them. I think it never ended; although few in number (although slaughtered by the Romans wherever found) they did continue on, invisibly, up to today, probably affecting his torical events for the better - as with the Nixon tyranny So a martyred Christion of the Apostolic age was rebom in me not at 3-74 but in 1928 - + this man had had in him the spirit of the master during his own lifetime by theo lepsy - which means he was transformed into a Christ - which is why I felt Christ to be present in 3-74; Christ had assimilated this man to him long ago, into the cosmic corporate body, the Corpus Christi - yes! the Corpus Christ; had been resurrected in one + it passed over from latent (crypte) to active in one + thereby assimilated me, displacing me as ego with it as new self. ( so probably I can say that I was myself taken into the corpus Christ, by reason of all this, which is to say, regarding This world, the hidden Christian underground that dates back unbroken, unsuspected, to the master - the incarnated God - himself: we are his genetic descendents, as it were, inheriting his DNA coding: replication, of him: the great Gnosis is transmitted that way - genetically, down thro the generations surfacing again after each day, as it did in me - so the true gospel (Gnosis) is preserved, despite the deaths of its bearers it is not - has not been - lost after all, which is another way of saying, he did not come in vain, his teaching has not been obliterated. My Gnosis in 3-74 did not descend on me from the sky, but rather it travell to the present (Fullerton 1974) from out of the past (from Rome C. AD 70). This is what he brought with him, this knowledge (the authentic Gospel); I obtained it by anamnesis Thus, I did not just again remember the crucifixion, but the contents of His (soteric Gospel - which the Romans tried so ins to desting (on they are not phene is could be transmitte this way). The members of the authentic church are immorted. when killed they are later reborn thru anamnesis - when the dis nhibiting stimulus triggers it off, which I suppose may ofter take a lot of time to happen. I am placing great store by Paul's statement: "the secret is. Christ in us." But that is the clue. I do think now, from the perspective I've gained that that huge package of information which was revealed to me - incredibly fully + clearer + completely conveyed or transferred or triggered off. is not only the secret gnosis of the Gnostics, + not only true but is in fact the "Lost" (suppressed) true gospel of Jesus. I retrived it intact during + from amanesis not out of the air dviously, dust from my awakened antique greek-speaking ancestor Christ. I think, came from the world (pleroma) from which ourselves come (or fell, or were ejected free or captured com, whatever) but he, in contrast to us, did not have his e dentity deformed nor his memory erased: thus it is aid of him that he was the 2nd Adam restoring all which he first Adam had lost, knowledge, memory + identity all being interlinked, along with being able to see reality again + not just the illusion. The true God we worship is, like us, not of this world but breaks through (as in Ubik), breaches into it from the substratum of Brahman beneath or behind it (as pictured in the dream in teaks). In teaks the written messages (in Ubik) have become - not just the words of God. But God himself, + his hosts - breaking through; the words are the word, the Logos, God himself coming here. The words, the writter messages (such as I received in my visionary dreams) herald the arrived of God Himself into this world; thus it was correctly said, "St. Sophia will be rebom," meaning that the words will be followed by the savior himself, where upon the mad genius wizard, the creator James James, will be stopped The only one who can restore us (anamnesis) is Christ; if you experience anamnesis it means Christ manifested himself + did it for you ("the way of the cat"). Thus I heard the bells. I keep wondering why he left me. But he didn't; I have shown (supra, that he was there in me all my life (in particular my 25 years of writing reveals this), so undoubtedly he is in me now but uncon scious + crypte - again. He is the dormant form within me. (vide my entire "Brahman" exposition" the Atman) imminent in the world (not transcendent); immanent in me (not transcendent). the way he is concealed in me is exactly the way he is concealed in the world ("the workman is invisible within the workshop." "The razorcase contains the razor." 2) phany But in 3-74 there was a theolepsy (or hier phany) by that mmanent deity - + the truth of the Hinder assertion about the identity between the Atman within + great Brahman outside was proved: the inner theophany produced what appeared to be an extern theophany - but not so, since tess saw nothing + I see nothing now. I say now that what I experienced as theolepsy was more accurately an internal Theophany. What I saw around me as theophany was an accurat view of what was taking place in me - however, what I saw externally was really there, it is always there. I saw it by means of the "God within." So in summation my 3-74 ex perience was a breaking through of God (Brahman) into this world, in me as part of, object located in as part of this world the actual transformation was internal, not external, but It revealed to me what really is external, rather than the illusion (maya) which the human ego sees... or is held in thrall by God did not just seem to occur without; he really, is without, but the event, the breaking through was not out there but rather in me. So the coming forth of the divine (Christ) in me meant temporary restoration for me of all which had been lost, as I quickly realized, but the moment of ubiquitous genera historic restoration is not yet here. Still, disappointing as that discover was to me. I do know that He is only a millionth of an inch away, internally + externally; he is in us + around us + is one waiting for precisely the right time to disclose to an astounded seclarly-oriented world that he has been close by all This time - + then, in the general theophany he completely assimilates this world (of 3-3) to him, almost everyone will be staggered to discover how close to actualization (the visible surface of all things) he has been. + not millions or billions of mates away or in any such for distant place. I have no doubt that he could rise to the surface of everything + even one any time he so desire + thereby abolish J-7's world. How differently people would behave it they knew of his immanent proximity! What the Hindus call "reabsorption" could hapher in the next second - which is why the master spoke of the day of judgment in the terms he did as an immediate event (to one who saw as he did, whit is the way I saw temporarily, it is immediate!!). No object of this world is as close to me as he is, since he is me I exist only because he does (the "ground of being"). "They reckon ill who leave me out when me the fly I am the wings one thinks here of Bishop Berkeley's view of the univese as aided in the mind of God; I prefer what I saw (part of the Gnosis, i.e. of Christ's true revealed gospel): the one the vast universe- organism with us as "stations" in it like bees in their hive. All that can change vis-a-vis our relationshy with God. is knowledge of (the Gnosis). i.e. whether we see (perceve) + experience him or not + to what degree, nonetheless he is always immediate in the "Razor case" sense; thus it is by the Gnosis + it alone that we can know God; this expresses the ultimate value + worth + purpose of the gospel: when it has been revealed to us we are again with God, + realize we have always been + always will be like when a microscope enables you to see what really is in a drop of pond water; the uncellular organisms, don't come into existence + disappear when you put the microscon thee + ther take it away; the rational human mind ca construct the continuity by logical reasoning (inference). the tey restoration is this: by restoring man to his origid state, he (the man) can then perceive the Kingdom of God + can (exactly as I did) then enter it if t when the original mind + percept system are restored, the man sees God + can be with God wGod's Kingdom - which was formerly invisible, although righteres I have seen the Kingdom, + recognized it: it is the original "Gride" which we were cast out of, in it are frees, + all the animals + people live in harming. This is the main thing we lost which Christ restores. It is our rightful home, our ancestrat home, which deep inside we all remember + long for back there, we are no longer alienated or stranger, in a world not our own the fact" that the Kingdom turns out to be our original home (I am sure it is) verifies the Christian - Gnostic belief (intuition) that we are strangens here, that we came here from elsewhere - a far better elsewhere which we still long for. The Gnostic theme of alienation is ratified. The Kingdom is the sine quo non not just because it is intrinsically so wonderful but because we belong there. (There is no disagreement here with orthodox Christianity, excep that the Gnostics would probably place the Garden off earth somewhere, maybe even in the stars. Where it is however, is not that important.