a future me. Hint then, as to what the computer like near‐ female "St Sophia" voice is. A computer in the future. like the postscript in "Cosmic Trigger" mentions, into which my future self is plugged. To sum up: it wasn't me from the past or people from the future: it was me from the future. Then the higher intelligence which was the actual secret force which ousted Nixon was for sure evolved us from the future. They will have found a way to travel back in time mentally, using the Gene pool memory-link between incarnations. My future self possessing this technique, has deliberately traveled even farther back than back to 1974; he's been back to Rome c. AD70 + to mycenean crete! + to the star of origin before that. The 3eyed ovoid-headed persons moved retrograde along an inner axis, in my head. Not outside, as, say, via tachyons, etc. The "theolepsic" personality was my future evolved self changing what happened to him/ me back here in '74 - as part of a larger rebellion against the tyranny. (of Nixon.) So I can say not "I've been in contact with God" or "with an eTI" but with myself in the far future. It was I who rescued me, who inter vered! (8) I wonder how much stuff in my stories & novels has been skilfully implanted by my future me. God, what an astounding new theory as to who/what took me over. I am - will someday be - Valis. So all that wisdom (Gnosis) isn't from the ancient world - although some of it may be. "It's a principle that was known as in your time" - that engineering principle dream. & the "Portuguese States of America["] may exist in the future! I was wright - in my Metz speech - & in the sensations I had in 3-74. The Black Iron Prison world was indeed an alternate present; people from the future obliterated it by retrograde tampering. Our world was indeed that of "Tears" until they traveled back on various interior gene-pool axes. They are to us as we are to Neanderthal. They must have intervened prior to '74, exactly as I said in my Metz speech. How come I know (while others didn't?) A! there was a personal exce excursion by my future self to help me exclusive of the large historical alteration (prior to '74). They intervened at at least 2 times: prior to '74 - & '74. This is the true secret of the secret "wisdom" societies such as AMORC & the Freemasons: genepool "open gates" backward & forward in time of reincarnated evolving selves. The mystery religions & Gnosticism of the antique world - & the Greeks & Egyptians - von Däniken is wrong - it wasn't ETIs but ourselves in the future fus fusing retrograde in time - as in "Ubik." Much of this is revealed in "Ubik" & "Tears" 9 This explains such precog stuff as is in "Tears" Big PT: Christ was an omega person- from the totally evolved omega end - i.e. he was pure + simply from the distant future. + the esoteric secret inner circle of disciples were told this - but never let on. This explains my "St Sophia will be.." etc prophecy. they are soon going to try out an omega" Person again - St. Sophia is the future computer. The future people must be plugged into a vast inner star system info communications AI network a composite mind which Christ was; + he (VALIS?) is returning soon We early true Xtians are immortal through this gene-pool memory oscillation (movement). This is what St Paul was specifically referring to when he said, "Hark! Here's the real secret. We shall not, all of us, sleep - in death, but we shall be changed." The omega forms were entering the apostolic Xtians; thus overcoming death. They were immortal + knew it. Christ came back from the for future to teach, tell + show a few, I was/am/will be one of them i "the secret Christ in us" - Christ + the Advocate Ah - I understand. The solitary future person Christ had to leave to open the way for a number of "Christs" or Holy Spirits seizing the early Christians: the Holy Spirit was on each case the person's far-future omega self, all unified into one "body" by Valis the computer 10 Chrissy is the gene-pool line back along which my future self traveled: 1) This is why theore was all that "cosmic" necessity for me + Tessa to get together; + 2) the concern by the "Holy Spirit" as to Chrissy's welfare, spiritual + physical. He is my link to the future. So via the Gene pool line, this computer, in the future, can reach back + influence (intervenien in) our past. Christ was a computer terminal of a shipboard computer 1000s of years from now. Once he physically had been destroyed, the computer was able to use several (many?) persons - his trained disciples as terminals; This explains Christ's cryptic remark in John 16 (17?) that "it is for your benefit that I go c die) for then the advocate can come" [i.e. the Holy Spirit as the vox + energy of the computer speaking + acting through them all. But the authorities put an end to this experiment. I know these things because I in 3-74 was used as a computer terminal - by my future self plugged into it. I'll bet a million bucks though, that the secret (+ "terminalizing"] was passed on down unbroker by say the resecrucians, etc. After all, it was accomplished with me, so it didn't end ever. I am too far into Gnosticism to back out. The idea of Jesus opening Adam's eyes and bringing him to consciousness, the re-linking to the lost primordial state through the Gnosis, the unflinching facing of evil in the world and knowing it cannot have come from [the Good] God - and the salvidor salvandus - man as a cut off part of the Godhead. __ Thinking back over my life I can see that I have survived many troubles - I look at the copies of the Ballantine "Scanner" and I can see what I have done to transmute those terrible days into something worthwhile, lasting, good, even important (ie meaningful). This is what God does; this is his strange mystery: how he accomplishes this. When we view the evil (which he is going to transmute) we can't see for the life of us how we can do it - But later on, and only later on, after it's done, can we see how he has used evil as the clay out of which he as potter has fashioned the pot (universe viewed as artifact). What I notice is how many people wish me well. Look at what John Ross, a stranger, said. Look at what Jeter said about me having served, done my duty, and now can pass on into the reward waiting for me - he said, even, that they'd applaud me. I still don't know what I did in 3-74 re the Xerox missive, but what I did was what I was sent here to do from the start, and I did it right; as Jeter put it, "they tell you how, when and where to throw the spear, but you must throw it." I am really very happy. Snuff, music and cats, friends and my exegesis, my studying and gradually more and more understanding my Gnosis, when in 3-74 the savior woke me to full consciousness, for the first time in my life and refound myself, knew who and what I was, remembered my celestial origin, was restored to what I had been before the fall. And saw the prison we are in, and knew I had done right ( on the ramparts matter - look at the penalty I paid in 71 + even on into 72, 73, + up to my moment of rescue in 2-74. Christ claimed me for his own + restored me to the Godhead. I opposed the world, risked everything, lost everything. But here I am, healthy + safe + at peace - with myself, having seen God. Watching him - perfect his plan in human history, + discovering that a part of that plan called for me to be rescued. What rewards of the world could equal that? + included in the revelation was a vision of where I am going to go: the next world - my real + former home. The 3 ages of Gnosticism were shown to me (how it originally was - how it is now - how it will finally be) + the triune hamsandwich universe: man as part of God separated from him by the world: 3 ages 2 forces (God + man as one, the evil world as the other). (In manicalism the 2 forces being matter vs spirit or Noos The entire basis of my illumination is to see God as pitted against the world, man pitted against the world hence God + man isomorphic, separated by the world - man fraction of the Godhell which due to some primordial a crisis in the Godhead fell into forgetfulness + ignorance‐ fell asleep + is awakened to memory + refinding of self + final restoration to the Godhead by means of the savior, who comes here to this prison-trap world, n salvation- from what? From the world, which is a Iron prison. Cf Schopenhaur. Salvation from what he saw happening to the turtles (James-Jame's creation). God did not design such a structure of suffering: he extricated us from it, + restores us as part of him. This is the acosmic view in all my writings: the empirical world is a fraud, counterfeit. I write about reality as illusion because it is, + I see that it is, thus my writing is a tremendously powerful attack on the world - but I am just now realizing that this view (of world as illusion) is Gnostic; my corpus of writing is an assault on the created universe of matter, highly original and accurate. It (the view) discloses the deceptive nature of empirical reality -- Now I have had it revealed to me that this world is an impediment between us (man) and God. In my writing I seek to abolish the world – the effect of which aids in our restoration to the Godhead. And this is what I did in 2-74 when I saw the Golden Fish; in a single moment of total knowledge (awareness of the true state of things) I withdrew my belief in what I customarily saw -- and it vanished, and the Christ/God continuum was disclosed -- ie the slice of bread on the other side of the ham sandwich. First for years I did it in my writing, and then in 2-74 I did it in real life, showing that my writing is not fiction but a form (eg "Maze," "Tears," "Ubik," etc) of revelation expressed not by me but through me, by (St) Sophia in her salvific work. What is in my work that is important is precisely nothing less than the salvific Gnosis (or parts of it anyhow). 16 When I withdrew assent from this world in 2-74 it began with sudden knowing the truth on my part, the secret, revealed truth, + then later on, this world changed - became visible as a prison + then was gone (i.e. I had been extricated from it) fart of the attraction for me of Gnosticism its one of its major pts: that God cannot be discovered (found) in nature (i.e. the empirical world). I had already (well, at least recently) come to know - not just believe but know - that no natural theology is possible - despite 1000s of years of trying to establish it God must be disclosed by revelation + revelation alone. This pared the