real are the normal causal chains? They seemed to melt + bed in Zebra's grip (field). This all is a description of a miracle, correctly interpreted as most meaningful in its pointing to an overruling power, which by definition had to be intelligent, powerful, + benign beyond the degree we humans embody. At the very least it pointed to (or was) "another + higher life form or intelligence in the uni nerse besides ourselves" - + one either depending on our occlusion to escape detection, or, even more, occluding us itself, to remain unseen. In this connection, it would be vital to know if the occlusion is only a failure to perceive or if some kind of barrier or deprivation (sickness, deformity) involved. But, as I continually realize, the very nature of i the occlusion rules out an answer to this question 1 83 is If a higher life form lives in our vicinity undetected There is no immediate answer as to its origin, let alone its nature. My perception of it is that by the way in which it "melted" or "bent" empirical reality it disclosed the merely - projected quality of that reality. Had that reality been intrinsically truly substantial it would not have yielded as it did to what appeared to be a kind of ergic pressure. Reality gave. It was subject to manipulation or my perception of it was subject to manipulation, or: the two are the same. It melted me + simultaneously what I saw + heard melted. But There was no hallucination-like quality to it. I had the sense that enormous energy was expended. Deflection was minimal + skillful + revealed great wisdom. It melted only what it had to melt. perhaps one clue that I'm overlooking is the 3:5 doorway: perhaps it indicates that Zebra entered this world from another world (whatever that might mean). the impression I got of it was a past continuum of our world. It had short cut 2500 years by some kind of direct route. The 3 eyed people indicated time travel, or more accurately, the nullification of linear time as essentially spurious (this revealingly dovetails with my sudden sense of it being really Rome C. AD 70 + not 1974 Calify Okay - I'll go so far as to say that AD 1974 Calif is a fraudulent "echosphere" + that in reality its Rome c AD70, + that some life form or human group knows this + is free of (not controlled by) this interpolation: they or it know see what we don't know + see. We are to it or them a he inertials in cold par are to Runciter, who is fully alive (i.e. awake). Just because we are compelled to accept this spurious interpolation doesn't mean everyone else is. 34 (w like the characters in "Maze," "Ubik" + "Stigmata," + esp in "Eye" we are living in ersatz time; sub t jectively, for us, years, centuries pass, but in actuality little if any time has passed in our last 2000 years perhaps it isn't just us who sleep, but the cosmic animal in toto. But section by section it is returning (or acheiving finally) consciousness: hence awareness of its true condition. When Christ left, the organism fell asleep. His returns is connected (in some way) with it waking up. It was last conscious in 70 AD - everything after that is either a dream or a spurious interpolation into a sleeping mind. Fake time (+ reality, Dokos, the counterfeit, the imitation) replaced the real + just spun itself out like sensory hallucinations during sense-deprivation: generated by low level construct entities ... or even by a kind of Hypnoidal automatic process - like stream of association thinking. Then it would be totally entropic, running gradually down - degenerating, but not slowing down in terms of real time; rather, it just discharges itself faster + faster into a vacuum, that of time as receptacle of being. The Golden Fish caused me to remember (the real world) by suddenly waking me up; or, the jolt of returned memory suddenly woke me to reality + abolished the dream (2-74). At once, the spurious, the dream, reasserted itself But the "harm" was done - down deep inside me I knew - it was just a question of time before the inexorable power of knowledge (consciousness) pushed the dream world he spurious, further + farther back, uncovering finally on a literally perceptual + cognative level, unclouded pperception of the real (Rome AD 70) world in which the avior had just left + would soon return, + we were oyously preparing to greet his return (which, it sccurs to me) fits in absolutely with the "Sti ophia" prophecy: it is no more than a verbal patement of what I knew from experience + memory 5 So the 2000 years between advents turns out to be an imitation of reality, a spurious interpolation: Satan extends his reign or as long as he can, but like his world, even its duration is fake. This is a serious matter inasmuch as virtually all of us have fallen asleep. If we are asleep when he returns we will miss him. This statement, appearing in many parables, is terribly significant; does it mean that those who can't be roused (like the inertials in half-life) to an understanding of their true condition will sleep on out their lives in this fake space + time, finally dying in this fake place? This seems to be the message in "Eye," "Joint," "Martian time slip," "Stigmata, + "Maze" (I some of the stories.) (Even in a "Ubik" sense its in "MITHC") "Tears" is the grimmest + most subtle of them all: the real nature of this ersatz world is shown, + no real explanation as to how Jason Taverner got into it, + then Buckman got out of it, is ever given. That real nature is Rome CAD 70 at the time + place of Acts, of St Paul + St Luke - in keeping with my 2-74 realization/recollection. I wrote about that world + those people in "Tears" because historically that was the world + people which actually existed then, not what I saw. "Tears" is the verification of 2-74 + 2-74 verifies "Tears," + "Tears" was released in 2-74. Them comes "Deus Irae" + the bottom line expectation of AD 70 Rome is explicitly stated: Christ is about to return. The perior of the fake worlds, in which Palmer Eldritch manufacture. our reality for us, is at an end. As witness the final big scene in "Deus Irae 86 In some respects, "Eye" is the most accurate of all: great hunks of spurious time (events) are reeled out, whereas only seconds in rat (real elapsed time) have taken place. If we didn't dream we could not even imagine such a thing, much less believe it "they're all out of it" appears in: the theme of "Eye" They're unconscious + hallucinating various world. as the world is fake - + the time is mistaken joint 3 at It's one of several worlds, + not the real one TMITHC" time slip" fake psychotic realities as "Stigmata" fake malignant realities 3 "Ubik" they're dead + receiving messages from the real world 8 "Maze" they're jointly hallucination a spurious world "Tears" several competing worlds exist 18 is i () "Scanner the whole futuristic parts could be hallucinatious + the protagonist lives in two different mutually exclusive worlds competing with each other secondarily, false perceptions appear in: âž€ "Clans" psychotic perceptions that compete (1: "Game-players" levels of illusion for sinister purposes us, "cosmic puppets" one world underlying another (!) So one dogen novels + too many stories to count narrate message of one world obscuring or replacing another a real) one, spurious memories, + hallucinated (irreal) worlds the message reads "Don't believe what you see; it's an enthralling - + destructive, evil snare. Under it is a totally different world, even placed differently along the linear time axis. + your memories are faked to jube with the fake world (inner + outer congruincy.) "Joint" open with a telltate anachronism. Symptom. -or signs - unveiling the world as spurious abound. Strip the fake world away + another one appears, even set in a different time. + all this leads up to my 2-74 + 3-74 experience. It cannot be coincider ce. My early knowledge of the basic socratic + presocratic dictum: "Don't believe what you see; something else must actually be there" the firmament for it all, I have done nothing that Parmenides did not do 2400 years ago - except 3 that my "actual reality" is always another space time phenomenal - like world - i.e. reality is a different place (situation) + time + the malignant intent to decode (cf. Klingsor's castle) plays a major role. It is as if I'm saying, "we're under an evil spell" or "we have deliberately deluded ourself" or, as in "Tears," there simply are a plurality of worlds (likewise "MITHC") it is as if palpable reality is generated, + we must steed ourselves to feeling it systematically There is back to expose the genuine time + place. often the theme that the delusion is the projection of a sincere but deranged mind (e.g. "time slip"). which brings me back to cornford's deduction that Plato us saying there is in the world soul something irrational," is it possible that this irrational element gives rise to (as in "Time slip") to spurious sub-worlds lacking true substance? Is it not in the very nature of + essence of irrationality to perceive - read generate -- false realities? the "spurious interpolations" may be "noise" from a faulty circuit, the artifice of the fucked up but sincere, part of the universe's psyche This is especially possible in the world as Noos system of Xenophanes. What if the Noos has a few cogs missing - isn't playing with a full deck? In that case it may sporadically create paradoxes, illusion. + competing, + inconsistent realities as it reverses itself - a form of disorder. But - this leads to dreadful spinoffs, as in "Faith of" perhaps the voice of St. Sophia indicates a return to lucidity. 88 James-James certainly was deranged, + it certainly was this world he was spinning out Ah! "James-James" symbolizes him being a spoiled little boy - with too many toys. "Time is infinitegold a child playing at draught." Heraclitus. "the Prietch's "dualism in the Godhead" + cornfords world soul is partly irrational." To these two state ments refer to the samething. Plus the Gnostic idea it of a "primordial crisis in the Godhead. my intuition that "the universe is trying to + become sane." What we see as chaos or evil or ananke or purposeless determirism causing undeserve suffering - all these stem from the part of God which is irrational. How‐ aver - St Sophia is the noos or rational part (i.e. Logos). fames-James was crazy + capricious. In a particular very specific way: childish, tuntrumish, with no frustration tolerance. The opposite of what the "AI voice I heard seemed to be like: it was totally reasonable one of the greatest errors I made was to assess a theo‐ phany as undication of immanent deity or even panpsychism. were that argument correct, there could be no revelation of a transcendent deity, as each theophany would be thus construed t I think of Bruno's notion of the divine mind behind the physical universe. What does "behind" signity? Within? Or the "ham sandwich" model (i.e. layers, as in an onion.) I now perceive The theophany as a kind of invasion of the inanimate by purre mind, with the result that the inanimate is transformed into a mallable animate "body" - not soma to psyche, how over, but much as spinoza regarded the universe as God extensive in space. But was just one limited part o 34 of the total physical reality animated - a localized trusion? No, I