certain information from us: did we obtain (find?) what we came here [to this dark kingdom] to find? Represented as a valuable pearl. We came here deliberately to get this (thing or information]. We ran the risk of being trapped in this world-represented by amnesia. We have lost our way, as well as our original (actual) home. in studying the above paragraph it is evident that only some of us (i.e. of the humans here) came from elsewhere Maybe just a few of us. We fell victim to the realm we impinged on, + lost contact with those (that) which vs sent (40) This was the risk we ran in coming here. Well,not all is lost. Contact can be restored. Included in this is what for us constitutes a surprise: intervention by our source when destruction overwhelms us; we then find -as I found in 3-74 - that I am backed up. This follow from the nature of my status as someone sent here on a mission. Even though I have forgotten everything, the source which sent me has not forgotten me - although I have forgotten it + in a sense forgotten myself as well my true self, as well as why I am here. All this is right down the pipe Gnosticism the (our) true situation is only revealed when we are at the extrenity of danger. The source (which dispatched us, + with which we are isomorphic) must reveal itself to [one of us, the one in the extremity of peril, or that individual perishes. Now, I note that the entervention -+ extremity of peril - in my case was connected with specific dire historical events + the need - by the source- to change them. Ooes this suggest that we were sent here to act tasks vis-a-vis these desired historic changes? The impli‐ cation is there. Then we are (like the Afrika corps in the James‐ James dream) invaders - not only is Zebra mimicking normal objects + processes but so are we - +, as in "Impostor," because our memories have been elfaced - tampered with - we ourselves did not know - did not know, until like in "Impostor," the disin‐ hibiting stimulus came, + restored our true memory. Our knowledge of our true identity, + awareness of our historic mission A number of my stories + novels give me away, although didn't catch on - maybe the authorities did. "Faith of our Fathers" shows God as the Gnostics viewed him - antithical to good. In my writing I expressed the true situation unknown too me consciously (e.g. look how closely "Maze" fits what I've expressed above as my true situation). Just how likely is it that my stores + novels contain disinhibiting (i.e reminding) signals, to others of us, as the Golden Fish necklace was to me? 41 Is it possible that here + there others have experienced return of memory - maybe just a few people- through /from my writing? "Faith of our Fathers" is the most subversive since it paints God as evil + supporting the terrestrial tyranny If ever I stuck my foot into it Gnostic-truth-wise, it was in that story "Stigmata" didnt help (sic) either K.W. pointed out that my Gnostic narrative goes all the way back to "the Variable man" + "Eye in the sky." My very earliest stories - + then, 25 years later, I am caused to remem‐ ber. I impune evil not just to the political + economic systems this world but to the very God of this world ("Fathers") + then in "Ubik" salvific messages giving an account of our true situation, which we are asleep to, are presented as being slipped to us in the mass of "noise" or "trash." "Fathers" + "Stigmata" evil God "Maze" Forgotten instructions erased memories + invading mission. "Impostor" signal contact from the good deity outside nature. "Ubik" "Eye; "Stigmata," "Maze," "Ubik," etc. fraudulent world on top of all this there is the dream paragraph in "Tears." + + in "Frolixg" there is clearly the dies Irae, specifically intervenon tion + judgment + overthrow of this system of things. I am a messenger (mercury). I carry the Caduseus, symbol of DNA memory (Gnosis) +: "this person is under the protection of the Gods" - although I didn't know any of this Until 3-74. like the Brothers' Grimm's story about the goose girl where the true princess + the servant maid exchange places, the King + the court Jester have changed places: he who sits on the throne is demented in a solemn (mirthless) puritanical way, whereas the funning, Giddy "Jester" knows - + tells (cf "Hamlet") the real truth, + is the deposed legitimate King. This was revealed to me long ago - v. the dancing King in the cornfields in sprins 42) + sobriety is equated with sanity; mirth with madness not with a lack of importance. The servant has become King just the master - but king - the sovereisn - + the true has become - not just the servant - but an object of derision + ridicule. This is the condition our world is in somber madness reigns, + the true King rides a donkey in from the provinges, is betrayed, tries, + executed in the most -the humiliating way - he is mocked but next time - it has been as in "The Bacchae "King of Tears" was driven mad, + is now a truly demented figure wandering the beach aimlessly, totally powerless - totally deposed. Thus, the Holy Ritual of the deposing of the false King took place in '74 (August): no one seems to perceive the mythic, archetypal proportions of this - all stemming from a black security guard finding a door latch taked open, + what the conspirators described as "hippys" cops. In the archetypal myth, the false king (cf Boris Gudinou) has cunningly ursurped the throme by killing the rightful King (cf "Hamlet") - in our case the civis rights (religious) leaders. However, unslain + invisible is the Sibyl, i.e Holy wisdom, who is deadly, a judge, a warrier, a healer, + a playful wild animal (ZEbra). Thus, although he/she perceives i.e with the ajna eye what has happened. Judges + deposes ( though punishes), + paves the way for righteous rule to be restored There is a lethal + potent power in all this, nonetheless, this deity is a will-o-the- wisp, dancing first here, then there, out of reach: he/she is everywhere (ubiquitous) + no where, all things + mere St. Elmo's fire: it can assume any shape, mimic anything + anyone (by theolepsy) it wishes. It has infiltrated this blighted (cursed, demented, fallen) creation It's as if "benng Cemoli" both existed + yet was a com‐ plete fiction (as the Intercessor is in "Maze": viz: "Why, we of i made you up!") It exists (enough to guide the deposing the false sovereign from all power) + yet - it is only a flicker of pink, luminescent light, like an auroratin As UfOS it is taunting + ceasing the goodroments o nt the world. "I am here - no, over there. I am here, no I am a I am imagionary - + very powerful - funny + lethal. 43 Anyhow the driving mad of, the sickening of, + finally The deposing of the fraudulent King into impotence + igno‐ Miny, is a vast archetypal mythic ritual striking at The core of the curse, the wrongness, of this world, + is The first grand move by the divine in lifting the curse for good. Although a symbolic act, it is also very literally real. The innermost citadel of spurious, tyrannical power fell. Now, invisibly + mysteriously the transformation of This world into the Kingdom of God will occur; this will be -+ is already - experienced as a liberation of man, a restoration of his lost freedom (cf the EB). The obscury dominion of the cruel enslaving power has been lifted, as The gates of this prison world recoive the divine host from outside, come to free the prisoners within I it is all one vast epic, eracted at the inner most ring of the concentric rings of reality, where evil had been the strongest e,sK.W. pointed out a bout the characters in "Scann er1 (+ this could apply to other novels + stories of mine as well) those who were the most mad +/or the most intoxicated were the m ost right. Clinically, they were crazy. I was crazy. But we were right. It's part of the mythic pageant, like the idiot in "Boris" it at the end: "Cry, cry, Russia." 33 25 I discern now, at last, what the dream in '74 meant - the one in which I was at the laundra-dry ts cleaners + they gave me back me red shirt + while necklie 8158 in the form of a plaque (like an award or trophy, with a strip of blue at the bottom of the tie suggesting something to do with the Federal government). What I was seeing then was the cover of the ballantine edition of "Scanner," which is the permanent valuable object made from + arising out of - meritoriously - the ruin of those years, which is exactly what I saw the trophy to signify in the dream. There can be no doubt of this "make" on the cover fred's tie juts forward - graspable - as in the dream. It is also interesting that the cypher word in "Tears" (Felix) is the final word in "Scanner" (i.e. happy) is The Tiedshirt dream was not precoa, an ability on my part. It was divine prophecy + promise: it held out hepe + fulfilled it 44 "Happy" (Felix) may be a cunning reference to Euripides the "Bacchae" in which the stranger (Dionysos in human form "punning on the refers to King Penthus as king "of Tears, Greek word for Tears: Pentheus. + the word "Tears" is in the title of my novel. The real message is that he whom Pindar called the joy God is here. It is a cypher within a cypher; "Felix" is not a name but a glossa meaning (among other good things) happy, but happy" is a cypher back to a name: i.e. name to word to name, + the final name underlying Felix is Dionysos. The deity who has inserted the message into "the inferior bulk" has identified himself. The total message from him is "I love you," but he has also elliptically told us who he is. He is the protector of little wild things, like cernunnos + Shiva, + it is Shiva who possesses the 3rd or ajna eye cernunnos = Shiva = Dionysos = Christ. The savior of the trapped, the desperate, the damned, the powerless the DNA in us programs us to die. It is this [form of determinism] once called "astral" or "planeary" fate that Sar-pis Christ, hermes Tristmogistos saves us from. I'm not sure how - but however it is done, this is what happened to me in 3-74, the "second birth" from above, by the spirit. Not only did I not physically die then (3-74) as programmed, but evidently I will in some actual real sense never die. The key to this is memory (+ hence true identity) restored; + 1) 2) Triumph over time. perhaps (2) is achieved by (1), since the restored memory seems to include the future as well as the past. Anyhow. We know ➀ who our savior is; + ➁ what he saves us from. The secret of physical immortality does not seem to involve an imperishable body but the ability to expand the ego-consciousness to merge with the gene pool knowledge + memory - which is immortal. Literally No wait - I don't think that's how the problem (of mortality, of being programmed by the DNA to die) is handled. I think rather than merging with the DNA 6) Gene pool memory, we