track B at point X in time was not to help me or any other single given person, but to depose + destroy the "cont" t Spirators." Well, this broad historic purpose was achieved, but there were loose ends. My error has been to regard the tracks as totally different each from the others. Okay, I was a portion of the changed part when the tinkering took place at point X I obtained new memories + a different history + hence different personality. But the situation "at the other end," which is to say, the section out of which the Xerox Missive emanated wasn't changed. The missive was sent. The track B PKD couldn't have handled it - wouldn't have known 1) wWhat it was (signified) or 2) what to do with it. Such fuckups must abound when part of a world is changed with other parts left unchanged; you get spooky "doesn't compute" (apply any longer) phenomena. So, I'm saying, Thomas had to be brought back (at least temporarily) or there'd This weird loose-end Xerox object. be what I got to see was: the ghostly outlines of the iron prison world of track A, + the Logos weaver - reweaver savior, actually at work. (I was temporarily "above" worlds, abore both tracks. I was in the reweaver's world, not ours 90 (cf "adjustment Team"). That Xerox must have really been Lethal to requires a temporary return of the me of track A, Anyhow it worked, + the me (Thomas) of track A handled it fine. en It contained - not just information - but coded command - instructions - which Thomas was on the look out for. He knew the exact day it'd come. You don't suppose "Tears" depicts a Russian (i.e. CP). dominated us. (+ accurately describes track A?)? I doubt it - it was more an anti-cp police state But- Romans. Could it have been an alternate world in which the Roman Empire never fell + never embraced a con‐ version to Christianity? i.e. modern Romans? In which case the intervention may have occured (i.e. point X) in apostolic times (as scripture promised). Our world, track By is better than A, but the plan is not complete; when it as complete we will have track C Anyhow all this accounts for me having such an unuseral experience (anamnesis about track A, + seeing the weaven/ weaven) when no one else (or few else) remember: the fucking Xerox missive was a serious - even tethal-dangling "bit" of track A; + I see this suddenly: it must have been essential to either the efficacy of track B +/or the maintenance of obliviousness to + abolition of track A that the Xerox missive be handled right. Had it been handled wrong 70 would not have been [merely] a disaster for me, but rather a damage - maybe even disaster - to the succe ness of replacing A with B. issful‐ In fact the successful handling of the Xerox miss he was not merely necessary to the success of track B but must have been part of the replacement by B of A itself. So We wind up with the curiosity that the establishment of B (+ no one remembering A) necessitated a temporary very localized restoration of a bit of A (as if all of A hal been phased out too completely or too soon). The Xerox missive, then constituted a bit of anomie within the track B cosmos + could only be inteprated by a restoration of its other part: i.e. Thomas restored to receive it. How does this fit in with the apostolic Xtians drawing the DNa molecule (+ knowing about gene‐ pool memory) + climbing up the garden hose of time like a snake"? It is this (+ really something): those authentic Xtians are using their knowledge + related abilities to travel back + forth ("Garden-hose‐ wise) through linear time for the purpose of altering controlling) history; thus it is they, as extensors of 2 ZebRa, who are doing the tinkering, producing one alternate world after another, + each new one The true, secret Xtian church KW + I better. posited are able to reweave reality through a strange form of time-travel. But this points to Thomas as coming from 2000 years ago. Still, I am sure of the above e the "Garden hose" + the historic tinkering. VALIS or Zebra guides them. What a great secret this is I have the answer: "Thoma" is both from 70 AD +, via the "Garden hose," also from a black iron prison alternale track A present now abolished in favor of this - since Thomas is a time-traveler He has been back at 70 AD + in the world of "Tears"" I track A t M0aD o o b This extraordinary " polyencephalic' ente s of Christians, spanning 1000s of years of time + a multitude of parallel world, is the Corpus Christ its psyche (head) is Christ. It is immortal, as scripture (the NT) promises, + the world which the members experience, being of such a vast t magnitude of time + space, is the Kingdom is a blur of flash cut ephemera, with the eternal forms palpable - as I saw in the phosphene graphics. That means that ( I was in that nast time + space "Garden hose" world + (2) since it is the Kingdom, I was in the Kingdom + () the voice I heard was Christs,, since I had become a part of him, the corpus Christ's + evidence that this view (i.e that the Kingdom is a trans temporal, trans spacial. Transworld reality stretched out over 1000s of years, can be found in the fact that when I was a member-part of A I underwent post mortem experiences, which otherwis can't be explained: the Kingdom lies on both sides of the grave, rather than one or the other. life + death are a palintropos oscillation for it; (St Sophia, or Logos) which Jesus proved by his ressurecon tiBut - the 2 advents are a kind of congealing into life - perhaps a palintonos state in which the oscillation ceases? Dynamic motion giving way to perfect balance a state of reed? This entity, which oscillates (moves) through all space + all time, comes to a rest. a stasis or halt, at one space + one time - thereby halting time + motion? The 100s or 1000s of physical bodies (sarx) which the [authentic] Christian possesses as he moves back + forth on the "Garden hose" are ephemerial, perishing husks which he temporarily dons + discards: beyond there pluralities (if bodies) he retains a kind of arche‐ in typal incorruptable ultra body or morphosis whch ich 23) neitter changes nor dies. Thus, I feel, I have penetrated to the heart of the mystery which Paul speaks of ("Behold! I tell you a mystery, etc) + have put the mess ase of the N.T. in specificly modern "hard fact" terms! Nearly 4 years after experiencing the revival of an apostolic Xtian in me, + seeing the Logos, I have explicated an overview of how it operates I see another implication of the deliberate setting off of my 2-74/3-74 experience: the true, secret [history - altering] church is, after its stunning victory over the US (etc) tyranay - it is ready now to come out in the open, to "let it be revealed that it exists + has always existed, for at least 2000 years; + is ready to begin open (visible) battle. This is connects with the coming 2nd advent. This is startlings re me, did is disclose itself to an outsider? No. Via Thomas I am part of it. But I am one who does + will speak openly, + they (it) is/are aware of this. It is this new willingness to surface which explains the "Encounters of the 3rd kind. esp. the healing ones, + the manipulations of reality + of human minds. It is all this, the true secret church gradually emerging; the Corpus Christi + all its powers + miracles are impinging on us - + my 2-74/3-74 experience is such a one just one of many (to many people). - is it possible that there is a DNA mind, capable, under certain extraordinary conditions (such as acute stress related to problem-solving) of becoming temporarily conscious - within given person? a 25 Put another way. suppose that each of us contains within him a portion of a DNA mind which covertly controls him. of which he is never aware. It programs his every response to every stimulus. Now, suppose that the early Xtians; via Christ, are with him, this unsuspected hidden true mind in each of us or some of us. Then for those persons, for us, we are servants of Christ. However, once that Christ mind breaks through into consciousness, + we learn not only that it is there, but also experience its nature + purpose, we are elevated from servant to friend of Christ I am not sure that this hidden supermind exists in everyone. Maybe He chooses some of us. We so chosen would be so to speak Avatars of Christ but suffering from a purposeful amnesia. Under these circumstances, then, anamnesis is everything (regarding one's identity. + purpose): All Gnosic is a remembering. Which fits My "we are DNA coils in which memory is stored But no matter how much I can stress the significance of anamnesis correctly, I am still left with the external entity Zebra + its memesis (mimickry). Obviously there is some relationship either between Zebra + anamnesis or at the very lease between being able to perceive ZEBRA + remembering. Now, the Hindo religion teaches that Maya obscures what truly is outside us +, inwardly, manifests itself as amnesia, which is equal to the loss of authentic self (identity). In a sense one is inner + the other outer, but also one concerns time (inner) + space (outer). The ajna chokra permits an experience of vast reaches of external space + inner time. At the same time reality under‐ goes a perceived transformation, stated briefly, the many are experienced as [the) one: + not as things or thing but a living or quasi-living entelechy or artifact (computer? AI system?). It has a characteristic "still small" voice. We may be iso‐ morphic with it mentally (it as psyche or noös) but not isomorphic physically. 95 functionally either it is plugged into us or we into it Now, I say that normally it programs or controls our responses to each situation (stimulus), but without our being aware either of it or its power to delirmine our lives (which seems to be a way, its way, of structuring chaos into order - i.e. harmonie). Only under the most exceptional circumstances does it throw off its mask of con cealment (within our heads) + palpably take control. I can only envision this happening under the unique conditions of the historic bulk of efficient causal proces ses being overruled - which would be (like the eerre intrusions of Runciter + the messages in "Ubik") eerie, would tend to promote the realization that the reality as normally experienced is somehow spurious - like The landscape of a dreamer who is either awakening or is being awakened from outside the dream land scape. The value of the novel "Ubik" in interpreting my 2-74 3-74 etal experiences lies in a study (cf Lem's article) of the significance of the intrusions for the characters in "Ubik" these intrusions do not prove merely that the landscape is spurious, but that (more important) another evidently [more] real landscape exists beyond it which is breaking through with ➀ purposeful signals to us which (2) indicate a sentient + concerned signaler - + thus once again We have the "ham sandwich" model of reality 3 7 2 with (1 + (3) isomorphics ts + world t is as an impedement to the reunification of ➀ +