gender. Also, in the use of a string puppet, the puppeteer is never supposed to be visible, and when we hear his voice we hear only a voice appropriate not to him but to the puppet. The puppeteer speaks through the puppet, who is a mouthpiece, then, for the god, gods or God. Is this not what the dream shows? The human component should be a clear and limpid structure through which Divine Wisdom can express itself unhindered. Its expression should not be vitiated. There is no voice, really, but that of the puppeteer; the puppet has none of his own. An immortal and divine voice speaks from within the man (Jesus). He is assimilated to it, and yet we see only the puppet, the man; he is invisibly transsubstantiated. I can't keep from thinking that something extraordiny was shown me in this dream. First, I was corrected back to orthodoxy — but also this dream confirms my interpretation of the St. Sophia message, as referring to Christ. Confirmation of that, correction to orthodoxy, and revelation that what I know re the right side of the composite entity (right brain?) is to be kept SECRET, which is to say, the SHE part, the distaff side. Pinoccio's ambition was to become a boy ( ☰) the formula is: add Pinoccio to St. Sophia + ☰, a boy a true male child, results. It's like a diagram of the female (mother)'s body; like the repeductive organs + the the birth canal. What the outcome is is the new Christ child born. Pinoccio St. Sophia \ / \ / \ / \ / ☰ Good Lord, viewed this way, as an anatomical schema of the mother, it is a virgin birth- no impregnating from outside the body exept the Holy Spirit - no man involved. Voth components are intrinsic, so to speak. It is a chart of a miraculous immaculate conception showing exactly what brought the lifeless puppet to life - the life of a man child ; crypte morphosis indeed! -6- If one had been informed that St. Sophia would be born again, then the next most important revelation would be an analysis and presentation of the nature of Christ, since it is Christ who is to return. This is what I just received. Dispute over His nature has been a prime source of trouble in the Christian churches since the beginning. I received a geneological table. I know what constituted Him and will constitute Him again. He has two natures, one of them divine, one human. The divine predominates. That divine portion is Holy Wisdom, the first emanation of God who created, along with God, the universe itself (v. Wisdom of Solomon). He was/is more deity than human, although he appears to be a man qua man. This syzygy appeared only once before, at 4 A.D., in the man known as Jesus. it will appear again: not as another man or entity but that very same man or entity, that very same Jesus who was here before. Orthodoxy is correct, except that the deity animating the entity is female; that is never said, but can be deduced once it is seen that Holy Wisdom of Proberbs 8 is the same as Christ. She is called she until incarnated, whereupon (as I was shown) she becomes actually masculine, a human man. She does not merely appear as a man but is transformed into a man: three yang lines express it. This is what is meant by John when he says, "The Word (Logos) became flesh." We are to believe this, as it is correct. My revelation is not contrary to scripture. It is there, but the implications have never been adduced, as they were for me. The Creative Logos, God's Wisdom, is she, not he. The EB in its macro article on milennialism says that "the violent intervention by God into history to alter the outcome of natural forces working for evil" is the hallmark of apocalyptic expectation. I say this event came already, in 1974, so from this I infer that the Final Days have begun. The "immediate direct aid of God" "reversing natural forces, and bringing a good outcome completely opposite to what all natural forces moved toward." This is precisely what I saw happen in 74. How does what I saw differ from this? The prophecy was given me before the reversal occurred. "It (the conspiracy) has been seen and we —I— will act to punish them." Thus ic came to be, finally. I was made a witness to the supernaturalness, the intervention; I saw it coming down from above, whereas other humans did not. Tyranny had sewn up the western world. And I had visions in the images used by Daniel and in Rev. These, I think, came by way of corroboration. Since it was evidently St. Sophia who led the attack, it can be said that Christ was the captain, since St. Sophia equals Christ. If the dream in TEARS is added, then all major themes in Daniel and Rev. are included in my experience. The EB mentions that the prosperous and successful would see no reason why God ought to intervene; only an alienated person would adjudge the system as evil and yearn for intervention. I fit this latter class. Look at my letters published before 1974. I cite this as a reason why I would be picked to see what happened, whereas other persons might not; it would make sense to me. Yet subsequent disclosures showed that my view in 72 and 73 was the correct one. -7- It could even be argued that in my s-f writing I shaped apocalyptic visions over & over again (as the EB says about s-f). I was already —for decades— an apocalyptic writer. Also, I was deeply Christian, as critics have frequently pointed out. When I told of my 3-74 vision it was said, "We thought you had that long ago." I was set intellectually and sociologically for what I experienced. However, I did not anticipate divine intervention. It was a complete surprise to me, being ignorant of Daniel and Rev. One might say that if I saw the tyranny it would be logical (or anyhow possible) that I would see the structure of the overthrow. I KNOW WHAT ENTITY OVERTHREW IT; SURELY IT IS REASONABLE TO ASSUME THAT IT WAS THE SAME SPIRIT WHICH CAME TO ME PERSONALLY, AND MADE ME SEE. The question realy is not, Did God intervene? but rather, How many other times has He and does He? Studying this interven¬ tion it is not possible to answer this. For example, He may have intervened for the Protestant cause in the 16th century. He may intervene all the time. Still, no one has ever gone on record with the kind of experience and perception that I have had. Now couple all this with the "St. Sophia" prophecy. It tends to make one think of this intervention as (1) unique; (2) as part of the unfolding process of the Parousia, the "St. Sophia" prophecy being about that, His Presence returned. Also, viewed this way, one could well assume that the Parousia is not far-distant now, being linked with the "stone uncut by human hands" event, the overthrow by God of the western tyranny, it all being of a piece. I dreamed last night of a MS page of mine in which I had 3 consecutive paragraphs beginning with the word SHE, an obvious reference to the SHE SECRET Christ dream. In this more recent dream I found space on the page to insert a paragraph which did not begin with SHE (I felt it was wrong always to start with SHE), and I added erotic material, about nipples, etc. Now, thinking about this, I remember my first vision, proceeding all the others, which was of Aphrodite, and had to do with her right nipple; I wonder if there was an eliptical allusion to Aphrodite (cf Empedocles) in this recent dream. The dream, engendered from my own mind purely, is still valuable, as it recalls to me what I had forgotten, namely, the vision of the Cyrenaican Aphrodite beyond the golden rectangle door. Does this dream suggest (good lord!) that SHE is related to, or is, none other than the goddess of love known to the Greeks? Empedocles felt that Aphrodite was the steersman of all krasoi. This is all very anxiety-producing to me. I add, If so, indeed it would be marked SECRET, but I appeal to the philosophy of Empedocles to indicate a lofty as well as erotic element to this; He held her to be the ultimate entity drawing things & people together, "the star of love," which is how I ended my speech, meaning Christ. as the EB calls her, "The generative principle of all life." A mother goddess, not sex; doesn't the nipple point to this? Nourishing? *** Tonight on the NBC network news, Catherine Mamtam Macken told of a U.S. Government declassified document describing a new -8- Soviet weapon: microwaves beamed at persons, causing fatigue, confusion, psychosis and even heart failure. She said, "Those affected by the microwave transmissions have the impression of hearing words in their head." This I think is a payoff for me, to have heard this. This accounts for the origin of my 3-74 experience, at least the period in which I was positive that I was somehow being influenced by the Soviet Union, probably —as I thought at the time— through microwave transmissions. That is why I wrote Madame Pavlova at Leningrad, and Bob Ness in Canada; I was sure of it. Material based on this is found in SCANNER. I think, though, that this does not indict my entire experience; it does not invalidate the religious aspects. I think that the Soviet influence was only at the start, and that my sense —correct sense— of being under duress from the USSR (probably a satellite-activated -based system) caused me to turn to God — I prayed for help, knowing that my individual mind was succumbing, and that was when the Holy Spirit came to me, and the experience of being subjected to external pressure left, and the religious elements of the experience began. I was attacked by the CP-USSR, as I thought at the time; the CP was my enemy, but then God rescued me. The entirety of the experience —one year— cannot be explained by microwave trans¬ missions, although the filth on the radio, the phosphene activity, the Russian words, dreams of Boris Romanov and the electronic gear, initial numbers and subjective sensations of fear and oppression — all those can be traced to the microwave transmission. This was why I called the Fullerton Police and told Sergeant Kelly what I told him; I was correct. But I knew I couldn't give details. What I would like to know (and may yet find out) is, Why words in the head? (one) Do the transmissions contain information? Or (two) Are speech centers in the brain stimulated (which is to say, are they transmitting verbal and graphic material, or does it all arise within the brain due to the radiation pressure? The answer to this is important. From the presence of die messages I would assume information transmitted, but on the other hand, it may disinhibit neural circuits in the brain, causing them to fire for the first and only time. What must be assumed is first an attack on human liberty (as with the conspiracy mentioned in dream sequences) and then a counter attack by God (against the conspiracy of an historic nature and against the one involved in the microwave attack). This is why I felt that both the U.S. Government and the Soviet Government were my enemy — were the enemy. At this point I theorize that the Soviet microwave transmissions overloaded the noössphere and caused it to impinge on me (and others?) as Teilhard de Chardin conjectures will happen eventually; it was