aspects into which I (like all other people) had always been engramming in played itself out into the void, so to speak, as [vision?] like experiences, wit connected with the objective world. Either this abolishin, of synch covted the non-programming By itself on it was a aspect of my Being Freed (By the orthangonal) [intuition?]. After 3-74 my "Lines" No longer fitted the "play." without synchronization there is No longer in deterministically the [cuing?] take ran at high speed right through to its end - perhaps Normally due in future life 9 Once there is orthogonal intervention so that you are caused to respond & differently than your take calls [for?] a new future track (world) for you comes into existence, so that now the rest of your take doesn’t apply (ie link up to external events) anyhow. In which case you would experience ghostly visions- superimposition projections into the void synched with nothing, + visible as projections (visions) against, not meshing with, external reality. You would be in 2 worlds at once. So I guess, since its now useless, the take just races through at “high speed [forces?]” to its conclusion. But in those ghostly projections onto non-meshing externals you’d find clues as to what had been in store oor you. I saw, superimposed in Fullerton, a Great Iron Prison. From this I deduce that at some later time (remember, the take was now rushing through super fast) that would have coincided with actual external reality. The Black Iron Prison was my first projected vision. I snuck around in Great fear of the “Romans” for some time, always watched. [Xtanity?] was, illegal, was this a projection of a reality consisting of the Ussie? Or prison here! The palm tree world didn't come till 10 months later (or maybe the equal of thousands of years real elapsed time). My superimposed vision of the Black iron prison into Fullerton was a ghostly alternate present world which I had been headed for, but which the intervention saved me from. The dreams I had (starting with the vast amounts of written material) were they replacement programming for the world I actually was in? Since the old take (programming) no longer applied, new programming was necessary in huge amounts, + quickly. There is no way I can assess whether I’m the only one who would have wound up living in the Black iron prison world, since I can't determine where or what is is or even if in this our better alternate world if even came into existence it it is here in the. 8 The U.S. it may not have. For the first time it occurs to me that the “conspiritors” may have been after me, + yet still may be the Watergate gang. That there was intervention I remain sure of. That I was helped I am assured of that an alternate present- at least for me- I am sure of that it is a free. Rather than slave one, I am still sure of the extent of it I am not sure of. If they came after me they were not just after me- the 3 eyed [commos?] described all those [other deaths] victims. Something, really murderous + lethal seems to have been involved, a dreadful tyranny across the land, destorying its best thinkers. This was what I used to call “[Solarcon?].” Probably is was connected with the [newer?] government. This high speed firing (movement) of the inner track is that which is evidently responsible for the enhanced set-ground discrimination. The projected track selectively appeared as -forms. Set is it possible that the slow, synchronized rate at which it cost___ mores is a malfunction? How can it work [better] at the “longer” speed? Maybe the projected track is not supposed to merge. Certainly anything but the best use is a misuse. Suppose that insanity the inner track is dropped down to the pace of the external world, subjected to it so to speak, rather than attaining the intended higher velocity. Has not the connect worn out? Maybe this is the initiated perpetuated failure the “inner eye” winds up- not correctly superimposingbut acquired by the externals. The “parmfine” quality is not that We project, but that once projections get absorbed and hence desired ream It is sort of heel- sleep; “dreaming under the complete control Of the object” luminosity- the phospherus factor- is at there at All; it is a degenerated talent, fasten out of use. It was in Terms of this luminosity (set) that I distinguished Zebra, The luminosity distinguished Zebra, but Zebra was really Out there arranging objects and processes in the objective World; if the luminosity was impacted by me, the eatity was None the less objective. I conclude that the luminosity is probably 9 Internal (phosphene) in origin, but the patter of phosphene activity (shared, colres, intensity) is stimulated often from Without (e.g. radiation) evidently normally the phosphenes Are not being stimulated to the degree necessary for ignition. I just realized of causal the programming is on the inner take + not in the external objects; the latter are perceived by any number of people, who each must be programmed Serve what differently To take a new tack? I was shown both the 1st advent and the apocalypse. The 2nd advent, judgement, + the final millennial Kingdom. These are the absolutely ultimate events which the Great prophets of antiquity were shown. To reveal to all men. In starting 2500 years ago + running through to the end of linear time Wait! I remembered back to the beginning, to before I came here. So I passed along the entire length of linear time from start far in past to the distant (?) end in the [far] future; I experienced it all as my inner experience engramming time-track rushed through at incredible velocity. It did not stop until the last frame or inch of linear time ran out- not just the end of the track but the end of time; the last part was the Golden Rectangle Gate + the Garden. The take ended because there linear time evidently ended. This ended my personal extensive trans-life existence. I am no longer bound to the wheel; this is what the fulfillment (consummation) of linear time (engramming track) signifies. I think, by having the entire film run from 1st to last frame, I was freed from what is called karmic existence (“my entire life passed before my eyes”). This is the liberation sought in Hinduism. Evidently, before you can be extricated from here you must live through it all to the end. Although evidently it will suffice to run the thousands of years through in [ecerenmonions?] So I was not just saved from the doom the Xerox letter would have brought- in this world; I was extracted for all time. The feeling that I have is that apparently I did my assigned task when I [felt?] the injury to the Xerox letter. ( whatever could have been backed out into the open when the decision was made to maid me the Xerox letter? What evil plan was + amaged? I don't think it was just a matter of inter vention to protect me; I think sending the Xerox letter to the Bureau accomplished more than that, I would not be rewarded just for been saved from danger or saving myself from danger. whichever it was. I achieved something positive. I did my sor + that can't be equated with mere extrication from danger. Perhaps the [less would (other wise) have been able to (+ even has been able up till then) to make of me. By sending the Xerox letter to the Bureau I renounced all that worldly esteem + possessions (gains), as scits pointed out. Perhaps the Xerox letter was threat as temptation: the wealtle of this world, + by renouncing it I gained the next world instead. I successfully passed my test at this level + so was ready to move up (or back home). The terrible danger I saw in the Xerox letter may not have had to do with letter qua trap, but letter in terms of a great spiritual decision, the last one I had to make (correctly). That could have explained in, fear + tension at the time; my salvation - immortal soul - was at stake, not merely temporal physical harm. If I had answered the Xerox letter, power fame + wealth might have been in store, not prison - + the loss of my soul. God desired my salvation + so he mightily assisted. But all the hists of angels were watching: not the secular powers, temporal powers. But all the heavenly ones both good + evit. Mant, when she weighs, will weigh by that act; it decided it vis-a-vis the gree assize. That is where judgment (notice) of my choice lay - not at police gh my intuition at the time was correct; everything hung on my correct choice. + I was divinely aided. (Getting Tears also gave me that impression - it was part of my divinely - appointed sob In talking with KW tonight I realized that I can't be sure which of these two took place in 3-74 A) there was normal deterministic programming + whe the Xerox letter arrived it was broken by the grace of God; or: B) God gives assistance, which in itself resembles a kind of programming; it goes on normally unnotical, but on 3/20/74 the situation was so grave that this benign programming rose to the surface + I became aware of it 11 In other words, 3/20/74 was not an interruption of programming but more an intensification. A) is the “Hermes trismegistus” model; astral determinism interrupted by divine Grace. Let's assume B: intensification, not interruption. At least here we can absolutely for sure still speak of orthogonal interventive- it is just the “against what” that has changed. The greatest miracle of all took place in my life in 3-74: God intervened to save me. There can be no doubt that I was in the grip of the divine, + something dreadful was [arected?]. It acted for me, spoke for me. It extricated me. What else really matters? I am not anxious to prove this world evil, if it was an intensification (monotheism) rather than interception that is fine with me. What emerges most clearly is that God is guiding me through life, to + toward [final?] safety + that He loves me. IF A, God was working against deterministic programming Which would have destroyed me. IF B, He was working against active enemies who would have destroyed me. In either case He rescued me Take the “watch + monopoly $” [chasm?]. At the end I could walk freely in front to the cops + not fear. Was the threat from that [quarter?] That’s where I head felt for sometime it was. The turning against the party (by sending the Xerox letter to the Bureau, as I’ve noted before, saved me potentially from both the party + the Bureau). If I no longer felt watched, that had to do with the U.S. not the party. If I no longer felt watched because I felt guilt + projected it but, that would have been the party. (i.e. awareness of involvement) It is more likely that by sending the Xerox letter to the Bureau I proved my innocence to them than that I hurt the party- this would be true if the Xerox letter was a fake or was not a fake. Vis-a-vis the Bureau the results would be the same, except that if it was a forgery it wouldn’t affect the party in any way whatsoever. This, the fact that I didn’t know them (+ still don’t) what it was, signified, why it came or who sent it- this is precisely why intervention was essential + crucial. I just could not figure it out- hence I didn’t know what to do with it, However well-intentioned I