not YHWH's creation (as the Jews + Xtians believe); it is more like what Zoroaster believed (+ not what Mani believed). I is YHWH's world or soma; II Satan's. Gnostic fulminations against our world should be directed at hyperuniverse (or track) II. Jesus, in the Lord's prayer, specifically states that the Father's will, which is done in heaven (i.e. I) is not yet done on Earth (the admixture). It would seem that "blow + counterblow coming faster + faster do not allow us to assess whether I or II predominates here, but that at the end, I will absolutely triumph - by a vast invasion of II will all the hosts, whereupon the dead, the counterfeit will vanish. It is not really here in our composite world that the issue will be decided, but we will experience dis‐ ruptions, echoes, of the war in heaven between absolute good + absolute evil (I + II). Each of us must choose to become an instrument for one side or the other, inasmuch as control of our world is what the quaired concerns: it is our world which the contests rages over. In connection with this I reaffirm that whereas in the early sixties I saw Palmer Eldritch here, in the seventies I saw Zebra, the Logos, here. The tide turned. 23 I not only saw Zebra (the Logos or spirit) but in fact it found me + extricated (i.e. freed) me + gave me renewised life, defeating the powers (outwitting?) of Darkness + their plans, within a vast historical reweaving process in which the grand plan (strategy) of evil (of II) was turned back is o made to retreat. "Tears," written several years before the intervention, depicts this turning point. If we are to use the novel as a source-book or model, II had a firm grip on us all, before it was surprised + thrust back, since most of "Tears" depicts the landscape of II, not even an admixture it let alone I. (This changes upon the coming of the dream + what follows it.) So "Tears" as the microcosmos of Buck‐ man's life, depicts the vast historical reversal which took place in this kosmos exactly synchronized in time (which I can prove by citing the appearance of the girl with the Golden Fish necklace + my waking up - remembering - at the exact month "Tears" was released. I'm not sure that I ever clearly realized this before: "Tears" doesn't just picture the static prison world that obtained in 70-74 but chronicles The dynamic change-processes which took place in those years from the time it was written to '75, the year beyond its release, + the year (75) I first saw + entered PTG I, to my delight + surprise Maybe the interpolated fakes from II are not whole [time periods of] worlds, but like the fakes R.Childan has in his store, indistinguishably mixed with the real. so as to recontour the totality into something which it is (or seems) really not. Changes, additions + subtrac is here + there + the Gestalt of reality as a whole appears other than it is as if the animal is poisoned If so, then Zebra's purpose (job here) is easy to explain: he is weeding out the spurious. The vastly enhanced set-ground discrimination makes it possible for him to distinguish what we can't: the fake interpolation from the real - i.e. what's supposed to be, + when he weeds them out he abolishes them, + with them our memories So we never know. They weren't real (really there in the first place in "Tears" the dream shows an intrusion into II not our world (by I). 24 since the Kingdom of God is I; it has always been here but effaced + occluded over by projections from II. the we seem to be in a situation where the more data we have less pattern can be discerned, which suggests the presence of disinformation (e.g. "I'm from the portuguese states of America." I could puzzle forever as to what that means; but it may (sic - not "does" but "may") signify nothing. I have the feeling that this is deliberate. The rock bottom bewildering puzzle is: 1) There is much undeserved suffering in the world. 2) There is an omniscient benign entity who can help (potentially) every living creature by informing it 3) But it doesn't (v. âž€). Why doesn't it? Why did it tell me about Chrissy's birth defect but not Doris' cancer? possibilities: A) Its power is limited. B) Its benignity is limited 2) its knowledge is limited D) 4th "Y" possibility, or a combination of the above E) theory: it doesn't want its adversary to know it's here, so it must disguise (randomize?) Its presence, including by giving out self-discrediting information; as if mimicking a hoax or fool or illusion etc. theory: my mystical sense that there is some kind of mystical F) Parousia of replacement by it of each suffering creature; that either it becomes the creature or the creature it; the distinction erased. It is always Christ who suffers, is humiliated + dies - + is resurrected, thus suffering is the road to re unification with the savior (the sacred brother or sister). knowledge of suffering is the ultimate knowledge: the mast valuable, the most cherished. At the center of it lie. The final mystery (secret disclosed): his presence outside (the not-I) + inside (the I). He is both cosmos (that which is perceived) + self (the observer) Tat tvam as the macro + micro are one: what is above is the same as what is below, etc. The sacred unity is revealed e 25 that there is nothing that is not Christ + no road that does not lead to him. (Some are more direct than others - suffering is always cut short, perhaps? Because of God's mercy? Observation does not bear this out. to suffer is to know Christ because He suffered the narrowing of the approximation (similarity; lead or without warning to the miracle of identity, of ontology o i is-ness. Put another way. The hedonistic avoidence what w pain results in a distancing from the savior. tht fl is desired is neither a seeking for pain nor a from it - because an evasion of is-ness (ontology) is involved in the fugue. Take Joan as an example. In gratifying her pleasure desires she evades life, because pain + disappointment are but into the foundation of life in such a way that to avoid one is to hold back from the other. The basic constituent here is gratification of self. self is the key term. Self somehow blots out reception of Christ the not-self + prevents him becoming the self A ritual death is required, a divine sacrifice: of self. self An extinguishing of self as dipolarized with the world as Christ is not dipolarized against the world because (un quely) Christ is both micro (self) + macro (world). The regular human self is not isomorphic with the world but stands in contradistinction to it: ego vs world (i.e. "my gain, your loss - me, me, etc. since (not if) since Christ as self is both inner micro + outer macro, surrender to him as self produces identity with all other life as one continuum. This is the opposite condition when the normal ego exists; it exists vs the world + hence all other life. The world + all other life is viewed as source of gratification for the ego. Also, it is to be feared as a source of deprivation of what the self wants for itself. The concept here is center. ego is spurious center (omphalos). Jesus said, "greater love hath no man from than that he give up his life for his friend (3)." it the standpoint of ego, this would never occur. makes no sense. So Flight from suffering instantly involves a flight from life (reality). This is common knowledge, & normally observable- i.e. obvious. But the secret, mysterious opposite from this is that a full facing of suffering- a non-flinching - Can lead to a magic alchemy: suddenly it is you/suddenly it is Christ/so you must be equal (be) Christ. If this were observable (common sense knowledge) people would seek out suffering to trigger this syzygy is-ness. There are several objectiosn to this being commonly known (pain as a good, practical considerations of personal gain, etc. It must come as a complete surprise, an unearned reward: i.e. a free gift of God's gracious love). I have seen the savior wrapped in the crazed, crapping, dirty, wild body of an animal, then transformed & eternally my friend. Christ in deliberate disguise, & the passion fulfilled in victory: resurrection. Only when I felt his hand on my shoulder & dreamed the "Donlevy" dreams & had the vision of him thrusting himself through the 3:5 door, renewed & strong, did I understand (as with the disciples - only afterward did they know who had been with them. What must be blended in with this is the awareness of the logos-as-plan, & ourselves - not as just acting out roles or tasks that help fulfill the plan - but that we are (esse) parts of th plan - there is a grand design which can be dimly discerned both in history (the macro cosm) & the individual (salvation). To move us along & into the pattern properly the programmer must (obviously) often exert pressure on the person which may be experienced as pain, suffering or defect. This is where faith is required: the plan is not yet visible (to us). Here I admit we must assume invidible benign purpose beyond our understanding. If we are cuttings from the true vine (& as well as pruning & otherwise caring for the vine the gardener takes care of us — which is what I experienced in 3-74) — if the true vine is Christ, then we should be Growing — evolving — toward replications of him & th so in a sense we [already] are him But—& this is intriguing— in an early Growth stage; not developed nor complete, we also are unaware (which is connected with our amnesia; memory & identity cannot be separated). Anamnesis, then, is more than re covered memory of the past; it is a restoration— in the present — of true identity, as in, "I now remember where I am [ie am now, not memory merely of where I once was]" — Just read "who" for "where." Continuity of identity is restored — resumed actual nature not formed by the life history of events here but preceding that history, even though it is 1000s of years long. all that has happened here has been an fitful, uneven growth back to the primal divine identity: alpha & omega are identical. There was a fall, & the climb back up is long & painful— one seeks to regain the ancestral home, & recognize it as not something new but something remembered (again: anamnesis). Now, when Harvey fell, like Hefestus, he could not on his own find his way back in; he could on his own get only so far — not quite enough. I was essential in returning him. He waited for my return — he did not know how long that would be. All he could do was faithfully wait in faith, & call to me. I finally after a very long time returned & restored him. A relationship & a place are involved. I can't help recalling Christ's saying, "You did not choose me: I chose you." This is what distinguishes my experience from ritual or magic: I did not summon God; He selected me. JOhn 5:22: Christ says "For the Father Judges no one he has entrusted all judgment to the son (footnote: "Power over says, He life + death express the highest judicial function"]. Will fact -in "I tell you most solemnly, the hour his come It is already