its enemies to become like it." Indeed Fascism has done this successfully, sporified, so to speak. It is like a malignant life form which proliferates. The nature of it is to concentrate + consolidate power at its center, whereas its opponent stands at the fringes. It is almost as if centrifugal + centripetal forces are at work opposing each other. The BIP's resurrection is like a parody of Christ's; both appear immortal. The miracle which Christ must work is to defeat the BIP while preventing his followers from becoming (like) it. Thus he pulls it down but does not occupy the vacuum left in the inner most citadel - which explains why ZEBRA melted away after August 1974 (again: it is not a theory on my part that Christ tore apart the Nixon tyranny; I was allowed to literally see it + understand, by His grace). Blow + counterblow come faster + faster as time runs out. But it is always Christ vs Rome. But Christ is not just reaching out against Rome; he reaches toward the [..] entity animating it from behind (the Artifact). - The BIP camouflages itself; ZEBRA camouflages itself; we see neither. It's easy to understand the reason for the BIP to disguise itself, but why ZEBRA? To protect itself - as witness what happened to Christ at Advent [one.] Presumably ZEBRA camouflaged itself vis-a-vis its adventing. ---------- A totally subjective (but real) interpretation could be put on my twin-pronged Acts material (it in "Tears" + as seen visually, literally, externally, with inner different koine-speaking personality to match): it would be that I exist at two space-time continua, that Rome c. AD 70 doesn't underlie the world but underlies me. It isn't a matter of reincarnation memory of a past life but - Abruptly I recall my analysis that it is the prior personality which took over, not Thomas, but from Thomas (i.e. in place of Thomas). In that case I did not [..] back in time but forward. The memories I now have of 1928 on are "spurious" - laid over the real (original one of Rome c. AD 70). In which case it was not PKD who was rescued. But Thomas. He was extricated from Rome, brought here, to safety, where (when) he could practice his religion with impunity, safe from the hated Romans. At first he still imagined he was still in ancient Rome + acted accordingly. But gradually he put on the contemporary PKD personality as normal + as his own, + forgot Rome (+ the koine). No - the Golden Fish reminded me of who I really was, + when it really was + where. Thomas was not impressed over PKD but was roused from the depths, from underneath; PKD was a superimposed "false memory track" as in "We Can Remember It For You Wholesale." If I were writing a story, this is what I'd have it point to, indubitably. "He was reminded of his real existence which had been artificially erased + a fake memory track implanted over the real one," etc. + of course the Acts material in "Tears" - that could be because my suppressed real memories were seeping through the barriers - without my recognizing what it was writing as done from memory rather than invention. + the post partem memories would be due to Thomas having died; Plato discusses the ultra terrestrial knowledge which the soul acquires between incarnations (I think I'm not only proving reincarnation but also the immortality of the soul). I remembered my life in the pleroma. But my memory was deliberated restored for a contemporary purpose. Thomas, acting in the present, was needed so that certain historical events (divine intervention) could take place. I believe that this restoration of Thomas, who lived almost 2000 years ago, marks these as the end-times. This dovetails with the "St Sophia" prophecy. The original (earliest) Xtian dead are being resurrected. I have steadfastly believed this as the ursatz of my experience, it is not what I did that counted but rather what he (Thomas) did, but he + I are the same. I originally had been him [..] am reunited with my own self upon what he was + I was - I am judged. God repeated temporal contemporality. He can make the intervening 2000 years not to have ever been. This is a pretty heavy thing: not just to be the distant past. The issue regarding Rome is yet to be settled. The outcome of the First Advent is not, as it sounds, satisfactory. God can cause it to have been the case that the "now" is between 50 + 70 AD, + the Second Coming occurs exactly as promised. All we need is for my experience to happen to many. The shared (koine) reality would be what my idios kosmos was, in which case the intervening 2000 years never was. This imparts a mere hologramatic quality to the world, as far as I am concerned. It is not real; it is provisional: false work. Already it has been altered without our now remembering it as it was (v. my Metz speech). Was I drawn all the way back that far in order that history - in our time + in former times - could be redirected? This is now a second (or more) pass. The Thomas personality + his world is supratemporal: whereas this PKD one is ephemeral + subject to absolution. To know this would scare people into pistis. But it is carefully kept secret, the second coming will occur on schedule + suddenly we will find ourselves confronted by that space, time + situation. This suggests that our world is a mere thought in the mind of God, + without intrinsic substance. So the 2nd coming will soon long ago having taking place, instead of not having taken place. That is the ultimate + greater significance of my experience - + it dovetails with the "St Sophia" prophecy. 60 He will not be born; he will have been bor But there is more mystery here: something to with the living joining the dead in the corpus Christ the plain fact is that Thomas died, but in 19 o lived again. Christ could come up with what he mised his followers. It has to do with time. If has the power to repeal time he has the power repeal death. The EB discusses the importance of 3 vis-a-vis death + what Christ promised Whether deliberately or not I don't know, but universe presents us with a formidable puzzle mystery: 1) there is a loving, salvific, intervent supernatural entity; + 2) it rarely intervenes. rarely? Why not regularly? How can suffer of children be equated with the fact of Christ's cosm existence? We must find an answer to this g or go crazy. Spinoza, reasoning from monotheism, prove that miracles (suspensions of natural law) c not exist, as they would be signs of God's wea ) turning his argument ar (i.e. imperfection. + reasoning from my experience of divine interver + the suspesion of natural law ("melting" it) I say that this indicated we don't have a single but 2 antithetical entities, in my model it is yin side of the urgrund us the yang, + ultimate in partnership. beyond time + process. The key, perhaps, is in the concept of necessi for the universe to exist at all, ananke must intervention is of necessity limited, necessity + t authenticity of reality are interrelated without necessity, the universe would appear dreamlike, a fake, irreal. + for most people - virtually all people, to perceive + understand reality as merely hologramatic would be lethal. So the Deus Absconditus can only "melt" causal trains for those who can cope with + endure the discovery that the universe is a hologram. These are rare - + few - people. I am one of them; the hologramatic quality of reality is something I can live with + remain sane. So it was allowable to disclose to me in 3-74 what was disclosed. I had long suspected that that's what it is. I had been gradually solving the reality ripple. The 3-74 revelation was confirmation. ---------- v. "Myth + Reality": there is no doubt that in 3-74 I passed from "mundane" time to "sacred" time in which the gods are present. [Diagram] Linear time --|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--> Vertical lines indicate a succession of events moving from past to future. But when the events are "laminated" into one trans or supratemporal event, its shape can be seen + its nature detected (note: it is no longer events - plural. But an event singular.) I can repeat back that when all the events in linear - time sequence are "laminated" into one transtemporal event, it is Christ vs the Black Iron Prison. + Christ is going to win (i.e. return) So what we experience as a sequence of events (in linear time) are in actuality unfolding segments of one event, + until or unless that one event can be seen + its nature apprehended, the many (thousands of) segments add up to nothing comprehensible. In themselves they are mere epiphenomena. we have to pass from freeze from to normal infolding to flash-cut velocity of segment - replacement before we can understand what we're seeing - like stop action photography of a growing seed. But as I say, in 3-74 I did see the 1000s of years of segments laminated together into one true event - + there was Christ + there was Rome + they were antithetical - absolutely. The BIP vs the PTG in strife underlies all. + of course, to see 1000s of years of segments one would need a memory spanning those 1000s of years - which (anamnesis) I had. So by a 2000-year memory I saw the unchanging beneath the flux, + wow. Christ vs the BIP, Christ alive + here now! + the only way I could have a 2 to 3000 year memory would be because I'm immortal: like what I saw, trans or supra temporal. + to prove this, I remembered Rome c. AD 70, + a trans or supratemporal self appeared in me (i.e. Thomas). I've got it! Rome (the BIP) is supra temporal. So is Christ. + so are the authentic Xtians who are parts of the corpus christi + who fight the BIP - not over one or during one lifetime, but over a multi life-span period of 1000s of years. I am one of them, + I extended back (down inside, as in "Ubik") across 1000s of years! I was fighting Rome in 70 AD + have never stopped. For instance, my civil disobedience etc vis-a-vis the US Gov - these are a manifestation of a life 1000s of years in duration of such combatting. I am the same throughout; Rome [..] Christ [..] + that is why the Golden Fish necklace on the Girl triggered off instantaneous anamnesis because I do possess (like Empedicles) long term memories + identity. I have no way of assessing how many others there are like me, who are - have been - waging a fight spanning literally 1000s of years - back to the Babylonian Captivity. This gives me a new idea of why anamnesis was induced in me: it had to do with "Tears". "Tears" so to speak got through the census + depicted for all to read the descriptions of the laminated entity composed of a near-infinitude of "layers" along the linear time-line - Rome, primarily, but I think that the counterforce (i.e. [..]) LS in there, too, in other words, "Tears" depicts the antithetical supratemporal archetypes - so it carries one hell of a message! Perhaps it is aimed at other immortal Xtians, for reasons I don't know. To induce anamnesis [..] Well, I don't need to know that part. I do my job; I wrote it + got it into print. So now I know where the acts material (+ other