if it differs at all. It will have coercive power over os -it will be the master- as long as it bears the indubitable hallmark of reality. (An analysis of the term "reality" yields this realization.) So breaking its power + breaking its ability to obtain our assent to its realness are one + the same. Viewed this way, 3-74 (actually an outgrowth of 2-74) takes on a wholly new aspect. In 2-74 upon seeing the Golden Fish I remembered that this reality is not real (this is a significantally different way of stating the situation, in contrast to, "I realized Rome CAD 45 is the true reality." What is now emphasized is the recollection (anamnesis) that this here + now reality is a fraud (without reference to what, in its place, is real). Let us start with what is {...} first. Actually, the two realizations Folder 03 - 072 Folder 03 - 072 are lockstepped: they are one simultaneous realization. But for my immediate purposes, I now view it as, I remembered that USA 1974 is not real - whereupon the disintegration of the "hologram" insidiously set in, with a full restitution of my real self + real world breaking through within a month: an inevitable, stealthy process which could have only one outcome: the perceptual + cognative surfacing of the actually real, in place of the simulated. Obviously, if the simulated world were to be taken to be real, a psyche which remembered the actual reality would have to be either extinguished + replaced by a false one which did not remember (i.e. know the truth), or the psyche would have to be impaired with the same outcome. In either case, memory-contents would have to be shaved off - i.e. dissociated in some way - evidentally not destroyed but partitioned off. There is no use feeding a spurious reality to someone who remembers the real one. Therefore I state that this implies that forgetting was calculatedly introduced in order that the spurious world not be undercut + exposed as irreal - which leads us back to the "servant-become-master" theme - + "Vanishing Point" + "Tears" offering bits of a protonarrative designed to trigger off calculatedly dissociated (blocked) memories - it has to do with the death, a long time ago, of a woman. E.g. {...} Folder 03 - 073 Folder 03 - 073 Immediately from "Tears" to "Maze" to "Ubik" I say, something (represented in "Ubik" as Runciter + Ubik) seeks to break through "from the other side" -i.e. beyond the spurious reality + so presumably from the authentic one- to give us messages + clues to awaken us to our true situation. But the spurious reality generates noise which buries these signals where + when possible; they can only slip through marginally, + this reinforces my belief in the servant-turned-master; the spurious reality fights back - it is not passive, therefore a generator (of it) must exist; this would be the BIP or speck of heavy metal. Authentic reality equals the rest of the circuit, structure or (as I understand it) macrobrain. If "Maze" throws any light onto this, I'd say we constructed the generator + started the counterfeit world going, fed to us with us voluntarily forgetting, + then, once in control, it would not restore us. This makes us responsible for our own situation (conforming to the Jewish-Xtian view of the Fall). It is very possible that an extremely high order of technological knowledge on our part was initially involved, + is involved in the banishing of level #1 later. Also, this model conforms to the idea that God is looking for us, seeking to reach us, not the other way around. What we are dealing with is (as in "Ubik" an in-breaking Folder 03 - 074 Folder 03 - 074 of God (the real world) into the simulated world by waking up discrete individuals here + there - re my push-pull psyche-world model, rather than a "koinos" or "objective" mass in-breaking for everyone. So my writing (viewed in terms of purpose or use, not cause) is to put forth our actual situation again + again, slightly varied each time, in order to kick over our blocked memories. "Tears" then is highly important in the sequence of my writing. 1) "Tears" depicts the actual world (level #3) 2) But "Tears" is a far worse world than the simulated one we imagine we inhabit. 3) Aha! This is the state of things in "Maze"! This explicates a motive as to why we ourselves would blind ourselves to the true situation, the world of the BIP, the Empire, Acts. We wished to escape in a technologically-highly-sophisticated fugue-system. But the BIP saw an advantage to it in our fugue: if we denied (forgot) its existence + entered a reassuring simulated reality, we would not act to attack it + destroy it, as the authentic early Xtians do. So there was a base collusion between us + the BIP; it was a kind of pact! We wanted (as in "Maze") to escape from the situation, rather than solve it (i.e. overthrow the BIP). Folder 03 - 075 Folder 03 - 075 Had the reality been pleasant, why would we seek relief in irreality? If we engineered this fugue or even colluded in it, axiomatically, reality must have been harsh (+ brave action on our parts was required, which we evaded). This is explicit in "Maze," + seems to be the message in "Tears" in which book the literal + specifically actual real dystopia is presented. But in 1974 the authentic Hermetic adepts (true early Xtians) fundamentally ameliorated conditions in the real world (Acts or "Tears" - then "Tears" was a horrific nightmare bomb to the BIP's interests + corpus; + its holistic presentation of the true situation equates with my 2-3/74 anamnesis!) So "Joint," "Eye," "Stigmata," "Ubik," "Maze" + "Tears" are progressive parts of one unfolding true narrative, in which the genuine Hermetic macro-micro cosmology is put forth, the spurious world discerned for what it is, + in "Maze" and esp "Tears" the true state of things put forth- to jog our memories. Six novels interlocked, along with a number of stories. We are not to be allowed our fugue (sleep + hallucinated worlds), because, due to the BIP from which we fled, this fugue over the past 5000 years turned lethal; the BIP grew + grew with our now-unwitting collusion. The dead woman is the female AI voice which tells us the truth (as Holy Wisdom); that voice has been killed off in us, so that we no {...} woman is {...} Folder 03 - 076 realized + remembered, + it happened long ago (hence the skeleton is "Tears") Freedom, then, + the courage to take a stand against the BIP, are totally interwoven. We lost our freedom: exchanged it for an hallucinated world in which we could ignore -+ even serve- the BIP instead of recognizing it, because if we recognized it, we would have to fight it (+ suffer at its hands) or face our own evil - the voluntary serving of it by us. However, by accepting an hallucinated world in which the BIP is effaced or appears benign, we can forget the truth + collude with it in unknowingly serving evil - since its true nature is disguised from us, + by our consent. We will not serve God, as Elijah demands; we serve Ahab. So Elijah is the prototype of the Spirit that awakens us to the true God, + to the true evil adversary, whom, in our forgetfulness, we serve, as if intoxicated or in drunken sleep. Elijah awakens us to the true situation, + we hear the "still small voice" or AI voice, which is of the true God - the one true God. "Scanner" continues the narrative (of the previous six novels), not treating objective outer world as irreal, but going back to "Impostor" + studying false inner identity + lost memories of true self! The 2 identities war with each other, with an in-breaking of messages (the German, inc. from "Fidelio"!!!) The German is from neither Fred nor Bob nor Bruce, but, as the messages in "Ubik," just break in "from the mysterious outside"! I never before realized this - it isn't Fred, certainly. + it isn't Bob! It's another Folder 03 - 077 Folder 03 - 077 ur personality, speaking a protolanguage (based on my experience with the koine!) He had a grandfather (or granduncle?) who spoke German: an ancestor! The info conveyed chronologically in the sequence of books is interesting: 1) "Eye" plural + subjective worlds. 2) "Joint" world as simulated deliberately 3) "Stigmata" plural hallucinated worlds concocted by an evil magician-like deity 4) "Ubik" messages of assistance penetrating the simulated world(s) "from the other side" by/from a salvific true deity 5) "Maze" simulated world fabricated in part by us, to escape an intolerable actuality 6) "Tears" the nature specifically of that actuality (an intolerable one - the BIP, Acts) 7) "Scanner" buried memories connected with lost identity; + protospeech breaking through, not into world as in "Ubik" but inside a person's head. Two psychoi one in each hemisphere, each with its own name + characteristics. Plus such stories as "Impostor," "Retreat Syndrome," "Electric Ant," "Faith of...", "Human Is" {Note} + related themes in "Time-Slip," "MITHC," "Penultimate Truth," "Game-players." {Note:} + "Precious Artifact," a very good one. Also even "Unteleported Man." ("Androids/Dream" treats memory-identity theme. It is one story slowly unfolding, a vast tapestry, as Le Guin pointed out. Folder 03 - 078 Folder 03 - 078 No one book or story is correct + the others incorrect, + no one book or story tells it all. Many of them must be read - + this is the first time I see how "Scanner" is an essential part of the Great Narrative - picking up where "2nd Variety", "Androids Dream" + "Electric Ant" left off. Even in "Japed" there is a 2nd dissociated personality, a pilot for "Scanner". This vast over theme could be extracted from the novels + stories, but that alone would not prove it to be true. But 2-3/74 did prove it (both the themes of "inner" + of "outer") to be true, + if proved true in one case, for me, it must be objectively -intrinsically- true. In "Scanner" he (Fred) has forgotten who he really is (Bob, who equals Thomas vis-a-vis me, PKD). The Ursprache, breaking in/through, signals this forgetting, + is an analog of the in-breaking messages in "Ubik," pointing to another -+ real- world or true protoreality now forgotten, but which can't be entirely denied. Thus I depict in "Scanner" what may happen to those who read the earlier writing. Bob = Fred Thomas = PKD } I never saw it before. "Maze" + "Tears" tend to vindicate the view that some element of voluntary forgetting (self deception on our parts) is involved. Folder 03 - 079 Folder 03 - 079 If "Tears" is how it really is, + "Tears" seems to be this, then collusion on our parts makes sense (compared-contrasted to say "Joint"). This self-deception requires the suppression of our original self (so to speak "Bob"), in favor of "Fred" who does not remember crucial things. Always before, I've asked, "which novel is closest?" without realizing that the sequence of novels (+ some of the stories) tells one unfolding narrative in which all (seven novels or so) are necessary. The building in "Maze": the negative hallucination: it is there but they can't see it, like in that Lafferty story about Chicago. The BIP is here but we can't see it. Yet when I saw level #3 I saw it. I was frightened. It is lethal. But we were attacking it, + we were joyous. Maybe it defends itself by: (1) shaving off our perception of it; + (2) our memory of it, + of our mission: it generates a sort of cloud of unknowing. Could the fear it