form of sleep, a dream - imaginary - all this fitting in perfectly with my 27 year epistomological scruting - a spectacular break through! We aren't really dealing with time, in a sense, but with states or degrees of awareness, except insofar as the delusional world is set in 1974 + the real one in 70 AD. 3 Jeters logic comes in here. Where he worked out a priori (logically) that it must really be only around 70 AD. (or else the scriptures are false.) (Where in fact the scriptures are the key, the door, to the true what is, in contrast to what is mere appearance.) We of the apostolic age - did we cease to stay awake? Contrary to the admonitions we fell asleep (as the Essenes put it, sank deeper into unconscious ness + unawareness) + dreamed, mutually, the linear time except for my writing (e.g. "Maze," "Ubik "3 dream. Stigmata," "Joint," etc) these concepts can't even be thought at all, even intellectually, let alone believed. did we program ourselves? Or is it the deceiver at work, our ancient foe"? I submit the following theory: that punched-through (or orthogonal) time creates a sort of vortex around which linear time circles, the way gravity warps the straight line (+, e.g. The trajectory of Light), into ultimately, a circle - which of the pull is great enough, cannot escape at all. The 1st Advent was such a punched-through center; although we continued to measme a straight or linear trajectory for time, if was in fact trapped in a circle, never escaping The events of the 1st half of the 1st century AD. This will happen again at the time of the 2nd Advent, but I say even this: the 2nd Advent, in relation to "circling" linear time, of necessity punch through - not thousands of years after Advent I but shortly thereafter - reinforcing Advent I into final + full fulfillment (e.g. the stone hured. The empire destroyed - + this is precisely what we saw in '74: the archetype "Babylon" destroyed. the exterior relieving column being the punching through hosts. This is really a stunning breakthrough, acheived by more carefully examining what is meant by the act of remembering. "He remembered who he was + what he was supposed to do." Past time is not involved ) Thus I must construe my anamnesis as precisely the Gnostic revelation, but this should not surprise me that it came + is known by revelation) because our i entire Christian religion is known only that way - + by no other way, a priori or empirical - in the first place substantially, there is no qualitatione 8 + in totality. difference between what has been revealed to me - + how the entire body of sacred knowledge that we possess. + about God, Christ, the spirit - all of it. I am really a pioneer in developing the concept that punched-through (i.e. orthogonal) warps our normal linear time to such a degree as to virtually void it. Once are orthogonal punch-through occurs, linear time is only seeming linear time; in reality it is rendered spurious in its linearality - it is trapped, along with everyone + everything in it. This gives rise in certain minds to a hunch that somehow the phenomenal world is not authentic. Linear time cannot compete with orthogonal time; the latter permits (as I said in my Metz speech) to the possibility o are infinitude of transmutations in the trapped, circling spurious "linear" time which its sentient inhabitants have no way to detect. For one thing, the linear time strip takes on a rigid deterministic quality of itself which, were it not for orthogonal penetration, would hopelessly enslave the life forms held by it. The only solution for These life forms is the intrusion along the orthogonal axis, which has so recently extricated all of us within our historic contexti This explains why, despite his foreseeing his crucifixing Christ could truthfully say, "I have conquered the world: within the concentric rings of pseudo linear time. reverberations of the masters presence + power, masked, would perpetually take place, from then on, until 3 The 2nd Advent completed his process of assimilating The world (which is what I saw him doing) all the generations since 70 AD have been repetitions of an archetypal population (cf the gene pool DNA memory coding studies) which cannot any more escape their roles which they occupied in 70 AD than they can - well, karmic burden is involved here. What they were then they have continued perpetually to be deterministically caught. However, in 1974 (as we reckon it) new orthogonal punch-through came, + changed things. My destiny, to fall victim to the Xerox missive again + again, in an almost eternally repeated mesent (cf "Tempunauts") was interrupted - invaded by assistance + the advocate, who woke me. I recalled it happening before, + destroying me. memory of it happening before would, alone, merely have told me I was doomed again; it wouldn't have informed ne - led me through the intricate escape maneuvers necessary. My situation in miniature reflected the miserable prison-like quality of our linear, unwinding strip, circling Advent I the way the persus a circled, with everyone repeat their dream (mutual dream) over + over, but with super ficial variations in appearance (linear strip accrual). It was because of this repetitious trapped quality of linear time (astral powers, or planetary, destiny, fate, etc) that Advent I took place - to break the "chaldean" astrological causal framework: v. God's grace, providence, v. Sarapis, Hermes Tristmo gistos, etc). This was the whole discovery of the mystery religions. 1) We are trapped, doomed to a repeated pattern, + 2) The deity - savior - can extricate us. No sense can be made out of ➁ (Salvation) unless ➀ is properly understood. 8 the advantage which Advent I gave us is what I call The "reverberations" of the savior's presence penetrating The concentric rings of spurious linear time which followed. Efficacy of his presence remained, just as he himself remained with us, obscured by the accretional appearances. He taught us transtemporal sacraments. As he promised, "I will always be with you, Yes, even unto the end." of course, the fact that linear time would be nullified by Advent I was known to Christ; this was a primary reason + purpose for the Advents: one of its secret major victories - allied with his perpetual continuing with us in the form of the Holy Spirit + the reassimilation of the decomposing universe into a new cosmos with himself as the These centuries since Advent I have been years noos or psyche. of metamorphosis for this (if I may say so) "insect" - like sublime entity, with the world as the metamorphosing body. the only real changes during these centuries has been the furiously rapid development of this metamorphosing entity + our incorporation therein. The selecting - judging- rejecting (i.e. using or discarding process) works itself out in linear time, so the latter serves a purpose ("So that the fallen ones will make their presence known" + can be destroyed). But in fact we never leave the vortex of the original punch through, since the "moth" organism weaves itself around that as its omphalos. that is the key term. 70 AD (40 to 100 AD) has become the omphalos of reality due to the punch through + entry into our world of the redeemer, interestingly. I have begun to think that Zebra or Valis entered This world through the 3:5 gate, but according to my 88 analysis there is really only the advent, withe the 2nd completing the first - hence a part of it; put another way, Advent I was a portion of a total punch-through, in itself incomplete but, as of 1974 beginning to complete itself (the omega stage reached). in respect to me individually, through God's grace + mercy, I was awakened to memory, + so was able to witness the events taking place. + to some extent understand them - +, too, I was released from the deterministic, repetitious wheel, which release came as a result of wakening. That is very important. To wake up from the dream began the emancipation from its repetitious hold. Gott, could anyone conceive the honor that one is not only caught in the immutable cause + effect where but that it repeats itself - has repeated itself again + again in the circular, warped back onto itself spurious linear time (cf "Maze" if they keep returning to Delmake - i.e. rien the same computer tape again + again!) But we do not choose this - it is a snare a delusion of the foe whose coils are broken by the savior who brings the Gnostic vision of truth. This does not rule out salvation by faith; in my case it was that sudden, instantaneous plunging into total faith, + repudiation of the phenomenal world which ushered in the total revelation later on. Although assisted (the Gold came to my door) I had to totally believe - that which ran contrary to virtually all appearances. Virtually but not completely; like the persus 9 tattoo, the Fish sign was the clue to true reality (beneath). The importance of this should never be overlooked: how similarly the tattood the fish san functioned, except that in the case o 39 of the Fish sign my brain acted as a - as its - own computer - was triggered, was disinhibited, + the dream faded out. perhaps this has always been the Gnostic message: that we "circle" the first Advent, are never far from it, the the savior reaching down is an eternal archetypal moment always occuring, + the rest is mere deception (which would lead to the Gnostic's utterly negative attitude toward this world, + by their views, for good reason - cf Hinduism). what I call Zebra has penetrated downward into this world. Yes given my revelation + based on my 27 years of writing, there would certainly be a rejection of this world as false - we'd be talking about "the topography of the unreal universe." Adobe drugs 938-1144 9270) 707 996-2196 12-75 223 410-2224 410-224 95476 to 1) memory that it is, not that it was (70 AD) which 2) produces release from the repeating wheel. a form of waking to the authentic reality, which is There hidden by the Dokos without + amnesia within. 3) simultaneously, my real self springs [back?) into existence, matched to + with the external real world. therefore I infer that the accretions of linear time, since They repeat themselves, are somehow cyclic, despite appearances. in actuality, we are doomed to repeat a script until inter mention + awakening (through the savior) come. So I say, linear time is warped back on to itself around the punches through orthogonal omphalos - which alone is real; the repeated script is a kind of hallucination (shared by all); v. "Maze" being caught in the repetition of linear time equals not being saved. Being awakened to memory (+ hence perception) of the true world equals being saved. There is a strong Indian element in this basically Gnostic/Paulist (cf "planetary powers") view. After all, the planets repeat + repeat their motions forever + savior (i.e. advent) is very close - a step away. But since the evil sons (fallen ones) do not know this - they think 1000s of years have passed - it is safe for them to reveal themselves. This is a prime use (divine purpose) of this spurious long, extended time (or appearance there of). The deceivers are themselves deceived. Then it serves God's purpose that this spurious long time seem to have happened, that the promise (of His retured soon) was not kept. It is a great revelation, perhaps the greatest of all that 1) Only a few years - decades - have really gone by: I 2) he is about to return,