was once in the BIP, later (to use linear time terms) I could live a life in the PTG. All this indicates that I was absolutely right [..] my Metz speech about tracks A, B, + C. What I did not realize is that arranges along the linear-time axis. They are sequential, but (as I said in the speech) they are alternatives in orthogonal time, + when we move from one to another we suffer amnesia re the one or ones we had been inhabiting. This "track transfer" when viewed as Ted Sturgeon views it coincides with the several worlds of "Tears" which Ted reviewed, + from which (if not also from my previous works) he realized, as he said in the interview I kept bumbling in + out of an understanding of. It is quite possible that a time (linear) will come in which a scientific knowledge will exists by which the coaxial worlds of "Tears" can be readily understood + explained. So once more "Tears" appears involved in all this. Even I, the author, when I wrote it, could not account for the substitution of worlds. I knew about track-hopping, wrote about it at the time - but had no theoretical basis to explain it. Then how did I know about it (which evidently Tears picked up)? Because I'd done it; that's why. + this is why I think that many realities exit here, in this our space time continuum, like so many layers of an onion. The temporal aspect (which is the most critical) is introduced in "Ubik" in terms of form regression. +, too, in "Ubik," the macro entity instructs. (i.e UBIK.) (In cheap "trash" form.) (or, to be more precise, it cooks trash.) (My whole 3-74 experience began with hearing cooked trash but initially it was experienced as demonic.) I think the demonic quality is a delusional device to keep the polyselves contained - deliberate by the macro entity. ---------- The Golden Fish sign did not remind me of a former life I once led, but of an alternate life I am leading now, expressed in linear time as c. AD 70. This is how the Xtians delivered eternal life by anamnesis among the alternate lives - removing the barriers separating knowledge between them; + anamnesis permitted personality exchange among the lives which equalled moving back + forth through linear time. And authentic Xtian who knew about this + read "Ubik" would think I knew or guessed (e.g. the [world] the drugstore reverts + then returns to the future); + with "Tears" it is certain that on some level I knew. + what was the "AI"-like voice I heard? It must have been the macroform which has injected itself into all of us polyselves: it was the author of my salvation in 3-74 by means of 1) either itself + its mind; or 2) its mind + portions from past + future polyselves to aid me, one polyself in trouble. ---------- The importance of the AD 70 life is greater than that of this one. It broke through into here, not vice versa. The other realization I've had is that the BIP underlies all the linear time worlds, + is under attack by set (Zebra). But this attack can't be seen unless several space time continuums are superimposed. ---------- How can it be said that the lives are simultaneous to their time continua are not simultaneous? Can one deny that CE 70 came before CE 1974 which came before, say CE 2019? If they are distributed at points along a linear time line they are consecutive. But Ted Sturgeon is right. I know he is right: I saw CE 70 + CE 1974 superimposed - i.e. simultaneous. I recognized them as such; I knew CE 70 was not memory of a prior or earlier time. But rather a time taking place (like CE 1974) now. Yet CE 70 + CE 1974 are separated by 1904 linear years. How can these facts be reconciled? It must have to do with the tracking. For example take the spiral groove of a record. Draw a radius running (or course) at right angles to the groove: [Diagram] A: the groove |A|B|C|D|E|F etc B: a radius drawn |A|B|C|D|E|F etc[/Diagram] If the groove is tracked by a stylus or point, A is this to B, B to C, C to D, etc. But an orthogonal angle exists that could be regarded as a plurality of points linked to one common source. [Diagram arrows point to grooves ABCDEF etc] Feeding into a common - not source but recepticle - all styli would combine, but not at the styli - each stylus would be ignorant of the information received from the groove by the other styli, + , in addition, would correctly perceive some as prior (tracked already in the past) + later (to be tracked next). There is no error in this view by the styli qua styli. But, if they feed into a common receiver which blends (mixes) their several signals, then a composite is formed which could be spoken of as containing simultaneous information (or experience) from the past, present + future. Structurally this is very simple. Now, how could stylus point A's information ([..] the past) intrude into C, + F into C as well, at the stylus points? (or more precisely, at stylus point C?) Two possibilities occur to me. 1) Accidental malfunction. All signals (A through F) are routinely mixed at the orthogonal bar (radius) but for the technical reasons the below happened: [Diagram A →C←F] For example, the "radius bar" or macro mind might have suffered an overload + reversed the direction of information: i.e. from stylus to bar (normal) got reversed into bar to stylus - fed in the opposite direction. Each stylus is supposed to carry information in only one direction, at all times (in which case no given stylus would ever realize it was connected with the others even if it could "see" them). In this model, no purpose was deliberately served, no goal was sought, but now stylus C can figure out that it + A through F are tracking in unison (simultaneously). However, it is possible that there was no malfunction, that C - well. Let's say that C had begun to lose the ability to function properly (cope with its problems) + that the radius bar or macro entity deliberately fed A + F [..] to augment it. The minds of A + F were capable of doing what C alone could not do. So the quality of simultaneousity exists not in the "grooves" but in the tracking system which can "jump" or arc or wire across rows of grooves (or the linear time line). In itself the linear time line is real - the grooves are genuinely in parallel rows - but this fact, real as it is, can be overcome (interestingly, by resort to an orthogonal axis the tracking bar simultaneously samples - is in - a plurality of grooves (times), +, unknown to the styli or lives, mixes all the information (experience) beyond the purview of the individual lives. This radius bar - which links individual lives at various loci along the linear time axis - does it link together all the lives or styli? Not necessarily. There is no evidence to infer that. But it is, as Ted says, a macro entity + it is above linear time + not subject to it, Ted thinks it wishes to "inject" itself into already scripted-out lives to experience them. I'll say yes to this, but add: my experience in 3-74 proves that, if this is what is happening, it doesn't have to follow the script slavishly. At certain points where it wishes it can - by bleeding assistance from earlier or later lives which are all simultaneous to it - break a script. It could even be speculated that it would inject itself into a life in order to do that - to break that life's script. Of course, doing this would change [..] history that, too, might be its goal. I am sure this is the plasmic entity I saw which I call VALIS or Zebra. It has, as Ted say, poly-injected itself along the linear time manifold. Well, here again [we] have the Great Core Secret of the mystery religions inc Xtianity. There may even be a number of such macro organisms - or there may be one with several names (pluriforms of the one). It's blatantly obvious that for us a via regis (royal road) to immortality - to a conquest of time. Time is nothing to Zebra. Once it injects itself into a given human (called the descending of the Holy Spirit on a person) that person is de facto supratemporal - this is evident from the nature of the structure. I would guess that the number of "injectees" is relatively few. But the macro organism requires something back - must have it back: the new covenant, the person who is injected is a servant of the macro mentus, + rightly so. He is part of a corporate entity: [..] supernatural cephelus, + a transtemporal corpus voluntarily serving the superior (divine) will in whatever way it urges. He (the person) will be prompted by it, +, if he's very lucky, he may entering verbal dialog with it - may hear its voice. +, when he is in hopeless trouble, the macro entity can save him. How thrilling - when the person encounters the other like himself at different times in history who are receptables of the macro organism; he is bonded to them in invisible fraternity. A secret brotherhood spanning thousands of years! + communication among them is possible. Although I can't prove it, I'm convinced that in my writing I'm laying down hints, communications, + clues to future "style" - whether I mean to do this or not. My sense of the counterfeit nature of empire or world around me probably stems from a viewpoint somewhat above an "individual stylus" locus; reality seems to me to contain other, different realities to me because of my membership in the - or one of the - supra temporal + hence plural - world macro entities. Obviously there must be other like me, in the past + in the future. Only for those who are linked supratemporally through a "radius bar" (orthogonal) macro-entity could make sense of the irreal in the real make sense, resonate. But! I am (already) in my writing revealing that Zebra (+ what it does) is here. To solve the epistomological puzzles which my writing raises, one must be led to posit Zebra, as I eventually felt the thrust of the writing lead up to it. I hate to belabor this, but "Tears" is the really pregnant one. In "Maze" + "Ubik" + "Stigmata" some kind of attempted explanation is given, as in "Joint" + "Eye" of the plural realities, but not so in "Tears" yet "Tears" contains descriptions of the proving of these other worlds which are more accurate albeit unexplained than the other novels. "Tears" is the master plural worlds novel of them all - + what if the "Acts" material is discerned? A totally correct + complete analysis of "Tears" would have to conclude that the author is saying, "the real world is not what we see it is - can be - nothing other than CE 70 Syria" + if the analysis is based on a knowledge of the existence of this or these supratemporal macro entities it would have to conclude that my taproot ([..]) self currently is a Xtian c. CE 70 in Rome. So the analysis could come up with some unusual information about me as well as the book. Hence the Xerox Missive, which I'm sure came from the adversary. We're probably regarded as mystical political radicals involved with the occult or supernatural, like AMORC: undermining the established authority, which is exactly what we