superior science by a human group (cf. "The adepts. Amoke It would be just like a more to already know about DNA memory + how to disinhibit specific earlier personalities all then knowledge of the ancients. But I am fairly certain that it - the whole thing - was arranged by Zebra, it was Zebra who sent the Golden Fish necklace gued that day, etal. The contents of what I saw when enlightened contains the very entity which induced it. This makes sense. Is not this just the sort of arringing which I saw Zebra doing 23 Thus perhaps it can be said that Zebra wished to disclose itself to me (hierophany) + arranged the [causal steps necessary. This ought to end this discussion, except: did Zebra disinhibit a personality that could see him (it was the enhanced vision due to the presence of the particulon disin hibited personality? I mean, I don't see how it would follow that just because an earlier personality re-emerged it would neces sarity be able - mate me able - to see Zebra In that case (i.e. the experienced arranged by Zebra) it desired more - more was involved - than my merely correctly dealing with the Xerox letter. I'm sure that could be arranged without my ever seeing Zebra, etc. If (since) Zebra arrange the disinhi t biting, perhaps my seeing it was a prime objective - the prime one surely I've repeatedly realized that the entire disinhibiting process was engineered by Zebra. As the modern protestant theologians say, God must take the initiative; man can't. Thus it would seen that, as the EB says, the main purpose of the intervention (with me) was to display (reveal) his reality, goodness, knowledge + powers It was above all things an end in itself. Spiritual things are never subordinated to the material. God descends + man thereby is elevated. Perhaps what is/ was represented here is the principle of at least limited adoptionalism. The superhuman being. I saw are intermediate between man + God, to which level I was raised. so many of my dreams represented the company of the divine I would suspect that at the end of things the personality of Thomas" will absorb me, rather than the other way around; he is the saved (restored) self along my historic (genetic) line. We will be rolled up in him, + he finally in the father. The greater will assimis late the lesser (lower) until final union with God is achieved "Thomas" is my avenue, my bridge, back to God. Between me + God there is too great a gielf; I must be transformed into Thomas" for it to be bridged, + very likely this is precisely what happened in 3-74. "Thomas" shows that that vast gulf can be bridged - + it showed exactly how. "Thomas" was without imperfec tion; he was a perfect man. So back along my genetic line lies one fully justified man: sufficient to serve as a psychopomp for us all, we lesser ones of his species. "Thomas" showed man as knew. he was/is supposed to be: consider what he could see + what he 74) t It is interesting to consider "Thomas" + myself as related along the "form reversion" axis shown in Ubik. I regressed to - not boyhood, + not even to a former man but to a perfected man. The axis of perfection of myself lay retrograde in linear time. As it approached the first Advent it fulfilled its entelechy, rather than doing so by further evolution forward in time. This would seem to be a microcosmic analog of the great general fall; it reveals the revealed truth that we have indeed lapsed from what we once (originally) were. "Thomas" stands w relationship to me as the primordial child stands toward the later man in wordsworth: "ode." A great mystery it unfolded here. Restoration means recapitulation of what once was - change [evolution] backward, in contrast to the evolutionaly forward-motion toward an imaginary completion we today are all taught to see, or imagine we see, we already have been complete, + lost it. The modem worldview is incorrect + the scriptural view of the Fall is correct instead. Christ's task is (as is said too of Elijah) to restore what was lost, not to carry us ahead to a place (condition) never before known to us. What, then, of true development, does linear time accumulate? It is not accumulating; it is losing, possibly toward entropic loss. We are unwinding. "Thomas" who lived 1900 years ago, knows / knew more than I, alone, ever would. How did these things get lost? The best answer may be found in the fact of "Thomas'" proximity to the first Advent. If he got it anywhere he got it there, + I'm sure he recognized it. He is/was, an So to speak, effect of that event. He must have been one of a very small number of people saved (transformed) by Christ either physically directly or through the Paraclete. But if the actual spirit (of Christ) entered him + he ("Thomas") was in 3-74 restored to life, then even just in him alone, in his presence here, the Spirit (of the Savior) was also restored to this world. when Thomas leaped across time (i.e. moved along the Fourth orthogonal axis) Christ (Zebra) returned in Holy Spirit form to this, our world. However, Thomas perceded him externally as well. Obviously, the category of time presents no problems for such entities 21 enterestingly, this leaping across the generation, is what cligal is said to do. Is Thomas Elijah, who is said to come before Christ returns? To do his prefatory work - which, just what "Thomas" did. "Thomas" certainly I think is was not the savior himself (as witness his very human fear the Romans), but, having - according to scripture - been reborn of John the Baptist who was beheaded by the Romans, he could as be far evolved over us in every way + yet possess such very human fears. He is less than the son of man but more than we - isn't this just how I've described him? + I did dream 1) about Elisha, ➀ Mt Carmel; 3) Elias. + Tom Disch did say it sounded like Elijah to him - + it happened at the Possover season. That's why I started putting the cup out funny, how this line of detatched reasoning wound up - back to a very early premise of mine. Then could it be said that Elijah, in his role of restorer of all things is the divine agent who hurled. The "uncut stone" + thus destroyed the tyranny here? to make way ("make straight in the desert a highway for our cord) for the second Advent? "Comfort ye, my people, says your God." For the annoted one is about to return to us, + this time to all of us. (As is said, like the lightning which flashes across the total sky.) guess: it was Elijah who took me over but the lovely neutral "AI" voice was that of St. Sophia, the Logos, the nomin carnated savior Christ. After reappearing in the 1st century AD as John the Baptist he may ever have returned again (e.g. to the Essenes). The fact that one of the main things he insisted on was baptizing Christopher may be a fact which supports the Elijah/John the Baptist explana tion (theory). + he did have the fire of Elijah/John + he did heal + n did hear the "still small" voice (the "AI" voice). + we know from scripture that Elijah could + did send "part of his spirit back to Earth (to his friend whom he loved). my problem (cause of perplexity) may stem from my error in viewing Elijah in his of aspect only; but after all, as John the baptist he was the first + foremost Christian - +, as the Megiddo Mission people correctly say, will be once again. That the person who took me over was indeed a "First + foremost" Christian, + the "St. Sophia" prophecy having been given, perhaps I should accept this particula exegete as the correct one. (8 I mean, I am faced with the comprehension (reveales) that 1 the Parousia is here + 2) it is not yet here. This Paradox could be resolved if it were assumed that while Elijah is here already. Christ is yet to be (again) incarnated. "The sin of righteousness with healing in his wings" may well have come at the vernal equinox of 1974, Great Christian deeds by invisible spiritual powers were undertaken + accomplished at that time (march through August '74). Let me cite the incredible tension I felt (perhaps as a valid apperception of the reality situation) when / as I sent tears off. All everywhere hung in the great historic balance in those days, leading up to the day I witnessed divinity shining up at me (from the very gutter) that day I walked home - the mid-day of the constitutional crising before it was decided (vis-a-vis the high court). ("The books were opened + the court sat in session + judged" the us supreme court? The transcripts us tapes? + in my tears dream I had seen the ancient of Days I saw the ancient of Days (in the Tears dream) [banvils The iron Empire (Daniel] + alot from "Acts. + the uncut store flung (Danies] whenever I read baniel I am sure that the iron Kingdom I here of the end. saw is the sace that he saw: Rome revived, into (ast + west "in the last days of those Kingdoms when their sin is at its height, a king shall appear, harsh + grim, a master of stratagems. His power shall be great; he shall work havic unfold He shall succeed in whatever he does, . His mind shall be ever active + he shall succeed in his critly designs He shall conjure up great plan + when the least expect it, work have on many He shall challenge even (God) (the prince of princes. + be broken. But not by human hands This vision of Danied fascinates me - it goes with his vision of the 420 2 geant with iron less (Rome east + west) with freet of lay mixed with iron, who is struck down by the uncit fone. Here an imperial monarch is similarly described Am I wrong broken not by man but by God as is the giant to think Nixon is meant? The description ("harsh + grim." "understanding dark sayings" i.e. craft - it certainly sounds like him, + Nixon was at the height of his power probably the most powerful man who has ever lived - +, most im portant of all, it was revealed to me in a dream that his evil had been seen, + "all the conspirators would be destroyed," which they were. The court sat - the books were opened tonight on the anx-FM news someone was quited as saying that the USSR "is one great prison." So was the USA until 3-74 when the transformation began (cf Tears). Thus my vision of the black Iron prison as our reality, breached from without (as shown in my James-James dream). (The Palm tree people - i.e. Christ + the heavenly host out of the "Holy land -- entered from outside + we appealed to them "for medical assistance"; i.e. Christ as healers of the injuries done to us in violence: symbolized in the dream by tessa as a lamb (the innocent ones) hurled down by James-James. I never realized this before: medical assistance not for sickness but for violent injurydone to the innocent + not only that: the violent injury was done to some innocent who merely tried to see more clearly what J-5 was doing - i.e. trying to see what was really going on, +, by doing so, got "out line" + conspicuous