undoubtedly paves the way for a more + more thorough repudiation of it, + a release from its hold (+ the emergence of other, truly real worlds - such as the Palm Tree Garden). I saw hell (BIP) + heaven (PTG). Both are real - maybe we will wind up in one of them or the other. Back to the McKenna 2-Source theory. Under (behind?) our illusory projected admixture world lie the 2 real sources: heaven + hell. Our world is a projected mixture of both. St Augustine said that at the end times the 2 worlds would pull apart +, instead of the mixture, we would see each world separate + clearly. Is that what I experienced from 2-74 to 2-75? But the prerequisite of this is to hammer away at the [theme?] of dismissal of the empirical world as irreal. [but?] the 2 hyper components are real. My writing, then, paves the way to perception of the end-time changes prophecied. Then the set-ground discrimination I experienced in 3-74 was an ability to discriminate Form I (the PTG) as Set, vs. Form II (the BIP) as Ground. That's why I experienced a heightened sense of depth [&] a totally new, expanded sense of space (& also time). Yes! In the St. Elmo's fire like outline. [(inc zebra?] I was seeing hyperuniverse I pulled apart from II. This is the end-times, then, when that can be done. The next step is the destruction of Form II, the Ground, & retention of Form I, the set! I could distinguish what hyperuniverse I was contributing to our hologram universe, &, by including II as Ground the projections of I were correctly defined & not deformed by the projection of II as noise debasing a signal. The apparent mingling of the 2 projections ended but II still was projecting - so that was not the Parousia - in the Parousia Form II's projections will cease - which is not the same as a state of heightened (divine) perception which discriminates one projection from another. Volumes could be written about the damage (to the information) of Form I's signals by II (e.g. the verbal messages of I are clouded over - [so?] perhaps we don't get them). Then the 1:0.618034 doorway was not only a Form I projected, but almost certainly a gate [to] the world of Form I which I saw beyond. hyperuniverse I hyperuniverse II (color, light, (black, dark, dead, purposeless, chaosorder There is a reason why II is Ground and I is Set & not the other way around. II came first in time, & I is projected (I as hologram, not I intrinisically) onto [it?] as onto a screen. This projection of I is alive & can modulate causal trains (as represented by the living summation of I's projection: Zebra), so the hologram projection of I is not just on top of II but can merge with it & slightly change it. Then the BIP is hyperuniverse II, & not a projection from it; likewise the PTG is I & not a projection. The 2 projections merge to form our world. But I (ich) managed to unscramble the 2 sources into Set-Ground. John: "the light came into the darkness, & the darkness comprehended it not." I superimposed over II. -- Now to go back to the matter of Valis disclosing itself, which is rare [(old ...)]. I pointed out that normally Valis goes to extreme lengths not to disclose itself, but to appear as normal causal [trains?]. When I wrote that, I had not yet reached the extraordinary realization that my set ground discrimination was an unscrambling of the mixture of hyperuniverse I & II projections. As soon as those diploid projections are unscrambled, the activity of Valis/Zebra is no longer concealed, axiomatically. Conversely, its acitivity is totally concealed in the mixture of (as is normal) projections of I & II are not unscrambled as Set / Ground. Now to the mimicry habit of Zebra. I was right on, in discerning that to our normal eye Zebra mimics regular objects and processes; this is the core of the mixture-situation, what I call mimickry. In using that term (concept) I was trying to account for why we never normally see Zebra. I did not have the 2-source cosmogony at my disposal. Now: I can re-examine & reinterpret all my exegesis of the mimicry in terms of our universe being a two-source interface (hologram) all the Elaborate analysis + study of the mimicry pays off: that is the jackpot. The "mimicry" is more profound than by that of a living organism "invading" our world: it is one half of our world, + memesis (mimicry) occurs because it is in the nature of our world to be built on this "mimicry" entity (as set) + Form II as ground. The universe we live in yielded up its diploid nature to the McKenna Brothers. The two projections are locked in a diploid dialectic, but not complementary, as in Taoism. It is antithetical, as in Zoroastrianism or Xtianity. (Timaeus would fit it, as a quasi-dualism: Noüs vs ananke.) So it is not mimicry but authentic mixture - but not visibly so in that the 2-source "hologrammatic" universe stems from - is dependent on this interaction. Christ could be said to be Form I taking on Form II corporeality - or did he? Maybe the Gnostics were right; he really only had a spiritual nature + just seemingly suffered + died. Humiliation, suffering + dying are all Form II ingredients - but Parmenides condenses true being to Form II. In some sense he is right. Here (as several times before, we are dealing with something that is simultaneously real + not real - true + not true equally. This is a difficult category to deal with - but all ufologists (esp. Vallee) must. We are talking about phenomena which are only real in terms of Form I, not II, + are thus only half real (by "real" we mean "compounded of Form I + Form II" - But the social light lies only within Form I. No, it did penetrate into hyperuniverse I in this incarnation: we cannot speak of incarnation unless we include the mixture (presence) of both forms. But in the dialectic struggle between the two forms, I will defeat II eventually. Then will come to pass what Paul speaks of in 1st Cor. : "the corruptible man must put on incorruption"; Form II is eliminated (healed, expelled or killed). Parmenides look toward a complete elimination of Form II - so do Zoroatrianism + Xtianity. But what does it mean that I saw the projections of I + II disentangled? Is this connected with inique end times? No, because Parmenides saw it 2500 years ago. Perhaps it is connected to the "Great Secret" of all esoteric gnosis. Hyperuniverse I: Freedom, supralunar, God's great Hyperuniverse II: slavery, sublunar, determinism, astral powers, script, DNA robots etc. I acts to rescue the believer from II. (As I say, this is not complementary dualism, like Taoism, but diploid..: bipolarize. Is it possible for a living human to be totally extricated from Form II? Yes, at least temporarily. Because this was done for me in 2-74 to 2-75. This relates back to how I could clearly discern the actitivity of ZEBRA: Answer: I was totally within Form I, totally extricated from Form II. Anamnesis is involved in this. Form II must (as the Essenes believed) cause a loss of memory + hence identity: i.e. true sense of self. I must work out the relationship between form II + loss of memory: Josephus' account of the Essenes' view maybe substantially correct. Entrance into II is a descent: the elements acquired are not only madness, illness, death, + disorder but the kind of psychological deformity that Calvin speaks of. Then this points to the Gnostic view of the higher man who is a stranger to this world. Whose true home is elsewhere: the pleroma: above the astral influence, Form II, then, is a sort of world on its own, without any positive qualities.. the Mani + Gnosis view of the world is really a view of unalloyed Form II (with I excluded); therefore it is in error because the world is a fusion of both, Mani + the Gnostic have eliminated Form I from the world: they are really talking about the B.I.P. which is hyperuniverse II. It seems to me entirely possible that Parmenides is correct in denying true ontological reality to Form II - which merely seems to be, but is a forgery: is merely fake and spurious. It is a delusion, + primal man has fallen into intellectual error in taking it for real + believing it real. The power of II is real enough, though; delusions can have enormous power. Anyhow, I does exist in a certain sense, but here a sophisticated view of the fake must be taken into account. Something (in some sense - like a movie or counterfeit stamp or coin) is there. But hyperuniverse II may be dead - or rather its psyche is dead; the [soul] is dead + merely "biological" (or "subcortical life") goes on, a continual reflexive devolving. Yes - the soma of II is still with us, but its psyche is dead. As an entelechy it must be reanimated, or else the soma is destroyed. I vs II is like the authentic human vs the android or reflex machine. Being without psyche of its own it slays the authentic psyches of those creatures locked into it, + replaces them with a spurious micro form of its own dead psyche. Then originally we were pluriforms (or parts of) the living, wise psyche of Form I - [..] somehow fell into the moribund power of the psyche-less soma of Form II. To regain our place in Form I we must regain our memories we are portions of Form I translated across to Form II. The paradigm of this is Christ's passion: if we can perceive this - that who he was, where he came from, + what happened here, is exactly what we must go through, then we can understand not only him but ourselves. The precise statement we must grasp is, "He was divine + not from here (Form II). We are the same as he - therefore we are divine + not from here: + just as after his Form II elements were destroyed + he returned to a purely Form I resurrection, so shall we For him, the intermingling of incarnation was over yet he lives, on, here. But entirely as part of I. Is this the eternal life "Thomas" entered? He did not die - at least not to Form I, only to Form II. The only things in us which Form II can destroy are those portions of us emanating from Form II; thus for it to kill us is to lose its power over us entirely + free us. This is what Christ proved, one can live eternally with God in Form I. Now let us consider "Sacred Time" compared to linear time. It is the time of Form I. Linear is of Form II, in which everything perishes. The entire world (ours) of II is fake, despite its seeming substantiality. But as to I - what I projects here is alive. It penetrates the Fake, as in transubstantiation. Then in this sense Form II does not exist unless you allow a certain narrow (restricted) reality to the Fake: the projection of Form I which I call ZEBRA is alive, is here, + imparts life to our universe the "life" of Form II is an "android" or only seeming life. In my writings I point out the fraudulent (irreal) nature of our world. + in "Ubik" I depict form I (ZEBRA) bestowing life + information to us. (+ penetrating Form II) There is either a resemblance between ZEBRA + UBIK or they are identical. In