So I say, linear time is warped back on to itself around the punches through orthogonal omphalos - which alone is real; the repeated script is a kind of hallucination (shared by all); v. "Maze" being caught in the repetition of linear time equals not being saved. Being awakened to memory (+ hence perception) of the true world equals being saved. There is a strong Indian element in this basically Gnostic/Paulist (cf "planetary powers") view. After all, the planets repeat + repeat their motions forever + savior (i.e. advent) is very close - a step away. But since the evil sons (fallen ones) do not know this - they think 1000s of years have passed - it is safe for them to reveal themselves. This is a prime use (divine purpose) of this spurious long, extended time (or appearance there of). The deceivers are themselves deceived. Then it serves God's purpose that this spurious long time seem to have happened, that the promise (of His retured soon) was not kept. It is a great revelation, perhaps the greatest of all that 1) Only a few years - decades - have really gone by: I 2) he is about to return, as promised - i.e. where mised 4) one to whom this revelation is given has had the books close - favorably - on him, + the time of waiting (so apparently long) is over, now that he knows the truth. For him, the end times have already comes or at least begun. He "prematurely" (i.e. before the others, the general disclosure) is home, + safe, + knows it He is even given a glimpse of the Kingdom, + foresees it as it will be established (the promised goal). He knows he will go there when his work (life) is done The confusion arose about remembering the rast because AD 70 Rome lies in the linear past, but (as I now realize) what I remembered is not a linear past continuum but a present actuality vs delusion (or mere appearance). It's not a question of a former life but the real continuum now. Which is to say that ontologically speaking AD 70 Rome is not in the past at all but exists now. I doubt if there is any way this can be according to any scientific laws as such. There must be a supercosmic dreaming entity in whose dream we are - in 1974. in Feb of 1974 he forgot 1974 + remembered AD 70 Rome - which is to say, he in me did that. I did that. AD 70 is to AD 1974 as wakefulness + its reality is to sleep + dream reality. J.B. note: "Jesus... inaugurates the arcal messianic era of which, according to wed out in arise out the prophets, the gift of the Holy 970 in lease they Spirit is the distinctive mark" 811580 1811: 2 331 ISA11 2: "Their a shoot shall grows #267 from the stose of Jesse, + a brack shall spring from his roots. the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, a spirit of wisdom + understanding a spirit of counsel (force) + power, a spirit of know ledge + the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what he sees no decide by what he hears; he shall judge the poor with justice + defend the humble in the land with equity ... then the will shall live with the sheep, t + the leopard lie doom with the kid... + a little child shall lead them My 3-74 experience then shows this to be the messianic age. 44 I've been reading Hegel, + am struck again by his analysis that God works in human history to promote further + farther states of human freedom - that there is really a divine spirit acting within the field of human history; in fact Hegel says that were God not able to work withing human history he would remain "das Leblose Einsamkeit. This was one of the major portions of my revelation; in a sense the core of it - the center of it. As Hegel rightly points out, the incarnation is an event in human history, + to be properly understood (i.e. its importance realized) it must be so regarded. At first glance the statement, "the Incarnation was an historical event" doesn't seem to tell us anything Not important or (2) we didn't always know, none the less, it must be properly appreciated. God literally entered history ( openly + ➁ in the fullest sense possible. Now, what I saw may have been God acting either in a full sense or even the fullest sense possible, but it was covert, there is no telling how many times this has happened: covert is covert. Still, what I was allowed to see confirms Hegel's belief fully, right down to the purpose: to promote human free‐ dom. gathere from this that the intervention on my behalf I in 3-74 was a fragment of his historic plan or purpose; it involved me as - not an isolated individual - but as a figure within a broad historical context. I have no idea what my role was (as I've said many times); it is as obscure to me now as it ever was. I do not exclude the element of extrication as an end in itself, done out of mercy, but this does answer the question, "why was I rescued when virtually everyone else is not?" I had either played some historic part or would play it after the intervention - or both. Obviously my writing was involved, but published or letters? What I was shown in "Tears" definitely suggests the published writing; I am herald to the second Advent: the punching through which has begun + will culminate in the 2nd Advent. + I have already published that message (in "Deus Irae"). In "Scanner": the doorway into the next world is mentioned. could that be important - even more than the "St Sophia" mention in "Deus Iral"? + especially, if you put the ( dream in "Tears" with the "St Sophia "message in "Deves Erve" + the doorway to the next word" in "Scanner" - look at the eschatological composite they form. God breaks through - into history - Christ is to return, + a doorway has opene into the next world, with mentions of Hellenistic elements. "+ always the same proportions, very narrow. He said it was very - pleasing. Outlined in vivid red + Gold. He never thought of going through it. He said there was another world on the other side. He really believed it was God, + it was the (sic!) doorway to the next world. There was moonlight + water - a shore, a beach of an islard. He was saw it was ancient Greeces. There was a woman on the is land - more a statue, the Cyrenaican aphrodite. It was a promise. Something to come. Maybe when he died." (PP1845) there is the stuff about the phosphere activity. + quite + from St. Paul: "We see the universe reversed." Added together, there is really quite a bit. But I'm thinking specifically about be + peep + their claim about the doorway to Heaven opening for the first time in 2000 years. In addition. There is the material in Maze" about group hallucination; in "Ubik" about the wisdom words (Logos), etc. If my books were all read through, inc. these, wouldn't there be a lot of "the" message in the montage? t "I recall distinctly the short interval in which things (e.g. Paul Mclartny's "Teddy boy") still had engramming hold over me. giving me abrupt satori that these stimule controlled me - + thes their engramming power was broken. (Cf Paul, + freedom from the planetar powers.) Q: Was there a deliberate entity behind these stimuli which controlled one, or was it all jut chance? In any case I was in thrall to the stimuli, + had never known it. I think That what I call Zebra did it all (achieves the engramming); in such fashion he creates + maintain the cosmos (esp. human history). But what a thing to see: an entity controlling us all by means of engramming. We do as he wills; he orders + regulates our lives but then I was made aware of this system: how it - God? o works in men's lives: his absolute power, of which we normally have no awareness. D Thus he - Zebra - is present in our lives constantly, outside the limits of our percept system. But in 3-74 he extricated me from This very system. Did he intervene against himself? This only makes sense if more than one deity (player) is envisioned. what a mess the us is in re conspiricies + dishonestier. foutlaws's amory pop stars + media "so I love you more than time or love madness or dreams upon the sea even, + I havet yet begun you breathed on me + made my life a richer one to core your love cuts like a knite I'd sacrified a world for you + let my senses die what's lost is lost we can't regain + love you more than eval + it binds me to the soul the thoughts of you don't ever die what's lost is lost + I love you more than blood we can't regain a what's happiness to me is you + if there is eternity I'll love you there again Bob dylan 13) i There is a clear + evident connection between my nitrous oxide "great grape vine being pruned by God" + my anamnesis. It's odd I didn't see that at once. But as to the contents of my 3-74 revelation: I see now (via the nitrous oxide satori) that this world is only experienced alsob, as 4, if were a prison: + only by + for those who, by reason of being cut off from God, are thus automatically in a kind of prison; it must of necessity constitute that for them, for, being here + with amnesia, they are imprisoned - away from him. To see it as evil here, a prison, etc, is to experience a Godless condition having closed around one. Freedom, on The other hand, signifies (sic) freedom to regain (return to +/or remember) God: to be freed (e.g. from deterministi engramming) is to be found by God (not find God - that is impossible here; he must take the initiative, which is to say, He must pierce through into this Godless cosmos: a theophany). God cannot be found in nature; he must pierce through into nature as through a wall, shell or barrier to reach us. Misery + grieving - grieving for him But not knowing what or who one is grieving for - that would summon his aid (or advent). Once He has erased the forgetting (of having been voluntarily pruned from the vine + sent here, without memory, to see if we could be happy in our own cosmos) - once memory returns to one, the issue is decided; the soul has begun - rescued by God - its return journey. Anamnesis is everything. The key that opens the door - but God must cause it. For, once one remem bers, one would never be satisfied with or reconcited to This world ever again. ( After anamnesis, one would know over what one grieved - the loss of what (i.e. of God)... + then the grieving, So well expressed in wordsworth's "ode" would be creater than ever; it would be a constant companion. God would Then provide the psychopomp, the savior, to accompany the person (the Paraclete as comforter), not just to lead the person back but to be with him to reduce the terrible ache (nostalgia). After anamnesis it would not be a good idea to leave that person by himself. our various religions are all just rumors about God i none is