was correct. But I knew I couldn't give details. What I would like to know (and may yet find out) is, Why words in the head? (one) Do the transmissions contain information? Or (two) Are speech centers in the brain stimulated (which is to say, are they transmitting verbal and graphic material, or does it all arise within the brain due to the radiation pressure? The answer to this is important. From the presence of die messages I would assume information transmitted, but on the other hand, it may disinhibit neural circuits in the brain, causing them to fire for the first and only time. What must be assumed is first an attack on human liberty (as with the conspiracy mentioned in dream sequences) and then a counter attack by God (against the conspiracy of an historic nature and against the one involved in the microwave attack). This is why I felt that both the U.S. Government and the Soviet Government were my enemy — were the enemy. At this point I theorize that the Soviet microwave transmissions overloaded the noössphere and caused it to impinge on me (and others?) as Teilhard de Chardin conjectures will happen eventually; it was one signal too much. This is theory, but it would explain the divine counterattack on at least quasi-scientific grounds. Anyhow, at last something is explained which I have never been able to explain: my initial sense of Soviet pressure on me in 3-74, and my fury & hatred for them all, an otherwise totally mystifying section of the overall experience. Also, Cathy' Macken's announcement on the news proves that my 3-74 experience was real. Initially it was a bummer; but later, it proved to be the greatest blessing in my life. To CP does not know of the Advocate which we have. There is a further point. It always seemed to me that it was a strange coincidence that I received the letter -9- from Estonia and the Xerox letter (and later on others) just after the phosphene activity — which I am surer now was due to Soviet experimentation. This news today makes me wonder even more; knowing what I know now, I deem it even more curious, even ominous. If I thought there was a connection before, I certain would tend to be convinced of it now. But this implies a tight microwave beam just to me! Or seems to. No, it doesn't; as I reasoned before, I am a person they could get feedback from (my original theory). Yes, that is possible. That for instance is why I wrote that letter to Fitting; to give them some feedback; likewise, I now recall, that is why I wrote Mdm. Pavolva. -1- I have come up with a whole new theory to explain my 3-74 experience. The basis of it was twofold: anamnesis, regained memory of the distant past and many things, including customs and language involved in it; and anticipation of the future (the fall of the con¬ spirators, St. Sophia, the Xerox letter). What these all have in common is time. I should not have remembered what I remembered, and I should not have precoged what I precoged; the two are of the same warp and woof. When both are taken into account, a personality is disclosed, spanning millenia, backward and forward both, and having the powers —attributes— we assign to gods, rather than to men (much of what I knew no men know at any time). By Occham’s Razor Principle, one is led to the extraordinary conclusion that I (or we) are gods with deformed memories and powers, as Calvin says; evidently I got a taste of what the unfallen man is like, in this case myself. The theory of fallen man would account for the loss of all that is lost, and the grace of God would account for the regaining of it. We are not what we imagine; we have truly declined. This theory places the emphasis on man, not on God, and shows him —man— as truly godlike in his true and unfallen nature. Put another way, we are blinded and asleep, in a state of forgetfulness, but this fallen state can be abolished. If what I became is to be the common fate of most or all men at the Parousia, then even theologians in general have little comprehension of the staggering growth in store for us, although they stress the staggering fall in the past. Not what we were and fell from, but what we will return to — that is cardinal, just as the Parousia is cardinal, not the Passion. Finally I would say, What we are now is degenerate, and we have no conception of the extent of that degeneracy, except through the garbled and vitiated legend of the Fall. That there was a Fall is evidently true, but we fell much further than we realize, and have much more to regain. To sum up, We are not what we think we are; we are closer to angels than to "men,” as we know the term "man." Am I saying something which is almost beyond comprehension? That we are not fallen men, but fallen angels? Dare I think this? But it fits my 3-74 experience. Punished angels, I think: cut off and debased, in exile, with even memory deprived of us. No theology that I know of has truly plumbled the depths or heights of man’s true nature; such terms as "sin" convey nothing, and are themselves examples of the fallen thinking of fallen angels; even our concept of our punishment is debased in comparison to the actuality. Such a dread¬ fully deformed and debased creature, in reasoning and recalling its fall, would render it in debased and crude and inadequate terms, equal to its own self. So far have we fallen that we can't even conceive (or remem¬ ber) what we were and are! How deep the deformity goes! There are not men and angels; there are angels and deformed angels. In 3-74 I was con¬ vinced that a (the) time of restoration had come; but the greatest resto¬ ration was of me to what I had once been. Do you realize we are speaking of a life form spanning thousands of years, perhaps even immortal? Lying in its true form outside of linear time itself? Essene doctrines are involved here, the sinking of the soul down into the world of space and time — and forgetfulness. And Neoplatonism. And it is Jesus the Christ who is the teacher who came to teach us this: restoration of ourselves to our true original condition is the Kingdom He speaks of. -2- The Second Coming is to be conceived (viewed and understood) primarily as that restoration, on a vast & general scale, for all, which I underwent in 3-74. I think I am right. I think this is so. This is the significance of it. One asks, What will the Second Coming achieve? No comprehension of the answer is possible unless one understands the titanic magnitude of the Fall (v. page one). Unless we can grasp what we truly are (or were once) we cannot envision the extent of the change in us which the Parousia will accomplish. Seen thus, I would have to say, as dictated by logic, that my 3-74 experience was a portion of the Parousia, sotospeak ahead of time, ahead of its overall coming. The Sritannica says "the Kingdom is always coming but not quite here," but I temporarily experienced it "out of phase" with its locus in linear time. Viewed this way, my experience was not a conversion, nor was it a visitation by the Holy Spirit merely, but a preexperience of the Parousia (which is in keeping with my general nature of experiencing events ahead of time). Look: If what I experienced in 3-74 were experienced by all mankind (including the Good Friday Spell, the over¬ throw of the wickedness, the healing, the pastoral landscape, the altera¬ tions in the animals, etc.) we would say, "Yes, this is the Parousia." All that was lacking was its being limited to me. And, probably for the same reasons that it was limited to me, it was temporary. I think now of the Golden Rectangle gate which I saw. Probably it was the coming together of the two realms at last: the sublunar and supralunar, the narrow door between. Its importance cannot be overestimated as a part of what I experienced; the narrow door (vide Plotinus) had opened. That which makes up heaven had penetrated (breached through to) Earth, and the two realms were (at least for me, and for a while) no longer separate. If this was a prophetic vision (in the accurate sense of the term) I could rank myself high up, say as with Daniel; but what I saw — all had been seen and recorded before; I have nothing new to pass along to other people. The more I read of the Bible, the more I learn of their prophetic visions, the more I see that each in its turn was a further revelation of the theocracy to come. What, if anything does mine add? I do think that the angel Gabriel was the messenger who spoke to me, since that is his task and role. Did he say anything new? Well, he said that the conspirators were the wickedness to be thrown down, and that that throwing-down was beginning; implied, too, was the imminence of the Second Advent, tied in, following, the throwing-down; which is to say, Gabriel said, The times previously predicted have now come — with emphasis on the word now. It is not future; it is now, at least in part. And if in part, then the whole great process is here, and my vision of the palm tree garden is the final and true vision of the Peacable Kingdom. We are not talking about events hundreds or thousands of years hence; part has already become history — in the past. It is not so much that Gabriel said, This will happen; it is that he said This will happen now, to living men. It is in our time. Viewed this way which is tentitive, what I experienced was not a "prophecy of things to come" but a revelation of that which is NOW. The greatest enigma in what I saw was the narrow gate or door; was it closing, after having opened temporarily, or was I seeing it open? What it was a door or gate to I am certain, however. There are two realms, and at least for a time (and for me) the door or gate was open. -3- Possibly I was (at the end) shown the door or gate so that there could be no misunderstanding on my part, as I developed my exegesis, that I had seen the two realms opened one onto the other; that in fact the two realms did exist, that in fact all that I had witnessed was from the usually concealed (closed-door) supralunar realm, and therefore could not misunderstand my experience. Viewing the progression of revelations historically through the prophets, one could expect that a herald angel Gabriel, would appear to announce that the events predicted had come, at the time they did come, as in the First Advent. At the end-time, one could expect such experiences as mine to occur. Insufficient attention is paid to the statement, "God made man in his image," from which man has fallen and hence is not in that imagine now. The basis of early Chris¬ tianity was a restoration, probably much like mine, to that image, giving them an idea of their true, original identity; that is probably the whole basis of our religion, that temporary restoration, in anticipation of the day when the Savior would restore that original imagine to all, and on a permanent basis (or to his sheep, as he called them). I died, and was reborn. The restoration