problem-solving surfaced involv ing powers of the mind which humans (seem to) lack, based on the principle of "the less you know + the least you reason" - which was exactly what was needed. to employ this "not knowing + not trying to know" faculty I'd not only have to possess t, I'd have to know that the situation (crisis problem) called for it. Thus recognition of the inature of the situation was a prerequisite. now, I know that the use of this faculty began (to surface) several days before the Xerox missive arrived (I not only knew it was coming, I even knew the exact day - + evidently at that time I knew what its true nature world be - + knew I wasn't to know, so to speak). What I had to do was abolish my ego (left brain) entirely folder 22 - 062 folder 22 - 062 o the result of all this was the dibba cacchu enlightenment which involved the thought- which-is no-thought; it was response without ratiocina tion of any kind, a total suppression of think ing + of knowing (knowledge). This sort of mental functioning is not characteristic of my thoughts had come faster + faster humans. until they were burned up, like (or with astral determinism - but before the Xerox missive arrived. Thus trans- or supra-tempor ality was involved: A, so to speak, know ing now (at the time) what I could only know later; i.e. what to do + how to do it i.e. superfast). I had to act so as to impli cate myself to the fullest: this is a zen situation; I pushed evident culpability to its extreme + reversed it thereby. I.e. I acted so guilty that any guilt became implausible, which logically makes no sense, but works because it draws on some unknown higher law by which the universe itself works, not some system worked out in my mind. I had to align myself totally with reality + merge with it, inseperable from it, as a coulfficient of it, an exponent of it + not a separate (dis crete) being at all. Thus, the universe responded to the Xerox letter: the macromind, presumably latent within me. But how did I know to yield to it? I didn't. It seized power in me in advance + burst through in response to the situation t is the mind which writes my books; I know this because the same non human logic appears in the writing ("Y- yo is folder 22 - 063 folder 22 - 063 6 this well expresses it, with "correct solution equalling y. So: correct solution equals "worst solution" which simply can't be thought, it being an oxymoron. So this "logic shows up in my writing (the "logic" - which saved me in 3-20-74), so this non human mind was already (long) there something ("Y") is recognized as its own antithesis ("Y"). This sounds like Zen or Taoist thinking. But this is oxymorm think ing. ("A thing is either A or A" - what could be more obvious? How can A = A? There is no such category of thought; literally, it cannot be thought; it can be recognized, 6 however, as I did in 3-20-74) (1) about reality A= A is not a statement about logic, but an observation about reality; it is prag matic. But it reveals that thinking cannot act as an inner analog to the outer world; for the mind to mirror world correctly it must i.e. to be cease to think + do what instead? The total organism acts with no-thought. It becomes a non-thinking response machine (in the good sense). To know what, by definition you cannot know - there it is again; I knew + did not know; there it is again some higher non-self self was involved, +, in solving the problem, as an offshoot I passed over into paradise. recognition that 1) I was faced - or soon going to be faced by a grave problem, + this problem could not be solved either by a priori or empirical thinking was in itself enlightenment. folder 22 - 064 folder 22 - 064 6 The mind (my mind) then abolished itselfIt worked faster + faster + then ceased to be. I had mentally died. I was then replaced by the magic mirror which does not think, maybe because it is not-being replacing being. another way of explicating this is: 1) "It looks like CP, so I should turn it over to the Bureau. (Pause.) But if I do that, they'll think I've spotted it as a forgery or contraband (like planted dope) + am trying to get rid of it. So that solution is a bad one." 2) Okay, I'll keep it. But then 171 have contra band which, if they hit my place again, will in criminate me. So that solution is a bad one." 3) "I'll burn it. But that's an indication of knowing what they're doing, + if I burn it for that reason it's an admission of guilt. So that is a bad solution." 4) "171 answer it. With nonsense. No, that's look like code. So that's a bad solution." solution: A equals CP. A equals forgery. I must regard it as both (A equals A). What is the response if it's A + a both? (Cybernetics stall sets in. I are, fuse, burn out, + can't respond, which is 2), a bad solution. They find me in a catatonic stupor with the thing in my poss ession, which is just fine with them. What has happened is I've oscillated between A + A, which is to say, between responses - my usual dilemma 2) what is needed is a cosmic intelligened to take me over + respond instantly, without making a choice + without thinking or knowing folder 22 - 065 folder 22 - 065 e 6) but to do this I'd have to recognize the fact that I don't exist, that I am a fiction. Still the situation is pretty desperate. So I have moti vation to accept this normally unacceptable fact. My mind crumbles + is replaced by no mind, which is to say the macromind. But this shows I am a stationary intelligence outside of space + time in a world of pure information + a station is a macrobrain without independent existence yoked to a preprogrammed "tape." Oh well; this is better than succumbing to the trap they bet I wouldn't contact the Bureau because doing so might indicate I was sophisticated enough to spot it as a plant +/or forgery. To play it safe I'd have to hang onto it which would mean I had contraband in my apartment - even if I knew it. Letting them know (sic) I was that knowledgable would seem worse than innocentl Hanging onto it. So they could repeat 11/17/71 + This time "find" what they had not found in 11/17/71. So probably 1) The Xerox missive was intrinsically KGB. But 2) sent by us army intelligence (an analog of the genuine drugs planted by Hal). they had probably overrun the mancowitz woman + had her material (undated) in then possession. Or, she had been turned around + was cooperating with them - in any case it was a set up. The calculatedly reason- defeating nature of the probe forced me to solve the problem at The no-thought level which imposed on me the neces e sity of, in essence, finding the way (or key) to the road to salvation. This of course was not the in tention of the probe, of the puzzle. But I found folder 22 - 066 6 dire myself in the unusual situation where physical practical necessity forced me to resort to my hidden meta-nature + higher, meta-process means usually associated with purely spiritual attempts the to transcend self. The probe was a koan physical solution to which involved my very existence, This is what happened; it's as if a gun were put to my head + I was told to "find the narrow gate to salvation + right away or your head'll be blown off. Army intelligence, then, unintentionally, became my guru, my zen master, + a fierce one at that. They posed a terrific paradox, which completely invalidated normal empirical + a prior processes in me, + cancelled my self out of existence - +, as the Tibetian Buddhists + Japanese Zen masters + true (early) Xtians knew, opens the way for the macromind to flow in, the way to be found (the Tao), + salvation - the Kingdom of the spirit - reached. The process dialectic within me ceased because the antitheses were unified into a timeless one. + because of this "inner stilling" my last incarnation to achieve it (Thomas, an Essense or apostolic Xtian) was drawn out of his timeless state - + analogous crisis problem - + into mine: he was reconstituted, involation of all the laws of time, space + process. + in this state we understood all mysteries. + I saw the world where I'm goin to go, my real world: Acts! It broke through The irreal. Thomas is not a former self bet my future (higher) self! The next layer folder 22 - 067 folder 22 - 067 6 of my total existence was uncovered, + it is a reward: as Thomas I will be I am directly linked to Christ! A far higher order of existence than as PKD in USA 1974. is a wonderful reward - what I would it most wants one of the flock at Pentercost 51 3-20-74 I temporarily graduated to his 2 level prematurely, + he was unfolded, He is me born again - from the spirit. Christ's little Flock, assembled from all times (inc the future) + places. when I thought of grander rewards, the voice cried out within me in anguish, "Oh Philip!" His Christ's voice in me, latent, dormants, "Thomas" sleeps. He will awaken. (Siddhartha? The divine one is in one 3 "Thomas" is a Buddha - had the dibba cacchu experience. He sleeps: the divine one the enlightend one. History remitten? track C, back to Acts? The value of the above "A = A" analysis shows how the mental transformation of 3-74 was generated out of the crisis, specifically the [Broblem-solving need involved in the crisis. Thus the evolutionary utility of the response is clear. I have long sus pected this, but now can demonstrate it down to the mechanics involved, + can show why a priori + empirical ratiocination (logic) would have been self-defeating in direct proportion to its acuity. A wholly new + different kind of response, not based on 1) knowledge or 2) logic was folder 22 - 068 folder 22 - 068 68 needed - + needed a couple of days in ad vance, + it came - a couple of days in advance That this is impossible has no pragmatic significance. If the organism needs it the organism may (not will) get it. That which is impossible is achieved (acquired), which seems to bear out vitalists like Bergson + drietsch. Since my writing shows this same very strange logic, which isn't really logic at all, as we understand the term (since it is based on a self-cancelling internally contraditory pos tulate) the function has been latent in me for years. The Xerox missive was the first crucial actual test it ever encountered, however; i.e. a crisis problem in which a did equal A (although was a contrived situation it certainly was real). it (+ it certainly had to be solved. what I havent dealt with supra is the show ing up a month before of the disinhibiting (Golden fish sign, which distinctly points to providential intervention not emanating from, + not contained in my mind. Perhaps I'm being groomed for my next existence as "Thomas," a Buddha (represen ted in my dream as Siddhartha now sleeping - in 1 part one" but