Adoptionism i The EB article on salvation says that the bad condition which we are saved from is bondage - primarily - to time This bondage resulting in death - thus that which salvation saves us from primarily is death. What interests me here is that I just recently figured out that what the intervention of 3-74 saved me from was death. That which intervened accom‐ plished - I now realize - my salvation in the precise sense of the word. The EB article on salvation also says that Gnosticism + Hermeticism + the teaching of St. Paul "deliverance was sought primarily from the planetary powers that were believed to control human desting in the sublunar world." This too, fits exactly with my experience of 3-74: ➀ I was lifted above time, ➁ saved from death; ➂ freed from a rigid "programming" (planetary determinism) vis-a-vis the CP. Thus regarded, my 3-74 experience was one of Christian salvation, initiated by God through either Christ or the Holy Spirit. All the elements were there. It wasn't a conversion perience; it was literal + immediate salvation - over the planetary powers which had programmed me to die around 4-74. But There is also a hinder element: "as long as the soul mistakes This phenomenal world for reality + clings to its existence in it, it is doomed to suffer endless births + deaths." I not only perceived the empirical (phenomenal) world as irreal, I also remembered thousands of years of prior life. It's as if my Gnosis was achieved by Christ - + my salvation - but the secret disclosed was that which Hinduism teaches - as it Christ revealed to me that Hinduism is correct. Also, I take note of the fact that my salvation began when I saw The Golden Fish + abroptly ceased to believe in the space time world around me (calis in 1974), +, instead, believed in another reality in its place; the power of the phenomenal world - the planetary powers - was broken but what I saw as real was Zebra or the Logos, the cosmic Christ, + the world of The Bible, as if the world described in the N.T. is the real world. 6 its as if the Bible isn't a book but a supratemporal description of a timeless + unchanging underlying reality I passed over from 1974 Calif + into Rome just after Christi death: I did not just believe (pistis); by believing it was real I passed from merely believing it to be true (as in, what it teaches - the good news - is true -) but went an extraordinary step fierther: I conferred - or consignes actual physical existence to it Rome + all. This most have been a form of pistis not usually achieved - + look at the effect it had: I was truly + literally saved, + in a palpable way; it happened There seems to be a general impression that salvation is palpable only after death (i.e. you go to heaven), but in the N.T. it is made abundently clear by Christ himself said many time, that the Paraclete will give assistance is This world, to the faithful. Gloss is the J. Bible clears this up. The Holy Spirit begins, in this life, a divinizing of a person. but this process is completed [only] after death. The "planetary" or "astral" powers certainly can be equated with ( the Hinder + Gnostic notion of the power of an evil + illusory world; + ➁ with the mechanistic program. ming I felt myself rise above, when I rose out of time the EB makes clear that since salvation boils down to salvation from death, + it is time which brings on death then salvation - exactly as I experienced it in 3-74. must by necessity lift us up + out of time In hinduism it is not moral sin which caused the fall. but ignorance: that of taking the phenomenal world as real. obviously, they, salvation would mvolve the transfer of knowledge (Wisdom?) as to the true nature of reality: a gnosis which would reveal the "other" or "inner" world, which is precisely what my 3-74 salvific experience did for me. I had already made progress (cf my writing) in seeing the irreality of the empirial world, but in 3-74 I was shown what was real. My ignorance (of 10ous of years) was abolished, + so I was saved (i.e. freed, form the Black I've prison a 8 But the really stacking evidence that God had for me abolished time was the reappearance - to me - of Rome, + also Babylon. The 3 citter are one + the same separated only by time. God (for me) removed true, + the s cities became one. Most important, if this removal of the was/is to have importance, a person from the Roman time would have to return with it - + so one did: Thomas. Thus in my case, a micro example, we can see that the essence of salvation is the abolition (freeing from) time, + what the results of that abolution of time are. The past - + peoph frame the past - retrieved (returned to life). All this is amazingly like the regressions in Ubik my long continuity of memory (anamnesis) seems to ratify the Brahman - Buddhist view (+ Essene): the soul tangled in matter, having come down here from the stars (more accurately the pleroma), + through the revelation of the secret knowledge of divine origin - + the unreality of this world - prees me. An error in judgment - by me + others as divine sparks was made thousands of years ago. But: the Christian or Zoroashion element of the Savior is there, too; he who awakens, i.e. gives the Gnosis + hence frees me - from time, hence death + this process will be complete after death; I can go home instead of being reborn. Also, the retrieval of Rome c. 70 AD shows how God can achieve salvation for us. If this world is irreal, he can abolish +/or transform it - Rok it back through an orthogona time axis as in Ubik, + revive (e.g. "Thomas") the anciled dead to life. My 3-74 experience shows that time is a property of an irreal world, hence its dominion over us is in a sense like the world itself irreal; we merely give assent to the existence of both this world (Empirical reality) + time, handing coercive power over to them, which the Savior Christ can breat. It would appear the the Gnostic (Christian) salvific revelation (+ display of the saviors power over time is, incredibly, a revelation of the Hindo notion of immanent Brahman + the irreality of This world; thus I combine Gnostic Xtianity + Brahmanism. i the concept in Ubik which is of at least philosophical, cosmological value - + even scientific - is that some force or entity (deemed - named. Neologically "Ubik") holds time fired in the linear present (+ presumably allows or assists it to mire normally forward) , + that when (for any reason) this force or entity "Ubik" lets go, time reverts back along a form axis, not back along the linear axis by which it evidently normally progresses; thus conceivably via this other (orthogonal?) axis it could revert backward literally thousands of linear years in an instant; i.e. to whatever linear point that the prior mani‐ festation of the particuler form occurred. For example, suppose that the prior manifestation of the form of which washington OC is Rome of neros time. There would be direct reversion to that linear point without passage through the intervening linear years, for if there was passage through the linear strip connecting the two manifestations of the form; it would be nothing more than a linear time reversion. It does not follow the linear axis nor the clock time accrual contained in that (linear] axis; rather, it "jumps" (metamorphoses) directly (back to the next prior manifestation however for back in linear time - that aspect - the linear stretch - having no significance, no participation in or relevent: not involved offhand, we could speak of resemblance, merely, which, did we lack the Platonist concept of the forms, would be the farthest point we could carry this line of thought. However, if (as I did in 3-74 when I found Rome c AD70 all around mme) we observed such a form (axis) reversion, we might ad hoc infer from it the existence of - reality of - the archetypal forms, as an explanation - a necessary explanation of - what we were experiencing. Above all, a person (Thomas) who had lived at that time re-emerged as an exact inner analog to the external reality, demonstrating an even more impor‐ tant + startling significance involved in this roll back o the errors in Ubik are: to regard this rollback + exposure of the past via the form axis as a decay. Claudia pointed out that decay = entropy, + the entropic process lies forward along the [linear time axis, not back. I had already speculated that the entelechy-developing axis might lie retrograde to linear time, which leads toward entropy, + entelech development is negentropic. Another error is to assume that the entity "Ubik" has failed to act as a successful "reality support" - that a failure in general, of cosmological forces involved. These errors are due to my unconscious acceptance of the Western view of forward - linear time as a progress phen‐ omenon, the whole western notion of continual progress forward as the years roll by: if this is unconsciously accepted as so, then any roll back along any axis has to be viewed as loss + decay one thing it certainly is not is loss. Comes now the EB article on salvation, which equates [forward linear] time with decay + death. Salvation means salvation from - victory over - decay + death, + for this to occur, forward moving linear time would have to be abolished, rolled back or somehow nullified (achieving "mort stugebit et natura"). The final determinutic tyranny which makes This place a prison is time, which equals fate or [astrological] destiny which equals linear forward time. True freedom from this "prison" would involve at its ultimate stage a release from linear time. I experienced this in 3-74 in two ways: the rollback along the form axis to Rome to Babylon + the eerie awareness of programming vis-a vis external "signals" (+ also possibly a forward motion along the form axis to the Palm tree Garden, the Kingdom yet to be realized in linear time) (in which case if the Palm tree Garden is the Kingdom of God, I was released from the tyranny - prison - of time + allowed to go forwars instead of back: if this is so, the solution to the Q of where is the Kingdom + how do we get to it?" is answered by "by being lifted out of the realm of [linear] time." This would explain how I (but only I) could experience all the sequences of the end-times; those end time events hadn't occurred [yer] in linear time. But I was no longer in linear time, but had gone to the endi 10 But there is more involved than that. End-time events do not take place in linear time at all, but evidently are located in the supratemporal realm; i.e. the realm of the forms, to be lifted out of time (as I was) is to encounter, in 1974, what Daniel saw, what John of Patmos et al saw. Thee things, inc. "Babylon" (the Black Iron prison) are always there, right up to The Nixon government in 1974. In the supratemporal form world, No time exists between Babylon. Rome, washington De. + what ever manifestation of that very important form may lie ahead that particular form, as the J. Bible says, is the ultimate physical instrument