of the novel. The serious white haired old King is perhaps YHWH, overruled by the new covanent of love issuing out of the age of grief (i.e. Tears) into the age of joy + innocence. The 3-74 experience without the encoded Kerygma in "Tears" is the full miracle. The encoded Kerygma is a full miracle. One is a verbal dramatizations + proclamation (analog) of the other. The two together are like the pleroma, Forms I + II combined (message + the reality that message describes). I wonder when I knew that book was true, it always was so important to me. I feared so much for its safety. No wonder in my 3-74 experience I saw Rome cAD45. The Kerygma proclaimed it: the Death + Resurrection of Christ! So when I ask. why did I see Rome cAD45 (World of Acts) - Look to the stegenographic Kerygma in "Tears"! Given the Kerygma, the vision of Rome cAD45 is airtight logical. There is a push-pull verification, when all is known (i.e. the encoded material discerned is clear). In toto, the magnitude of the revelation is beyond my capacity to grasp to see what I saw, to know what was told me! The kerygma was poured into me - (86) as an experience - years before I could read what I had written. It wasn't until 9-74 that Father Rasch gave me the first clue: about Acts. All I had in 3-74 was the single word "Felix." Yet I knew it was tied in with Xtianity. + also with the political events + the infant church. In effect, I was puzzled as to when it was - Rome cAD45 or USA 1974. "Tears" says, "the former + the latter" - "which is a false question: it is both: both are one. This is hard to grasp - two space-time continua really one continuum. How can this be? By what model of reality can we explain this? How about [Fish Diagram] the twice-intersecting arcs. Which also (as I used to say) refer to the 2 advents. In a sense, time - linear time - is abolished. Surely this is one of the events predicted for the Last days: dysfunctions (abolition, in fact) of the ontological categories of space + time (as in "Ubik" as Claudia pointed out). Fiction in which space + time + worlds become irreal deals (whether the author knows it or not) with the Last days, when the masks are dropped. Yet the evil negative hallucination persists. Maybe a hysteresis exists. I had to be adventitiously disinhibited - which is something I tend to forget. We must have GABA - blocked meta-circuits, which, when they are disinhibited + fire, make us into "twice born", human + who can see reality? Must this be done person by person? or will the Soviet "Psychic Pearl Harbor" do it for all of us? ---------- What if the white haired old serious king is himself the "King of Tears"? + is the "Ancient of Days." Is his reign over? Overruled by the happy king? Just how much - Good Lord! - of a revolution has there been? Are we seeing the (87) "Joy God" emerge for the first time? I told K.W., "If there had in fact been no crime, then it isn't just the end of the age of guilt: Man never was guilty, never was a sinner in the first place. The hoax is lifting, defeated." Hoax - a 2000 year spurious interpolation shooting die messages at us. Then the small true Xtian church is trying to dispell this hoax of guilt + sin, as well as punishment. An enormous effort is required. It is not an automatic progression of successive ages but a terrific fight (kämpf), to lift the curtain - destroy the warping by the BIP. Thus the need to smuggle in the kerygma, as if originally way, before Paul got hold of it. Before the moralists, the puritans, got in. Time must be rolled back to Pentecost, Paul represents the transistion; he was + was not a genuine Xtian. We must go back to the disciples then the feast of agapē, + the Lord (Holy Spirit) descending on them; i.e. Jesus rejoining them as before. Just as I experienced Zebra, + celebrated the feast of agape with [Christogher] time had been rolled back. Will Durant: "Paul created a theology...that every man born of woman inherits the guilt of Adam, + can be saved from eternal damnation only by the atoning death of the Son of God. Such a conception was more agreeable to the pagans...Egypt, Asia minor + Hellas had long believed in Gods - Osiris - Attis, Dionysus (sic) - who had died to redeem mankind; such titles as soter (Savior), (88) + Eleu therius (Deliverer) had been applied to these deities; + the word kyrios (Lord), used by Paul of Christ, was the Teror given in syvian-Greek cults to the dying + redeeming Dionysus." (Sic!) "Two factors, said Paul, determine who shall be saved by Christ's death: divine election + humble faith. God chooses from all eternity those whom he will bless with his Grace, + those -" etc. "Paul had replaced conduct with creed as the test of virtue, + in that sense had begun the middle ages. It was a tragic change..." "More + more he put his hope beyond the grave, + made for his own solace the great adjustment that saved Xtianity - the transformation of the belief in Christ's earthly return into the hope of union with him after death." But my 3-74 experience was in this life. Something does not compute. Is my experience unknown to the early Xtians? If known, then Paul would know of it. If not, then - Then the Parousia is here. (Witness Zebra, there is the core of it - Zebra outside me.) Q: Why didn't Christ return soon - Maranatha - as promised? A: He did, + the early time is now. Something is wrong. Events are happening (at least to me) now that should have happened - at the time + place I saw - i.e. Rome cAD45. So "Now " is Rome cAD45 - it has (89) to be. The BIP took over - there is no telling for how long since it created warped - around + around...false time. I must rely on the epistemological insight of my writing as to the counterfeit nature of world. It is the only solution - i.e. negative hallucination, as in "Maze." + "polyencephalic" or group hallucinations in which everyone shares a common (koinos) but spurious world. For my basic experience to be what should have happened to the early Xtians indicate that it probably did. I should remember that i was no doubt calculatedly triggered off. So the solution to all this is to posit a real Xtian church whose members have this experience - have always had, back to the disciples. The world - inc such scholars as Will Durant - just don't know about this. This fits in with Luke's "secrecy" theme - Jesus had an exoteric + esoteric doctrine, + I may have stumbled onto the esoteric one, present for 2000 years. It has to do with Zebra. ---------- It is as if in my science fiction writing I discovered a virtually (sic) unknown proper of time which made it possible, finally, for to be two people simultaneously in two spacetime continua 2000 years apart. Something to do with the irreality of what I call the lower reality (world) or Form II. (90) In other words I was onto something real in the way of a principle regarding time (time model is presented in "Ubik" + "Maze"). ---------- The Rome cAD45 landscape + matching knowledge (of it) + memories broke through the way reality intrudes on a dream when the dreamer is waking up. It had that "one way" intrusive quality Lem speaks of in "Ubik." Put another way, the USA 1974 reality was invaded from behind, as it - the USA 1974 reality - weakened. Does this mean I'm not really here - me personally - + not really PKD, but only dreaming I am, + that in actuality I'm "Thomas" in Rome cAD45. This all has to do just with me: USA 1974 is really real. But I'm not really here. This would certainly explain my 27 years of writing that the world we experience is a deliberately generated hallucination: for me it is (I can't speak for anyone else - I can't extrapolate to others). This theory - if I could extrapolate, points to the Satanic Interpolation Theory. This must be one of the Great Secrets of Esoteric (True) Xtianity: that we're in apostalic time actually, but Satan has blinded us + created a counterfeit world - which isn't really there. Thene the "true, real, invisible Xtian (91) church" that I write about + know exists actually consists of apostolic age xtians; some of us (all at first?) had false memories + identities + believes in what they saw, but techniques exist + are used to promote anamnesis - among this small grout - who, as I say, are the actual Biblical Xtians. This Satanic interpolation is what I calll "The Kingdom [age] of Tears" - actual realisty is innocence + joy. ------ Upon reading Roman I see that my whole doctrine of acquital - in "Tears" - is indeed the Good news - kerygima - of God's Grace, as I was sure it was. I have, in fact, very well expressed it. the joy, the innocence, God's mutual love for/with his sons (us), specifically, I worked out the concept of God's saving Grace, in a surprising complex fashion ➀ I saw Christ, discorporate + cosmic, + the proof of it was the transformation of pinky; this is one of the signs foretold. ➀ The concept is hard to understand, + yet. reading over what I wrote, ➁ I see that only with divine assistance could I ever have arrived at such an accurate + comprehensive understanding of it - + - if turned into one of acquital through agapē. ➁ in these previous pages ➀ i 92 If there is any way to argue that m 3-74 experience doesn't prove Christ is he (e.g. subjective, hallucination, real but inv ting EHis or something else, etc) then we refer the stegenographic Kerygma in "Tears" It confirms that he is here + who "He" is i The Acts material to name just one elemen I could only see him diving the period in which I was disoccluded, but logic telle me that although I can't now see him couldn't before the 3-74 disocclusion) he it is here. So our sense-testimony of the w t we do see (USA 1974/8) must be rejected it is the irreal form II, + only world I Parmenides' form I, exists. A negative hallucination prevails. is cAD Rome 45 (time of Acts, place of A i + Christ is here, +, through him, God's gra acquits (exculpates) us. The age of joy (Felix) innocence + love has begun. The as tears, guilt + punishment is over. This is th basic Xtian Good news, + is true reality all else is enslaving evil delusion by BIP (Rome, a self-replicating organism which Christ is destroying. My 3-74 experience + the hidden Kerygma in "Tears" tally to confirm all this. QED i 93 deliberate, Also, "Scanner" deals with the poison. (with "substance mort") by the BIPuall how it who try to play, + turns them into sla I laborers, for its goals, + "Scanner" says the is wrong, + expresses grope that they will pl again (in another way) + be happy (Felix). it says, too, that these were good people bad. Slipped deliberately toxic stuff. It decries nemesis (retributive justice). There is no doubt that "Scanner" furak studies the stegenographic issue - messages raised in "Tears." Even the element of cation is studied. (vs sobriety.) New-path with