be so, then the dokos helps hide + protect us from our pursuers, who are stronger than we (for the time being - but in 3-74 we counter attacked successfully). That's why I remember coming to the planed long ago (originally). Ah those of us who fled to here are the true authentic Christians whon Luther spoke of + Christ Jesus is our King (leader). They did get him but we are immortal (by means of rebirth). The possibility that the Nixon gang consisted of our pursuers (i.e. their came here, too) should not be overcooked + in their police intelligence plans they primarily were looked for us. By cate its they knew about me. Now'7 '71 was are attempt to obtain proof. We are from Albemuth, on both sides (light + darkness) the veil, then, is of our (oun] devising, to obscure ourselves. But I suspected then were onto my real nature, unknown even to me) by 3-74 I knew it (the Xerox letter provel they knew), so there was no utility in amnesia any longer. It was leaking out into my writing everently the entire novel "Tears" depicted that previous world - it was unconscious memory + that is the book that did it. The pharmac girl was one of us, sent to reawaken my memory, since tears was now published; it was neces. sary to reawake me to the knowledge that I was an "apostolic" Christion, concealment behind the veil we'd created here was no longer possible. indeed it was not even to our advantage Thus my intuition about the unique importance of feghs - + my fears - were all correct t we are literally escaped prisoners from another star system - we escaped for prison + led here to hide. But were pursued, we (few) are the ones who didn't revolt against our heavenly father; we didn't fall, our captors + pursuers did revolt + hence fall. Dr King, Jur pite + the kernedys were either us, or suspected of it (probably rightly). That's why they were killed tears allodes to this in the dream section like the Bible, tears is in code 3 Tears describes our world not distant in tire ot in space my other personality is my actual one, who flee here. St Sophia is our leader, about to be reborn - all these things in my books will tell us what's happening. + possibly, duer what to quiet secrets, one by one do (Tears dream we are being reborn, + soon our leader (Christ) be. That is why the Bible speaks of "bee will again frure above, in the spirit) - in ade to born last time we could not get the Kingdered. entr king accepted here, but this time we will be our - are being - successful 1 against the God. (Nixon) 2) my small battle was non this fie 3) Finally Christ will be accepted. others of us were asklepios, Ptath (or thoth) Empedicles (as he himself said), apollonius of Tyana. Our ship or whatever - anyhow we landed (or what ever) princibly in Greece, so when anamnesis occurs we revert back to Greek our lagsuan one of our best kept secrets as is that our King is a female. the Golden Rectangle is a space ward gate to another planet. Maybe where we'll go next - a planel where we con, unlike here (so far). 8 t - I'm getting close to it but I may have some very basic things wrong. new version: the Golden Rectangle gate is the link to our home planet - like Arcady. We crossed over to here, which to us is a (or like A) black Iron prison. To help the fallen race here. Our first entry was c. 600 be. The evil pulers of this planet killed our leady, Christ (+ me too). but we are immortal; we are reincarnating for a 2nd go at it. The Palm tree world is what well mate this like for everyone here. We have already toppled some of Their rulers (e.g. Nixon, + Spain, Greece, Portual) the soviets are the worst + last. They know we are here, + that we are being reborn after 1900 years; they've been trying to track us down. We're reborn without memories. when our own people find us they disinhibit our blocke memories (i.e. by the Gold Fish sign, etc). In my writing esp in tears, I revealed to both sides who I was, but fortunately the Xtians got to me first (+ then the ndiginous evil ones, but by then I had my memer + wers + identity back. This time I won. This time allo ve toppled the Gov. + this time our King (secretly our veen or Goddess) will be accepted. We can go home throu Golden Rectangle gate, but decline to in order to fight the tht here. The gate looks across an immensituse of space he Lady I saw there ("Aphrodtle") is our leader. Soon he will "beam" across + again incarnate here. Back home have the 3rd eye, etc. Aphrodite" whom I saw there is one whose voice I've heard - the lovely "AI" voice. 31 D I've seen 3 not 2 other worlds so 1) black prison. Which is how our race experiences this world, both AD 70 + AD 1974 2) the palm tree world: what we will make this world into 3) the "sky, land, lady, sea" world beyond the Golden rectangle gate: our home, which we are free to return to upon physical death, if we don't choose to fight here any longer. I fought c. AD 70. Guess we all did, + lost. we must have come through that gate then That is the "world of light." Because of our influence, Greece came to resemble it. We first put up our colong in Greece, + fashioned it after our homeland, consciously or unconsciously. Earth may have been a fallen (degenerated) colong planet of our own. but I think I finally found a theory that explains o everything, inc. the Golder rectangle gate our God it our actual father: Abba: imminent in everything, the universe organism who assists us here in our struggle, for instance by the Dokos. Without the merciful veil + we few would be visible 2) it's too horrible here for us, were we to see it (take "Roots" as an example Beethoven was one of us. Also Zoroaster. The material in my writing is caused by + based on not completely blocked memories leaking through - thus I was discovered at least by '71. This is why we need the maya. i 8 we are + will be very vulnerable until our leader Christ) returns. In the gloom, murk of ABBA's Dokos we appear identical to the indiginous people - but I for one blew it in my writing + had to be bailed out (by our leader?? I'm more inclined to see my writing as a fuck-up, rather than part of a plan - at least all before Tears. However fears was covertly freighted for our group - just what the opposition suspected of earlier stuff (telepated man (lans, "Faith of, "Maze. 3 stigmaty, "impostor" at al). By the time tears came along my tutular spirit knew the were os to me. I guess to use conventional theological casuage, we are angels whove assumed human form (+ amnesia, for self protection - until mature). But I certainly have a strong + distinct impression that I escaped from the black iron prison world, came here, sans memory, built up a new identity, + then I wrote tears + the Girl came to the door; I had to remember because I mad been found out, by both sides so the answer to the Q: "Why die we come (down] here is - to hide. But it could be must hide while here, in this worse place, or to hide in a better place; chosing t right then, it here depends on knowing where the black Iron prison is; this world (esp in the past) or another one. I think is I had to choose I'd say it's an experience of this world by a sal vific individual who came here to help - inc poing battle. The "stagnaal pond" dream seems to bear this out. ( 8 by + large I've assumed that the sender of the Xerox letter didn't know what [kind of entity) would be there to receive the Xerox letter; but perhaps he/she/it did know (ob tained from my writing, esp tears + Ubik) + in fact sent the letter precisely because it know. After tears it was just a question of who got to me first - fortunately the Christian, did, the soms of light but the soviets (more precisely, the sons of darkness) know of the hidden church of diving immortals - as led our own gov ernment; we were considered alien invaders The other thing I wanted to get down (here) is a topic old + dear to my heart: mimicry. Of Brahman it is said: "It can (does) transform itself into the universe; or it What I saw in 3-74 can assume the form of the universe" was the "Brahman stuff" assuming the form of familiar objects; what I've always deduced from this is that all things, all objects are that divine stuff really, could we but see it - there would be no exceptions to this monism ourselves included. But suddenly I remember that wonderful book on insect mimicry which brunner sent me. Just because I saw (in 3-74) that many objects (walls, etc) were actually alive, were actually it does not actually mean that there is nothing but it. Take my story "colony" as Paradigm but anyhow the responding - before hand to signals + the vision of the urwelt below the dokos fits with this in that I can posit the dokos not as counterfeit (good enough fakes to pass as real) but that what we are really seeing is it mimicin the many apparently real things of the phenomenal world when I viewed this as a transsubstantiation of essence with the accidents unchanged I could have said instead is originally there were real phenomenal objects. But there is a steady greeping replacement of them by the mimicing alive it It steadily, stealthily replaces them + mimics - assumes their form." Perhaps the transformation of + in me in 3-74 was when this mimicking "plasma" reached me + replaced 8 me - although I appeared outwardly the same (i.e. my essence changed - a new self replaced the old) but my accidents stayed untouried. There are hints about this in my vancouver speech: the inanimate (universe) becoming more + more alive. So what we have is not the dead replace in what are alive but a single organism replacing the inani mate progressively, although outwardly all seems to be as it has always been. Hence my inner awareness that contrary to everything I believe possible my self, my "he" was covertly replaced by a greater other "me" I'd never seen or known before. Thus does heaven (God) assimilate our world: first he emanated it next sustains, +, last of all, reasobs it; what I saw here + there outwardly + experienced inwardly was that reabsorption (which perhaps is what is meant by speaking of Brahman first sleeping, then awaking). We blew up their capital (al) + then flee here + mingled + forgot. But of course unconsciously we knew, + could be disinhibited by the correct audio-visual signal. through this mimicking it can contral the out come of what appear to be causal chains (i.e. ananke) - but are really teleologically directed by it. Noos the key to everything lies in understanding This mimicking living stuff - for it is a weaver of worlds. Lives it can weave more than one at a time I think this form-mimicker is (+ [have found him) the