sticking messages into books + roch cyrics, + cooing radio signals - that's not God - we've been invaded, from inside our heads, + outside - in the space-time empirical world, the invader(s) overthrew th goversment; in preparation for what? + while it was on my head it endowed me with (its) supernatural psychic powers. Perhaps it came in the form it did (the "Golden H1) necklace + girl at the door) because I expected it to haphen that way. It takes the form you +/oyour culture will accept it in. It even had healing powers. + it changed the animals. +, Goddam it; it came from the stars - another star; while it was in my head wed go out onto the Patto at night + look up at the sky, at the stars, seeking to see our home. Dammit; what more proof do I need? I just haven't faced it. the stars The dream of the stinging crystal bees, driving us before them as they sting us (we who were rehearsing our musicel play) - + the the miracle occurs, from God: white snow over everything, + the bees are dead. We are saved: the stinging bees = the todesstacked - the sting of death. the dream means: then now has come to pass: the saying that is written, death where is thy sting); ‐ DNA Double he li! If they know what toes will disinhibit us (our DNA memories + hence idertities) then know more about us than we do ourselves Both the cryptic sign + the word Albemuth refer to the same thing. What nit: whale, DNA, Christ 26 Fish sign = DNA molecule = whals: Fomalhaut (secretly a Garrison state - of "unteleported man") Dorothy area 503 the 386-6177 yo I 707. 936 1144 92701 I think I've discovered a fundamental error in my thinking vis-a-vis the "Thomas" personality which took me over in 3-74. "Thomas" was not a personality - a former one, out of a number, stretched out along linear time like points along line. He was the personality, spanning all times, back to before n we came to this planet - it was thousands + thousands of years of memory, with all the divisions into separate finite lives + their finite spans abolished. This was the gene pool mind per se, a transtemporal eternal entity, not one of many, as Phil Dick is one of many (along the linear time line) I have reason to think that "Thomas" even includes per sonalities (+ time segments) yet, to come - since he knew that the Xerox missive was going to come, + exactly what don for him 3-74 was the past, so he didn't just come from A 70. He was equally familiar with past, present + future D 30 This is true immortality. Hence my dreams at that time beended antique + futuristic elements together. However, this transtemporal personality (like a long stop action movie sequence) was a devout Xtian + the omphalos of his identity - within those thousands of years, past + future, was apostolic Xtian - where, I am convinced, the transtemporal personality capable of moving forward + backward in time, was first by Christ + the Holy Spirit, envolked. I suspect that The envolkation of the transpersonal, transtemporal immortal gene pool personality is the "being born from above" which Christ spoke of. once so born, this personality could never be destroyed, inasmuch as he would survivn the physical death of each body inJurn‐ In fact this sequence of bodies would be mere vehicles for him: the "giant robots programmed by the gene pool [memory]" which leary speaks of. Ultimately, this ommortal personality can be viewed as divine; it is this ie entity which awakes when it is said, "wachet auf" sleepers awake This modified formulation is totally satisfactory, in contradistinction to the view of "Thomas" as a merely "Thomas" archaic (former) personality, such as I myself am is not a former me; he is all of us, past, present + future. now that I have formulated it this way I can't fathom how could ever have formulated it any other way - say, as a past I personality. I think that discovering the sign to be the doubte Helix DNA molecule cleared my head of misconceptions I did not really comprehend the abolition of time as such, but rather only a long period of time (an elementry confusion about eternity: i.e. that "eternity is a very long period of time" whereas in fact it is supratemporal). Thus the frantically fast-changing reality I saw probatsog 31 was in fact a speeding up of time to the point where the immutable forms became visible; this was already true in the phosphene graphics. The eternal was becoming visible as the rate of termutation of the ephemeria accelerated; This is how the transtemporal self experiences realit (history) However: the surfacing of the transtemporal self in me in 3-74 was ontologically tied up with the general (wide spready historic intervention + hence cannot be understood except in context with it. A (or the) supratemporal self was mani¬ feiting itself generally, not just in me. Hegel's concept of God than o acting through + in history must be contemplated so more an isolated transtemporal self must be posited. From my perspective it was the transtemporal, immortal me, but beyond that it was also external to me - seen as Zebra - + so it must be called "God" not "myself" - it was in me, true, + was me - true. But, being also external to me it was more; it was the Master programmer-reprogrammer of which I am only a small part. That is how I must regard this: As I Phil Dick am to my transtemporal (immortal) self, that self is to Zebra (God). I am a segment (part) of something which itself is a segment (part) of a greater sentient entity. Just as the linear-time divisions between my sequences of identities were abolished (to allow the manifes¬ tation of totality of self) the division, then, between that total self + ZebrA, with all that implies, was abolished. Finding my personal self elevated (sic!) to a part of a transtem¬ poral immortal self Spannine thousands of years, I then found that self analagously melded into the Not-I or supra I the Atman gathered up by the Brahman. I, PKD, am only a minute part of my real [linear time] self, + that total lindar time self is - as A:B/BiC; thus A (PKD) is via B (the transtemporal me a part of C (God). A achieves union with God not directly (A as part of C) But through B, the franstemporal me. 32 to know your true self, then, is ultimately to know God. But the sufis are wrong; your true self is not God (as in tat twam asi) any more that PKD is the transtemporal self. This is where much confusion arises. For A to know B is for A, inevitably, to knowc but that does not mean that A is C; A is not even B. We are dealing here with hierarchiies of being, of members to bodies (to use Paul's concept). However, possibly I have done something important, here; I have shown why God is deus absconditus to us. we do not - cannot-know him without first knowing (recollecting) our own selves. B - our true, transtemporal selves- is both a bridge to God + in another sense a barrier between us (as A) + God (C). Before we can know God we most rediscover our lost selves. The rest then follows. This presents a very strong argument for us being said in some very real sense to be asleep; also, it points to anamnesis as the true road to God - + forgetfulness connected with the loss of contact - the rupture - with God. As Felix Blauk says to leo butero, "Remember." The whole key lies there. the whole story of how we lost God is contained in the account of how (however that came to be) that we each of us literally lost the transtemporal memory of self. An interesting point which this presentation discloses is that re-finding God is an inner quest, since B (our true self) is inner - although God does externally exist. None: theless, we will continue to be occluded to his external physical presence around us until the inner rediscovery + experience of true self occurs; then our eyes will discern him As to how we are to begin - with the anamnesis such as I experienced - we cannot induce it ourselves but must depend on a -on the - divine savion for that. 33 It just goes to show that what they say is true: we can't find God; he must find (initiate the search for; us. As Jesus said. "You did not choose me; I chose you." This fits our cybernetics model perfectly: about the "repair" man" entering the deranged autonomous circuitboard, + sneaking in Ubik-commercial-like salvific messages subrosa, B, the transtemporal DNA gene - pool true self, spann. 1000s of years, is so vast an entity to experience + then in its breadth of vision it perceives God - once this A:B/B:C equation is understood it can readily be under‐ stood why A cannot reach C directly. +, as the Gnostics + Mani noted, B seems to be a part of C, encased in a prison, in a prison world I am now positive that my rerouting the Xerox Missive had an historical importance, but this breaks down into two different possibilities. 1) the historical importance lay in the Xerox missive itself, + I was just a rerouter. Or 2) I was (am?) historically needed, + the Xerox Missive was important because it was a threat to me which of the above is the more likely? I favor (1. The disinhibiting signals we are waiting for will Summon back into life a transtemporal self in each of us. Musical tones, or a pisture, a symbol, will remind that buried self of its existence. They who will signal us know not only how to signal, but they know exactly what they will summon back into consciousness the history of our race is a movement toward theen counter with these signals + the signalling entity or-les. We have no power over this disinhibiting. This view tends to confirm -or agree with - speculation that we are "owned," as it were. Governed by higher powers (who have now returned, at last - intervening from outside into what is otherwise a prison world). Ther signals will burst two prisons: that of each mind individually in terms of memory-identity, + the planet as a whole (cf the Gnostic concepts of the micro + macro as reversed forms of each other significantly, the transtemporal self, when released, is to act, within a historic context: he has his structions ("we can be heroes for just one day."). that these "impostor" like humans exist, + are impos sible to detect - Van Vogt + I have both written about them. The humans themselves who are involved - they do not even know. But, once deliberately disinhibited, they will act. they have no more power of choice than a salmon swiarn ming upstream on gene-pool (DNA) instinct to spawn. My most interesting + ambitious theory about the Xerox missive is that by turning it over to the authorities I some‐ how notified them that "they" - i.e. Christ" - is/are here. I foget how I reasoned this out, but it would have to go: that unaided I would not have known to do what I did with it. I did not [merely] prove my loyalty; I proved a lot more. It was not the intention on the part of any mundane person, group or agency to prove th. a correct analysis by them of what I did would point to it but 35 That means