once done - it from then on is always there. Having come into being it does not pass away (cf Plato's forms). in the case of the 1st Advent a form did not just incise onto our world but manifested itself - incarnated - Jesus Christ was not an impression in our world of a form but was the [permanent) form itself; viewed this way it is instantly understandable why he rose from the dead; of course he did: you cannot kill (destroy) a form, only its eikos impressions. Before the crucifixion he was also edolon: matter but that perishible matter was transformed upon his death solely into form. The resurrected Christ was also not merely a form but the "pleroma" form of forms: righteousness, truth, justice. wisdom, love, etc. The Platonist good. It actually entered our world (cf John: "the light shown into the darkness but the darkness comprehended it not, although this "light" had in fact created the universe: the universe did not recognize its own creator. + now this form of forms is assimilating all to domself, invisibly (the darkness still can't see him). but the fact that (as in "Maze" they were really aboard The persus 9 + not on Delmak-O) we are really in Rome C. AD 70 points to more, much more, than a verification of the truth of His promise to return "soon"; it also establishes the absolute rather than merely phenomenal quality of Jesus. the contention of the 4th Gospel is confirmed. This is the greatent meaning of the secret that our space-time continuum AD 70 Rome. This is much more than just a device by which the promise of returning soon is made to be true - a sort of mere ( just as all the divine feddling around with time. characters" in "Maze" were trapped forever in the persus 9 no matter what they saw + believed, we all are trapped in Rome c AD 70. However, despite the cruel enemy, the Romans, it is a good place, a joyous place. We are joyously preparing for his imminent return, which really is coming soon. The return is just as truly soon as the first advent was just recently - just a few years ago the true total time span is no more than one human generation, no wonder the O.T. prophets, looking ahead in time, saw both advents as one. Their time-sense was correct; ours is not - is delusional However, I can think of a reason - a revealed one - as to why God permits this irreal (long] time to continue; it has to do with the revelation in the dream about the fallen angels among us - why theophanies are restricted: they - the faller ones or tares - must be allowed to grow to fulness, until they + we too are ready for harvest. A valuable -essential - need is fulfilled in our [long-seeming] time: their fruition + hence exposure of their - + our - true natures. The game continues, on the game board, although in true time it is really over, really already won. Jesus said, "I have conquered the world"; i.e. his 1st advent was not a failure viewed sub specia eternitatio He set victory into motion which nothing could (can halt; it was like a crucial move in a chess game which determines the outcome 50 moves later. That the darkness could/can not see that the light has entered this [sublunar] world does not put out the light. based on the fallen arged or "tares" dream I can see that The permission for the prolongation of our irreal time is intimately connected with the great assize - in fact I would be tempted to say that that is what this time-extension is all about. Obviously some (good] purpose is served or God would end it. The lives (Acts) We live out are real, + are audited (i.e. observed + recorded). These acts (decisions) are made by us in a state of total ignoran of the real conditions: it is not just the evil ones who don't know where + when we really are + that we are observed + judged. 36 34 If (since?) we act now + evidently are judged now (I feel I was) then an eschatological condition already exists; some of the "wheats" are indubitly revealing themselves as wheat + some tares as tares. This fits in with what I through revelation) was shown as happening: divine intervention (breaking through) into human history. It is obvious that this could/would not occur until at least some (in fact crucial) judging had been completed The logic of all this points definitely to 1974 as an end. time phenomenon, then, which fits in with God's action in lifting the veil for me: to lift it for even one human being - especially one such as I who has access to the printed page - doesn't that suggest that these are indeed end times? Likewise all my novels + stories: as I said to K.W., for me to sense the illusory nature of our reality is not an indication of any genius on my part but rather an indication that that illusory reality is weakening - thinning - wearing out to expose the authentic reality beneath. I can't take credit for noticing that which is becoming evident. I know that for me the testing is ended; it ended not with any victory or act or discovery on my part but rather by salvation + grace poured onto + into me from above. I reason, if it is ending - has ended - for me it is likely that it has ended (or will soon end) for otheres will my writing play a role in this revelation? Can't hurt, anyhow: it is both effect of the transformation + a further cause; my writing is a part of the over all historic realization, such as the overthrow of the tyrant in '74. It was inevitable that the tyranny should arise when + how it did + fall when + how it did, + at the same time (starting c. 1951 around the time of the Hiss case) that I should write what I wrote, dissolving the conceptual cate gories of being (as fitting et al. pointe out) as an intellectual undermining of the pseudo-reality giving rise to that tyranny. 35 -when I saw the Golden fish sign + heard what the got said, what did my brain understand? That the true Christians were (still] underground, still hidden, illegal + persecuted. The persecutors had to be the Romans; both the secret Christians + the Romans were still with us. Nothing had changed. What she displayed was a cryptic signal or sign which required a (verbal explanation; alone, the sign meant nothing. It was merely ornamental jeweery. So it was supposed to be: alone, conveying mothing. That the real church was secret - that it existed at all, a true Xtian church - look what that conveyed to me. The entire aboveground open Xtian establishment is a hoax, a front for Rome. Cf Luther as to the real church: "I do not know where it is, but it is hidden, persecuted + despised." It is secret, still using codes, still working behind the scenes invisibly? These are The apostolic times; my brain figured that out, + all of the above. I think it was instrumental in pulling down the tyranny (with nero as the archetype.) Rome is concealed behind a facede; So is the true church. Rome secretly took over - defeated - the Xtian church, while pretending to capitulate to it; that the Xtians conquered Rome: that is a lie; Rome conquered the church, but we do not know that - that Rome was the victor. + then, since we do not know that, even more a secret is the fact that there is/was a true, secret, invisible, authentic Xtian church which was not absorbed by Rome. One secret contains yet another! There is a hierarchy of secrets: [Note that Rome won + absorbed the Xtian church, which means that Rome is still here, + the entire Xtian establishment an extension of it (v. toynbee's theory of history), + since This is not realized it is impossible to conceptualize secret ➁, which depends on first knowing No - being that a true hidden persecuted + despise Xtian church holds out. We are not talking about something which obtained 1900 years ago but now. Time has been suspended the forward - linear - progression is a fraud. Substantially, nothing has changed since John of Patmos. It is all a titanic delusion - the power of the lie. These are still Biblical times, if seen correctly. Our world, in 3-74, resembled the world of "Tears" - the slave state. supposed it is not assumed that in rolling the veil aside AD 90 wasn't exposed but AD 1974 exactly like AD 90. Then "Thomas is not an AD 70 atavistic personality but rather the true me of now, the true author of the writing - + a secret member of the secret hidden church, a knowing member, hidden even from my conscious personality ala "impostor (6) I (my conscious ego) am not aware of or a member of the i true secret church, but Thomas is, it was Thomas who fore knew that the Xerox letter was coming. He knew what if meant, too (I myself did not, nor did I expect it - but then, it was he who had put the cryptic apocalyptic material in my novels + stories. Well, in this case, it all This is true, everything makes sense - a different sense. In the stories + novels Thomas deliberately writes for the edification of others like himself. It suddenly becomes possible to say who is doing what in relation to whom. All I need posit is other thomases, conscious or unconscious: the writings are further fish signs proclaiming buried memories + secret identities, delusional worlds, counterfeit realities, etc - all adding up to a good hunk of the secret, the secret, the salvific Gnosis. Wow. In my writing I express the hidden truths. That makes (or did make) me very dangerous to Rome - the slave masters whom we overthrew. That a war between us (the hidden true church) + them (the hidden true Rome) took place + that we won - this be so, yet still cryptic, unrecognized by most people. Are we not talking about the age old struggle between the angels light + darkness? The world is their battlefield of Our battle field. Amnesia protected me, but not sufficiently. The wise mind came to my rescue. in asking myself, "what is the real situation, in contrast to what appears - delusionally - to be real?" I need not try to tap Thomas' mind, knowledge + memories, but can turn directly + more easily to what he has written (e.g. "Maze." "Frolix 8," "Ubik" etc) - his message is more accessible in the writings than anywhere else - since Now Thomas' epiphany (+ there was one by him) has ended. Thomas has left a permanent external record. i.e. statement. the biggest news of all went into Deus Iral, consciously by me: our leader is going to return + this time he/she will prevail. The messages pass over into the consciously given by imper‐ ceptible degrees. viewed this way, the facts fully account for the divine intervention in my behalf in 3-74. Given the whole of the situation (supra) the divine intervention can be understood. The true situation is much more extraordinary than II have ever guessed - likewise my role-likewise my identity 37 I really haven't tapped it - I really don't understand it, including myself; i.e. my role + identity. What I do understand is that we are led + maintained by the highest divine power, + that he + we changed human history, + that we directed by him (or