power therefore knows that it will never beable 41 to tell when, where + to what extent its spurious world has been replaced, + its victims replaced by the voluntary sacrifice of God, over whom Satan has no power. I saw enough (e.g. Pinky) to convince me that the penetration + replacement is enormous. I saw what evil (bund + deter‐ ministic) cannot sees speculation: I was bait, + not what the evil power thought, nor what even I thought. This implies that my override handling of the Xerox missive did crucial harm to the evil power in addition to saving me. I lured something evil into the open, + then "Thomas," using me did in some‐ thing or someone who was a crucial link in some evil chain of action. But it's not important that I know what; I served my purpose, + was amply rewarded for the dreadful years that preceeded their grasping me, the bait. me as bait had to do specifically with some‐ thing in "Tears." But what was in "Tears"? I certainly know: unmistakable material from Acts. Well, Acts is the part of the Bible which describes the early apostolic age church just after Christ leaves. + this is the precise time + place (Roman Empire c. 70 AD) which I was shown, in the same month the novel came out, that it (not 1970) is where + when we really are. So "the right persons" reading "Tears" would think - because they know it is the case - that I a knew the truth when I wrote the novel. Hence the verox missive. I smoked out (I intuit) a network o or which knew the truth - but were sup pressing it. Hence (as I intuited at the time) I was in very real danger. I appeared to have penetrated the artifacts secret + reached 2 exactly what I set out to reach in "Tears" no longer asking, what is reality? But rather saying what it is. +, as internal evidence in "Tears" indicates, it's Rome c AD70. I have always believed that the cypher the us intelligence people suspected was in "Tears" was in fact not there. But maybe it was; maybe ancients the "we are prisoners of Rome + God is coming to rescue us" (the dream) was what they 1) knew to be true; + 2) suspected might be in the novel Then "Tears" has in it at least one disin‐ hibiting stimulus. Undoubtedly the dream sequence joined with the command "Felix" plus the scene in the all night gas station with the Black man. the latent (true) message (subliminal) is that we're living in Roman times + the savior will ie very soon return. Undoubtedly the message in Tears" is only one part of a total message woven is into many books, to, + rock music. But the message h Tears" is about where + when we are, + what our actual situation is (prisoners), + that help is close by. The apocalyptic prophecies will be fulfilled. The savior has already deeply penetrated this world on his 1st role: as surrogate victim. Soon he will return as judge + king. All this is in "Tears. I intuit, then, that the Xerox thing was a forgery, + not from the party. Too tired to spell it out, nce again, as before, I am positive But whoever sent the Xerox missive did not want the tegengraphic truth in "Tears" to be told. It is a lethal hing to know. But "Tears" was looked. I didn't know it, + I didn't write it. My novel was penetrated o the divine + used as a vehicle to tell the basic 43 real story (as in "The unteleported man.") (in which The coded message gets back to Earth as to what the colony at whatesmouth is really like). But, by a curious coincidence, in the very same month that "Tears" was released - without any possibility of destroying all the copies - I was shown the truth + finally was able (with Father Rasch's help) to link what I saw with "Tears." God became man so that man could become God - This is accomplished (the latter) by an exchange of identities: (man) that a two-way thrust of per‐ sonality. Suddenly the time + place is Rome c AD70. suddenly the person, the man, is not himself; he - the "I" in him - is another "I." A miracle + a mystery has unfolded. The agent of this exchange is the Holy Spirit, correctly regarded as the discorporate spirit of The Lord (Jesus Christ). Has it become the person, or has the person become it? Mystery. But in any case, it now is in command, + receives the blow (in my case the Xerox missive). But victory, not suffering, marks the return of Christ, which is what this is: not Christ crucified but the victorious Christ who has triumphed over death who cannot be killed. Joy is the hallmark. He did not come back to die again; what dies is the "old man" in the person - man. That which is there now bears no relationship to his personal history, his "beginnings" At this point in the life cycle of the divine entity, it has reached the triumphant good. Earlier, the human endured the passion (defeat) but suddenly there is at the very heart of it, victory + absolute joy. During the earlier steps - the suffering - he did not know who or what he had become. Here is the Christ mirach: suffering leads to joy + victory, not to extinction but to eternal life. This is go the secret of Christianity, how it transmutes unearned suffering: it makes it a path, a channel, for final catalytic transmutation, by fusing it with Christ's own soffering, death + victorious resurrection. By miracle the creature's does not just resemble Christ's but onto‐ externally, I saw this in Pinky; inter‐ logically is. nally I experienced it but did not know what it was I was experiencing. Suffering, death + rebirth. But the exchange does not come at the time of joy (rebirth); it is there already to meet the blow. I have a feeling that normally the passion ends in death. So the resurrection is not seen e.g. as with Pinky) but in my case they were able c to break the matrix + I experienced the new life here, The salvation is the result of successfully undergoing what is moperly called the ordeal. During the ordeal the divine alchemical transformation is invisibly achieved. Truly, then, the pains of the ordeal are literally birthpangs. The "old man" must be broken; everything inner + outer must be systematically stripped away - the accretions of this life. But the creature does not undergo, it alone; his God - the savior - accompanies him in syzygy. Apparently here they play be the rules There. Is this in order to keep the penetration + rescue invisible to the artifact? That seems to be the pattern. the artifact can't be sure which + how many of his victims are secretly transfigured. The invasicen steadily, invisibly grows. It is pressure on the artifact not to torment, inasmuch as any torment of any living thing may yield it up to immortality. The artifact therebir has pressure on it to curs its ananke - to get its chaos under control 45 This syzygy with the divine (a replication of The Jesus/Christ original syzygy of man + the divine) is (as I know through experience of it) accomplished through the abolition of process (linear) time + space, + a penetrating to the eternally-enacted ur-drama. This is Xtian anamnesis, a remembering of identity. Throug this we are him, not like but are. Mundane time give way to sacred time in which the original ordeal is not re-enacted but perpetually enacted; it is the archetype (in the Platonist sense), of which our ordeals are copies. The eidos is disclosed by the stripping away of linear time accretions. There is no question that this can be done, inasmuch as it was accomplished for me in 3-74. Always, the savior is manifested where not expected: "like a thief in the night." Christ is the God of the broken ("the very desperate. as Luther put it). One does not fall within his province unless the world breaks you. It is a paradox. To be broken here is to be transformed, to receive new + vastly greater life. Christ seeks in the wreckage for living material to be reshaped; thus he defeats the world as champion of what it casts down + pulverizes. The breakers in contrast need no champion (advocate) here. Theodicy is achieved not by establishing justice but by over-offsetting injustice. (2 I've found an error in cornford's reasoning about ananke as being not determinism as we understand it, But more a mere casual, errant chance. He forgets that from Babylon + its astronomical + astrological preoccupa is the mid East ancient world had a clear idea of fixed outcome (fate or destiny). The process by which this outcome is reached may not have been comprehended as scientific cause - + - effect law, but the fundamental concept of determinism was there. This comes up with the notion of the God who intervenes + extricates a person from his astral fate, in which case the intervening God is similar to Plato's Noos or reason + astral fate ananke. my own 3-74 experience disclosed to me an extri‐ cation from a rigid determinism the source + nature of which I can't fathom + which defies all modern theory except perhaps the DNA engramming theory. If DNA is ancestral drives acting themselves out with you as a vehicle (at their mercy) then isn't Thomas a summa form of ancestral determinism? Or maybe he is not. In any case, what we seem to have is a template that huprisons us - the concept of ananke refers to this, + is chance only as process, not as outcome. (E.g. "the trojan prince is bound by fate to seek italian land," etc.) + the ancients seem to have been right - such a template exists, only not emanating from the stars. Also, they were night that a God exists who can break this imprisoning template. Maybe will Durant is wrong about the purpose of religion being that of explaining undeserved suffering; it is not to explain anything. But to free us from a thralldom from which the undeserved suffering emanates; i.e. to intervene + deflect (abort) bad luck, evil fate, etc - certainly a much higher + more practical purpose than any explaining which leaves what is unchanged. Does it not occur to Durant that his description more accurately fits philosophy than theology? It is the purpose of 43 philosophy to explain + reconcile man to his fate; but God has the power to change (deflect) that fate. God is a higher power, not just a wiser one. What does Durant think the colloquey of prayer is for? Merely for understanding + accepting? the most ignorant Mexican Catholic better under‐ stands the purpose of religion (+ God vis-a-vis man) than Durant does. This is not an intellectual matter. although understanding is a legitimate part of it clearly, durant doesn't even take into account the possibility that Gods or God exists + can intervene in a person's life. But this is precisely what was done for me in 3-74. Durant should consider Hegels (+ the Jewish notion of God acting upon human history as his material, shaping + directing it according to his plan. Without these realizations all that remains is theology, not a living God with vast knowledge, personality + power What may be the case is that some or most religions explain undeserved suffering, + offer spiritual comfort - but the purpose of the mystery . who religions was to put man in touch with a God could + would intervene + change the