this there closure of the actual face of reality: the BIP is seen war everything into its service (without them knowing it). free, they must see what they are freed from. Al should by all means discern (in theophany) their sa (set, Zebra, yang). Of course; this freeing or "mea disorganizes the yin structure. It suffers a constit series of defeats in linear time which are actua 72 t i t in he "exploded" view of one defeat, since one thing is dismantled. Free from servitude, the person involved becomes a "random particle," like the variable man. The yin world can neither coerce him nor anticipate what he will do. A plurality of such liberated lifeforms would by the very existence disorient + impede - weaken - the BIP: [to] repeat: by their very existence, since (by balking) they have been able to void their preprogramming + no longer mesh with the totality. The BIP can to an even [deeper] extent foresee. To lose control is to lose predictability. Therefore without reference to any given act that merely by virtue of their existence they madden the BIP + those still unknowingly serving it. A lot of this took place in the U.S. in the sixties. But the ultimate goal is not merely to liberate evolved lifeforms from the power of the BIP. But to destroy the BIP utterly, thus freeing everyone. Those freed (i.e. saved) in advance of the BIPs destruction are the vanguard or "first fruits." They may be free (+ now operate in homeostasis) But the BIP will persecute them - but, [..] Book of Doris' says they will prosecute the BIP, put it on trial + condemn it, convict it of sin. But what is set (Zebra, yang) going to replace [..] the android, deterministic cosmos of yin with? Why with consciousness, voluntary affiliation + the participation in the Godhead (noös) at an isomorphic (poly [encyclopedic]) level. Meanwhile, Zebra has invaded the deterministic structure + is modulating causal trains so they will teach progressively + finally awaken us, Zebra will cook yin's system as long as that system exists - Zebra is transmuting it into the conscious + voluntary group mind I mention above: the Corpus Christi, with the [..] the Savior (God) wisely guiding it. In the disguise of the weak + the helpless, it is here, victimized until [..] into wakefulness - whereupon it becomes very dangerous to the yin structure which has caused it to "come to [..] self" - although perhaps a "yang" signal is essential. Yes, I may be wrong that yin can torment yang into anamnesis: maybe its the already liberated who knowingly + deliberately induce the anamnesis: it spreads out secretly, invisibly - almost as if recruiting. But in no sense does it brainwash: it awakens the recipient to his own buried identity, mission + memories. What we are talking about is the enlarging [..] mind (noös) or St. Sophia, with the ultimate destination of being ALL, with necessity (ananke) totally ➀ [..] + ➁ transmuted into mind. It is the [(amen) sanctification] of the cosmos. + with the demise of blind causal trains will expire injustice, injury + death. So in a certain real sense Zebra will use the user; the yang part of the Godhead will treat (does treat) the brittle, rigid yin world as plastic material onto which to impose its own "brain" (intellect) in a sense, yang will use all of it at once, as one single gestalt (i.e. brain) which it will animate - i.e. bring to life, a mental life. Outside of linear time this has already been accomplished, + as each of us is extricated from linear time, to the extent that we are extricated we will see this sentience + purposefulness in the physcial world. Thus, when I see a [bit] of reality "deferring" I will know I am in an enlightened state (momentarily). The ultimate vision (PTG) is of the world as brain - to - mind: physical world brain with mind controlling it. + of course the proof of this is the hearing of the divine "still small voice" of this brain or mind. Thus, just as yin makes creature into object noös (Zebra) makes object (causal train of object) into creature: the two are antitheses of each other: [..] opposites. It is quite a moment when Zebra cuts that "Electric Ant" inner programmed tape. So then the bottom line is that the yin tape seeks to reify sentient creatures, + the yang seeks to make sentient all reality - into a brain which is the physical analog of mind. Will we have a living (Form I) universe? Or a dead Form II? (By "dead" read "unconscious".) That sentient beings can be + are reified is less surprising a realization than that objects + causal trains can be infused with purpose - a form of sentience (not an individual lives plural, but functions of one vast brain). We seem to be led back to Brahman. The final goal - end state - is the source from which all came in the first place. The entire apparently complex process can be said, simply to consist of a waking up. So be it. Consciousness better than unconsciousness. Brahman confronted itself - the one (Brahman) confronts + re-merges with its separate - separated pluriform, the many Atmans. It is an oscillation of separation + return Palintropos Harmoniē, which maintains the unchanging Palintropos Harmoniē of the one, the All. ---------- The coertion which maintains the yin world - by compelling us from within does not seem to us to be something external to us, with dominion over us: we identify our own wishes with its demands. This is what fools us. We imagine ourselves bipolarized to the universe - the not me - but in fact it is within us, disguised - it has us. Coordination is everything. The inner-outer synchronization functions smoothly outside of our awareness as it unrolls in linear time. There is crucial [first] at "junctions" - probably not continually. It fires when + where + needs [to] fire, for the purpose of keeping itself going: the will to continue is the extent of its "mind." This mere will to survive not the kind of need to develop + grow that an authentic entelechy feels; here all is repetition. It is stuck, but it cannot be made to unstick - it won't be overruled + something external to it imposed on it. It is this externalness which distinguishes Zebra + its activities. It is not nor ever was part of the yin world system: it must be envisioned as entering from outside. Hence the quality of miracle to its accomplishments. It defeats the mere [reaction] of the yin world; it does not preserve it but confronts it. Of course, at the source, the urgrund, both yin + yang are complimentary "partner" halves. Yin was dispatched first, so it could become a recepticle for yang - used by yang as it itself uses its constituents. Yin + its world does not know or understand what its purpose in the divine plan is; thinks (sic) of itself as an end in itself. The killing of animal by animal discloses what [..ford] calls "the element of the irrational in the world soul." It is the psychosis, mindless + cruel, of the yin world + the horror that Schopenhauer saw - one draws back in revision + amazement. How can this "survival of the fit" nightmare be? Rectification is called for: a whole new order of things to replace the old. This is taking place, as set incises itself qua eidos onto yin as ground. If we had a long - enough range "stop action" view we would see the fascinating miracle of the "ball lightning" "Tesla - generator" like Zebra printing itself as circuit onto the otherwise ossified yin world, animating it as it is made into a living brain. Thus a new world is right [there], before our eyes but invisible to us, in the making. Christ as judge determines the shape of the incising: what will be included or excluded or altered + if so how. Set moves faster than ground. Thus ground cannot clearly perceive set. So set controls ground as ground controls its many parts. ---------- Ted is right: I can remember future lives + this life (the yet-to-come parts). +, in my writing. I am in two way communication with my future self (he sends stuff back in visions + dreams), + I put the specified coded material in my writing (esp "Tears"). Then it was at least two temporal selves which broke in in 3-74: a past self (Thomas c. AD 70) of a future self (v. Ted Sturgeon's "Circle of Selves" [..]) information was flowing in 2 directions at me, as if 3-74 was a center. The script of my 3-74 life was broken by the future self - or, as Sturgeon says, there a macro self outside space + time, as well as the circle of selves. It is possible though that a future self in space + time knew - from historic records? - What happened to me upon "Tears" coming out, + broke through backwards. But the additional presence of the past self Thomas suggests a fusion of all selves - i.e. the timeless macroself. The macro self took over, + it embraces all the selves. But how does the externally visible Zebra fit into all this? The elongated time-sense induced flash-cutting [..] of permutation - elongated through all the selves; at that [..] Zebra - the intelligence of the unfolding entelechy (cosmos) [..] visible. But the "still small voice." Zebra's? Or my macro (or future?) self? My future self would know the answer to this. The voice described itself as "tutulary." Then the dream material in "Tears" was an experiment of sorts, a deliberate attempt by a future self to insert material in writing which to them was the past. Were several alternative futures set up c. 1974? The intervention altered history? The insertion of the material proved it was possible. Thereupon they blitzed the Watergate situation + forced Nixon to turn over the tapes - thus changing history. But probably only my own future (or macro) self would be interested in saving me per se (as it did). So the code in "Tears" is directed at the future peoples as I figured out; but now I think not only was it to be read by the future me, but was put there by the future me. Re [..] Missouri speech re all the future events (re me) which appear in "Tears." Then the time dysfunctions + track A,B, + C which I depict in my Metz speech were instituted by our future selves. The phosphene "microwave psycho-energetics" beam came not from the [..] but from the future. This is why I reacted to the Bradbury stimulous in advance. My future personality was already taking over; it had done so to deal with the Xerox Missive it was "script - breaking." The break had already occurred: i.e. on Wed March 20 when the Xerox Missive came. The Bradbury thing was the following Sat night + on that Friday I saw the Cabella print out - which tends to - Olive Holt. Subliminal, but not by the [..] but by the bureau. No ich denke, ich glaube, es war [..] partie. Somehow a Tesla transmitter was involved - + circumvented by the future or macro self. Only something of the magnitude of a Tesla coil experiment would justify the future or macro self intervening. We're talking about total enslavement of my present self. Its virtual extinction. We're talking about one sophisticated technology (USSR present) countered by a superior one from our future. It's as if 3-74 was a summit conflict. ---------- Ah! as soon as the dream material got published, the future self knew it could reach me + change the (to it) past,