faster). Must be the major part. So, out of this projected part, only the constants could be perceived by my eyes, etc. They, the constants, alone were superimposed on passive truly objective matter. Well, finally my third eye (the projecting + the projected) got so out of [clock?] synch with the truly external that I saw my luminous (phosphene) geometric forms-total abstraction out of the Flash cut multiplication of [shades?]. Gee- the truly objective must be no more than a dull gray motionless cardboard like set. Leibing is right’s we are pre-set, pre-wound monads. Well, I began to now fast, as a monad. This is why that night I spoke to sergeant Kelly I explained things ahead of time- I was projecting Out of synch with the external-ahead of it! Of the Zebra [started?] mentioned. We are pre-synchronized Into a totally [eagrammive?] deterministic realityIt's in our entelechy! (to react-programmed at our birth! How I will react to any Ginem external stimulus is Pre-programmed. Like answering the phone + then it rings-this is a fucking fake world! A Black iron prison! + God/Christ is rescuing us! V 1 So now I know why. Before I met Tessa, I wrongly spoke of Ginger as [Georgia?]. It’s all a presynchronized stimulus, + pre-programmed [responsive?] deterministic Black Iron Prison. Hence we get deja vu. I say it again at least part of the programming occurs in are [barely remembered] dreams. Anyhow, on the brighter side, this astral determinism is a way of maintaining a Kosmis (vs chaos). You thusly synchronize it all. Well, then; in view of all this the “theolepsy” of 3-74 vis-a-vis the Xerox letter + how I responded can be freshly understood. so urgent + vital was it (for me for sure) to have me respond correctly to the Xerox letter that the ubiquitous and annual programmed response, which immically feel, (seem) like free will was over-ridden by God himself- My illusions and Ddelusions about reality was sacrificed but I was saved- and the Plan as well. Thus I am certain that Christ works against this determinism- ie God’s intervenes Grace. We are in a sort of didactic stars play. We have service the Xerox letter must definites was to my ser; that’s why and how I knew it was coming. But God (via Grace intentional and “reality” it at that koras our of coving transgress this tells me what God is like. If enough of this intervention occurs we call it “the apocalypse.” Did it come ahead of time (each for me precisely because (supral my monadosminsm- projecting “tone” God speeded Up (and out of synch)? Then the Gomand Parousia Is due son for everyone, ah-but if my present Framed out 2500 years back, heaven knows to how Reached may have gotten into God's total present: t back to pre-earth origing forward to the Parous: into is months was compressed of time span or which I lived from at least Rome C. AD 70 to the mallenial Kingdom for in the feture possi through the intervention, great assize, etc. I lived the whole history of man, to its end, from Its start. That must be God's time I regressed along the same axis as in Ubik + then advanced on it. First back to the past, then into the future. Finally bad to mundane time. How does this discovery affect the Zebra principle? When the volocity of internal - clock processes is vastly accelerated (in months I saw 2500 years I) then the purposefulness of processes can be seen. The deliberate sheeped-neis, the process of the shaping, + the luminosity (i.e. inner projector out ward) of the shader - the Logos (Zebra). It is the same principle as the procession of stills of a movie filar, if projected fast enough, produce a the appearance of motion. Projected faster, the "external" processes disply purpose + direction + an artificer direction is only revealed by high speed projection: so no scruting of one "frame intrinsically will ever reveal Zebra. In a very real sense, Zebra is a perceptual inference from the evident purposefulness of the direction of the flux but where does that locate Zebra? In the world, but that world is projeche in synch from our Heads 3 The projected aspect of reality does not constitute things (objects) in processes (events) but some kind of qualities supercomposed onto them infusing these binge-an Rich. Texture, color, a certain luminosity which causes them to seem real (convincing?) theme is some head at inner + outer synchronization. It imposes by projection, and is these externally. Maybe what is projected is “under what [the] Aspect”- subjective qualities which seem objective + which (The projected aspects) Golden oure responses, the objected processes being in themselves neutral. (Volitionally gray) That they are desired/ not desired at all, or even possibly even recognized depends on this continued projection. An event, such as the arrival of the Xerox letter, has an interior programmed analog in my head, constructed some time in the past; it, being synchronized in time, will be projected onto the objective letter like a grid of meaning, by which 1 This event/object will be identified + my reaction [rignous?] pre-determined. How (under what aspect) I will see the objectively neutral Xerox letter will be determined by the pre-programmed projection unto it, + How I see if then in sequence sets of my response, which is 100% locked in [on?] the projected aspect value I am not under the control of the external object [pase?]; I am under the control of my own projection system, which, howeva, I have no volitimal influence over, + seems to have been deliberately engineered (as Zebra in dreams). This is what we call Mayan Diros. Because of factors in my [seed?] I see the Xerox letter in a certain way + this “certain way” sets off a refelxive response as the aspect goes, so goes the response (act). Thus, much of the environment which I react to emanate, from my own head, but not from [me?] qua me. of if emanates from the not-me in me, which we call the unconscious - or even the collective. Thus in 3-74 I had not (as I thought) withdrawn my projections, but was firing the take of them faster + faster (not synchronized with actual external time, things or events). Thousands of years of projections were fired within a six month period -i.e. the whole tape, which evidently originated in the collective. it was as if the vast (slow?] time-sense of my trans-single -life collective somehow got lifted into the velocity system of my consciousness; i.e. for 6 months No- Eleven months) for eleven months my collective unc. Became conscious + picked up a non tran-life time flow velocity: not the not-me rate but the me rate instead my rate with its perspective (span). So thousands of subjective years passed in eleven months Thus: uncut o great assize stone "cast" millenial ome AD70 Kingdom August to hare is Feb 75 This is why (+ no me saw the black Iron prison but me. (1) nor the great assize ' nor ( the millenial Kingdom; I was out it synch with time. The "uncut stone flung," however, was t in synch with outer events; i.e. Nixon us the high court I saw all events prior to it in trans-life history, + all such events which followed, +, dure solely to the "conspirator. dream, understood the trans-life meaning of it. On e the thousands- of years - long track it could be understood + evaluated - i.e. in correct perspective (aspect). The ken word is perspective. True retrieved memory imparts that Anamnesis did occur - by a speeded-up running of the entire inner trans-life tape 5 Because of the opening up to accessibly of the collective memories (thousands of years worth) the slot of the now (i.e. the present) was aidemt via these collective memories- it became enormously wider via what I call perceptual memory ( a retention or perservance by which motion [echo?] and is seen- in this expanded now much more (ie more rapid) change was visible; this slot evidently widened not only back into the past but forward into The future, so that far-future events were contained in It (a kind of anticipatory “perseverance”). Memory always brings to mind (to perception) that which no longer is. My perceptual memory brought the future into view just as it did the past- indicating that we do have “memories” of the future in visible this pre-programmed “experience” take which (supra) is projected outward so as to coincide with actively external events, + to which we are compelled to react in wholly determined ways. By “retrieval” of memories I mean an actual stimulation into consciousness of them, as when tiny electrodes are touched to portions of the brain + the [plasma experience?] absent rememberered things or present (“now I taste a ham sandwich,” etc). They were not merely there, but actually those circuits fired + so reentered present consciousness as “presently there.” The ancient trans like experience, were recalled to activity [(rerups)?]. Barriers (inhibiting) were dropped + the contents invaded the conscious field. Their presence + then acceletarted rate account for the total experience, inward + outer both. What is even more extra ordinary is that this “track” not only fired from distant past to the present. But through the present + then ran a head into a premature [projected] future. Showing that the destruction between the past as leaving traces + the future not is illusions it also establishes the [Parity?]] principle into time which DNA [kozmos?] what was lacking. How interesting it is that the total track ran from the Advent all the way to Second. Since I likened the 2nd in the premature anticipatory way. I can assign that my tired trans-like line extend with the future to the 2nd actually, although though there is a way I can assess when the latter will occur in time Sodium pentathol is called the "truth serum" because it dissolves the inner barrier & releases blocked actual [internal?] it did this in me in conjunction with the Gold fish necklace I recognized it & remembered it By seein it a [illegible] still under the pentathol. this drug also makes lying (deception) more or less impossible. IF the pre-programming works through the continual projection of the inner take into outer events (to determine their way of striking us & hence our responses) then this theory of the out-of-synch inner take running through in [illegible] at high speed unreleted, all at my, to outer events, tend, (of true) to notify my belief (& deep intuition) that as of 3-74 after the xerox letter orthogonal "Grace" intuition I was freed from "astral determinism," ie the pre-established programmming . the projected aspects into which I (like all other people) had always been engramming in played itself out into the void, so to speak, as [vision?] like experiences, wit connected with the objective world. Either this abolishin, of synch covted the non-programming By itself on it was a aspect of my Being Freed (By the orthangonal) [intuition?]. After 3-74 my "Lines" No longer fitted the "play." without synchronization there is No longer in deterministically the [cuing?] take ran at high speed right through to its end - perhaps Normally due in future life 9 Once there is orthogonal intervention so that you are caused to respond & differently than your take calls [for?] a new future track (world) for you comes into existence, so that now the rest of your take doesn’t apply (ie link up to external events) anyhow. In which case you would experience ghostly visions- superimposition projections into the void synched with nothing, + visible as projections (visions) against, not meshing with, external reality. You would be in 2 worlds at once. So I guess, since its now useless, the take just races through at “high speed [forces?]” to its conclusion. But in those ghostly projections onto non-meshing externals