to my writing to learn the answer I should turn to "time out of joint," + the message there is: he had just come from the actual reality, + the apparent one is not really real (rather than both being real; it is the one his body remembers that is the true one. His body learned responses are the cle ness. to this, leading him at last from the "dream" to "wakeful 8 Thus in "Joint" I begin to view the apparent world, this world, as dream (maya). Howear, "Joint" also says. He lives at a different time than the apparent time of the pseudo, fake construct world (i.e. I didn't once live in Rome C AD 70; I have been there really all this time; it is really c AD 70 [Kighs now). A conclusion I'm not prepared to accept. Just slightly after the first Advent, + awaition the seconds what if I abandon the concept of linear time entirely (deducting for my "Rome" experient that there is no such thing as linear time) + view this in terms of ontology - of varyin degrees of reality. Instead of saying that Roman (in more accurately apostolic time is more real than ours I say the authentic early Christions were as being, name here (than people of our time) + are transsubstantiating the universe (along some kind of orthogoral axis which not only con we not move along, but can't even see (imaging), Just as the form-regression, in Ubik force those people to adops another model of the universe, my layer-by-layer form regression (outer to inner, like onion layers, not back word) forces me to adduce another universe - model - probably Platonistic horic to de with levels of ontology: "the rocket ship really is" etc, + 1974 fullerton really is" etc. What possesses the greatest amonit of being is the first Advent. first d Advent "- lesser realms (points, or layers) t level. ( celebration of the first Advent (either Eureka. [aster or passion, bird life death) is an eternal event in the eternal always present now, timeless (as was thought about the intervention by the Hindu mythic Gods - not at a linear time-date in the past but (see p. 56) outside time entirely (which is the Christian realm of eternity). The first Advent wasn't (really) in time at all, any kind of time (as all our other events are). It always (re) occurs now (Christs eternal birth C, march too, the vernal equinox): he doesn't repeated come (again), but rather the event (intercession) is always now. The Advent lies in a totally different realm from all other events (such as fullerton AD 1974); it alone is totally real (cf Plato's form-concept of the real). This is what anamnesis (either Christian or in any religion) is all about: celebrating an eternal recurier divine (mythic) event. I just didn't understand the eternal nows of the divine, which is to say I don't have the mythic, religious background to correctly, fully understand anamnesis. It recalls to you, that which was not them but is always (now). Despite my elaborate theorizing I have remained one the (innacturate) domination of the notion of time, in our case linear time. Here is the correct model. Advent always now n a state to tru lineartime 68 I just couldn't grasp it. The 1st Advent occurs every spring (he is born "again" so to speak; it occurs "again) but really it is only once other model: vernal equinoxe t Advent I time : (station) (revolving) of t The new personality I experienced was the fundamental fact of rebirth (renewal) derived from the saviors perpetual renewal at that date (march zoth). This evidently in what is actually meant by "being born from above (again); a trans-mundate-world person (ality) is incised on you - as it were from above, rather than up from below (it is adventitious). The Roman world memorie ae are the incidentals of the anamnesis, associations due to the fact that it occured at that time + that place (i.e. culture). my rebirth (e.g. new personality, Greater vitality + health, wisdom + intelligence) are the "as it is in heaven (upper or macro), so on Earth (lower, micro). So to speak the unity of the realms: his will done here, as it always is there. in mid march (by God's grace, this timing) my personality, hence my world, disintegrated (my preconceptions, V-P + perception of reality), + into the vacuum due to the time of the cycle, rushed in - not denied by convertion - the epiphany of Christ. This would not have happened, say, or dead winter; I saw - experienced - what was (at that moment) actually happening? I saw him (Christ) born into the world, + transsubstantiate it I saw "as a little child." without predetermined preconceptions a experienced - was with - the light of the world: it was (to me). ight (illuminated color). is the man sealed up in darkness whom the hing + his orsemen -knights kill conteton (ufteufel? Which causes the palm tree world to manifest itself (i.e. will the dream scene from Tears" seem to be (or be) carried out in deus Irae, lithout my consciously designing it? + as that one reviever correctly saw, the Palm tree sure in deus Irae mands the deturn of God's wisdom to the world, St. Sophia (achieved by God himself, or Christ, as shown in "Tears"). The slaying of the war oriented us, top official - does this furth identify the man to be stain in "Tears"? I never thought its that, of it as one continuing theme but so it appears (or might appear). The 2 books did appear in sequence. I.e. the prophecy in "Tears" is carried (further) out in "Deus Irae." They did get him in deus Irae - the man they proposed to get at the end of "Tears" - + both novels are similarly resolved (i.e. the dark presence goes awar - lifts. Interesting: the slaying in deus trae is done "for Christianity" against evil, murder + war - in fact against the napalm - user"! In both books the tyranny ends Well, the appearana sequence of the books correct, represents the seguence in which I had the visious. N I think that strictly speaking the Roman" memories were not mine - if by "me" is meant my old, mindary personality; I was not there, + lived no previous life; I was born in AD 1928. However, if by "me" you mean the new, advertitious personality grafted on in 3-74 then they are "my" memorier. What was done (+ I never realyed this before) was to alter the personality. which legitimately constituted me so that it became a different one which did have those memories. In a sense the memorier 60 werent changed; the personalities were changed. God did not give me false memories or artificial memories (of some thing I never experienced; he did it so that the new (sic) memories were legitimate. Gover my new personality I die remember the fist ascent. Evidently he attacked another personality with those memories (i.e. someone who actually was there) to my identity, so that I remembered. This is indeed a miracle; I was no longer me (+ all this shows why I had to have a different self, + why me appeared; it was to allow (or give to me) the memorica If you think about it how else could it be handled (achieved) without (merely) faking it (eg. Like you get with hypnosis - i.e. a fraud. + God never lies. There is no doubt that He turned me into an actual historic person a Anamnesis was the goal; the new personality mere was the means. But look: cook how much - no wave of thehant - was needed to accomplish the miracle without fakery. +, while doing this He made use of a personalit which could act in my place + behalf, more effectivity than I ever could, + so held me practically. Probably I will mever know why he did all this for me: out of love + kindness + also maybe having to do with my war protest ("when you are are brought before a magistrate on mo behalf" - the promise in Luke (etal) + with writing I could still do - ah! This is why I was shown the material in "Tears" which I now realy was continuel in deus Irae All this exegesis shows me what a complex + profound miracle it has been, with many facets, it could not have been a small or offhand thing (nor, I guess, common 61 purpose of the anamnesis) to save one spiritually, I am surer; to usher (bring) me into the corpus Christ, which He must believe is where I belong: to grant me peace + rest in What I most want: return to him ("that I might live in him / invisible + dim"). To save me in an ammediate practical sense (ie the authorities, re the Xerox letter). Probably my many intuition, a bout the Xerox letter are all correct the focus should be on the Xerox letter; I was in physical + spiritual seopardy from it, +: it was part of the great blueprint, the plan something I could do, if helped, + couldn't if not helped. Wait - I think all this is incorrect, startion with ( on p. 89. They are my memorie, since the 1st Advent is in an eternal now (not just 1900 yeas ago) that was my big breakthrough + it slipped right bad out it my mind: God thing I grote it all down. I experienced it as of the veral equinox of 1974 + the experience (memory) was/is authentically mine (needed no other personality). What I've done from ( It on is come up with another + very elaborate them. actually although it makes sense it is unnecessary. What was done was: my primordial faculties, as described by calvin. Were temporarily restored; hence I experienced the first Advent as happening now, since it is now; also I could distinguish the outlines of Christ or God + the plan, conversed with God, + experienced the immortality of my soul + saw the division of the world into The 2 worlds augustine depicted, + lots else besides. But the fundamental experience of the advent was an experience into + of the depths - the deepest layers - it reality (as was remem bering my true self + externally, seem God). It is all a move. ment deeper + deeper into internal + external reality beneath the surface skin of each, to the realm of absolute forms. The "Roman world" is right here always, perpetually renewing itself, +, at as aven deeper level, the Logos weaving the causal threats. 2 63 This theory ("the always renewing 1st Advent) fits my experience because it is deduced from it. The urwelt of our reality is the first Advent (+, I think, to that will soon be added the 2nd Advent already prophesied" before the first one wears off, the second will have occured to finish it up by in enitively (rather than partially, as now) absorbed linear or whatever time. The first Advent is right now more real an event than the changing world of time; the 2nd will complete what the first began. If the first Advent is more than an event but rather an entire urwelt, certainly so will the 2nd one be: a total + absolute urwelt - the urwelt - which will totally absorb this (which the 1st advent did not entirely do: then it will be sace that his will is done here on Earth as it is now done in Heaven). what we should see is total world. Metamorphosis, as I experienced with the Palm tree world: everything absorbed into it leaving nothing outside like it still is now. Right now we don't experience it wholly or even at