initiated into at least one of these sacred secrets; i.e. that Christ's deepest nature is feminine, which is to say, Holy Wisdom. That He will return is not a secret. Another secret is the relationship between the shamans of Greek culture and Christ/the Holy Spirit, which is to say the theolepsy induced by Dionysos. Specifically, though, I am told to cool it re Christ's feminine nature. Secret means secret. (I presume the early Christians, who underwent theolepsy by this spirit, knew this; and they did not tell. That it is also the Cumaean sibyl, and Delphic, shows a continuity from Greek mystery religions, and Greek culture, also not told.) -2- So several cultures (3) are involved: Hebrew, Greek and Roman. I suspect also Iranian: the wise or good mind, Ahura Mazd. Anyhow, in the dream (p. 1) there was cautionary material, I think, because nothing new was given except the word SECRET; the rest I already had been told. Question is, Why should it be kept secret? Probably for the obvious reason, that people would not not, and wouldn’t have in ancient times or Medieval times, accepted it. I am thinking of what Wilhelm Reik said about the maternal religions and societies versus the paternal, and then what I said in my Vancouver speech, my hope for and anticipation of an amalgum of the masculine and feminine deities, which is exactly what the diptych showed Christ to be (with the feminine dominating, which is all right with me). Yes, in that speech I foresaw this, the next cycle of human society, and I was ready for it, pleased and eager. It would combine the best of both, ths agtgy syzygy, a masculine posture of assertiveness plus feminine love and warmth. The diptych showed a syzygy, all right, masc. outside, feminine within. We would see a man physically but experience a woman spiritually. You know, the puppet Pinoccio could also have been a vantr alocist' dummy. What a strong image! With the animating entity on the right side, i.e. as pictured there ala fresco. The puppet had no life of its own; on its own it was inert x and silent. Christ, on the cross, said, "My God, why hast thou foresaken me?" which perhaps meant that at that moment the inner animating spirit left Jesus and rose upward; what other interpretation is possible? Which tells us, does it not, that we have a cupola between the animating spirit and God; it was the spirit of God, i.e. God's wisdom. I suppose it is more accurate to regard Jesus Christ as a syzygy rather than female as such, but the prior spirit, prior to incarnation, was female, and I suppose is again; we are in both cases talking about St. Sophia: she. Well, if St. Sophia —I mean when— when St. Sophia again is incarnated, I imagine that another syzygy will be formed, and again it will be correct to think of it as he-she rather than as with the unin¬ carnated spirit: she only. The human, which is to say masculine, side must not be discounted; this is the bond, the fusion, between the supralunar and the sublunar; this fusion is significant and must not be lost sight of as being such. The animating female spirit exhalts the man to the status of God or anyhow a god. The Ch'ien trigram placed dead center shows the mystery: that the fusion results in a masculine outcome, albeit the animating figure’s feminine nature; here is a miracle, this transformation of sexes, which the dream picture shows to be real (i.e. it comes out Ch’ien, not Kun, as one might anticipate). Nothing gives out the secret, nothing. A further thought occurs to me. Is not the Holy Spirit capable of conferring immortality? Yes. Then did not St. Sophia (the Holy Spirit) conferr immortality on the man Jesus, so that he per se still lives? Yes; it must be so, or all our hopes are dashed. Perhaps then the Holy Spirit, the Paraclete, is still the syzygy; it is not certain, in fact it is unlikely, that as the JWs say, the man Jesus dead, forever dead; because if He is, then so are we, too. -3- It is possible, in fact likely, that after fusion into a syzygy with a masculine human element, St. Sophia became transformed perpetually into this syzygy, which we know of as the Paraclete, this entity being St. Sophia plus Jesus: a human translated, along with her. An accrual, so to speak, up the manifold, showing that change is real (as for example the progression from Elysium to Dionysos to Orpheus to Christ, and then onward as I say, to the Paraclete, which I do believe would have St. Sophia predominating). What this points to, in my dream, is a corrective element, viz: I must comprehend the entity is binary or duel, being still a syzygy and I guess outwardly masculine still. It contains both natures still, evidently; but this is indeed a mystery. To go back, I said in opening this on page 1: "I had (a) dream in which the duel nature of Christ was revealed." Am I sure that this was the human figured Jesus Christ, and not the cosmic Christ? Is that certain? Perhaps the Cosmic Christ was meant by that diptych, and of course the man Jesus Christ too. Maybe the syzygy, as I later figure out, is on-going; I assumed that Jesus died, and is forever dead, but as I say, if the spirit couldn’t make him immortal it can't, or won't, make anybody immortal; this is obvious, absolutely obvious. Put another way, the female spirits uses him as its mouthpiece; the shaman has been deified. No, Jesus was not a shaman;it was an incarnation, a full bonding that ended only when Jesus died. It or rather they left and still live, as the Paraclete. Anyhow, at the very least I have been shown —not just the nature of the first incar¬ nation— but the second as well. I can still see the diptych with its two equal panels, one to the left, »sc one to the right, with the trigam Ch'ien directly below dead-center. Wow. I have seen into the nature (essence) of the second incarnation, and in doing so, have a stronger sense of its imminence. The Trinity is a mystery re its natures and persons, but (I have been told in my dream) so is the nature of St. Sophia incarnate — two persons, or rather (sic!) two essences! Forming one person! If the Trinity is real, then do we not have a quaternity, with man (Jesus) being the 4th person?? This cautionary revelation would not have been necessary if the spirit weren't about to incarnate, I think. Surely such a cautionary warning would only take place if the second incarnation were imminent. (Perhaps in my lifetime, although I could commit it to print, which would extend, possibly, into the future.) Anyhow it concretizes the second advent, in my mind, as very imminent and very real. puppet sibyl *.................................................................SHE SECRET ... __ _____ _____ -4- It is said in the Bible that after His death Christ ascended into heaven to rule at the right hand of The Father, which is to say, He (Jesus) still lives. Well, then once incarnated into a syzygy, this amalgum is eternal and irreversible. "You have an advocate with the father," we are told; yes, the syzygy lives on in the supralunar world. But it can and does return here in spirit form, and will incarnate a second time (as I was told). This Latter Rain will colesce finally in the Second Advent. My experience in 3-74 was sufficient to prove to me forever the truth that the dead can and will be resurrected, since at that time someone (I am not as certain as to who) was restored or at the very least (some least) was immortal and never died and returned, from having been here 2000 years ago. It was indeed a restoration of that which is supposed to be gone: "It is the lives, the lives, the lives that die." Either it was Christ or an apostle of Christ, and the significance is the same; restoration has begun, and therefore I am of the conviction that the firstfruits are arrived. To boil it down to an irreducable element of what I know, I know that someone who was here 2000 years ago returned, and in a spirit body, not physical, but did use me and mine. But then this per se is logical and expected given what else I saw: intervention by God in history, the throwing down of the tyranny, which I identify with the prophecy in Daniel. Anyhow, back to the dream. It is orthodox to believe that Jesus Christ had two natures, one man the other divine, and my dream image showed these very natures perfectly, with them combining to form Yang itself, lacking any broken Yin lines, which in itself is a mystery (supra). The human, perhaps, is activated by the divine nature into divinity itself; the law involved might be, If g a divine nature incarnates into/with a human nature, the result will be — that which Ch'ien expresses, absolute authority and creativity, of a masculine kind. I assume that the second incarnation will emerge this same way, which means an erronious view of mine has been, by the dream, corrected; I was thinking of an incarnation producing a feminine personality, which evidently is not the case. We will see the form (morphe) of a man, once again. It seems to me a fascinating and important event that the spirit should correct me where I have been in error. There will appear no magna mater among us as such. King and Judge — that's what it will be. She will assume the identity of a man. The "she" part will remain a secret to the beholders. The JWs are £k refuted in their theory that "Jesus was only a perfect man." Orthodoxy is upheld. But I knew that from the St. Sophia etc. disclosure. She will again become a man. (Yet the puppet showed which nature rules within the man.) Also I note that the visual image in the dream took the form of a geneological table, with both "parents" of the "offspring" given in customary way, one to the left, one to the right. I am given a lesson in transcendent heredity, here; the outcome of a union between man (left) and holy spirit (right) is a masculine nature. What ultimately does this dream teach me? The evolution of the Savior from His two sources, one of which is manifest, the other a crypte morphe. The spirit as "parent" will not determine anything in terms of gender. Also, in the use of a string puppet, the puppeteer is never supposed to be visible, and when we hear his voice we hear only a voice appropriate not to him but to the puppet. The puppeteer speaks through the puppet, who is a mouthpiece, then, for the god, gods or God. Is this not what the dream shows? The human component should be a clear and limpid structure through which Divine Wisdom can express itself unhindered. Its expression should not be vitiated. There is no voice, really, but that of the puppeteer; the puppet has none of his own. An immortal and divine voice speaks from within the man (Jesus). He is assimilated to it, and yet we see only the puppet, the man; he is invisibly transsubstantiated. I can't keep from thinking that something extraordiny was shown me in this dream. First, I was corrected back to orthodoxy — but also this dream confirms my interpretation of the St. Sophia message, as referring to Christ. Confirmation of that, correction to orthodoxy, and revelation that what I know re the right side of the composite entity (right brain?) is to be kept SECRET, which is to say, the