pass judgement on that disparity with the quality of ultimate abolition of it. What is not pleasing to him is the [time?] for - this is why he is there. But also, & this is most extraordinary - his view, ideas, & feelings/intentive were the concealed roots of my own. My own view & [intertim?] evidently were an offshoot not of his but of him. He was more myself than I was. Suppose I say he was the real self - very well. But what does that make me? My own fierce hostility toward oppression generate out of him, caused by his presence, hidden in me? By seeing him I at last understand myself - he is the real dynamism in me - I know what he is made up of. But who is he? where is he now? He is probably again where he was. Below the threshold but still in charge. He was lightning fast in what he did & he always knew what he wanted to do. But if he is the real [illegible text?] of myself, my roots are above the human level; I am a manifestation of this transhuman personality, & feel & act as it feels & acts - it expresses itself through me & in no way is there a conflict or division between us. This certainly is the strongest proof of our mutual identity - what it wishes I wish; it is the [Quelle?] (source). Perhaps I can assume it has masterminded my whole life. First there is me, then him. And after him (but I don't think is him) comes the "AI" or "st. Sophia" voice which is not just my guide but, I think his. I believe that voice to be the voice of Christ, hence coming bearing the force of God; it is at the very least God's wisdom. it is the Governing Lord & Judge of the universe & not secondary to anything. I find its dispassion to be quite different from the Beethoven-like fervor of him-who-isme (or -in-me) ; the latter servers the Panocrater - executes with passion & intensity the laws expressed by that voice. - two parts of my 3-74 experience verfied my 25 year intuition that what we see is not real. 1) I began responding to external stimuli before they occuring, revealing to me the extraordinary secret that they did not cause me to do things but rather were merely signals that triggered off intrinsic systems (in me). Futher, I then understood that whatever had created me in the first place had possessed an absolute fire knowledge of all the things which lay ahead of me along my life path, & had so constructed me as to take advantage of these external signals so as to release the successive & progressive growth stages unfolding out of me as [entelechy?] - but the experiences 1 impression of a cause-+-effect relationship between external event + my response (or new understanding -i.e. learning) was in fact the result of a flawless cunning synchronization - which in 3-74 briefly broke down, revealing that I carried my responses w me at all time, + the only bondage to external causality was due to deliberate programming, in which the signals were premeditatively made use of Thus a tremendous subjectivication took place in m view of myself - all that really reaches me from the outer world are signal. + the way I respond to these signals is predetermined by my creator 2) when the other personality took over, it perceived the black iron prison, which I take to be a more accurate view of reality, in fact constituting the urwelt invisible behind The maya (phenomenal world) which our senses report to us. To sum up, our senses report a world which in fact but there things which our senses report does not exist have a signal value, disinhibiting predetermined besponses, Acts, or inner changes (esp. growth/insights) in us, + so although spurious in terms of what we take them to be (reports of a world) on the other hand they evidently are designed with this signal - capacity on mind. It would appear that we are in a sort of closed chamber from all sides of which successive, consecutive signals are flashed to us, which we erroniously hypostatly, into world the progression of signals brings about an orderly release of us as unfolding entelechy, + are never accidental or mechan ical either in content (nature) or position in time (sequence). they are prepared in advance by an enormously intelligent mind having the power to turn its thoughts into what is for us substantial reality. Actually, it probably merely needs to think at us to cause to be whatever it wishes to be 2 So what we take to be world is in actuality a chamber of complex signals which have the effect of systematically transforming what is latent in us to what is actual. But This is not all, for I caught a glimpse of an actual world (or perhaps two) unsuspected by us + quite different from the world (or pseudoworld) our senses report. It is a bleak + terrible place, but penetrated by forces of - an agency of - light, viz the true corpus Christ. The urwelt is evidently the domain of darkness which Paul speaks of + the light is the Kingdom of his dear sons one by one we are extricated from the power of the realm of Darkness + transferred over, but until so rescued we are in the realm of Darkness - we start out there, although we do not see it; rather we are involved in the "signal chamber" world qua "our world" + really know nothing of the two others: the realm of darkness which we are in + have been in from the start, + the Kingdom of Christ where we go when extricated viewed this way, it is perhaps possible to guess what the progression of signals are designed to do: bring us closer + closer to salvation (extrication) by teaching us, testing us, judging us. Evidently we are either continually, frequently or occasionally given crucial choices by which our progress is determined. All this seent to be a road back; evidently through some primordial catastrophe we fell, + forgot our nature + homeland (upon entering the black odon Prison world). But the flashing signals awaken us + restore the true, dentilely (natures) step by step (it is a long + complex process). Once restored (by anamnesis) we are free to return to the Palm tree world. Eventually the power of this world will be successfully challenged + broken, + those remaining here will be extricated enmass - in 3-74 this, or a portion of it may already have taken place; in any case we must construe our correct role as being one of warfare against the (black iron Prison) world which is our world still, our only world. ( So as I see it, although technically maya is ducusion It serves a constructive didactic purpose, for which it was designed! If fog, an obscuring for, it is the stuff of we will divinity interposed between us + black hell. If "like lambs" follow the teachings contained in it. We the astray sheep, will find our way back home earning return by our correct choices. I have the feeling that we will be presented these choice, agains + again, with endless patience, until at last we choose correctly, + then the true situation (e.g. where we are, where we came from + will return to) is revealed to us. We would not be chosing if we knew the truth; the true situation must be kept veiled (which is another necessary function of the veil). I suppose it can be said that the veil is a mercy, mitigatin the Black prison: the latter the absolute curse, the veil hiding + teaching. God (Brahman) spins maya out of his own stuff (body, substance), a protection womb, a way house during which we are trained; ultimately the time comes when the veil can be lifted - when we are strong enough, ready enough for the hing of going into Xtian battle in the black iron P. healm, the true game board, what I fought, then, in 3-74 was not something in the school world of learning. But something from (in) the Black Iron world; as Zoroaster saw we are soldier ogainst an enormous powerful every, oright now we are in training for battle. I was there (as revealed by anamnesis); I guess I got sent back Here - I must have failed that time, but non vis-a-vis the Xerox letter 76 very few of us are read, for the shock of not only how powerful the enemy is, but that also we are prisoners in his realm. I though in '73 + early '74 (+ '72 + '71) sensed how powerful he is - partly due to my blocked memories. That's what I feared so in early '74, I knew that soon again I'd have to face + fight him + I had cost before). The Hindus are right; the veil causes us to be ignorant of reality - + as they saw, reality is absolutely dreadfel. In point of fact our side (light) has been losing in this region (Earth? This cosmos?) Fa a long time - that is why we are in the enemy's domain, we + out world were coptured. but in the end we will win. It is as if the great universe body (Brahman) has been att. acked by cancer within + it is fighting back (which means humans = white phagocytes) The difference between me + [most] other people is that once I was awake + aware of the black iron world, I fought there, + then died or anyhow escaped to here + forgot - consciously, but my - the enem followed, + I recovered my memories because t recognize him + because I did have such memories of a worse place than this. Other people evidents doet 977 maybe I escaped here + hid (even to the point of forgetting) but stuff in my writing revealed me to Them - they identiful me, + the fight resumed here in This world between them + me, only this time I won Even I didn't know what the stuff in my writi revealed about me - e.g. the dream section of Tears + probably Ubik. I had taken referge here. Maybe a number of us did - defeated "back there" or "back home: My dreams show that world (i.e. planet); it is highly advanced over ours - what we'd deem "divine; even the evil victors, by the standards of this planet (or world). If this be so, then the dokos helps hide + protect us from our pursuers, who are stronger than we (for the time being - but in 3-74 we counter attacked successfully). That's why I remember coming to the planed long ago (originally). Ah those of us who fled to here are the true authentic Christians whon Luther spoke of + Christ Jesus is our King (leader). They did get him but we are immortal (by means of rebirth). The possibility that the Nixon gang consisted of our pursuers (i.e. their came here, too) should not be overcooked + in their police intelligence plans they primarily were looked for us. By cate its they knew about me. Now'7 '71 was are attempt to obtain proof. We are from Albemuth, on both sides (light + darkness) the veil, then, is of our (oun] devising, to obscure ourselves. But I suspected then were onto my real nature, unknown even to me) by 3-74 I knew it (the Xerox letter provel they knew), so there was no utility in amnesia any longer. It was leaking out into my writing everently the entire novel "Tears" depicted that previous world - it was unconscious memory + that