so craftily disguised). {Note2:} Or rather, have we not been so infiltrated? The deformation is in us, not in our world; but my system shows world as push-pull locked into our psychoi. If, as it now seems to me, we are dealing with a powerful technology which has interrupted (blanked out) part of our reality signal Folder 03 - 086 in order to obscure itself, then in hylozoist terms it is a pathogenic organism which protects itself from the "tissue" it lodges in by means of this reductive shaving process; + the total universe organism has dispatched a phagocyte (killer cell) to engulf + overwhelm the lodged particle which protects itself by blinding us to its presence: this explains the invading aspect of Zebra. We have a "Present for Pat" situation, then, on our hands, with the "evil deity" hidden or lodged here at our expense. We can't fight it effectively because it puts us in a half-sleep or twilight state. (I.e. the topical "tissue" can't defend. External help is needed. +, in the first advent, came here.) It is as if we have encephalitis or hookworm + don't know it, having nothing to compare our chronic state with. So the negative hallucination which reduces our perceptions from #3 to #1 can be explained as a technique by which the BIP protects itself - at the expense of the "topical tissue." Solution to this involves a waking us up, by Zebra, so that we again see #3 + thereby understand the situation (we suddenly see "Rome" + the world of Acts). Of course this requires us to perceive our jeopardy, but we also see the authentic Xtian activists who are attacking the BIP. We are thus called to + reminded of our duty. (Cf the Gnostic Legend of the Pearl.) Once aware of the BIP (so well set forth in "Tears") we must take a stand, but only Zebra's protection can save us. Thus {...} Folder 03 - 087 Folder 03 - 087 are intermingled in us, + a sense of battle. (+ of course purpose, our original + true purpose.) This explains why the BIP must shave all our perceptions, of it + of its attackers (the latter would be necessary, since to see them would by implication expose the BIP itself): once aware of it we must fight. The structure of this agrees with orthodox theology. There was a fall (in which man colluded); his faculties were diminished, + some abolished totally; he now labors under an obscure evil dominion; the savior was sent here + invisibly (latently, v. supra: the latent world) works to (1) free him; + (2) restore him to his original undeformed state; the benign power + the malignant power exchange "blow + counter blow"; evil simulates creation (reality) with its imitations to delude man with snares built largely of lies. Only the savior can redeem (free + restore) man, because man is so impaired that on his own -by his own efforts- he can neither do nor understand correctly. Restoration means a return to God. The mystical body of Christ reunites decomposing creation. Christ rises through the levels of reality, stripping the angelic powers (the deterministic law) of its ancient powers; +, as has been revealed to me in a number of ways, the savior will very soon again openly manifest himself. This time as king + judge, + we his sheep will be taken into that kingdom which in a certain secret way already exists, but can only be disclosed to us by him + through him: he is the "narrow door or gate" which I saw (the 1:.618034 aperture to the lovely peaceful moonlit {...} Folder 03 - 088 Folder 03 - 088 So that was the 1:.618034 door I saw: Christ as gate to his kingdom. It was indeed his kingdom I saw on the far side. I never realized this before about the gate, what (who) it was - that it was a "who" at all. So I saw Christ in many (i.e. 32) forms: the lamb + its blood; books of wisdom; info traffic; ubiquitous plasmatic energy which was alive + sentient + performing miracles, as "Thomas" in me; as "Firebright," the pearl of great price; Christ as bridegroom + me as bride; Christ as narrow gate to the next world; Christ as vine; as star; as root; as brawny smiling peasant youth; as the lovely AI voice informing + guiding; as theoleptic power which knew + could do all things; as healer of physical + mental ailments; as teacher of sacraments; as judge; as restorer + saver of life; as vast cosmic body containing us; as singing female psychopomp leading to God; as advocate speaking -not to me- but for me in time of distress; as prophet unveiling God's plan; as love - as in fact the trinity itself: power, wisdom + love; as king controlling the physical universe, melting causal processes to save me; as restorer of my lost or deformed faculties of perception + whole self + real memory; as unveiler of true (hidden) reality (mysteries) (i.e. secrets); as beauty personified as Aphrodite; as the joy god Dionysos; as practical clay pot - + so forth, the humble + small, the sacrificial victim - + the macrocosm itself, as wisdom + wise counsel + friend - that which was the unitary all, as beautiful magic Easter bells + the Palm Tree Garden, his peaceable kingdom, + even as tamed animals transfigured + intelligent, the curse lifted from their faces; + I saw my name entered in the Lamb's Book of Life. folder 22 - 001 The burning up of "astral determinism" equals the burning up of occlusion. When the occlusion is burned up 2-3 1974 disappears + Acts appears. An appropriate inner self surfaces which recognizes + remembers Acts as familiar, as its world. This personality is released by the burning up of the occlusion. Conclusion: The "astral determinism" causes us to see a world which isn't really there. Very few people have their "astral determinism" burned up. This burning up is what is meant by salvation + is the main purpose of the Greco-Roman mystery religions, Gnosticism + Xtianity. What is going on? "Astral determinism" doesn't just program your destiny; it occludes you off from the real world + causes you to experience a spurious world instead. The real world consists mainly of the Logos + God. The Logos breaks the "astral determinism" + burns it up. We are being fed a spurious reality. Only in rare cases are people "doomed" to be saved - i.e. to experience reality. In reality the rupture between man + God is abolished: original conditions are restored. Is this a punishment being lifted? It's as if there is an inner mystery. This fits the "secrecy" theme of Luke. It has to do with the folder 22 - 002 folder 22 - 002 2. "Kingdom of God" or "of the spirit." It's not something future, it is really here now. The savior is here now, in a Cosmic Body. I saw him. Why isn't this exoterically revealed? Why is it kept for the few? It is so kept, the voice told me so: "One by one he is changing us out of this world." "You are not to tell that you're a secret Xtian." & how do my novels fit into this? They, esp. the three Bantam novels, seem to depict the situation: false world imposed over real world -- & we are stationary, not in space-time. We're in a condition, not a world. Some of us are taken out as a fulfillment, a culmination of a long process which burns up the occlusion. We were never really here & apart from God; it was a spurious world, like a spell, like wizardry. We are like ripening fruit, or grain, or crops, or a flock growing to maturity. But only a few get picked (selected) -- & then the masks come off & we see the truth. What are we really? Only the metaphors of the parables express it. The disciples are still alive because no time has passed -- time: an illusion imposed on us, like world. We have no concepts or language to express what we really are & where we really are. "Homoplasmate" expresses the successful goal of our growth. Crossbonding - we are being grown in a stationary fashion, &, when ripe, are crossbonded with a plasmate, & the illusion removed, our lives as humans folder 22 - 003 folder 22 - 003 3. are just preparation, with no purpose except to "mature" us to the point where we get picked for crossbonding. Then we come to life — an immortal life outside of time, as in bonded to another species. One which is here camouflaged. We're picked like flowers — but just some of us. Only dim, blurred intimations of this reach us (apparently on purpose). We're like being cultivated in an ecosphere. Simulated world is fed to us; we are given lessons, taught, given problems, tested & judged. It's not quite a teaching machine; this is more a greenhouse with us as a crop. Are we supposed to deny & hence abolish world — i.e. become aware that it's a delusion? Are there clues? Is this the test? Our ability to discern it as fake? & did I do so — & demonstrate I did so — via/in my writing? In other words, must we be able on our own to discern the fakery to obtain release from it? As if a wizard has us in thrall. Like Klingsor? A complex act of mind — perceptual denial must take place, an insight: it can't be real, which is a conflict appraised; otherwise it never goes away. Despite what our senses report, somehow awareness (enlightenment) is available to us in some kind of reasoning or satori or cognition or leap of realization: "this is not so!" Like in "Ubik", the sleepers must monitor their [spurious] reality & figure out from internal evidence that it is spurious. This has to do with folder 22 - 004 folder 22 - 004 4. memory. Somehow we've been — what? Captured? Been poisoned (intoxicated)? Are we prisoners in the Kingdom of Darkness (of "Tears" qua world)? If radical idealist epistemological skepticism is applied to world, + is sincerely believed, a miracle happens; the dibba cacchu 3rd eye opens + we experience the irreality of the world + become a Buddha. World vanishes, + information fired at us by an intelligence remains — fills in the vacuum left. "The coming into being + the passing away of all things" — dibba cacchu; i.e. a flux is seen; no hypostasis. Flash cut, the "inner take" exhausting itself, burning itself up at a furious + unsynchronized speed, outside of time (which is fake). The macrobrain has signalled us into waking up; the Long process has culminated in success. Yes, the into signals are to create homoplasmate life into us: impregnate us with information — info fired at us until we finally come to life — real life. For the first time, in terms of Gnosis information: i.e. knowing (being). Flux is real: info firing directly at us to impregnate us with info life (Logos). The key is this: Information is alive. The basis of life of the mind or brain. Bottom line: Living information which impregnates us + brings us to life as info beings (plasmates). Info is not abstracted from world. World is [falsely] hypostatized from (out of) info. It is info that is alive + real, + includes us. folder 22 - 005 folder 22 - 005 5. What I experienced as phosphene activity was info fired into me by the Macrobrain, bringing me to plasmate life - living info; it was an info life form modulating me as a carrier. This is the core of it, which I must commit to memory. We are carriers modulated by info,