still having the inner space experience which during his lifetime he apparently was used to (as P - since he is P). This may seem like a small or even petty distinction but it is not. I inherited the other-person-in-my-head's inner spacial sense, + it is the one which Paracelsus (perhaps uniquely) had cultivated + achieved. (Or disciples or coworkers of his - other Hermetic adepts.) Wait. Don't - isn't my grand theme one dealing with inner space? That world exists inside us, so to speak. Haven't I pioneered this view in my novels? + in my "push-pull" model? Let me {...} (1) my view of world as subjective Folder 03 - 020 Folder 03 - 020 during my years of writing + (2) the push-pull model which I wrote out for Pat. Perhaps the general view about space is wrong, P. was right, + my theme is derived from his correct conception of inner space. He discovered it, not me - he discovered a whole new view about both space + time. (Inner space, inner time.) After all, T. or P. was in me back in high school. Where else do/could I be supposing world to be, if not in the outer world? P + I both have -hold forth- a radical subjectivization of world, which involves inner space + inner time; in 3-74 I actually experienced those vast inner spaces. + my intellectual odyssy began in high school with my realization about the non-existence of space - i.e. outer objective space. Okay. I have no doubt that the sort of space I experienced in the "Alto Carmel" dream + the "Void" dreams is P's inner firmament. Thomas brought it with him, along with the huge open books. That was the mind of Paracelsus, + it was infinitely older + wiser than mine - + it embraced vast vistas, in terms of its "philosopher's stone": comprehension of the mysteries of the universe. It acted as a micro-mirror of the macrocosm. This is what generates the vast inner space: when man's little mind becomes this magic mirror of the macrocosm. According to my "push-pull" psyche-world model, this is readily succeptible to explanation: world is locked into the given psyche anyhow. They aren't: {illustration of a small circle "Micro" and a large circle "Macro" that are separate} but {illustration of two circles with arrows between indicating constant interaction} It's a delusion to believe that space is out there in the first place. I've read over the typed pages I sent Pat, + the scheme presented is woefully inadequate compared with the "vast vistas of inner space" which (1) I Folder 03 - 021 experienced in 3-74; + (2) to Paracelsus' + Bruno's systems. I had forgotten that 3-74 experience of vast space during the time Thomas took over. How clumsy + puny my world + worldview are in contrast to Thomas' world (which is, as I still maintain, a push-pull reciprocation of his psyche - in fact, 3-74 seems to prove that: his psyche replaces mine, + so his (much vaster) space replaces mine simultaneously. Well hell - I saw level upon level of higher realities due to his taking over; this must be what he learned to experience. Ah! I remember that, as 3-74 began, the thought came to me, "I'm seeing the world the way they used to, in the Middle Ages." Technically I was off by a few centuries, but I had the right idea, basically, of what was happening to me: a reversion (phylogeny in ontogeny once more) to a long-discarded way of experiencing reality, it just wasn't Medieval, but rather 1500 - well, that's close. Look at the art + architecture of 1500. Very vast. From Gothic times on, they were better at space-binding than we are. I do think that the subjective reality viewpoint (view) of my writing corrolates with P. + Bruno. With the macro-microcosm view, basically - + not just in "Ubik." This sense of mine that space is inner + not outer may explain my difficulty (block or phobia) about moving through space. When I am anxious my spacial (space-binding) sense retracts, becomes impoverished - I experience it externally because my space is primarily a subjective reality. Maybe I can get better conscious control over it, then. Folder 03 - 022 Folder 03 - 022 Well, in summary, it is Paracelsus who is my matrix latent personality, formulating my writing [esp. "Ubik", "Tears"] out of his vast macro-microcosm knowledge + wisdom; he is in my head but "not living in this century," + in 3-74 he took over completely, which transferred to me his knowledge + way of being in the world. + actually he in turn is actually a first century Xtian in possession of the (otherwise) lost oral Gnosis taught by Christ. Just as I am Paracelsus, he is that apostolic Xtian. So the Hermetic adepts of the Renaissance may have been secretly + actually the true, immortal early Xtians - at work toppling the hegemony of Rome - the Catholic church, + preserving the Protestant cause. They are here now (e.g. in/as me) to topple Nixon. + they initiated me into the Brotherhood of which I am never to speak of. That sums it up. Except to point out that the early actual Xtians do possess the secret of immortality, + it involves phylogenical recapitulation in later human hosts whom they first control latently, + then, at the critical time, anamnesis is arranged (by the Brotherhood?) + they take over the host person completely, as they -he- did me in 3-74 - very likely for political acts. They did in the Catholic League and they did in Nixon. Above this dialectic is a unitary macrobrain organizing everything processing living information: it is the macrocosm {animal?}, with a soul +/or mind. + finally there is the void, the abyss or Urgrund, to which we at last return when our Karma ends. The material cosmos is the outer form of this mind, which generates it effortlessly. Each microbit of the total macro organism recapitulates the totality, is a micro- Folder 03 - 023 Folder 03 - 023 form of it + can mirror it back, being isomorphic with it; in doing so, the human microcosm retrieves the entire wisdom (Gnosis) of the macromind + experiences the vast spacial reality of the totality within itself, as a mirror. Thus mirror, space + memory + wisdom are the keys to completeness by the human; through them he experiences his isomorphism with the macrocosm + its mind. He can enter into dialog with it: his mind + its, thinking back + forth. In this process, the macromind contracts itself (as man expands himself); it becomes a human figure, seen + heard by me as a woman, but perhaps it takes other forms to other people; in any case as man the microform becomes the macroform, it contracts to become micro - thus they wind up equal, in harmonie, as, so to speak, equals, hand-in-hand, man + his God. The world we see (multiplicity) is simulated, based on selective site stimulation of the unitary macrobrain; outer space + time + causality are irreal; our individual psychoi are also irreal, + each psyche is push-pull locked into a subjective world, all of which are syntonically superimposed. All time periods are really now: each time is an aspect of the omnitemporal omnispacial macrobrain whose traffic of messages control + inform us, its cells or stations. We are really it, + it is alive + thinks (processes information, itself alive). Thus the whole, unitary universe organism grows + changes + knows that it grows + changes. I do not state all this as theory. I have experienced it + know; I was for a little time the mirror of the macrobrain + knew what it knew, which is everything. Folder 03 - 024 Folder 03 - 024 But I have lost that; I was only that -knew only when- I was Paracelsus, who was the immortal early Xtian Thomas, who was Christ, who was God, who was the Void: the Abyss (the Urgrund, the final non-being) ---------- God (process or mind of the Brain) ---------- Christ (i.e. the Brain) (or living info of the Brain) ---------- Thomas ---------- Paracelsus ---------- PKD ---------- ___ Voice: "this is the hour you've waited for." What I seem to be saying, then, in the above chart, is that Christ is still alive, but concealed in us under layers - he is latent, which is to say sleeping. 2-74/3-74 aroused him in me down (or up) through the phylogenic layers. + as macrobrain he is also Pantocrator. __ Krishna: "I am not here. Neither am I elsewhere." (Wilson's "The Occult") My 3- - no 2-74 experience which reached fruition in 3-74. I am not here. Maybe it is I who is not real, rather than USA 1974 being not real. It is real, but I am not here. "But I am not here" - what does that mean? Where am I, that is not here? I have been right: our world or Folder 03 - 025 Folder 03 - 025 worlds is/are simulation. One will serve as well as another, equally convincing + equally not real. But I - must be somewhere. I am just a station in a brain and I never move, + - Lem's paradigm, again. I am fed my world due to selective site-stimulation of the macrobrain. My push-pull psyche-world with its synchronized inner + outer non-causally-connected tapes coordinated by a clock of some kind -what we call time- is a correct model. Site-stimulation by its mind, i.e., Zebra? All places + all times are syntonic, + the selection of which space + which time we get derives initially from our psyche; the signal starts there (in the push-pull system). I am positive of it. My mind in the broadest sense initiates my world, although the omni-temporal (+ I guess omnispacial) matrix fires the signal back enhanced, + then my psyche enhances it more + again fires it, projects it, + so on. What, then, is psyche? I say, a station in the macrobrain. After all, I saw the brain + I saw its info traffic, with all the linkings + relinkings, the rapid flux, + we are involved in the processing of this vast rapid traffic. I even saw the plasmatic energy or life of the brain, Zebra, melt a physical, causal sequence - de-substantialize it. Damn it, Zebra by melting it revealed it to never have been there, really there, in the first place - just as Krishna says: "I am not here. Also I am not elsewhere." Substantiality (objective concreteness) has been shown to me (in 3-74) to be illusory; as in "Stigmata" + "Maze", it's hallucination, plural (or group) hallucinatory worlds which Folder 03 - 026 emanate from our psychoi in cross-synchronization. Belief in world makes world substantial; the "fact" that it is substantial reinforces belief - the closed loop: what I call push-pull. In 2-74 I withdrew assent, + poof, world was gone, replaced by another to which I had given assent. The omnitemporal omnispacial matrix obeys belief (i.e. what psyche projects), it is totally affable, obliging. That is the 2nd secret: the first secret is that psyche initiates world by the initial projection. Push (firing by psyche) wouldn't be enough; the matrix has to "pull", suck it up and enrich it + fire -mirror- it back. So psyche + world are 2 mirrors facing each other: {illustration of 2 mirrors, "psyche" and "world", with signals reflecting back and forth} enriching capacity at both ends. This is the 3rd secret, this binary, mutual synchronized enriching capacity. Could this be what Paracelsus meant by inner vast reaches of space, mirror + imagination? A (the) world-generating power? That's why the more that black holes are observed the more there are of them; outer space + inner space are the same space. I.e. space is just as