for us fails to impinge, even though it is there. The same event, process or object can serve as stimuli meaning a variety of things to a variety of stations: this is accomplished through the linkage-systems (coupled sections). Anamnesis is nothing less than realizing what + where you really are: you perceive the brain + its traffic, you hear the voice of its Noos, + you understand the irreality of psyche, world, causality + time. This is quite different from remembering, say, just a former life. What the macrocosm is, what one is + what one's place + task in it are - this is what anamnesis as enlightenment is all about: it boils down to a way by which plurality is experienced as the One, + the person experiences his isomorphism with it + enters into dialog with it, his micro-mind + its macromind, his purpose + its purpose, now understood as identical. Since it cannot die he cannot die; since it cannot fail he cannot fail. He knows that it guides, informs + directs him always - + that he is never apart from it {...} it + it really {...} Micro- Folder 03 - 047 Folder 03 - 047 cosm is the macrocosm contracted, + the macrocosm is the microcosm expanded to fill the infinitude of P.'s inner space. The person is not-himself but is the immortal man who is everyone, everywhere + every place. Purpose, mind (thought) + growth + life are everything, + this is something he cannot step outside of: the macro-will is inside him as well as outside him; inside + outside are the same, just as the little (man) + the large (cosmos) are the same. Thus says Hermes Tristmegistos; thus says the voice of our God. That we should know all this is in itself part of the unfolding plan. What I know now I have always known. What I am now I have always been + will always be. I had just fallen asleep for a little while, + was reawakened, + after a time remembered, +, because of this, am happy + free. "This is the hour you've waited for." + "The head Apollo is about to return." The 4th Eclogue of Virgil which I came across years ago + have forgotten: "At last the final time announced by the Sibyl will arrive: The procession of ages turns to its origin. The Virgin returns + Saturn reigns as before; A new race from heaven on high descends. Goddess of birth, smile on the new-born baby, In whose time the iron prison will fall to ruin + a Golden race arises everywhere. Apollo, the rightful King, is restored! Two points. Apollo as rightful king - his return is referred to. + - these are the very symbols by with the early 17th century RC brothers referred to the age of Pan-Sophiasm which they wished to usher in. The Sibyl {...} the Virgin {...} Folder 03 - 048 Folder 03 - 048 the very symbolic terms used by the Hermetics c. 1600. I believe they deflected history then (+ set up a better track B world in which the Protestant cause was not defeated) - + did so again in 1974. + now again they strive to usher in the "reign of Saturn," "the reign (return) of "Apollo" the rightful king" - i.e. the Golden Age, with Astraea returning first (seen by me as the Sibyl with Shiva's dual-purpose ajna eye of justice). They used the term + concept "PanSophiasm," which explains why I heard "St. Sophia will..." etc - all R.C. + Hermetic phraseology. I have been right from the start; it is the Rosy Cross. "St. Sophia" would be the R.C.-Hermetic Gnostic analysis as to who + what Christ really is. Elijah got brought into my noetic revelations because of P.'s belief that "Elias" (Elijah) would return. The kind of enlightenment I experienced in 3-74 is precisely what the R.C. Hermetic brotherhood wishes to bring to all mankind. I thank them for bringing it to me. It shows that their virtually supernatural powers are working - proving effective. I help, via my writing, made use of without realizing where my unorthodox material was coming from. So the "Apollo" prophecy (which stressed an imminent return) is one more tie to the Rosy Cross! My entire corpus of writing can be viewed in terms of the R.C. Pansophiasm: as an enlightening instrument in a popular form. Specifically, as esp. in "Ubik," it spreads the Hermetic macro-microcosm cosmology, veiled, of course, even from me. Thus, the RC is able to spread its advanced doctrines. Folder 03 - 049 Folder 03 - 049 Could this help explain the hit on my house, the presence of R.C. material in my work (unknown to me), + I did mention Bishop Pike in "Maze" - "they" may have thought I got it from him. They may have thought I belonged to a secret organization + was promulgating its ideas (cf. "It was an intelligence officer in the army" revelation, apparently re the Xerox missive, + maybe also the hit on my house). Yes, a secret society: "Ubik," "Faith of," "Maze," "Frolix 8," etc. well, then "Tears" would really seem to prove it - i.e. the dream. "Recant" in time; i.e., revoke something already done (something which happened - in their past, or emanating from an alternate world). This shows they can change the past! What I seem to be discovering is that what I call "my matrix personality" is R.C., i.e. Hermetic + apparently "not living in this century {Note}," + this is why the macro-microcosm Hermetic system shows up in my writing, etc, why I had the 2-3/74 anamnesis (obviously) + why there is the encoded material in "Tears," + why the "AI voice" tells me what it tells me. It's connected with 1620 + P. + Frederik + an alternate universe "recanted" at that time, + then the 1974 intervention + the 3 tracks, their manipulation of time + hence alternate histories. {Note:} Apparently living in the past, either the 1st century AD or the early 17th, although it could of course be living in the future, which I must not rule out: at the time of the accomplishment of Pan-Sophiasm + the return of the Immortal Man. Folder 03 - 050 Folder 03 - 050 Fascinating, that they could spread their Pansophiasm by supernatural means. My matrix personality seems to be one of the immortals. Then the Pansophiasm is secretly being sought for by equally secret immortals. This would be tied in with P. + with Bruno. I am sure they were (or became) among the immortals, who go back directly to Christ, who is the head of it all. "Head." The corpus Christi. Suppose in the sentence "head Apollo" "head" refers to the head of the Mystical Body! I.e. "Apollo who is the head [of the Mystical Body of which we are members]." Ah! That's it; that's what we are: parts of the corpus Christi. That's the source of our transtemporal immortality: in that we are subsumed by that macro-corpus. I bet P. + the other adepts knew + were this! "Tears," too, is evidence of an alternate universe. ___ The invisible unending victory of Christ is the greatest secret -+ joyous mystery- of all. It is not well understood. There are no books on it + no authorities on it. But there it is: Christ against Caesar, the latent inner vs the obvious outer. This is the underlying tale told down through 2000 years + yet never told at all. He is here + not here, gone + not gone. In defeat he wins. He picks up the dying straggler. He supports that which is failing + brings to ruin that which can defeat anything. "Latent form is the master of obvious form." Which will you bet on? He did not reveal his presence in 1974 regarding Nixon - no one knows. It must always be that way. The essence of salvation is to relate to "latent form," i.e. Christ (as Heraclitus put it) + not "obvious form," i.e. Caesar, because it is latent form which is the true victor, despite what we see. Folder 03 - 051 Seeing the pictures of Caesar + Christ juxtaposed on the cover of the Will Durant book gave me this very profound insight: obvious form as opposed to latent form, + the whole methodology of Zebra, which I have termed "secret" (this includes the brotherhood) is better characterized as latent; e.g. as P. or Thomas is latent within me. They -+ Zebra or Christ- are at the hidden core of things, not on the surface, + to penetrate to this hidden (crypte) core of reality is what I teach in my writing - to discard the obvious. Thus USA 1974 was obvious form + CAD 45 Rome latent - + the secret Xtians. This is the zone of the Logos. The inner space of P. would provide the realm in which this operates. This is the realm of meaning, in the sense that the ultimate meaning of events + things (processes) in the outer space realm can only be understood in terms of their meaning in the inner-space latent realm, no matter what they may mean in the external (outer). (Not "may seem to mean" but actually mean.) These may be the upper + lower realms the AI voice speaks of as the true division of reality, + mind lies in the upper (or latent or inner). If the latent or inner is the upper, then I am probably right that the world-generating signal is initiated by psyche + projected onto world. There it suffers an ossification due to the less-than-perfect plasticity of the omniworld objective matrix. Or the obvious outer lower may be backwards, a mirror of true reversing it (as mentioned in "Scanner"). What I experienced in 3-74 may have been the true space, inner space, overwhelming lower (false? projected?) mere outer space which just receives reality as signal. Folder 03 - 052 Folder 03 - 052 The outer, then, is Plato's cave with its images, + the inner is ontologically real (but unrecognized as such even by Kant as the true locus of the Real). (But my writing so recognizes it.) The inner projects the images onto the outer, as my system states, + the push-pull enhancing sets in, but: the origin is in P.'s inner space: two mirrors are involved, but - the inner space (+ world!) has priority over the lower, outer. Mastery, as Caesar has, in the lower, outer has no meaning, since the lower, outer is maya - a mere shadow, without substance. He is ruler of a phantom realm, which however, beguiles + seduces us, + causes us to forget the upper, inner. (Pain is one one of its powers.) Art, then, is a transfer of the inner realm of a given person -his ontology- to others through the outer, but it isn't part of the outer (it is an inner brain print; esp. Beethoven's + Wagner's + Mahler's music), the more "subjective" art is, the more real it is. S-F, then, is potentially a higher art than is generally realized since it can be highly "subjective" (more accurately inner.) (The inner landscape.) (+ the greatest novels would be "Remembrance of Things Past" + most of all "Ulysses.") Well, this analysis confers very high value to my writing, esp "Stigmata" + "Ubik" + "MITHC" The inference of all this is that Caesar is going to appear -externally, obviously, evidentally- to be in charge, but in a latent, subtle way in this inner-outer dialectic (which may be the dialectic I saw in 3-74!) his victories are losses + his power defeated - not at the end of time but during the course of the dialectic itself, during the process. He is undermined somehow. Folder 03 - 053 Folder 03 - 053 But this can't be seen unless