the Logos weaving the causal threats. 2 63 This theory ("the always renewing 1st Advent) fits my experience because it is deduced from it. The urwelt of our reality is the first Advent (+, I think, to that will soon be added the 2nd Advent already prophesied" before the first one wears off, the second will have occured to finish it up by in enitively (rather than partially, as now) absorbed linear or whatever time. The first Advent is right now more real an event than the changing world of time; the 2nd will complete what the first began. If the first Advent is more than an event but rather an entire urwelt, certainly so will the 2nd one be: a total + absolute urwelt - the urwelt - which will totally absorb this (which the 1st advent did not entirely do: then it will be sace that his will is done here on Earth as it is now done in Heaven). what we should see is total world. Metamorphosis, as I experienced with the Palm tree world: everything absorbed into it leaving nothing outside like it still is now. Right now we don't experience it wholly or even at all, as we will probably without warning (as is said of it). In other words there will be no stages of transition visible that lead up to it This means that like my experience with Advent one it will just suddenly frade in + replace the present constantly - changing landscape, + the experience of it will be one of increasing depth; it will only become more + more real as we penetrate (so to speak fall) deeper + deeper into it which is to say, as ot becomes progressively more articulated I guess it is essence us accidents. Christ, having come here at the first advent + having been killed, transsubstantiates outwardly into the essence of our universe + assimilates it bringing it to life it passes over from chaos to the cosmos that is the Corpus Christ. respite appearances to the contrary, both in degards to my "Rome" experience + our understanding of linear time, it is a fact, the miraculous fact, that the first Advent is now - which shows it to partake absolutely of the divine world; it could not have been both then (1970 years ago) + now otherwise, to celebrate it properly now (or at any other time) is to have it be not have been 6 the orthogonal axis hidden to us normally leads from This surface skin world down into what appear to be successive layers of [supralunar reality in that direction closed to us unless God transforms us so that perception of + experience with this realm (or these realm, take place that was the "bailing back into" the universe (or out of it, but more the former) that I experiend, the experience of finding myself in ancient Rome was an entry into the same absolute eternal realm in which I experienced everything else, + not in our past. It has never been possible before for me to class all the perceptions + perceptual changes together. The "Rome" one defied that, seemingly having to do with the distant past - I kept think ing of it as the black iron Prison, whereas the Black Inn Prison is (not was) in fact the place where the divine Christ originally entered (breached through into) this world. Then the real truth (completely incomprehensible to me until today) is that both viscon-worlds (Palm tree + black Iron Prison) are places of entry for him: first the black Irn + finally the Palm tree world. Thus my entire schema is new. I have continually recognized that two advents were involved, + there were two vision worlds, but it never occured to me to equate them. Thus the first advent is still now (although it first took place 1970 years ago). + the second is not yet - but I have lived in both those moments: One 1970 years ago in our time + the other x number of years ahead of is. One post-figures (black iron); the other vision (palm tree world) pre-figures: both lie outside of time. So I now understand that he will return in February, evidently. That is why it dient come in March. The role of "Tears": the black he iron Prison world (Rome c 70 AD) in which the first Advent occurs: in the novel, the wise old king with his knights on horseback: this is why the dream (the Advent) had to be in the novel - otherwise there would have been no apocalyptic point to it. 6 i I know the Palm tree world was the [place + time of the Ea Advent + without realizing what I knew I knew the first Aevent had taken place in the black iron Prison world but the significance of it escaped me. Because the Palm tree world is heavenly it was easy to equate it with Christ - but the blac iron Prison world is dreadful. However the significance is: the first advent came at a time + place utterly hostice + murderous to him + that overall world staged unchanged; but at the 2nd me in absolute contrast, he will establish His peaceable Kingdom. In the first, his Kingdom was not of this world. Those are all the worlds I saw, + that is all the ad vents there are. If the Black Iron Prison world is alpha, the Palm tree world is omega. Both are timeless, but the black iron prison world will be swallowed up in the palve tree world. finally - replaced by it; the orthogonal axis will reveal the latter, not the former ("which will not enter the mind nor come up into the heart" the black iron Prison is the old Earth which lill pass away; the Palm tree world is the new Earth which God is making. My previous view of the "lateral movement" in which our world replaces the black Iron world + is then replaced by the Palm tree one is correct. it's interesting: I depicted the black iron prison world in teaks + the palm tree world in my next novel, deus Irhe. With our world inbetween. So not only did I experience the first Advent which took place in the past, by our time, but the second, which will take place in the future by our time other people know of both but see neither (me, too, now). I wonder how many other humans in the history of this world have been so priviledged In the plack iron prison it was hell, but we sure were actively fighting although in a constant state of terror - + in danger, in the Palm free world we all sit around peacefully + are happy + safe, the historical turning point between the two took place in 1974 at the moment of intervention against the conspirators. We must be closer to the second than the first First "uncut stone" Advent intervention second Advent w t black inn Palm tree doned prison 65 divine So I saw historic events although only one took place in my lifetime. I guess the urwelt of Advent I has, since the intervention, been replaced by urwelt 2 that's why I first perceived the black iron me - then the Palm tree one; the latter had replaced the former. In all 3 cases (the 3-e being the "uncut stone flung," the intervention) surface (ine time reality, rolls along, + this is all we normally experience All 3 are "intrusions" into our world from the supralunare (i.e. divine). Well, evidently I was right when I said that prior to the 74 intervention the black Iron Prison underlay our world, but after the intervention the palor tree world replaced it, I think one could say, yes: each was the urwelt below the thin surface skin - quite different from each other the cosmic clock was stuck at 70 AD before the intervention + then moved ahead at the intervention + ahead again (the fare denited as "after the intervention") from a Platonistic stodpoint the black Iron Prison + the palm tree world are the two opposite opposing template forms. It is amazing to think that one gave way to the other in our time - that we could be alive at such a time! in the black iron Prison world Christians were pitted against there society, but now evidently they are not it would seem, then, that not just some bad humans, or ever just humans at all were removed from the driver's seat. It must be that the "obscure dominion" of "vil itself was dethroned. But just as our world prior to 74 did nit appear as bad as the black iron Prison (although it once was) just after 74 it does not look as good as the palm tree world (but eventually it will). Evidentia our world is like a movie, the supralunar world is like several stills which do not permutate into one another (change) but remain indefinited until replaced: a sort of eternal place. All these thousands of years the urwelt here has been the black iron prison pierced by His advent: two mutually reconcilable elements of a freeze frame black inte palm tree prison world the throwing of the uncut stone the concept th /the wicked did not cause our world to change in power uncut ootpoulr stone but rather caused (1) to be with chains as the urwelt to be replaced ( by N 6 nother model, our world as sphere in motion over "squares" of an unchanging (intrinsically) candscape; intervention 1974 showing our world now "above" t s the palm tree world, having changing a world passed 1974 our time, the e . moment of intervention. A sa penetration to the core, now, to N t the hidden real landscape "below" a would reveal it, not the black eme of force it Iron Prison. + there would now be up, not down ( A print out re the 2nd Advent (i.e. "Santa Sophia will be born again.") These are not relative but absolute conditions. But just as we could not see (+ no matter how we tried, we cannot now see (3). If my uncon scious relates to the real landscape perpetually it was finding it to be awful (like in the story I read about the city screaming, + the one about flies crauling across the pilots face, + like I wrote up in stigmata Ubik, tears, penultimate truth + others) but since early '74 our time my unconscious would obtain sounding, suddenly indicatinge a good, warm, relaxed loving, heavenly world, which would produce a great drop in tension + apprehension for no consciously accountable reason just as prior to early '74 I would experience fear + tension, especially al night, for no accountable reason since my greater more real per sonality exists formed in my unconscious, I would continually resport to these emanations (covert impressions) from (2) or (3) + without realizing it relate to them as world, rather than to the changing impressions from our own level (the surface skin one). The underlying substratum is no longer harmful but rather harmless. The most we could normally hope to experience would be an intuition that some vast all-pervading invisible evil had passed from the world. The world is now freed of something - something is gone. It was removed, best way of putting it is that the intervention (although it penetrated into our changing world) in actuality took place in the urwelt + thus affected ours. It was the urwelt (supralunar) that underwent a transtormation. 6 e Now back to my ramparts unintentional - Christian act. Gwen The Black Iron Prison upwelt I inadvertently meshed with what I saw the gray-coweled authentic Christian secret church doing - pulling the iron walls down, so to speak. This iden is woven as a continual