to me. She slew me with it - I, who gave her that life in the first place. I'm getting old, but part of it, too, is loving Laura so much, me running after her across the field + not being able to capture her. Like the butterfly in "Nichts Neus." The lower realm is the eternally old, + the upper (Form I) the eternally new (creative, yang). So the lower realm is dead; it looks backward into the past, + is blind. From the standpoint of ontology it has passed out of existence. ---------- "Dokos" does not mean forgery. It means a forgery good enough to pass (all tests) as is it were a product of the Gov. Mint. This distinction, applied to the empirical world, is a crucial one. It passed the tests + therefore is, in a sense, metaphysical. This implication was was not lost on the pre-socratic philosophers. That there could be forgeries that good - it is a whole different concept from mere forgery, + of great value philosophically (metaphysically.) ---------- Re the two realms, it looks like I have found a quasi-biological basis for my android (lower, reflex realm) vs human (upper, free-realm) bipolarization, contrasting repetitious reflex behavior vs independent behavior; machine intelligence which is "tape" programmed, inner-outer versus the breaking of the "tape" (DNA coding?). Suddenly the human vs the android (reflex machine) is not a metaphor of two modes of human behavior but appears virtually literal. Didn't the vision of Acts (Rome cAD45) consist of a vision of the lower realm (BIP), which is where I really was? Christ had not led us (or me) out of it yet. It wasn't until 2-75 that I experienced the PTG (Form I or the upper realm). Acts is the world of "Tears" which is indeed Form II. But - we secret Xtians were subverting the BIP - i.e. Form II, the lower realm, breaking its power (this coercive power is the essence of it). This was a true vision of the world I was in: the lower realm. It was epitomized by Rome cAD45. ---------- axion: the best forgeries go undetected. On a scale of increasing perfection there is an inverse ratio to detection. Those which we do detect are signs which point toward the better (undetected) ones. This is where the concept of Dokos enters. If the world (lower, phenomenal) is dokos, no test exists to determine it. Pragmatically, it does not matter - except that realm I (higher) is obscured - in fact deformed - by this dokos lower realm II, which stands between us + I - so it is important to detect + abolish the "falsework" not as an end in itself but in order to see (reach) Realm I. Parmenides would agree with this, as well as the platonists + neoplatonists. (+ Gnostics.) Then in 3-74 I began my escape from Realm II + ascended to - apprehended directly - Realm I. This is Heraclitus' "latent form" "which is master of obvious form," for, as I say, Realm I can overrule Realm II but not vice versa. Most early philosophy views this binary reality as the basic structure of total world, + to understand the antique mind, the two realms, hierachically-viewed, must be comprehended. Kant showed that the modern mind can so view reality without doing violence to itself. But my system is not his, but is that of the mystery religions + informed early Xtianity (such as Paul's cosmology). Christ as he ascends through the realms, strips the old powers of their authority + replaces them with himself. ---------- Ephesians: Note P, page 331: "lit" the setting free of that (enslaved people) which has been acquired; i.e. by God, + at the cost of the life of his Son" etc Note K page 331: "the main theme of this letter is how the whole body of creation, having been cut off from the creator by sin, is decomposing, + how its rebirth is effected by Christ reuniting its parts into an organism with himself as the head, so as to reattach it to God. the human... + the angelic worlds are brought together again through the fact that they were saved by a single act." Note K. two worlds. Note P: Christ through his death broke the half of the Realm II inner-outer programming powers over us + gave us life. I sense a secret here. The killing of Christ disbursed him ubiquitously throughout both realms. The totalling of which is called the pleroma. He (God) is reintroduced into the lower realm + thereupon he begins to master it through successive dethronings of the levels of tyranny in that realm. If it is annexed to the angelic realm I it will lose its coercive hold over us, its "decomposing" moribund grip (cf "Ubik"). For this he gave up his life; I guess the blind powers of darkness here erred in killing him because then the spirit (Christ discorporate + cosmic) was brought here + released to grow to the limits of the universe, as a separate + "real" realm, II loses its ontology - this is the dethroning. If the blind powers be broken (by Christ's death) what reality does Realm II have since those powers characterize it? Christ is not breaking the blind powers over this man or that (so to speak subjectively) but attacking them objectively + freeing their entire realm (Realm II); by abolishing it as a separate realm; i.e. making that realm unreal (cf "stigmata") (i.e. cf Leo Bulero, Glen Runciter, the walker on Earth.) In essence Christ's primary (salvific) task is to render Realm II (the lower) no longer real, its "taping" authority burst. Extrication thereupon means assimilation to the upper Realm I, which is to say salvation. ---------- "The God could suspend determinism, because he ruled over the stars." "A foreshadowing of the idea or Xtian grace." "Grace" is defined as "the free gift by God of salvation to a person." + Salvation = Freedom from the coercive power of Realm II + knowledge thereof. My momentous conviction that Zebra was an invader: it was from Realm I, invading the lower Realm II, to overrule determinism, the "melting" of causal trains which I witnessed. Wouldn't that make Zebra the Cosmic Christ? I don't think it caused a dysfunction➀; it was here as my (our) champion to do battle for me (us). ➀In the Realm II determinism. Here was a perfect example of discretionary overruling, which affected my fate. I don't think it was just my soul that was saved but also (as in the mystery religions) my physical, actual life. Its invasion + possession of me prevented me from reacting to a lethal external stimulus, which evidentally I was internally programmed to react to in a very specific way. Zebra blotched this. --------- The "AI" voice in me is a microcomputer terminal installed in me decades ago. + not only that - I am under its yoke + accept its authority, which is absolute. ---------- Then this (the lower) realm has been invaded, whether it is aware of it or not. It is the recipient of higher authority + cannot resist. It is as if a repairman [..] with a circuit boad in front of him, soldering gun in hand. He is going to rewire wherever he sees fit; it is mind behind the tools + the work. Even when + where no work is applied the scrutiny is there, since he sees the whole circuit board at once. That he can + does see, + can receive wherever he wishes - My 3-74 experience can be generalized from. The "invader" is here already; it is not hypothetical or prophecy (I am using "Tears" as the textual basis - written in 1970, published in 74, perhaps as prophecy.) I am saying, I need not wait for the events prophecied to occur; they have begun. There was such a close temporal correlation between the release of "Tears" + my experience. ---------- It is Christ who decides whom the spirit should be sent to. For God the Father has entrusted him (Christ) with the keys of eternal life (the kingdom). ---------- The whole thing about Xtianity which makes it uniquely important is the 2nd or spirit birth. It's not stuff like sin + salvation, but this coming into full life for the first time - and involved is union with Christ as the indwelling spirit. That's it, that's why he came here - not to atone for our sins. It's an evolutionary step up: to a deified-life state "this phrase sums up the whole purpose of Christ's coming, namely, that mankind might be born again in the spirit." (JB note, John [3]). I'm one of those to whom that has happened. It's the most important thing I ever knew. Philosophies offer wisdom + other religions offer enlightenment, but this is an evolutionary step upward from Realm II to Realm I (which I have described as equal to the jump from android to human:) nothing less than escape from programmed response vs discretionary choice is involved. Reflex arc vs freedom + true identity. The tragedy is that the unreborn person does not even know he is a mere programmed thing in a world (Realm II, the lower one) which doesn't ever really exist, the covert coertion that controls him is delusional, but can only be broken loose by the intervention of the Holy Spirit. + the other side of the coin is that the lower world (BIP, Form II) occludes him off from the upper world (PTG, Form I), which alone is truly alive + real. This lower realm can best be regarded as sub noös, as having slipped below the level of consciousness of Theophanes' mind + is ruled by blind, deterministic powers, not by mind (Logos). Born by the spirit means a transfer of a person up out of this cause - + - effect lower realm + back into a sentient realm. Put another way, he is now under the jurisdiction of noös, not causality - hence his life is purposeful. Not governed by ananke. It has teleological rather than efficient purpose, he is, in fact, now part of noös. The key term, is, plan, + perhaps an even more inportant term: significance (to his acts, in fact his total life - in the cosmic corpus christi organism), this will be eternal. (For "the gift of eternal life" I am willing to say "true life" - not dignifying the other as real life. ---------- We do not see that which he will lead us out of. (The BIP.) So how can we appreciate the importance - the necessity - of what he does for us? Step one: to see where we really are (BIP, Form II)➀ Step two: to see him + his activity.➁ Step three: to see where he is taking us by breaking the power of Form II over us (PTG, Form I).➂ ➀ Part of seeing the (BIP) place is to experience the programming (coercive) power over us of it, both inner (memories, drives) + outer (stimuli which we have no choice but to obey). ➁ He breaks the power of lower realm II + causes us to become fully alive for the first time. ➂ A world beautiful beyond compare: our new -+- our original - home. The initial vision of true world is terrible, but with it comes the joy of knowledge of the savior + his activity; as bad as the BIP (lower realm) is, to see it finally - that is a relief, because it is decomposing, + Christ is assimulating (annexing) us to Form I (which we are yet to see) in the progression of visions we become aware that Form II, the BIP, is a simulation, just as the veil which occluded us off from it is a simulation. To penetrate to the BIP is not to have truly penetrated to reality; Form