I made my report - despite it being contrary to empirical observations which fails to thrust back the spurious interpolations to ground (vs set). In this system, being "born again of the Spirit" implies a lot more than a prying loose of the person from the yin world. It implies a prying loose initially as a result of an influx of the spirit into the person - the Spirit now has him, + , indwelling, is a co-psyche with him. So being pryed loose from yin is only a preamble to a "lamination" with the Holy Spirit of domination in + by the yin world + into the relation with the indwelling spirit, to where you now belong. So it is a wresting loose + an acquiring of the person, away from the hold of yin + bonding to + with the yang principle: into the only authentic reality (Form I); taken from a counterfeit creation + placed in a real one (the PTG). (Or Kingdom of God.) The prison has let go + the garden has acquired. This is an antithetical contest truly for the soul of the man. ---------- My system is a fusion of the though of Taoism, Parmenides, Empedocles, Heraclitus, Plato, the Logos doctrine, Hegel, Zoroastrianism, Gnosticism, Christianity, J. Böhme. As well as my own 3-74 experience + basic concepts of salvation from the several mystery religions. It posits two antithetical forces, hence realms, which we see as one, laminated together. The interaction between these realms drives history toward a goal envisioned by the sentient forces which is making use of the blind cause - + - realms to achieve its purposes. The two realms arise from the androgynous nature of the Godhead, being Form I + Form II of Parmenides or yang + yin, onto which the wise yang force impresses its plan or logos. This is also the Eros of Empedocles. The wise gestalt of Form I has entered the yin world from above + below. It is combatted by yin which does not recognize it. The problem facing Form I is how to influence yin without being fought off. Since as Empedocles believes, the nature of yin is warlike: an armed prison or fortress to repel invaders. The origin of the yin world was a primordeal overstepping of its proper [..] by the yin part of the Godhead; thus it aped yang + contructed a world, but a counterfeit world, simulating the authentic, natural creation of yang, who is the true creator. Yang must abolish, assimilate or transmute into authenticating our counterfeit yin world; evidently it is using all three solutions: abolishing the evil parts by manipulations, of orthogonal time, bonding good parts to its own world, + at the same time infusing these good pars with ontological reality: the authentic substituted for the fake. It can be said that "the world is evil + irreal" if by "world" is meant only the yin world (called ananke by Plato). But this gnostic + Manicean view does not take into account the growing salvific presence of the Logos (Form I, yang) which attacks the yin world both from above + below. Specifically the Logos breaks the moribund, rigid control by yin + the yin world over individual after individual; this liberation is what is meant by Christian + mystery religions as salvation from "astral" or "sublunar" powers by the "God above the stars" i.e. in the pleroma, a key term denoting a realm not part of the universe but prior to it in all respects. Evil, in this system, is seen as a blind, binding coercive power operating along deterministic + chance (accidental) lines, lacking sentience + hence teleological concern. It can be equated with entropy, devoid of form + a decreptitude or wearing out of the world, much as individual life forms wear out. Yang revitalizes this entropy-laden structure continually, supplying life to what is dead, + immortality to what otherwise is perishing. Our senses are too occluded to permit us to unscramble perception of each realm in contradistinction to the other. My system holds that a diploid division of reality is so fundamental that it can be traced back to a dual nature of the Godhead itself. In combatting the yin world through its yang side (the proper creator) the Godhead is readjusting the balance of its two aspects to regain the parity we associate with harmonie + the Tao. As the Gnostics bravely point out, the dialectical salvific struggle taking place in our world points to a crisis in the Godhead itself, that "what is low is an analog to what is high." Thus, the Savior is the Salvidor Salvanitus the savior saved: he is present in the lower strata of our world debased + without memory or knowledge of his own nature upon remembering who he is (anamnesis) he, in each polyform is undergoing "coming to itself," add to the "weapons" of the yang side of the Godhead itself + hence aids appreciably in the desired restoration of divine balance. Yin will finally withdraw to its proper boundaries, + the material universe will have the Logos as its rightful king, in an internal harmonie reflecting that of the restored Godhead. The purpose of this system is to explain how evil can exist if God is good (more precisely, the problem is, how can undeserved suffering exist if God is good, all-knowing + all powerful?) It postulates (1) that the existence of undeserved suffering, refusing to concede that the suffering is not real or that it serves some hidden purpose which "someday we'll understand." etc. + "we must in the meantime have faith"; + (2) that indeed an absolute good, wise, + powerful God exists whose [desire] it is to rectify the first postulate under the stricture of an even more encompassing Logos or plan (that is, the overcoming of undeserved suffering is not its only goal but rather a part of it). This system ingeniously applies Taoist concepts to the Christian God, via the ideas of Parmenides + Empedocles + Plato. The Godhead is viewed as "out of round" in terms of its intrinsic balance between its yin part + its yang part; thus, in Taoist terms, the Godhead itself has veered from the Tao, the path. It may regularly oscillate this way, swinging now toward an overvalence of yang, then of yin, if so, we are - our universe is - at a point in the cycle (palintropos harmoniē) where there is too much yin. Yin has encroached on yang + has created or [enervated] a yin realm which yang as an invading mind or party is seeking to place in balance, the balance, or lack of it, in the upper realm (pleroma) is assumed to mirror that of the lower (our world); the microcosm + the macrocaosm are view as analogs of each other. Such radical Christian mystical concepts (of Böhmes', e.g.) as "The Divine Agony", are employed to call attention to the Godhead's own problems, or rather stake or involvement in our problems. Monotheism is retained, but diploid aspects which are mirror opposites of each other (v. Parmenides) are attributed to the Godhead, our world is viewed as a dynamic process, the goal of which is defined in Taoist terms (balance, harmony, right proportion, etc). The bedrock of this system is a melding of a religion of the west (Christianity; with a philosophical cosmology of the East) Taoism which does not hypostatize a deity but does hold vigorous concepts e.g. "the correct path," to draw from Parmenides, who evidentally hit upon a Taoistic system without any knowledge of Chinese thought. There is, then, in this system, a kind of "Tao of Taoism" in that it borrows both Eastern + Western cosmogonical + cosmological + religious concepts to account for that which, for example, Christianity alone seems incapable of reasonably explaining. Will Durant (in "Our Oriental Heritage") declares that explaining undeserved suffering is the cardinal work of religion. If this be so, Orthodox Christianity is a failure (v. the E.B. macro article on Christianity's failure to explain suffering of the innocent, esp children), + Taoism, taken alone, is an elitist worldview which accepts reality as it is because it is as it is (in contradistinction, e.g. with Zoroastrianism), what is most firmly rejected in the Hindu reasoning that somehow suffering is only an illusion. My system states, "the Godhead is in difficulty. Evil is not the manifestation of an evil deity nor a sign of God's vengence, etc. But an [..] the lower or microcosm of the difficulty in the macrocosm or pleroma. The yin aspect has exceeded its proper limits. perhaps as an oscillation of a great supratemporal cycle, + rectification is apparently in progress." Of private value to me is that this system not only accounts for what I saw in 3-74 during my mystic revelations (e.g. Zebra mimicking normal objects + causal processes in order to "melt" them which is to say achieve deflection of outcome: this breaking of a blind programming that had me in its grip, a vision of our world as a Black Iron Prison; but also justifies my 27 year preoccupation in my writing with the twin topics of irreality of the world, evil as false world-creator, + false memories, + actually asserts that all these preoccupations + revelations must be as they are + what they are + point to. Thus my rather simple system gathers a variety of elements into coherence - in fact into a structure of necessity. The 3-74 revelations are the themes of my writing, then, not only cease to be puzzling (unexplained) but serve to validate the theoretical system - insofar as such allencompassing systems can be proved. At least my system predicts what indeed I did encounter in a heightened state of consciousness in 3-74. (e.g. Christ as invader, mimicking + plasmatic, + omniscient, treating me + inert objects as a single continuum). Of particular personal satisfaction is the quality of the antithetical dialectic expresses in my system, inasmuch as this, in 3-74, was revealed to me as the substratum of all realities + change - process - revealed in visionary form without verbal explication... + which has mystified me ever since: as crucial theme in the vast corpus of revealed material, + nowhere comprehensible in orthodox religious terms - for instance, the most obvious possibility, Zoroatrianism, had to be rejected because both antithesis were "good" rather than one bad + one good. Since Xtian mystics before me have coined special terms to describe their experiences, I will speak of "pitch" or "wobble" or "yawing" of the Godhead as if (sic - als ob) it is a globe in motion - perhaps analogous to the Earth (i.e rotating on its own axis, orbitting a sun, heading toward another star system all at once). The next special term "adjustment" or "realignment" vis-a-vis a correct course from which there has been a deviation. If the question is asked, "How can God get off course?" I would answer 1) all human experience with the conditions obtaining in our world suggests something is wrong + must be corrected; and 2) it is possible that these "out of round" conditions are representative of total reality; + 3) it can't be argued that it is not possible for the Godhead so envisioned to be a priori granted automatic immunity from a deflection from the best possible course, because 4) it can be argued that the Godhead establishes or locates the "best possible course" by means of deliberate "lateral" sweep. To quote hex 1 of the I Ching: "He tests his powers." It is perfectly possible that, upon assuming dual or mirror-opposite aspects in the Godhead, one might infer that these two natures wage a kind of deliberate game with each other, as if to locate by an existential contest their limits. This notion fits Böhme's idea of the urgrund seeking selfknowledge or -awareness. + passing from mere potential to actualization.