or garden or pastoral Kingdom that for reasons unclear to me we left, + which we still yearn for. Evidently the is some possibility of our returning to it: this can happen through the savior, Jesus Christ, who came here from our homeland to help us - in particular to cause a restoration of our lost memories, hence our true Identity, +, with this, remembrance of our true purpose in being here; through this anamnesis we will be able eventually to get back home. Whatever, whenever + where ever the Black Iron world is, was, will be, it is bipolarized against the Palm Tree World, perhaps in Augustine's sense of the City of God vs the city of the world, which, he taught, have always been comingled as one, but at the end the two will separate + we can see to which we have given our allegiance. The changes in me in 3-74 seem to consist of a restoration to some superior primordial state or evolution to a superior later state or superimposition of a divine state such as may pertain before + after death: there seems to be some correlation between the Black Iron Prison + our normal state; + between the Palm Tree world + the superior state. The superior state, anamnesis + the Palm Tree World are in fact correlated, as are forgetfulness, the fall to this limited state + the Black Iron World. 35 In fact, once anamnesis occurs, the person expands to a near god-like level, with virtually supernatural powers + perception, evidently because he has been transformed to this High level, can pass easily + naturally back into the Garden, which he can (among other things) now see. So identity (ie. what you are), memory+ salvation are interwoven, all of which suggests Neo-Platonism with its concentric rings of emanation. But it also resembles Gnosticism doctrines about the divine spark remembering its origin in another better world, so that it can get out of here + return to its home, this also resembles the doctrines of India. What I'm faced with at this point is the realization that I cannot really explain or comprehend what happened to me, + perhaps I never will. There are Jungian explanations, S-F explanations, occult explanations, plus ones I probably haven't thought of. But will. A power + entity as vast as the one I encountered in me + around me - if it doesnt deserve the name God I dont know what term to use for it. In answer to "what happened in 3-74?" the I Ching gives me #46: ascending, promoting, + comments, "the weak ascend." Interestingly this hex[agram] has to do - not with expansion - but with vertical ascent: "direct rises from obscurity + lowliness to power + influence." ALSO, it is pushing upward associated with effort +: "one pushes upward by steps," meaning: "one achieves one's will completely." Each line suggests a better pushing up, + this line is the culmination (the top is bad - but 5 is the ruler). What does this suggest? Vertical ascent - which is self explanatory. But obviously [u]spiritual[/u] ascent is meant. In which case I can forget the Bizarre + outré explanations + zero in on the essential part expressed by the I Ching's answer. A problem in such matters as this is that there is no one to explain it all to me, ie. A Guru. I can't find anyone I can ask or talk to. What I can deduce from this is probably that - well, I guess it's rare, or if not rare then no one who [page end] 36 who experiences this talks about it (no con talk about it) , I passed from one world + into another. I sum it up like that, +: I ceased to be one thing + became a better thing, +: I escaped illusion + reached reality. How about this? I escaped from the Black Iron Prison, which limits + enslaves, + thereafter I found my way to the Palm Tree World, which frees. Growth is implied. I guess I found release or liberation through recording my lost memories, +, in that state, found my way back home, to God + His Kingdom - the real God of all men. What else can I say? What else need be said? What particulars? What elaborate theories? It's like Shangri-La, since I could not hang onto it - "Lost horizons" indeed. But as Ché said, the memory remains + that is something: that makes a difference. I have an Acute + unshakeable conviction that I now know [what] we will find beyond death. The Great assize is very real to me - a winnowing, with some rising + some falling. But what I describe here is exactly (I think) what has already happened to me - the 3-74 I imagine + don't understand. I just said it: there has been a judgement of me which has released me. What? Has what? Half-asleep I wrote that "which has released[undercored] me." What does this mean? Released from what? ... + What fell away? Not responsibility. ah! KARMIC BURDEN which I was carrying. The dead deer - carcasses of poor injured animals. I don't think this release can be understood without positing Karmic Burden. How did I cancel it? I don't even know that, but some kind of karmic cause + effect was involved. + this fits in with my recollection of at least my past life, my anamnesis. So here is another element of India[n] religion + they all seem to be here. 23 But ah! I was released from maya, bondage to which is due to Karma. Yes, the recover of memory, escape from the veil of delusion - But the ultimate release from Karmic burden is this: that one is freed from the wheel of rebirth - + all the ecstatic joy, the rapture - being taken into God, welcomed by him in his realm - return from birth + rebirth over + iner again in this world - this is it; this is what I'm free free; hence "vertical ascent" - leaving here + going hone to my original place at last - for the first time in thousands it years - finally. I can now go back. The recovered memories show me that I came here long ago + have been embroiled over + over; this, what I've been given now in this lifetime - I must have sought for it + not attained it ever before. Ah! The release is connected with my handling of the Xerox letter. I have an intuition: had I handled it wrong, I would not have found release. Every effort + talent + faculty had to be brought to bear - was brought to bear the great trans-identity real self in me knew, it knew. + I was not willing to fail; it bloomed to life fully in order to pass this final test; it tested the quality of the holy in me; only the holy part could have succeeded; no holy part, no release; it was for me the great assize indeed, but only an individual judgment on me me alone. So then I saw my name writter in the great ledger later on thought of Papagans + prince taming + ther + trials. Ah! The divinity was the total hosts of light coming to my defense - they did all they could to assist + extricate me, + they were successful; thus it is said that God wishe. to bring all men to salvation. Whether viewed in Indian or Christion - or even Egyption terms - the matter is the same. (3 in the dark, not knowing what the Xerox letter meant or who sent it, I nevertheless had to choose + I chose right + was given release ("vertical ascent"). I have no idea why things - wait - I do. First we have acquire karmic burder (by evil acts), but we are not punished forever (contrary to Christion views of hell); we do evil here + must work it off here the reason for The test (or trice or ordeal - any how it involves choice) is that by chosing correctly we prove worth, we prove we are not what we were, we have changed. We are enlightened + our choice demonstrates it. Such a test or ordeal or trial car not be understood - nor the reason for it understood - unless one keeps karmic burden clearly in mind; the two are inseperable So maya disappeared, + memory returned, "the veil of maya prevents a man from remembering his true origin + goal (E.B.). First maya lifted; they, because of that, is memo returned, + I just figured it out. We are being tested; there is at least one judging deity watching. Once we have chosen cor rectly then maya lifes; then we remember; then we are ourself. + an released + can finally "ascend vertically" back home to God but the concept of God's grace changes the sequence: by what we call "God's grace; the veil of maye is lifted so that we can choose correctly: this is an expression of God's love + mercy + desire to see us saved. So in my case the veil began to life slightly before the Xerox letter came; when it did come I was already seeing what really was there - + saw the letter for the lite thing it was, + so, through God's help, was enabled to choose rightly; the angels of light were all around me the Xerox letter - it came from Satan. That's who sent in The fact that the veil of maya lifted for me is proved by my recovert memories -as well as my ceasing to be "blind" inner + outer delusion departed. Karmic burder produces maya + Maya removes our memories of our real dentity + purpose. I somehow correct handling of the Xerox letter caused me to obtain the judgment of release - it offset + cancelled out my karmic burden, however acquired. Brahmanism teaches that few are released, but some are, + it is our real goal, since then we can return to Brahman (God). This shows the importance of what happened to me in 3-74. Its proper significance (or now be appreciated; without the above analysis it cant be understood. Having choser correctly I then was granted the greatest gift a living person can receive: I saw the deity all around me, + experienced him (or it) inwardly: I heard that wonderous still small voice. This religious explanation is the correct one. I prefer the Hindre exegesis, but a Christian one will do, too : it adds the reali bation of the role of Christ: because of him + him alone I was able to choose rightly; it was he who acted as my guide, teacher + advocate at that trial, who informed me. He it was who spoke for me when I called up to L.A. + wrote letters. For Karmic burden read "sin" or "original sin." The E.B. says that the highest level you can rise to (ascend to) is that of Lord Krishna - whereupon one achieves Nirvana. i.e. to a God-like, avatar like level. Was I for a time, at the level of great Krishna himself? The point here is that here it is shown how high, how extraordinarily high, one may rise - to the level of a God. While still physically a mere man. Ah! No wonder I saw people with 3 eyes, Krishna is so depicted krsna is the 8th incarnation of Vishna. He danced played the flute + was full of love. He reminds me of Orpheus. 0 I was so aware at the time of the Xerox letter of the nelf to choose correctly, it was fear-provoking + ominous - I was tense + terrified, as witness my B. P. But also; I knew there was