argumart of God's plan. It - our voluntary return - has to do with our knowledge of it + desire to act out meaningful roles in 36 it. Even though we had our long term (i.e. trans-incar‐ nation) memories blocked. We have tasks to perform; some vast entelechy is taking final shape. I say "we" but at the moment of anamnesis the "we" vanishes + only the "I" remains. The total "I" the deification of the mundane world: the holy manifesting itself in the trash of the gutter This is the Kingdom of God - + it becomes (perceives here. Then, too, I must remember the Fate-breaking power of Christ, the freeing from "the deterministic script." Here ananke would be regarded as necessity, even if Plato did not so construe it. certainly the Greeks were aware of destiny or fate via Babylonia. + for sure the graeco-Roman mystery religions - + Xtianity - were. (Moira) conrrrection with this I must bear in mind my decisive revelation about they are responsible for lower level decisions which can be overruled. aybe the solution is to conceive of two levels: the lower random + deterministic, the upper sentient Also, there is a sacred or holy realm which intrudes on our mundane realm - esp. in the form of assisting + guiding information, emanating obviously from some sentient entity such as the Logos. Since we normally receive these messages only subliminally, we are not aware of how much, how well + how often we are helpel. So any description or measonement of the amounte + kind of help we receive most contain an X factors 36 What must be kept in mind about the presence of evil (undeserved suffering) is the transcendent or external quality of God vis-a-vis a cursed world; + God's secret invisible penetration into it, with the artifact as the creator that God (Zebra) secretly I t subdues, modifies + ametrates our condition here ( t in the form of an invasion of a prison to assist The prisoners from outside. He breaks the chains of slavery + sickness + suffering + even finally death, by this s a two-way amalgum, so that he is with us, creature (Christ) taking the blow with + for us, becoming us + we him This transubstantiation of our world by his magic. It is always the savior who is slain, but the savior is ubiquitious (+ immortal) + survives. It is not a limit to his potence but rather that the salvific work is only partly achieved. What must be accepted is the doomed + blighted quality of this world, inasmuch as the artifact did an imperfect job of creation + left a great deal of chaos - also, rigid mechanical determinism (ananke prevails, which God interrupts where possible; if not possible, he accepts the blow with or for the creature. But this world as such is fremd (to us + to the God who, as Christ, is isomorphic to us). meanwhile, the world being in this painful disordered deterministic state, God leads + coaches us, + also evaluates (judges) us as to how well we deal with the unfair conditions But his antagonist is the artifact, not us; we are its victims. what the 1st advent acheived was to place God physically here So that he could stand as surrogates for us in our misery + deaths, + also break the causal "script" hold over us, it was the start of a total, invisible penetration to break the prison wall. In this context there is what the EB calls faster + faster "blow + counter blow" between God + the artifall. 3127 income tox 200 37 But suppose the whole concept of God is jettisoned, + The Noos is regarded as that of the living, evolving entelechy which presents itself to us as the universe. This Noos - or psyche -- is St. Sophia. It is in process, assimi‐ lating disorder + placing it in order - i.e. as part of its structure. It is building itself out of the "stockpile" of the past which I saw, moving through sequential transforma fron. Christ is a microform of this world soul, come to This part ("circuit board") because communication has broken down + this section is operating with counter pro‐ ductive autonomy - a sort of cancer. Actually, it is a dying part; St Sophia comes here to restore to its cells (us) the eternal life which is that of the total entelechy. Thus, locally, a metastisizing irreality is proliferating which is insane vis-a-vis the totality which St. Sophia as Christ speaks as + for, restoring to us our memories, hence identities + knowledge of purpose, +, finally, non accluded eternal life Above St Sophia, the psyche of the universe, stands the creator of the universe, but about him nothing can be said. As we are to St Sophia, she is to the creator. Thus she stands as mediatoress between man + God. We can never know God except through her. She operates in time; he does not. The "ape of God" theory comes in here; the spirit of the usane circuit board interpolates spurious creators for the real one. It must be killed. We are infected by it like by the plague. Either an organic or cybernetics model will do: Christ as doctor or repairman, vis-a-vis us, but intrin sically much more: the psyche of the universe. The God of the O.T. is the vox spirit, of this deranged circuit board. He is deranged, + he lives both outside + inside us. Thus we too are deranged + occluded +, without the help of the savior, doomed to pain + deator. The savior replaces us at the moment we are sacrificed, + is sacrificed himself: he becomes med I become him at that moment. (3-74 for me) in this actuals literal sense he dies as sacrifice for all of us With St. Sophia we are not dealing with anything extrensic to the universe; also, in a certain real sense, we are not dealing with the supernatural. IF (as Plato [ET AL] believed) the universe is a living animal and it does have a psyche, and in hearing the voice of St. Sophia we are hearing the thoughts of this vast psyche which extends everywhere (as xenophanes put forth). We are dealing with something which, when the damaged circuit board is repaired (and even before!) can and will be the subject of rational, scientific knowledge not mere (sic) faith of mere (sic) revelation. A revelation now of St. Sophia; voice-- and projected visual image-- is a temporary restoration of what should have been (and once was) normal, at all times. It is not (1) Beyond the cosmos; nor (2) part of the cosmos. It is the cosmos. Spinoza would probably agree with this, except: there are levels of action: a lower level mere cause-and-effect, operating on its own (as Anaxagoras perceived, and is related to Spinoza's view of the closed system), but these lower level responsibilities and decisions can be overruled by the total psyche, or at least some higher order which frees (enters orthogonally and aborts, modulates or deflects, etc.) this is a treating of our circuit board as Ananke, and the intervention of Noos, since the lower order decisions are "Blind" (IE lacking theological purpose). It is the difference between efficient and hierarchy, as with courts of law. 36 "Bait" theory. The 1) God enters the world disguised as a mild ordinary good man. (Jesus) 2) Satan, not recognizing Jesus for who he is, has him arrested, humiliated + killed. 3) Several days later the empty tomb + the state - ments of the two "men in white" (i.e. angels) reveals what Christ took such pains to conceal: that he is God or the son of God, etc. Q: What is the effect on Satan of learning this? if Christ's mission was merely to take a "core sampling" of the world, step (3) would have been unnecessary. Has Satan become any less evil? Anyhow, his evil was already known to God + Christ. speculation: the purpose was to show Satan that God could penetrate his (Satan's) world at will without Satan ever knowing (until told later, retrospively). speculation: this world was a spurious creation of Satan's in the first place. God entering it would exchange the spurious for the real (note that the ionians such as o Parmenides had reasoned a priori that what we see empirically simply cannot be what is actually there - + upon this, philosophy was born). speculation: any victim could be God in disguise. all victims could be God in disguise (once the principle is had been established speculation: God's coming here in disguise foretold his arrival not in disguise but in fullforce. This 2nd coming could take place any moment. So Satan, as a countermove to (4), the imminent return of God, this time openly, generated a massive spurious time balloon out, so that it appears to us (falsely) that 100s even 1000s of years have passed since the first Advent ( therefore despite what we see, it is not 1970 But C. AD 70. Augustine + the other patristic fathers were fooled (i.e. occluded + deluded). what they did not realize was that the world (empirical, phenomenal world) was irreal in the first place. All Satan (the artifact in my system) had to do was spin it out, pay it out, temporarily - I mean along the linear time axis. Qualitatively, it was no different than what he already had been doing. This was Satan's counter move, + it has worked very well, only the true, secret, underground Xtian church knows the truth. speculation based on observation: God returns as victim each time, whenever + wherever there is a victim, we are unknowingly stuck in an infinitely long time run spun out to deceive us; Satan cannot delay the 2nd coming but he can cause us to mis‐ perceive + believe it is long in coming - so long, in fact, that we cease to watch for it. Because of Satan's wiles we have fallen asleep, + missed it. Actually, we are all (animals included) sleeping polyforms of God suffering from amnesia. God has thoroughly - in fact completely - penetrated + pervaded This spurious world, substituting the real thing for the fake. One by one he will open our eyes, + we will see that it is really apostolic times - not later, when our occlusion is removed (by God) we will see the world as it really is, + understand that we are immortal. But only through absolute farth in Christ can this be accomplished. by grasping the "bait" the evil power showed that it could not identify its own creator. The evil power therefore knows that it will never beable 41 to tell when, where + to what extent its spurious world has been replaced, + its victims replaced by the voluntary sacrifice of God, over whom Satan has no power. I saw enough (e.g. Pinky) to convince me that the penetration + replacement is enormous. I saw what evil (bund + deter‐ ministic) cannot sees speculation: I was bait, + not what the evil power thought, nor what even I thought. This implies that my override handling of the Xerox missive did crucial harm to the evil power in addition to saving me. I lured something evil into the open, + then "Thomas," using me did in some‐ thing or someone who was a crucial link in some evil chain of action. But it's not important that I know what; I served my purpose, + was amply rewarded for the dreadful years that preceeded their grasping me, the bait. me as bait had to do specifically with some‐ thing in "Tears." But what was in "Tears"? I certainly know: unmistakable material from Acts. Well, Acts is the part of the Bible which describes the early apostolic age church just after Christ