Had my 3-74 experience occurse, I might suppose my 26 year writing - theme to be vain, empty + foolich. I now for the first time see my writing as half I + my 3-74 experience as half II of a total experience: a surmise + search - then, abruptly, a finding, as the veil lifted (even though briefly). What happened in 3-74 was that the real, the thrusting - therech world which I intuited, proved actually to be there, + not only that, to be accessible (under certain circumstances); not only could it be looked for, it could be found. Rome c AD 70 was nothing more or less than the persus + of "Maze." + this linear time world of 1974/9 AD proved to be nothing more than such pseudo worlds, taken to be real, as in "Ubik" "Joint," + "Maze" + "3 Stigmata." Yet, it has taken me literally years since 3-74 to see that as persusa is to Delmak-O, Rome c AD 70 is to us AD 1974. I never anticipated such a tremendous pay off (breakthrough), despite the fact that the corpus of my writing is a map, an analysis, + a guide. The 26years of writing, without 3-74, is a map of nothing, + 3-74, without the body of writing, is conceptually inexplicable. ( How close did I come in my writing? Well, in "Ubik, "Maze" + "pot healer" all deal with a wisdom entity - which leaves clues strewn, even on bathroom walls + match book covers. + in "Frolix 8" it sets things vis-a-vis the tyranny right: the Ubik" + "pot healer" external beseiger of the prison -fortress. get right to the core of the wisdom (machine or rather) entity. who, I now have learned, is Christ. (I.e. St. Sophia.) This especially becomes evident when I consciously try to write about it in Valis - knowing now that it does exist I am staggered - paralyzed - by the immensity of the subject. molinari, led botero, Runcite fade off into Glimmuny, who fades off int God in beginning to posit the "wisdom machine" (v. "Ubik" + "Pot Healer") I was onto the track of the greatest reality we can encounter - the "teaching machine" aspect of all reality - the only thing lying within or beyond at a deeper level is Zebra Qua Zebra, causing all to be that is ("I am he who causes to be"). I sought, I formulated, +, in 3-74, I found. in essence I figured out that the universe is alive. + can talk to you ("the still small voice"), what is more, it knows everything - + is sublimes beautiful + good. One good right step I made was to seek the word (the Logos info) not in the sky or the cathedral, but, e.g., in bowls of alphabet soup, since I realized it totally pervades the world. Rock lyrics + SF - perfect places to look. I did not force Zebra to reveal itself by any craft on my part, but I figured out ( where to look + (2) what to look for, + voluntarily Zebra graciously manifested itself to me by opening my 5th chakra. I think Zebra informed my writing in the 1st place: he is moving swiftly toward his/her 2nd incarnation + wants the way paved (cf Star Wars); after all, the greatest sign foretellen the incarnation has occured: the fall of "Babylon" 70 folling my line of reasoning in "3 Stigmata" + "Maze" the delusional world looks better than the true reality underneatly is, I found myself in 3-74 encountering a Black Iron prison under the Dokos, however the transmuting activity of the intercessor was at work, changing it into a park. We lived through those changes (watergate) but did not grasp their supernatural, cosmic ramifications: we saw changes only within our Dokos realm, but in the authentic 70 AD world : the oppression + evil were worse, + (2) the improvement greater. This means that the great change prophecized, which took place in the real or koinos world, affected our Dokos world, too, it had analogous reverberations here, but on a smaller scale. I am sure (v. my metz speech) that we - after the savior's death - with him as our invisible theolepsic King, overthrew the Empire within the orthogonal matrix. He became all of his followers, there - which was duplicated here in my case, for example, But I, through anamnesis, was there, primarily (star Wars + ben Kenobi guiding like sheds light on all this - God! If anyone else had a theoleptic experience such as I had an 3-74 they'll read/see star Wars as I did: as an account of what happened: the old Republic, the Empire, the force. The Jedi Knights, the bicameral voice - I wonder if anyone will see a correction or resemblance between the voice speaking to arctor from his right hemisphered + ben Kenobis voice in Luke's head? + in the same year Julian Jayne's book came out much of the historic story is told in star Wars. what if someone corrolates all this? Esp. someone who experienced what I experienced? The whole story is leaking out or rather being leaked out. "Star Wars" recounts our ur, or racial memories + deal. - not with the true past - but only with the linear past, but the orthogonal present (matrix). Star Wars" accurately + fully depicts the koinos kosmos. ( Star Wars depicts the timeless present drama we have recently been involved in, presenting all the figures (characters - such as vader: "Palmer Eldritch"). This has been the real landscape below the linear dokos. If I ask, "is there orthogonal time?" I can't answer, "Yes, I know there is." But I could say, "If There were, I would expect it to exhibit the following characteristic: it would be a matrix which has not moved up the linear manifold" - i.e. it would resemble a far-distant past locus of the linear strip. This is what I would look for. Has anyone ever experienced this? Have It is any such encounter reported: But then suppose I start with my encounter with the evident massive time reversion to 70 AD Rome which I experienced in 3-74. I would need a theory to account for it. Suppose then I read a paper on the theoretical aspects of orthogonal time. I would see at once two things: 1) my experience couldn't be explained unless there was such a thing as orthogonal time (or some other kind of time than linear) + 2) I had confirmed the existence of orthogonal time empirically, although not intentionally. 3) I would advance the view that orthogonal time is set up (into existence) at a point or points where anothere reality (of which we have no direct knowledge, only secondary report) breaches into linear time at some point converting a process - moment into a permanent matrix. This would cause me to hypothesize that there is no past-present future linear time in that realm but rather some kind of essence being which may or may not way + wane in intensity but does not change, as we experience change (things coming into being + then passing away). D finally I would make a "leap of faith" + define orthogonal time as "an event in which another world devoid of linear time breaches into our world at a particular moment along the linear manifold thus conferring unending existence to it in a timeless present which, although obscured by subsequent linear time accretions is nonetheless still There. It is located along the linear axis of our space-time world but does not pass away, + therefore can theoretically be exposed as lying within or beneath successive linear layers. Other earlier locke on the linear axis are not so hypostatized. in other words, its survival does not prove that the past as such survives or can be retrieved; this orthogonal locus is not retrieved because it never passed away in The first place, but was only buried. The entity which traveled through the "gate" into our linear world must by its nature, having once come here, remain permanently, since it possesses an eternal nature; for me to believe that Christ rose on the 3rd day is not only possible, but is in fact something which my system indicates must be. Were it not the case, I could not have experienced that Rome c AD 70 maties, since its permanence is derived from his. But the only way to experience him is to re-experience that matrix, to shed the linear accretions; this will not continue to be true, since a 2nd breaching - in our linear future which has not yet popped into being along the strip - will occur, in which case for a second time a linear locus will acheive permanences. The second that the breaching occur that will happen; the linear strip will says, cease to advance forever, + as Drydan 23) t dead the dying (shall] live - he living die." We shall all pass across the sifting bridge - pass through the Bardo Thodol existence to the other world, as I did in '74 it will seem dream like + scary, as the spurious linear time world melts away + we encounter either the Bosomy young woman or the old has (cf "the magic Flute"). It is not the job of an orthogonal matrix to advance up the linear manifold (to reach the matrix one must penetrate all the subsequent linear accretions down/in to the matrix, gaining the latter while experiencing an annihilation the former. But the matrix can intensify + strengthen. of it can metamorphose without moving forward in time (v. the meta‐ phor of the replaced paintings in my Metz speech). If it can change intrinsically - i.e. be reworked, as was the unreplaced picture in my "wealthy Patron" metaphor what would those living in it notice? Eractly what I noticed: an event happening again, e.g. the Xerox letter. Aha - 3-74 was rewoven orthogonally? That accounts for my "lifted above the deterministic strip, like out of linear time" experience. Zeserson was right; that linear space-time segment was rerun. Hence my memories I identity (1) were changed. It had all happened before differently. There they did breach through in '74 as I suspected - orthogonal time transformations, exactly as I said in my Metz speech, were involved. I have just proved my metz speech correct someone was substituted for me who was sufficiently sophisticated to correctly identify + handle the Xerox letter. or else I was reprogrammed by changing a variable or variables in the past so that later - in 3-74 - I was that different, sophisticated person. I really don't know how a linear locus is rewoven orthogonally. Maybe not in the linear past prior to it but sue generis (out of no antecedents) reworked at that time (3-74). ex nihil 24 So there is no doubt that 3-74 to 8-74 was breached + orthogonally rewoven (repeated differently). + I maintain that the 2 advents become: by annihilating spurious linear (separating) time. Advent is advent, give or take a few decades - it is spanned by a single human memory. as mine did Now I am nailing it down, the "falsework" which I saw disappear. In this the conspiratorial reign of term A: depicted in "Tears" was abolished. The reweaving which I experienced re the Xerox letter was just a slight brush with a huge historical reweaving (v. "Tears" for how it was). (Dig the German edition with mention of Nazis: did the translator guess the truth? Was the addition of that theme Zebra at work? If I had started out with theoretical considerations about orthogonal time I would have said to test it out look for such + such, + I would have found it - confirmation - in the Xerox experience. I see that so clearly, starting from the theo‐ retical, rather than starting