randomly look at may contain a crucial bit of message from him. There is one other possibility about the [growing] reality of the world of Acts. In my 3rd letter to sydny ween berg I state that Valis sees us as a "dying race on a dying world, wishes to extricate us, + may do so by a time dysfunction that is retroactive, + which will actualize a more viable universe in contradis it tinction to this one." Suppose - reasoning along these lines, he is in the process of expunging linear time back to "A": AD70. 1974 -1974 ( Well, even if this is the case, step one is for us to with draw assent from "B" + restore it to "A" Yes - that is the word: restoration (of what is lost). 18 the invisible landscape" - terrance L. + Dennis I McKenna. "+ the presence of an "alien insectoid entity which seemed to be an anthropologist from the future. 20th century history appeared as a frantic (although unconscious) effort to build a craft to escape Earth + return to Galactic center. is, the McKennas regard our universe as a hologram as created by the interaction of two hyper-universes, just an ordinary hologram is created by the interaction of two lasers. One consequence of this model is that, if our universe is a hologram, every part contains the information of the whole as in normal holography. (Leary's work suggests] that every atom contains the "brain" of the whole universe." ... this is also the basic axion of magic... stated in the table of Hermes in the famous sentence, "that which is above is in that which is below" ("the macrocosm is within the microcosm" "But the McKenna theory goes far beyond this. There are 64 time-scales in the hologram of our universe, they say, + each one is related to one of the 64 (845) hexagrams of the I Ching. What we call "mind" or "consciousness" is a standing wave form of these 64 time-systems. As the two hyper-universes making up the holo‐ gram of our known universe interact in time, mind; manifests further in our continuum. This means, in concrete terms that the quantum bonds of the DNA are evolving faster + faster. We are riding not one but 64 evolutionary waves all mounting toward a cosmic awakening something like the omega point suggested by Palaeontologist Teilhard de charding "the action of psychedelics, in the model, opens the quantum nformation system within the DNA to inspection by the higher neural centers. When Dr. John lilly says he has traveled in time with LSD, + then adds that this is "only" a metaphor, he is per haps too modest. If the McKennas are right in their basic theory, every psychedelic trip is literally a voyage through the Quantum information system at faster-than-light velocity; i.e. out side "time; in the local (Einsteinian) universe. "the McKennas have programmed a computer with their t 6 I Ching time systems + the answer is that everything goes Jackpot around AD 2012 McKenna theory, all of the 64 time-scales peat the in That is, they asserti 4, 300-year cycle from urbanization to the dawn of together a A 384-year cycle in which science has caused more up modern science surge of novelty than in that ", 300 year cycle ot-year cycle (from the technological breakthroughs of the 1940s, including nuclear energy + DNA, to the peak in 2012) A there will be more acceleration than there was between In which 384-day cycle in 2011-2012 when there will be more transforma Galiles + Hiroshima A tions than in all the previous cycles; 6-day cycle at the end of that in which things will move A even faster, + so on, down to a grand climax in which, as they sy in the last 135 minutes, 18 such barriers (i.e. barriers the invention of language o comparable to the appearance of life, the achieument of immortality) will be crossed. 13 of them in the last 75 X 10-4 seconds." That is, in the last two hours before the peak, we will achieve is extensions of consciousness + power, each one comparable to the passing from sea to land or from Earth to space" considerations: this accelleration of accelleration is what took place in my brain (+ hence world) in the first stages of 3-74, either time the events in it speeding up faster + faster) or the events themselves, but 18 in some sort of continuum that involved my perception of + relation to the empirical world, so that every object, process + event was an epiphenom ena, + only the constants (Platonic forms) were perceptible. Thus I lived out this process the McKennas described, somehow cut loose from objective time. At the same time the hologram universe became pellucid + disclosed one of the two hyper universes: the Black Iron Prison of Acts Rome AD 70). In 2-75 I completely lost that hyperuniverse, + entered the other one, the Palm tree garden world. Neither the Black Iron Prison world nor the Palm tree garden world is our universe; ours in a [hologram] composite of the two: they are the two "laser sources." It is no wonder I mistook them for two dipolar alternate universes to ours, one worse, one better. All I had to do was to turn to my grand theme (e.g. in "Maze" + "Stigmata" + "eye" etc) + perceive our composite (mixed universe) as irreal (i.e. hologramatic). Tessa saw this at once. Also, the Black Iron prison world (universe) is Parmenides' form II + the Palm Tree Garden Form I, + our world an interaction of th the two - with the possibility of the "fiery" soul dwelling solely in Form I, + the "moist" soul in Form II. I am really indebted to Tessa for pointing this out to me. The B.I. Prison world is real; so is the P.T. Garden, but the interaction (interface or minaling) is, as the McKennas figured out, merely a projection of some sort, although the term "hologram may be metaphoric or only approximate it The message-rich set-ground world of Zebra - is that part of the P.T. Garden, or is it the presiding (overall controlling sentient programmer "which first lets in the dark, then the light"? (The B.I.Prison hyper universe is 2=; the P.T. Garden is I; the former dark, the latter bright; the former immutably cause + effect - the latter free, etc). to reconstruct the sequence which enabled me to see hyper universe II behind the hologram: 1) For years I suspected it might be irreal; 2) in "Tears" I got through to a perception of hyperuniverse II; 3) in 2-74 as soon as "Tears" was released I was externally deliberately disinhi‐ bited so that by 3-74 "memory" of universe II. Also 3) in such novels as "Ubik" I perceived the informational programmer who (I think at this point) is not part of either hyperuniverse but like the Tao, stands tran‐ scendent to both, + pervades the mixture-hologram. It is possible even likely that the programmer (Logos, Ubik. Christ, Valis) wishes victory for hyperuniverse I the "fiery" one a the P.T. Garden. In this case, the dipolar hyperuniverses are in dialectic interaction of mutual antagonism: Mazda for I Ahriman for II in II, the B.I. Prison, the light of I has penetrated in the form of the apostolic Xtians; hyperuniverse II is being vaded + conquered from inside (they got inside it, from I). Each hyperuniverse makes a claim on us humans. I (PKD) represent an agent from I who has penetrated the BIP II. This explains My hostile stance vis-a-vis the authorities, esp in 70/74. During The Nixon period BIP II was encroaching; gaining a domin ance; then the programmer intervened + thrust BIP II back to defeat. At the end of time. Hyperuniverse BIP II will be abolished + our world made real (PTG I). Zebra is weaving the causal threads in that direction: one must realize that the outcome is not in doubt. Christ (Zebra) will incarnate here in the mirtuere Hologram once more + decide the outcome forever. God, the creator of the 2 hyperuniverses, has decreed that I am a kind of "cuckoo's egg" in BIP II actually a son of light disguised (even to myself; hence my anamnesis in which I was restored my actual identity. There are othere like me: we seem to be exponents of II - e.g. the pro-CP + dope stuff - but are not. the Xerox missive was to detertities as actual (correct) core sampling of me: it was the crisis of determinans which hyper world I truly owed allegience too Had I known if it was a fake it could not have served that determining purpose, + it was vital that it do so 18) I don't think it was the purpose of the Xerox missive to "smoke out" an agent from PTG I by the BIP II people; rather, I think the II people had no doubt that I was BIP II. But, as a covent agent of PTG I It was necessary, if I were to react authentically I that my identity + memories return, + I do what I did with the Xerox missive. So "Thomas" is my authentic PTG I self as secret Xtian agent in B.I.P. II which is the hyper world that (as proved by the content of "Tears") was the only hyper world I consciously or unconsciously knew. In 2-75 the PTG I was introduced to me for the first time: my true home, which I had never known, inasmuch as I had been a secret I agent in II for 1000s of years. I really had worked most of this out (e.g. with the "shift" model: BIP + PTG tilt to left or right, + the "mixer console" which kn suggested; what I hadn't conceived of was that in this sequence A(PTG) B (our world) C (BIP) that these were not 3 "Paralled universes or time tracks" but that A + C are real, hype universes + B, our world, is merly a hologram - + yet all my years of writing points to that [mere hologram] quality precisely. So Zebra/Valis/Christ / St Sophia/Logos is the champion who deftly - with wisdom - steers the PTG. I hyperuniverse (the Kingdom of God) to supremecy. My Metz speech was not too far off from the McKennas' model, which I am sure is the more correct one. but what a victory we have scored: angels of Light (PT GI) have penetrated the B.I P. II in the guise of angels of Darkness! The microform of I was there, in II, in disguise, too! + the forces of darkness didn't know it until it was too late. Up until they murdered the Christ, the dark forces of II must have been self-deluded about their own nature. But that nature was tested, + its actual eull quality revealed - just as I revealed my secret I quality by my reaction to the Xerox missive 9 Perhaps even we ourselves don't know which side were in until the test comes. The BIP II world is the only real world I've ever known, for I was born into it 1000s of years ago but born into it as an Xtian secret agent. Where I am really happy is the PTG I. But this why I write about counterfeit worlds (ours) + evil ones (BIP II); this is all I ever knew, until 3-74 or rather 2-75 "Tears" precisely describes the BIP II ending in an act of total transmutation (freedom) in the expression of love by Buckman toward the Black stranger. Buckman twe are leaving the BIP II universe, by a decisive act we extricate ourselves from its iron grip - + the contours of the PTGI hyperuniverse disclose themselves (v. the epilog). The oppression of the BIP II universe - culminating in its censtant end: death -