was revealed to me (why God must remain the deus Absconditus)? In other words, do I now understand why God stands aside + permits evil to floorish? If the fallen angels remain (are, go) undetected, then evil will never end. God could repress all their evil in this world, simply by theophanies to large numbers of people, + then the fallen angels would live on. They must be allowed to act out their natures - at least up to a point, to where it becomes clear as to who of us are those self same angels + who are not; then, as in '74, God can act. Let us say that the fallen angels have obliterated their own memories in order to protect themselves from his discovery. They (may] have forgotten, have no knowledge of, why they are here - i.e. who they are. The only way for them to be known is in the arena of action which is this mixed world. All this can be cast in ETI terms, if desired. If all this is correct then I can speculate anew on my own per‐ sonal role. In a sense I was bait (as I've previously thought) - bait to lure into the open something evil by assuming the role of its victim. But then, when it revealed itself by trying to trap me, God restored my memory of my true nature + purpose. The disclosed attacker, in closing his own trap around me, his victim. was visible to the all-seeing eye, which at once sent me aid. But the evil entity could not undo what it had done; it had revealed itself for what it was. I get the impression that this unmasking + detection of the evil ones has high priority on God's list of thing. to do. It casts a new + interesting light on the value of "victim hood," so to speak. Each victim aids in the unmasking of evil, + So by his suffering serves a cosmic - + necessary. Purpose. much of this reasoning fits early, profound + continuous intimations I have had about 3-74 + the Xerox letter. If this is correct, it could not be exoterically promulgated - it must remain part of the secret Gnosis: promulgation in itself would tip off the fallen angels, who, under the obtaining situation (i.e. without this knowledge) misinterpret their linense to freely commit evil as an indication that God either knows not, cares not, or cont prevent them. It is essential that their ignorance be maintained. dream: opening huge ( ) carter + taking out large Logos Artifact + nature electionie artifact, below (religious (wall of it is as solid wall, a information) electronic) bey rectanger, of beef. Under it is every king of religious (Christian) writing imaginable, even sentences covered (stegenograbia) by a glued-on paper strip with a replacement sentence. I the to interest everyone in the theological material, but they are like the harness bull who preceeded sergent Kelly: totally uninterested. It is as if the religious material is crazy. There is no reconciliation between the world (of nature) represented by the huge rectangle Wall) of beef + the layer of religious information under it; the impli cation is that if you believe in the reality of the wall of flesh Sarx?) you can't see any sense in the religious info below, ( + the wall of belf is certainly real - you have to beliem in it. But on the other hand, what is the relationship between the wall of belf + the creat electronic artifact? As between the religious writing + the wall of beef, there is no reconcillation between the wall of been + the artifact. I am sure that the religious writing equals the computer punched tape in "Electric Ant" + in the computer of the persus 9 in maze, which can't be read intrinsically but which gives rise to the world of flesh or nature which again in turn gives rise to the artificial world of mechanical/electronic constructs. 3 levels or layers are represented. No one wishes to take seriously the deepest one (except mey). The Logos, the word, is represented; that which is written gives rise to the living world (creatures, nature) which in turn give ise to our artificial environment. If we place ourselves in the top world (artificial construct) we are totally walled off - have no knowledge of or contact with - the Logos substratum, not. if it is called to our attention can we see any merit in it: ➁ is real + rational. ➀ is not. It is even hard if not impossible, to comprehend (2) (when one starts with (3) which is given in the dream as the starting point of view. (I itself is difficult to explain: how does it relate to (3? But at least It isn't "crazy: the way ( looks. But put another way, ➀ gives rise to ( via (2), a fascinating thought. So the origins of i i if The technological world - the manufactured, the constructed lies ultimately in a sort of hidden punched out tape just as the false world of Delmak-O arose from perses 95 computer. No, the world of flesh + nature, totally hides the true origin of (3), it is by a thorough study of the relation ship between (1) + (3) that the relationship between (1) + (2) can be understood. As ➀ ist , ➁ is to (3). We live some when between (3) + ➁, never (as the persus 9 crew never suspected while in polyencephalic fusion) suspecting (1) what the dream reveals is not just that we, like they, have a punched out computer tape programming us, but tells, too, that it is Christion in fact Biblical in essence: i.e. Christianity is our punched out take. All the thousands of large written pages of books which I saw - the books themselves - were our "punche out computer tape" - i.e. the source of our natural/living world, which totally obscures its origins (cause) given a random fissful of the ribbon of info, we can make no sense out of it The fascinating thing is that a glimpse of our "punched tape" exposits (to us) nothing that makes sense. We do get glimpses of bits of it; e.g. the Bible + apocrophal books Even more revealingly, as trimage is to human, human is to Logos. t I should examine the prefound implications that the "Maze" model of punched - tape programmy simulating a shared reality is an accurate model of our own world. Such a model (with i Christian archetype as the punch-outs) would go long way to explain what I saw in 3-74 on. Plato's Edolos theory must be modernized. Put another way, Plato's concept of the real world (of forms) was or primitive pare technological attempt to describe what is more accurately described by the Logos theory which resembles what I described in "Maze." But look: No, the punched out computer tape, resembles the world of (3) more than it does the intermediary (separating world of nature (2). It like "a chicker is an egg's way of producing + another egg" ➁ is ➀ way of replicating itself. ( It could even be argued that we - all living creatures - are primarily carriers of information: the DNA coding. The 3-24 layers dream suggests not just that an informational world lenderlies the opaque surface of the natural world but even more specifically it is the Christian Holy Spirit. inspired scriptures. These texts are not a description of events, past, present + future (i.e. of or about reality) but the cause of reality. Evidently this verbal information consists of a series of ideas (cf Plato!) which, when thought by Zebra, are printed out in our world throughout its [linear time) is "Tength," not at space/time X +/or y but throughout: i.e. as always enacted (i.e. always present, being from outside time). I have the impression that a particular story is being told (repeatedly?), that which Daniel tells of Babylon + the grant with feet of clay, etc. In this apocalyptic book the basic aretypes show up, but there are additional themes "Acts" as in the N.T. as well; this is why material from " well as from "Daniel" show up in "Tears." The deepest level of reality (an informational, verbal one) is what is shown in "Ubik": helpful, guiding + informing words rising as it were to the surface (Not rising up into (2). Is it not a super extraordinary idea that the deepest level of reality is verbal? But the reason for this can be found in the Hindu view of immanent mind; the words are the thoughts. of the immanent deity. Then were the great pages of writing which I repeatedly saw in 3-74 the thoughts of Brahman? (i.e. Zebra) Homan history is the story which he/it is thinking. But the real human history is that of salvific activity, asp. the 2nd, + 1st incarnations which consist of the thinking deity entering his/its own dream/story as a (as the) protagonist, +, once in it, he/it falle victim to its laws, including injury + death. If "Maze t is retained as the Paradigm, he is the only one of the 14 members of the settlement on Delmake who remembers their pra-polyencyphalis fusion, + hence who knows that - Delmak is a totally illusory world (maya, Dokos). o 21 This certainly indicates that my anamnesis was due to taken The active intervention (+ theolepsy by) Christ over by him (at 3-74) I saw level ( penetrating up through + into (+ to an extent replacing) level ➁. The landscape of level ➀ is Biblical (e.g. Rome, early Christians, God breaking through into time, etc). I did not see an earlier form of (2) but the timeless archetypal landscape of N it certainly is odd (i.e. an odd coincidence) that in " "Maze" I assign to the mentufactures the power to roll back time, though. However, a closer scruting of the Delmako world in "Maze" would show that he has that power due to the illusory quality of that world. Perhaps if it were real, time (even by God) could not be rolled back; put another way, if you discover that, in your world, time can (I guess by God) be relled back, you can correctly deduce that your world is illusory. + then: what is exposed when that time, by the deity, is rolled back? I discerned a landscape of apocalyptic (Biblical] archetypes. Presum ably that world (like the control room of the spaceship Persus 9) is the real world; it is not just an infurate series of illusions. level ( (the Logos) generated a world so substantial (so to speak opaque) as to conceal it - No - totally If I am correct about all this, then I say, the 1st advent was a palpable breaking - through of the supreme entity (mind. i.e. Holy Wisdom) of level (1) into level (2), the sole time it took place conspicuously. But in 3-74 I was shown - in my own novel "Tears" a breaking through of info from level ( right on past (2) + into level (! In level (3) there is such a vast component of (verbal] information that info propenly a part of level ( blends invisibly in. All the "Acts" + "Daniel" (the dreams) stuff in "Tears" is a perfect example of that I virtually conclude that level ( deliberately evolves ("programs") level ( forward toward oral speech, then writing, + at last 22 i The sout of titanically verbal (informational) construct world of the computer, at. Level ➂ becomes more + more like (1). it is thought producing thought through the intermediary stage of flesh/body / material/nature - a replication, a giving birth. Is this not a description of the 1st Adven + even more so the 2nd advent? Level ( thrusts through (2) manifests itself in (3): foremostly,