have is not the dead replace in what are alive but a single organism replacing the inani mate progressively, although outwardly all seems to be as it has always been. Hence my inner awareness that contrary to everything I believe possible my self, my "he" was covertly replaced by a greater other "me" I'd never seen or known before. Thus does heaven (God) assimilate our world: first he emanated it next sustains, +, last of all, reasobs it; what I saw here + there outwardly + experienced inwardly was that reabsorption (which perhaps is what is meant by speaking of Brahman first sleeping, then awaking). We blew up their capital (al) + then flee here + mingled + forgot. But of course unconsciously we knew, + could be disinhibited by the correct audio-visual signal. through this mimicking it can contral the out come of what appear to be causal chains (i.e. ananke) - but are really teleologically directed by it. Noos the key to everything lies in understanding This mimicking living stuff - for it is a weaver of worlds. Lives it can weave more than one at a time I think this form-mimicker is (+ [have found him) the Deus Absconditus what this seems to say is that - Jung to the contrary - we do not create or project the deluding veil - + if we did wouldn't there be exceptions among men? Whereas wr point of fact it is ubiquitous - + in addition we all agree on the delusions we see. Is it some sort of punishment connected with the fall (in which our faculties are evidently reduced?) = what happened to me in 3-74 was that for some reason (e.g. (1) orthomolecular vitamins (2) I was possessed by the mimicker) I could see the mimicker & its mimickry. So in a way, what nearly happened is very simple. Always it strives to cause its intrusions etc to appear part of the normal world ; I would guess that it occupied me briefly in order to cause me to do certain good things I would not on my own have done - & then departed, preferring us to have autonomy. It works principally on our percept system, so that we think we see the phenomenal things (but they are actually Dikos, alive, part of the mimicking organism). It switches my 1974 personality with an AD 70 personality. the lovely AI voice, however, was its - it can enter us & imitate us (to other people), but I, Being occupied, knew it, without understanding it. This is a very high order of mimickery by a tutulary entity that loves us; it has knowledge but no direct power- except that it can effect the causal chains for a Good, purposeful outcome by occupying (assimilating) this or that object, not necessarily permanently. Rather than calling it God I'd prefer to call it a higher life form. Point: God does not normally exist in the phenomenal world, because that world is not real (cf Parmenides, Susan Langer & Kant). We perceive it, however, as real for philosophically documented reasons. However, on occasion God can advance (intrude?) 88 into the delusional (illusory) phenomenal world for some reason, in which case he simulates (or assumes the form of, or mimics) familiar phenomen ological objects, in which instances those objects + those only are actually real - but to our senses, since all phenomenalogy seems (is taken as) real, we perceive no difference. So it can be truly said that in advancing into the phenomenal world, the Holy power mimics the illusory hypostatized thing, found there (onless of course He wisher to reveal himself in theo phany). Having mimiced (replaced) mere phenomena, the cau deflect, direct, alter causal chains - in an imperceptible way, no one is the wiser. Here is a unique situation in which the simulation is real + that which is simulated is not." Thus no perficly is involved. + no pantheonism. He is not nor mally foured in the phenomenal world, nor in its causal sequences." + so to bed. xinterestingly) this presomes a total dualism between The phenomenal world and "things in themselves. rather than the former only a deformation of the latter: it does not presume Plato's dealism but a radical dokos + another (Rome CAD 70) behind, as if we live in the spurious not the merely apparent. My "Rome" vision would seem to Support this "dream" or "wizards" real. N phenomenal phenomenal e "real" world world 8 world t 900 o be world oo t i e oo 8 oo (1) seems less likely on an D - phenomena a prime basis, but my ao experience of the black in o God prison suggests it. The advance s E of (2) in model (II) carrier t t Forms c with it (if there is a perception t 57 of âž€, i.e. hierophany) some of (2) e which may be contrary to ( rather than similar to ( There is some reason to suspect that we have a divided off existence in (2), separated from (e. of all the views, theories, thoughts, insights so far. This mimicking - entity one is the most exciting - it so accords with my experience, with what I saw - it is admits to a seuse distillation: I saw a mimicking entity, unitary, plasmatic benign + all intelligent, the tutulary spirit of man singly + collectively, carrying with it the force of reality + essence, related to truth, justice + action (change), assimilating the unliving universe itself. When perceived it is perceived as it is, or not at all how noble my quest! How noble the results! As it thrusts pwards toward us it brings us news of what really is isplacing what merely seems. By its very nature it is deus Absconditus. But hidden close by ("Break a stick & there is Jesus"). One can reread & reinterpret all scripture from the vantage point of this understandings. Many puzzling aspects can herewith be newly comprehended - why no natural theology has ever been successful - why our knowledge of God must always be a revealed knowledge. "the workman is invisble within the workshop." Immanent & gentle - one might say tenderly, "the shy God." What more is there to say of him? I saw him this way in the Iknoton dream - the shy God - Ach. Was hab ich ge'sihn? In that one dream of the shy architect with claws, hiding behind the buildings. When I saw Him then, that was when I guessed. I had seen Him at last; & I did know - I did understand. Justinian Ikhnoton [insert 3 eyed alien drawing with lobster hands) __________________ St. Sophia Ecce Deum Following "Mimic: insight Q: (written + audio messages are created + sent, either scrambled set/ground or divided into [two] portions + requiring relinking the knowledge of which PTS to match being akin to the color coding of the 3-D a superimposed set/ground system unscrambling requiring the depth sense based on the color discrimination of the 3rd eye) although it is evident that the information emanates from Zebra (which is my nickname for the mimicking entity) for whom are they intended? other parts of Zebra? Is this how Zebra maintains itself as a concerted unitary entity? Like nerve impulses within a body - inner information, among the parts: Zebra is body or brain or both. This fit with my noetic impressions that we are within Zebra's body. In our own (micro)body Neural signals travel all over - sense impressions, orders to muscles pain, etc. our own bodies are alive with messages, so is Zebra. + there is coding (i.e. use of declaratory symbols + cypher) It is interesting, how we inadvertently (unknowngly) carry Zebra's mesages for It., Piggyback on our own. it's as if Zebra says "as long as you're born, that direction take this along too" I suppose a phagocyte doesn't know anything about its [job?] either. In seeing these messages flying back & forth I may mave witnessed our primary function withinn Zebra. It certainly must be mine Since I qua human for a [limited] time could discern Zebra's messages I think it possible that other humans can + do too + perhaps continually as PTS of Zebra. If PTS the Universe are not Zebra, then Zebra is not identical to the universe nor congruent with it as I saw it is fashioning itself out of the universe using it as raw material this is quite different from saying that The universe is alive" or "is God". It is as if the old universe is Zebra; antagonist (in the 2 player game). In other words the flow of steganographic information is not a further mystery, but a heck of a big clue as to how human & human culture act vis-a-vis Zebra My big Q remains: how "faked" is our phenomenal world? At one end the A could be: it is partially [skewed?] reality; at the other end it is a total hypnotic delusion but the black iron prison - that is real, I used to be in that prison But just as Zebra's messages are small [threads?] embedded in large amounts of data. His causal chains are small [link] silent within a pointless or even evil larger aggregate. not directed by him in both cases I conceive of Zebra work within a large frame. Thus, not all events are caused by God, + not all messages are by/from him" it is a Golden thread [among] the [dross?] (by Zebra did not put Nixon in power, but he did remove him ) If I am correct about this, it is very important: 1) we are not talking about Brahman why is in all things (+ pantheism is not true) 2) God has an opposing subject which is either merely neutral or outright pitted against him 3) This explains how evil could exist though God is Good. 4) Yet this God certainly can be described as "He who causes to be," in that He enters the causal chains of ananke as [noös?], exactly as Plato saw in Timeus 5) Zebra is a creator God, but he is building a (new) earth out of or within the old, using it as source of parts that either the old is not his, or at the very least has become dissatisfied with it + is "cannibalizing" [& use] it this piece has scriptural support ([Jerehamia?]) but basically it is a Greek idea; it here seems to describe Christ (Wisdom) than JHWH) Although I understood the two systems of messages construction: 1) Subtraction of non-information e.a. I can't find animals to love which I could show you (2) Addition of two items, linking them by juxtaposition laughing last / there will be final justice I did not fathom the inert-active duality of all things which I saw; viz: some objects inc. verbal ones, appeared in mode A which was: 1) At rest 2) inert or dead 3) not moving 4)intrinsic - not incorporated 5) Outside the growth a building process But: at any time an item, say a picture 1 Moves or was moved in some invisible way 2)Became animated + loving 3) entered a transformation or change flow 4)related to other objects meaningfully as a component 5)was incorporated at the right time in the proper place - which is to say, was placed by Zebra into the growing structure What is odd is that although the object "moved visibly it certainly did not need to move in our space I must have been perceiving the [corpus?], which grows at a furious role as it incorporates more + more of the old Universe. This was the continual winning of the tricks. Between the 2 players that I saw also maybe what happened to me internally o 3-74 was that I was "won" by Zebra + fitted into place, to function in his growing new structure. (world) This growing, Corpus