feelings expressed (i.e. love + compassion) but in terms of their own yardstick: relative authority - i.e. power. In which case that scene is, for them, a truly sinister one. Buckman has fallen to the very bottommost rung. It is no longer a question even of Buckman vs Taverner; it is even more fundamental. The power-structure's loss is complete + not relative. There is no lower that Buckman can fall. We are reading an account (or rather prophecy - + an accurate one) of total doom to the "Ins." + a total elevation of the "meek" or powerless. Now, if the dream figure of the wise old king who judges is brought in - we have the actual [..]. The final part of the Christ drama (which is not in "Acts" but in "Revelation") has, supra-temporally, played itself out. Christ has returned as king + judges; there is no more stages to the eternal drama the stupendous reversal of the end-times which eternally is acted out. The Kingdom has come, (whether all men can see it or not.) This would tend to imply that all steps of the Christ salvific drama are enacted invisibly (at all times), that the unsaved would not notice, or if they saw it (as in the Nixon Gang falling) notice but not understand. The relation between the sacred, supratemporal world + our mundane temporal world is unclean to me. Has Christ (as King + Judge) returned? Continually I think so - i.e. VALIS / Zebra + the historic events but somehow it is (still) concealed, will it always be occluded off? It must be that Christ unceasing + invisibly chooses his flock + separates them from the world. This is outside of time, + when it occurs the selected individual becomes (or always was) one of the original disciples, in a miraculous way. + the hallmark of this is that they actually participate in the Last Supper - as I did with Christopher. That is the final stamp of the spirit's authenticity: it is essential, during this the priest by miracle becomes Christ. I was the priest at that time. Therefore: I have the clue. We must remember, at all times, that we are an invisible (secret) religion (In contrast to the open, establishment "cargo cult" Xtian churches.) + Christ said, "You did not pick me; I picked you." This is true today - as a basis by which to understand such experiences as my 2-74 / 75 one. + he said, "my sheep recognize my voice." The "AI" voice I have heard? Yes, I think so. + he says, "me dear little children." I'm sure it's the voice I heard. The supratemporality of the original authentic Fish Christians - it is not only a Great Secret, but the credentials for greater secrets yet. That "Acts" should surface 2000 years later - its ultra reality is proven. + that which that points to, we cannot precisely trace the connectives - but that is not needed; the vast hidden "inner reality" of meaning strikes clear + lucid: it is alive. There is no difference between the meaning + the "Acts" material showing up in "Tears" + [..] computer was given instructions to randomly printout on the problem, "what is love?" + printed out unmistakeable sections - + characters - of the Bible, esp. "Acts." They gave me fake identity + fake memories even I didn't know what I'd done, but others did - those who sent the Xerox Missive. Well, it looks as if Christ kept his promise + delivered to the early Xtians what he promised: immortality or transtemporality, it was done through the Holy Spirit, as described in "Acts." He did tell them that He was the "bread of life," + if they ate of him they would never die. To speak very dispassionately + bluntly, there has been a conquering of time. That is the crux of it, [..] trans- or supra-temporality. The rest of the solution devolves from this when I say, "the authentic Xtian who lived in 50 AD is alive now" + "that the 'Acts' material in 'Tear' isn't a later replication of 'Acts' but is 'Acts' - when I say this, I am pointing to the true heart of the mystery. [..] the 50 AD Xtian is alive now, either there is some other kind of time, or he through Christ has made - discovered the secret that - time is unreal. As I once wrote, he can crawl up + down it like a snake up a garden hose + emerge at any spot he wishes. But, also, he is immortal; i.e. outside or above time. This is not time travel so much as a subduing of time. Make no mistake the world of Judaea AD 50 is now, + Calif of 1974 is (sic) back then - plus our future. The fact that I literally saw Judea AD 50 proves this. We are dealing with coaxial space-time continua, all contemporary simultaneously. My seeing AD 50 Judaea proves my above exegesis of the True Xtians supratemporality - it shows how this is done. If the many space-times continua can be omnipresent, we can there- by see how the true Xtian is immortal. + the "Thomas" personality completes the picture of what is done + to some extent how. An advanced (sic) or absolute physics is involved. Thus in "Ubik" the past breaks through into the present exactly as Judaea AD 50 broke through in Calif 1974. How can this be? As Joe Chip says, "the man contains - not the boy - but the former man." There is some unrecognized other time- axis - maybe the platonic form axis is a "road" by which the authentic [early] Xtians can experience Calif 1974 as contemporary with their own world. As I say supra, "Tears" was not written later than "Acts" - "Tears" is "Acts". ---------- There is a vast significance in my responding to external stimuli in advance (e.g the Ray Bradbury TV program). I cannot fathom however, how this Leibnitz-like "pre-wound" harmony is achievement. By who or what, there is an internal "tape" upon which all our reactions are programmed. Whatever or whoever punched it ([or] engrammed it) knew what external situations were coming, the result is absolute enslavement with a subjective spurious sense of freedom. What the Fuck is going on? This all is completely equatable with the mystery religions' ideas of "astral determinism" + the "God above the stars" freeing you. I think of my concept of the yin world, + the yin-yang dichotomy of [tantra]. What is important here is the "Electric Ant" syndrome: the self-generation of plural quasi-isomorphic realities which only [grow] to be one shared reality. What really is there? The great [..] machine; a vast thing. A construct upon which we project our world. It's all managed. In the midst of this, time seems not to be real. They project "slides" - space - time BGs. The projectors seem to be at least partially in our own plural heads. I'm close to cracking all this - how we are managed, in slavery. But also led to freedom (salvation) by a sentient savior. Suppose the 1974 template(s) in our heads are the M.O. of delusion; but the AD 50 reality is a true koinos, truly out there, not based on the implantation of plural isomorphic delusional inner templates; the injection of the delusional inner templates obscures the true external reality. The problem of how the inner response is coordinated (dovetailed) with the external stimulus, in advance, it the external stimulus isn't really external at all. But, along with the response, engrammed on the inner take + then projected. We have a plurality of synchronized tapes are inner, simulating the external - but the true external (c. AD 70) is interfered with as a signal - an information - rich signal obscured by "noise." This structure resembles that of "Joint". I have it: the organizing structure (entity or power) must regard inanimate, semi-animate + fully sentient constituents of the total world or system as lying on a simple plane - i.e. uniformly reified throughout (a stone + a worm + a man are interchangable - would have to be, in order that they all as pieces of the system mesh). (If freewill were allowed, this sort of machanistic, deterministic system would cease to predictibly + successfully interact). Freewill would = chaos or randomness: escaped pieces not going where they should go or doing what they had to do. "You [..] must do this at this time at this place": true for Abraham Lincoln + an abalone or an atom of H2O. The only [positing] from which this necessity can be faulted lies in some kind of concept of the uniqueness of living creatures + their unique individual needs (desires) - something other than a subordination to the total matrix, or overall system. Immediately one thinks of hierachical stages of evolution in which more homeostatic, complex organisms come into being which must, for their own good, sever themselves from the deterministic system. The response to this "selfish disobedience" would be to delude them as to the truth. 06) state of things: if they were unaware of their subje they would permit the using, the reification, to corre awareness - of the actual situation - would be the is step of the salvific work, seen here not so much logically but as stages of a developing entelechy hallmark of mere use is: when you can serve n i.e serve the overall system) you are instructed But that which the savior affers - for evident re is therefore the opposite: life, eternal life (which "you are intrinsically of worth independent use to the system, + you will rejoin me as etern. friends.") live to a short while, work, believe what you are to what you are told, age, weaken + then die - this is the deterministic yin world structure. We serve a tyran DNA) + it is blind. There is no real teleological goal striving. All there is is subordination. Thus Jesus himself against the world; he balked, + balking is t to the Kingdom. The refusal to be a tool of the yin force. Knowledge (gnosis) + eternal life with are the alternative. But one must begin by listenin inner voice that tells one to say no. I will not do the violates my nature. Thus Zebra (yang, set) calculatedly disrupts the caus trains of yin (BIP, ground) at crucial points. The purs dignify the lives subordinated as mere predictable objec free them so they can intrinsically unfold as individ + unique entelechies for their own goals: love, joy, f peace + respect are involved. Liberation - from the "Elec android-producing tape. In conjunction with this there closure of the actual face of reality: the BIP is seen war everything into its service (without them knowing it). free, they must see what they are freed from. Al should by all means discern (in theophany) their sa (set, Zebra, yang). Of course; this freeing or "mea disorganizes the yin structure. It suffers a constit series of defeats in linear time which are actua 72 t i t in he "exploded" view of one defeat, since one thing is dismantled. Free from servitude, the person involved becomes a "random particle," like the variable man. The yin world can neither coerce him nor anticipate what he will do. A plurality of such liberated lifeforms would by the very existence disorient + impede - weaken - the BIP: [to] repeat: by their very existence, since (by balking) they have been able to void their preprogramming + no longer mesh with the totality. The BIP can to an even [deeper] extent foresee. To lose control is to lose predictability. Therefore without reference to any given act that merely by virtue of their existence they madden the BIP + those still unknowingly serving it. A lot of this took place in