think I told the whole message, at least so far as I know it. "VALIS" would be no more that an explication + non-fictional confirmation of truths already told. + I'm not even considering the material in such lesser novels as "Sheep" + "Frolix 8," etc. + "Clans." "Game-players of Titan," "Simulacra" + "Blood Money"; there are trace amounts in them which fill in details of the picture (like "Now Wait for Last Year," eg). + "Penultimate Truth" is a textbook study of fakes: who, what + why + how. Without the positing of the AD 40 Judaea latent world beneath the obvious phenomenal world, my 27 years of preoccupation with the irreality of evident reality - it makes no sense - it points nowhere. We gain nothing. Am I saying everything is unreal? That doesn't make sense; in comparison with what? At best it would have been a sophomoric solipsism - which it was not. I was searching for the true reality within or beyond - + in "Tears" I found it. As was both proved + explicated for me in 2/74 / 75. I can even speculate (run a fantasy number) that the girl with the Golden Fish necklace either showed up or at the least happened to disinhibit my circuits because I had shown, in "Tears," that on some (latent within me) level I knew. It sure was a long search. Finally, it was accomplished by abolishing linear or accumulating time in favor of another, more real time which is called "sacred time." The final step of the journey was finding the PTG i.e. the Kingdom of God - i.e. where God rules. That didn't come until one year later: in 2/75. Since then I have never seen it but I know it is somewhere, + living men can enter it. To throw off the occluding power of the spurous interpolation evidentally requires much complex preparation + steps. The power to command cognative + perceptual assent by it is virtually [vital]. Where is the weakpoint for entry? Doubts, at first; such as I substituted affirmation must without warning be made the statement of what is. Consciously, in writing "Tears," I intended agapē is be the substituted affirmantion. This by virtue of its intrinsic nature, led to the N.T. in which the value of agapē is first presented, in history. So the nature of my deliberate affirmation brought in a linkage with the N.T. + in particular St. Paul ("Acts" describes a major part of the life of St Paul). Thus in a sense the "Acts" material was driven into existence in my novel by an inner logic, but not one known to me. But even if we create a theory that showed that unconsciously I was familiar with "Acts" we are still left with the 2-74 anamnesis; or rather, the 2-74 anamnesis should be the clue to the correct theory as to how the "Acts" material came to be in "Tears." The 2-74 disinhibition demonstrated that I had GABA-blocked circuits full of information [all during] the external disinhibiting stimulus. Which, logically, was certain to come - otherwise, why the (contents of) the circuits? As I originally spoke of them, they were "2nd stage metacircuits to fire only upon the completion of all 1st stage firing...which finished up with the publishing in 2-74 of "Tears." Logically, the next stage would be the 2nd stage metacircuit disinhibition + firing. Therefore we are [..] to view the appearing of the girl + her Fish Necklace as dictated by necessity (i.e. deliberate, not chance); [..] was logically the next integer in the sequence. Also it had to come right away. Before the evil spear, the Xerox Missive was fired in rage (in vengence). The evil interpolating power was well aware of what I had, in "Tears," disclosed after 25 years of leading up to it story by story, novel by novel, step by step. If the whole overview as to the deliverate spurious interpolations is true, then it would follow that "Tears" would incur the wrath of the lying one. Had he not sought to find + kill the single MS of the novel to no avail? (I presume that his mundane agents would not know either their true supernatural role or leader.) (They are more deceived that anyone else.) Within the deluded thought-system of evil + its ones, the figure of the Black man at the all night gas station must symbolize something other than or more than it symbolizes to me. First of all, it would be of maximum provocative offense (as witness my dream as to why someone inside Doubleday warehouse trashed the 2500 remaining copies. It would incite them to frenzy. But I can't make out why. Is the physical hugging of a black man by a [..] (white) police official the ultimate insult to the enemy + doubly so because I, the author, can't even empathize the reason or meaning? Of course, if the "enemy" spent years attacking Dr King + eventually actually assassinating him, this might be the sine quo non! What they consider the "enemy". This is 180° from their stance. Does it even imply knowledge of their stance, as if I "know more about them than they do themselves?" [..] to reverse my dictum about them - i.e. the police vis-a-vis [..]? It is the total collapse of the police stance. It isn't even defeat (as by force of arms); it is inner selling out, by them to us - as if they (symbolized by General Buckman) had been transmuted by a ghastly alchemy (to them) into us? A careful scrutiny of that scene in "Tears" points to the fact that Buckman turns to the black man to help. I guess, for them, this is the unthinkable carried to its limits. It goes even beyond equality or brotherhood. The black man becomes a father figure + Buckman a child in distress. Whom the black man comforts. For all I know, the bedrock role which the cop sees himself as playing is benevolent authority father figure, + the Negro as simple child. Well, this scene in "Tears" turns it 180° around. Horrors, if the cop has so viewed himself vs the Negro, the apotheosis of heresy! He, the police high official, is the frightened child - + the Black man as father figure comforts him + instructs him authoritatively - with advice, adult parental advice. Did I penetrate to the secret point of the police self image - + described not just its fall but it's antithesis? Thus this scene (hence, "Tears" as a whole is absolute anathema to the authorities; nothing could affront - or undermine - them more - + they alone would know it...we wouldn't. So the gas station scene in "Tears" suggests that I got my hands on a top secret psychological fact about the police + exploited (sic) it for all it was worth. "Thou art sick, oh Rose - the worm has ~ " etc. penetrates to its secret heart + killed it. As a prophetic statement, that scene could not be topped in the - to them - ominous intensity. The senior police official will ask the negro what to do, will become totally psychologically a dependent child vis-a-vis him. "Make it all right, [Darling]" I'll bet when the fuzz higherups read "Tears" they shit bricks, too bad, + to them (but unnoticed by me) the Black Man disclosed a statute violation - his 3 kids - + Buckman not only failed to bust him but failed even to notice the alternate world; officer cypher clerk at Army Central would see it, instead, as moral degeneracy. Ugh! the last time of the last bastion of decency has fallen! To write this final affront the author (me) must have penetrated to the core of "our" (the police) mind + figured out how we think at the ultimate level (which we correctly keep secret). That the scene was accidental, insofar as I was concerned - they'd never guess that. In truth, it was divinely inspired. But they'd not guess that either. I imagine this morally objectionable stuff being circulated! The fuzz mind revealed for all to see -naked, helpless, exposed to this absolute shame. We are talking about a sudden total reversal of things: the Black Boy has become a man, + the Man has become a helpless child. What more thorough a revolution can be imagined? This is not merely a political, class or ideological revolution - it goes deeper. It is nameless, from a sociological standpoint. + what can be done to counter [..] is unspeakable, really: it is the unsaid + unsayably said. It is an archetype of archetypes, it is the final confrontation + subsequent metamorphosis. Perhaps in Christian terms it can be explained - + thus, again we are brought back to the scene in "Acts" between Philip + the Black Man: the real [Bechwek], outside of time. But ah! What I know now, as of 2-74 / 75: how explicated the mystery has become! Perhaps I really know enough: the main sense of it. Suppose I'd just only discerned the "Acts" material in "Tears" - + not had the 2-74 / 75 revelations + anamnesis I'd never probably even understand. But I'd probably not ever have discerned the "Acts" material in that case. I'll never forget how it felt in 3-74 when, under the power of the spirit, I saw religious crypto-message segments - religious code - in "Tears" - + this was before Father Rasch told me about "Acts." That first moment, when I recognized Felix as a word + not just a name - + looked it up. At that moment I began to understand the importance of "Tears" - that it was a bulk for a tiny but important hidden message. I now believe it was designed to be read correctly by those in the future, but I can't be sure. Anyhow, by authentic, secret Xtians, wherever they are - whenever - my God - they aren't at any one "when" - that's the whole point. They are supratemporal: Rome c. AD 50 to our future: they, like "Thomas," spans it all, the one continuous lifetime! The original Xtians are - have been - alive up to today + into the future! That is one of the main disclosures! So in a very real sense "Tears" wasn't written later than "Acts" but is "Acts"! It's a printout of "Acts" like a copy, one of many. We're speaking of a ubiquitous contemporality, with "before" not + "after" having no meaning. It is always the some thing or piece - not like it, but of itself. So the Fuzz would not view the all night gas station scene in terms of the feelings expressed (i.e. love + compassion) but in terms of their own yardstick: relative authority - i.e. power. In which case that scene is, for them, a truly sinister one. Buckman has fallen to the very bottommost rung. It is no longer a question even of Buckman vs Taverner; it is even more fundamental. The power-structure's loss is complete + not relative. There is no lower that Buckman can fall. We are reading an account (or rather prophecy - + an accurate one) of total doom to the "Ins." + a total elevation of the "meek" or powerless. Now, if the dream figure of the wise old king who judges is brought in - we have the actual [..]. The final part of the Christ drama (which is not in "Acts" but in "Revelation") has, supra-temporally, played itself out. Christ has returned as king + judges; there is no more stages to the eternal drama the stupendous reversal of the end-times which eternally is acted out. The Kingdom has come, (whether all men can see it or not.) This would tend to imply that all steps of the Christ salvific drama are enacted invisibly (at all times), that the unsaved