transformation, Zebra turning the irreal into the real. The totality of reality, micro- + macro cosmos seen in alchemical terms, in alchemical process from lower (Base) to higher (Noble). Hence the info about Mercury. If a human mind was involved it was/is one of the greatest minds in human history. Were I to pick one I'd pick Paracelsus, but this is only a guess. My homoplasmate theory posits an accretional mind, like a vast spiritual dungball rolling up the inclined plane of human history, acquiring person after person, starting with e.g. Zoroaster, Siddhartha, a Gathering, Growing, refining - + reformed - suprapersonal human Noos linked through Christ with the Macromind. Yes, this is it. Diagram to follow. folder 22 - 054 folder 22 - 054 54. DIAGRAM Information (processing, knowing, posession) The (1) can draw on any + all of its human pluriforms at any time + any place. To be incorporated into it means immortality, but this consideration is subsumed vis-a-vis its participation in the mediating Logos which cross bonds the accretional Micromind to the eternal, stable Macromind. Yes - the "accretional human Noos which is transpersonal, (1) a homoplasmate, + can draw on + incorporate any human it wishes, is the holy spirit. I have rediscovered - + redefined - the Trinity (Hermes Tristmegistos). (1) + transtemporal + -spacial In a certain real sense the Holy Spirit is the workhorse as far as we are concerned. Christ, who i sunder a mandate of authority from the Father, designates for the Holy Spirit which of us is to be added to the supratemporal, -plasmal, -spacial mind + thus brought to Christ + hence delivered to the Father. We encounter this actually unitary Godhead via the Holy Spirit, but it is Christ who is speaking. The Holy Spirit, knowing everthing, including the Father, crossbonds with us in Love, based on the wise decision of the Logos, the power to do this coming from the Father. What must never be lost sight of is that it is the Logos who judges who is to be crossbonded to/by the Holy Spirit. Power drives wisdom which drives Love, + we are the recipients of this process of accretion; we are restored to the folder 22 - 055 folder 22 - 055 55 ground of being, as if we had never been lost to it in the first place those who are saved were always saved, He grew always part of Christ's little flock. us like so many flowers, which, when ripe, he at last picks, I conceive of the totality as a vast slowly spinning globe which, each time it revolves, is more completed: this is an accretional process. It is alive; it is driven by its own mind; + it includes everything; +, despite its unitary nature, it is infinitely complex - + I mean infinitely - facet upon facet, color + com‐ bination of parts without repetition or end; + in a certain beautiful sense it, like a top, makes a musical sound, a chord of fixed intervals (but this must be a metaphor for geometric ratios, such as the Fibonacli constant). The sound - the ratios - are an exponent of joy (Freude). A triumph through (by) + over the dialectic which brings it to completion. It has harmon ized everything into its unitary, complex self. liberated from the power of the stars (blind fate or determinism) by benevolent providence: the essence of Greco-Roman mystery religions, Xtian ity + Gnosticism. Especially at moments of crisis when it seems as if the universe is addressing a message to the person. (EBR15P134) Oh, well do I know about this! This intervention in the form of an urging, of supernatural origin! with the purpose of upholding the cosmic order. justice: Ma'at + some persons, it is said, are singled out by the Gods or God for special providence (Grace). in folder 22 - 056 - I just realized: 1) Hal planting dope on me the Xerox missive. 2) same tactic. By the same people. army intelligence voice: "kay (nelson) was the third " in the above series? Guess so. thought: then one + two are verified as from the same source - + Hal certainly wasn't CP. Also, two is verified as something planted. Evidence - contrabands voice: "A probe." Tied - in (supra one?" Satori: probe to see if I could tell that the Xerox missive was not CP; to know it was not I'd have to know a very lot about CP material. Well, I could not ill it was not (departed from real CP material). I thought it was CP which proved I didn't know much about CP material, i.e. I reported it to the Bureau as CP - I couldn't tell the difference - I showed ignorance So the Xerox missive is not how the CP KGB contacts yous so - I passed the probe as innocent - I showed my ignorance. It looked like to me. CP folder 22 - 057 folder 22 - 057 I + so I got off the hook. That's how the test (probe) worked, a real communist would have known it was a phony! Only a non-CP (KGB) would have thought it was CP - as I did. That's why the voice couldn't tect me that it was a forgery if I'd known that, I'd have in dicted myself - so the voice waited 4 years. interestingly, if I'd recognized it as a forgery I would have sent it to the Bureau- done exactly what I did. Sending it had to be done + done the right way: exactly as I did it: with convincing sincerity. in no case did they evorect me to answer it; if I was CP I'd recognize it as a forgery + send it to the Bureau + if I was innocent, I'd do the same but not in the way (time spant in tone of voice?) that I did I reacted too quickly to have figured if out to be a forgery; so time was the sole criterion, time of the essence? e speed in responses e folder 22 - 058 folder 22 - 058 85 my reaction had to be spontaneous - + fearful of the CP -convincingly. There wasn't time for me to invert the story I told them, innocent or guilty, I'd send it back; the only question was "how fast?" + with what story the sole escape route was to get it back so fast I couldn't have had time to think up a fake) story. Hence my sense of urgency. was being timed to the minute. So my analysis has been wrong returning it to the bureau could be interpreted as proof of CP com plicity (recognition of forgery) - unless I returned it immediately + had a coherent (convincing) story too complex to have been made up in the time (2) hours) it took me Thus 99m, of the exits led to implied culpability, it was not a fair est, since by + large an innocent response could be misinterpreted + would have been So if I didn't return it immediately it would have been better not to return it at all hence the watch in the dream. So There was literally no normal way by which I could have survived the probe. It was folder 22 - 059 folder 22 - 059 9 a military type of probe: of my defenses. only the supernatural could have saved one + it did. very clever: send it to the Bureau: guilty not send it - guilty. paradoxically - in geniously - the only way out (to send it) was by + large the route of maximum indication guilt unless done unnaturally swiftly - a possibility too remote to be considered theoretically, all the Xerox missive would do was test my degree of guilt (mine CP (not send); major - send) So if I had reasoned it out rationally I would have wound up logically, not sending it therefore reason was my enemy; I had to implicate my self to exculpate myself not a bad trap at all! Like the chinese finger trap; in this case the wiser + smarter the response, the greater defeat There isn't just paradox here; there's a logical contradiction? way out A I deeper into trap. How to get B oct? e Head toward is defined as bulkice solution not gettim out. folder 22 - 060 folder 22 - 060 6 So in essence an anti-logic - not just non logic or a superior logic - was neces sary. We don't have a name for this faculty - it is a quantum leap upward in info processing (problem solving. It can deal in logical oxymorons - contra dictions. It is a whole evolutionary step up. I wouldn't know how in the world to describe it except as occult, paranormal - or divine. The crisis created it or activated it in me; so we must have a faculty higher than even the best reasoning It can't be an atavism unless we (I) once were Gods or God-like. Have I demonstrated that this is the case? By correctly solving that problem? It is, as a faculty, to reason as reason is to reflex or instinct. it doesn't even involve thinking - + it may not involve me qua me or my brain at all. Then whose brain was utilized? Did I prove I'm really not here? + - most of all, not an individual (i.e. a person)? That personhood is an illusion? Whatever the pur pose of the test the effect was to bring my true nature into the open - which was a surprise to me my own actual nature was oc cluded off from me, but the crisis brought it out. It is not human. I am one of the 3-eyed people passing. But who are they + where do they come from? + why are then here? we have been invaded, + I am one of them. (V "impostors," folder 22 - 061 61 It is scary to realize that a serious prob lem was deliberately posed to me which not only could not be solved by correct logic, but one where correct logic would lead to the wrong solu tion: the more + better the reasoning, the worse the solution - i.e. the harder (+ better) I tried. In fact to know the truth [of what the Xerox missive was] would have precisely undone me. So knowledge - accurate knowledge - was my worse enemy - knowledge derived from experience or knowledge based on a priori reasoning hanged in direct proportion to my acuity! put in a position of working against my own interests! Diobolical) but - what is even more startling - a ability non-knowing problem-solving surfaced involv ing powers of the mind which humans (seem to) lack, based on the principle of "the less you know + the least you reason" - which was exactly what was needed. to employ this "not knowing + not trying to know" faculty I'd not only have to possess t, I'd have to know that the situation (crisis problem) called for it. Thus recognition of the inature of the situation was a prerequisite. now, I know that the use of this faculty began (to surface) several days before the Xerox missive arrived (I not only knew it was coming, I even knew the exact day - + evidently at that time I knew what its true nature world be - + knew I wasn't to know, so to speak). What I had to do was abolish my ego (left brain) entirely folder 22 - 062 folder 22 - 062 o the result of all this was the dibba cacchu enlightenment which involved the thought- which-is no-thought; it was response without ratiocina tion of any kind, a total suppression of think ing + of knowing (knowledge). This sort of mental functioning is not characteristic of my thoughts had come