micro + macro as reversed forms of each other significantly, the transtemporal self, when released, is to act, within a historic context: he has his structions ("we can be heroes for just one day."). that these "impostor" like humans exist, + are impos sible to detect - Van Vogt + I have both written about them. The humans themselves who are involved - they do not even know. But, once deliberately disinhibited, they will act. they have no more power of choice than a salmon swiarn ming upstream on gene-pool (DNA) instinct to spawn. My most interesting + ambitious theory about the Xerox missive is that by turning it over to the authorities I some‐ how notified them that "they" - i.e. Christ" - is/are here. I foget how I reasoned this out, but it would have to go: that unaided I would not have known to do what I did with it. I did not [merely] prove my loyalty; I proved a lot more. It was not the intention on the part of any mundane person, group or agency to prove th. a correct analysis by them of what I did would point to it but 35 That means that I was a Befahltrager, although eventually I came to constitute a geheimnistrager of sorts. This is an intricate theory, but it has the value of attacking a trans‐ cendent purpose + meaning - not to the Xerox Missive intrin‐ sically (i.e. its content) but to what I did with it. I guess what I'm saying is this? 1) unaided, I would not have known to do what I did with it, 2) accurate appraisal of what I did with it would correctly infer that I was aided 3) I should assume accurate appraisal, 4) Either the sender of the Xerox missive, or the Bureau, or both, know I was aided + by what 5) in summation; what I did can only be correctly evaluated in one way. My reasoning along these line, was the "when I return I will be like the lightning" ie evervwhere at once 6) He -his voice - is calling his own, his sheep, + his sheep know -recognize- his voice, + respond. 7) That is what I heard: the voice of the good shepherd. I wonder if we are all programmed to hear + to respond (circuits to begin to fire for the first time). Is he selecting out the sheep in contrast to the "goats"; "You need help. Hold on now. I am coming, over the hills, to set you free. Do you hene? Listen. It's getting neared coming close. Closer. It's standing by your shoulder. Here I come. I'm going to save you if you wait for me.. Repeated: you need hilp - I'm goma save you" K.K, bee. So I am saying, the power to respond to his presence (resurn) is not something we can decide to do or not to do; it is subliminal - ever to be aware of him - that is out of our conscious hands Nonetheless, we are not mindless reflex machines; our volition at some point, is required: in the "throwing of the spear," to quote K.W. 36 Thus it would seem that I now know very specifically What "born from above" + "born by the Holy Spirit" (or "bap‐ fized by the Holy Spirit") refers to: the summoning into life of this immorted transtemporal personality lying dormant within us [otherwise]. I have, from my own experience I scripture, a vivid + precise knowledge of the nature of that "crypte morphosis" true self Probably the biggest error I've made has been to date Thomas in a particular linear time period; whereas in point of fact he is the accumulation of all selves along the entire time-track, past, present + future, + so not truly subject to time - + the E B says that time + death are intertwined: thus I can comprehend that I the transtemporal person transcends death as well. This certainly is what scripture (e.g. Paul) was talking about esp. if I am correct, that the "Fish Sign" was actually the double helix DNA molecule. It is stated by the EB that the most important thing about a miracle is not what it accomplishes (eg. healing, rescue, etc) but what it points to: i.e. the power + reality of God or some God-like agency or entity. Ok t what happened to me revealed this to me, but possibly (as I recently had it revealed to me) it was notification to the "prince of this world" that He (Christ) is here in yet another place. After all, I did contact the authorities. Perhaps a is pattern exists which they can see: my experience only one out of many. That, then, was the real purpose, the ultimate purpose: showing ➀ that he is here, there, everywhere; + ➁ arrayed against the authorities of this world, on be half of those persecuted by it - the victims, the least. I just realized something 1) the Holy Spirit is inside you, like conscience: an inner voice 2) Although there was indeed a Holy Spirit in me, because inside me I saw Zebra outsieme Hat 3) ZeBrA is not the Holy Spirit since this all happened on Christ's actual Birthdlay (March 8), Then Zebra probably is the cosmic Christ, whom I could see because of the Holy Spirit inside me - who, it is said 37 makes clear the mystery of Christ to us - i.e. through him we understand Christ - that is a primary function that of the Holy Spirit. In fact, it could even be said if one were not "born from above by the spirit" one would not understand (know of) the true being of Christ in dream: book of mire with footnote: "This is a gloss the was I herein shown the text for I love you." that God loves us real cryptic message in my writing as is from a Greek word meaning Glost" "Felix.." etc = "I love you." ("A difficult word needing explanation") {Note ts Christ is here. But not in an incarnated form, yet The unaided eye (i.e. lacking theolepsy by the Spirit) cannot discern him. But I saw him - Zebra; he is here or latin ➀ So "Gloss" appeared in my dream in the Greek, English sense; in English it means the explanation itself of the difficult word, but in my dream its a "gloss in the xt meaning 1) cove you." Obviously the gloss or dfficult word is Felix (the Greek wordis Glossa) [No what a wonderful revelation in answer to my constant Q: "What is the secret message which Zebra has inserted into my writing?" it is that God loves us, inc. me. It is, in fact, not a message but the message. In the dream I caught sight of the footnote one time, + then, having read it, understood its meaning + its importance, continued frontically to seek it out again as the truth. The EB says that God (through his grace) will restore Man's lost Freedom" very interesting. Sin (+ the Law) seen, then, as enslaving, evidently. Justice: "A place for the powerless to get help." Thus the iknois Attorney general has (without intending to) defined the role of the Paraclete as advocate. Hosanna ➀ My latin dictionary defines glossa as an "obsolete or foreign word needing to be explained." Felix is certainly a glossa- it is forecow, + it needs to be explained. 38 That is precisely how I've treated the word, ever since its cryptic meaning was revealed to me in 3-74, + that its combined with the paragraph of which it was the key part, gave an otherwise invisible message at odds with which It was apparent. Also, I in real life vis-a-vis Mr Jackson. + Felix Bock man ubs-a-vis the black stranger at the all night gas station, obtained that meaming - as witness his drawing of the heart vierced by the arrow, + his hugging the black man. Somehow, the total message disinhibits t agapē, ever if not literally understood (via the grief I felt, + Buckman felt, about the man shut up in the house shrieking in knowledge that they were Nowe coming to kill him. In fact, now that I think about it, the whole to o ("Tears") was designed to show every kind Love possible, working up to the highest (shown between Buckman + the black man). So Evidentally Zebra which inserted his message of love via the Glossa "Felix, a is more than a description of a type of love. But statement of [his] love [for us]. I think I've got the equation. so sorrow to sympathy to empathy to love (agapē). out of sorrow (grief) comes the kind of love which Christ bade us all to have for one another: "As I have covel you, love one another. This is the highest commandment." The dream in Tears" shows its origin, out of what we deem a painful feeling. At the risk of repeating myself: "Tears" is a study of Every kind of cove, culminating in agape. So of course the Zebra-Ubik-divine - Sophia insertion ("Felix" added to the dream sequence] would be about love - specifically, it is t a (highest possible] love I left out: love by the Dec The deity saw the noble purpose in for us, inc. me My novel, but saw that it -the novel- was incomplete it -the deaty - therefore completed it 39 I should have realized long ago - by reason of the topic, purpose + logic of the novel - that that was What the divine insertion meant In early '74 "death hormones" (see article on Salmnay + DNA + ageing in the Smithsonian magazine) were releaced in me - ar perhaps in 73 or even '72. But the "contract" be My DNA would have paid off in early '74 with some fatality connected with my high blood pressure + high urea level in my blood. But the deity saved me - after what the Smithsonian article calls "the designe" (obviously James-James) had lost interest in me - as far as the designer was concerned; I had completed my task (procrea 27 tion? A male child!). So powerful was this die message that it led to my suicide attempt in 76... the selfdestruct" section of tape. I saw a lethal threat. but I saw it as being external. This was projection. However, since this is how I saw it, there had to be an external resolution an action, a deed done, a resolution which was a Catharsis. Fuerther anamnesis in hypnogogic state; the master monal is trying to get us to rick over to playback - to find out certain things - to get certain information from us: did we obtain (find?) what we came here [to this dark kingdom] to find? Represented as a valuable pearl. We came here deliberately to get this (thing or information]. We ran the risk of being trapped in this world-represented by amnesia. We have lost our way, as well as our original (actual) home. in studying the above paragraph it is evident that only some of us (i.e. of the humans here) came from elsewhere Maybe just a few of us. We fell victim to the realm we impinged on, + lost contact with those (that) which vs sent (40) This was the risk we ran in coming here. Well,not all is lost. Contact can be restored. Included in this is what for us constitutes a surprise: intervention by our source when destruction overwhelms us; we then find -as I found in 3-74 - that I am backed up. This follow from the nature of my status as someone sent here on a mission. Even though I have forgotten everything, the source which sent me has not forgotten me - although I have forgotten it + in a sense forgotten myself as well my true self, as