the wish which began in childhood: to hear e he voice. "I will be with you, yes, even to the end The Paraclete, "whose voice is heard in human courts." when no one stood with me, he stood with mes I was alone + dying. There was no life left for me fired, but the deterministis powers the end was were defeated + broken h o t A whole new universe is created when even one determinist matrix is broken, because something on the order of a variable has been introduced - its continued (rather than destroyed) existence is going to affect other lives, other events; it is not isolated - it cannot be severed from the whole universe. Therefore in the breaking of these matrices a new different creation is coming into being. It all constellates around thousands Christ as head or omphalos. When you hear her voice the journey is over. of years of -- being apart, maybe. I forget I can rest sore mystica i - jung says, through the union with the celandia A 204 rennedy/o: 15 mo The self, Christ, is born. Wholeness seft 19 coach s i monday sept 19 ny to cuxumbery coach peconomin 1st class 365 round 265 t islandic flight #16200 toos one way on 200 265 Leavy 9:30 rom it way s for wo 530 1400 arrive los. 1:00 P tues -305 James :305 t tos 1055 - passage of [great) time (since the 1st Advent) is a delusion (or the delusion). corollary. This (now] is actually some point (in time within the life time of those who knew Christ N all our history are details inverted to support the delusion. This is the solution; this describes what + how The delusion is (works). We are persuaded that so much time has passes that Jesus' primited return is not - cannot - be true. Thus our faith is broken via this time delusion 8 Ebarticle on salvation For salvation to occur, there must be a triumph over time. This is exactly what I saw in 3-74, a rollback or some such victory, to the apostolic age. But, at The time, I did not understand the significance of what I saw (i.e. Rome c. AD 70). It also says that Paul (+ the Gnostics + mystery religions) believed salvation has to do with a victory of the "planetary powers" which rule this the sublunar realm (all of which in with my experience of 3-74). a sentient universe, with whom you can converse, + get information fore, K.W. + I reasoned this way: 1) Christ said "I will return soon." 2) But much time 2000 years - have passed. So either A) He was wrong or lied; anyhow the promise was not fulfilled. or B) He did return, + no one knows it. In which case, what good did it do? Anyhow he said he'd be like lightning when he returned: i.e. very evident. 3) assume he did not lie + was not wrong (A). Then exclude (B), for obvious reasons. (B) must be excluded. As self contradictory. But if (3) is assumed - he did not lie + was not wrong. One + only one conclusion logically remains: 4) it is not true that a great deal of time has passed, that is a lie, a delusion. It must really still be circa 90 AD row, arrived at this a priori + this is exactly what I empirically saw in 3-74 + understood: despite all appearances + memories + evidence, it is really only about 90 AD 29 KW arrived a priori at what, when the anja chakra opened; I saw. Either this or Christ lied or was wrong. but if that is excluded - + I know what I saw; what I had not realized until K.W. came up with This line of reasoning was that it has to be as I saw (or else Christ lied or was wrong). I now add: despite our conviction to the contrary, time cannot be (inear. It may be circular - accruing, with (cf "Ubik) the past inside the present: the palpimsest. What I experienced was the "rolling back" of time described in Maze" as a power God has. The past - ever the for past - is accessible somehow, very topologically nearby one further point which occured to me this morning. It may not be so much (or solely) that our time is delusional but we should shift the emphasis from the reality - us unreality of time, our time, etc. + study the meaning of the unique breaking through into our space-time categories which the 1st Advent consisted of. perhaps a quality or aspect of This extraordinary event is to make all sublunar times + places close to it. + now: will the 2nd Advent lock it all into proximity? Advent one: tangent to every elayer. Same would be true of Advent two: tangent to 6 all regions of our time, t however we regard our time (i.e. whichever model is correct) Accrueing circular time Anyhow (B) on previous page (he did return + we don't know it) has to be refected by me because what the spirit said to me was, "St Sophia will be born again" - i.e. it hasn't yet occuped perhaps the 1st Advent, being supralunar (the only event of it's kind in history) conferred supralunar permancence t the sublunar space-time continuum it breached: i.e. Rome of AD is to say ad 70 to about 100 years of that continuum. any + all sublunar layers/accretions can be pulled aside or rolled back any time - + that will be exposed. be this as it may, I primarily intuit the view that the phenomenal reality which we see - as I've expressed over + over again in my writing - is delusional, is a lie, is maya (inc. forgetfulness) is counterfect; this is the thrust of the corpus of my mental insight into "what is truly real?" since what we experience empirically is not "then, is a perfect allegory of this: Delmako i maze." is our Dokos pseudo reality; the ship persus 9 is the true reality (70 AD but - not just bad - i.e. not just black idon prison: Christ is there, too ... But so is he on the persus") they repeatedly "wake up," know the truth, + they flee + into forgetfulness + delusion, again + again: This is indeed the Gnostic view of salvation: it is acheived by knowing the true situation (although, it most always be kept in mind, the human doesn't arrive at that knowledge; it is conferred onto him as a revelation - not available to empirical confirmation - by the savior. Approaching the matter from another angle, suppose someone were to say to me, "all right; you received by divine reve lation from the savior the saving gnosis which can never be known (by us) either a priori or a posteriori. Obviously the revealed Gnosis points to something quite different, then than what a priori + empirical experience discloses - can ever disclose. What is it?" I would say, simply, "the divine salvific gnosis revealed by the Redeemer is that this is AD 70, + the entire phenomenal reality which we see is a lie - delusion by Satan." Other matters, e.g. that Jesus was divine, that he will come again, are aralable directly from the Bible + hence not secret gnosis. A corollary secret revelation is that for instance in '74 God or Christ or the spirit assaulted the evil decisions world by effecting salvific changes in the historic process, a step toward reducing the pain, evil + tyranny I s (i.e. hold over us, to mjure + enslave us) which this delusional world exerts: i.e. God is abolishing it by weakening it, a process which will be completed by St Sophia's new incarnation, which is to say: a further secret is that the 1st + 2nd advents are by the female principle of holy Wisdom, in mate form For me a very important revelation was that it wasn't just that it's really 70 AD Rome, but: that I am one of the illegal Christians of that age, very active as pt of an illegal "revolutionar" group against Rome. This must not be lost sight of; e.g. it explains who "homas" was/is: my real identity (personality): Thomas is to PKD as Rome c AD 70 is to Calif AD 1978 Also it is very important that the two realize (AD 70 + AD 1974) were not merely alternate equal realities - like two equal possibilities - alternate worlds - but that either âž€ The 1974 landscape rolled back or aside to reveal the actual (AD 70) reality within; or (2) the actual reality seeped up through the 1974, with the latter as veil on Dokos. Take the scene in TMITHC where Tagome enters our world. These were alternate equal worlds. This is not what I experienced; rather, I experienced what was shown in is Maze": a counterfeit landscape breaking up (or down) to expose the actuality "beneath" - as if the dreamer (+) was/ were waking up. The tripartate division of the artifact/will of meat Gnosis-info about Christ could express this, with the wall of eal being - not just the world of nature - but the 1974 Dokos (veil) between us (the artifact world) + the real world as expressed - known to us - in the N.T. then the Gnosis would be the word + the time/place continuum of the first advent (esp "revelation"). We normally only experience it in word form (i.e. the Bible). This brings me to the bits of "Ubik info surfacing. The "commercial" in the final chapter was explicitly scriptural (cf John 1:1). Are not the Runciter) Ubik messages bits of the bottom, real, N.T. world rising up through the substantial (natural or phenomenal) 2 3 world (world 2) from the bottom sacred world, seen by me as Rome AD 70 because that is the space-time continuum at which the word (cf "I am Ubik") broke into our history? The only significance of Rome (in my vision) was Rome as the tool of Satan vs the Christians - who themselves were important because they had received the Holy Spirit or indwelling, presence of Christ? So what I really saw had meaning only because it was the locus of the 1st advent. However, due to KW's reasoning I see, too, that logically the actual time must be c. AD 70 (+ the implied place Rome for obvious reasons). Because of the 1st Advent, that space time continuum uniquely, out of all history, took on supra‐ lunar reality + hence permanence. If (evidently) the supra‐ lunar breaks through into the epiphenomenal sublunar world - once done - it from then on is always there. Having come into being it does not pass away (cf Plato's forms). in the case of the 1st Advent a form did not just incise onto our world but manifested itself - incarnated - Jesus Christ was not an impression in our world of a form but was the [permanent) form itself; viewed this way it is instantly understandable why he rose from the dead; of course he did: you cannot kill (destroy) a form, only its eikos impressions. Before the crucifixion he was also edolon: matter but that perishible matter was transformed upon his death solely into form. The resurrected Christ was also not merely a form but the "pleroma" form of forms: righteousness, truth, justice. wisdom, love, etc. The Platonist good. It actually entered our world (cf John: "the light shown into the darkness but the darkness comprehended it not, although this "light" had in fact created the universe: the universe did not recognize its own creator. + now this form of forms is assimilating all to domself, invisibly (the darkness still can't see him). but the fact that (as in "Maze" they were really aboard The persus