of the hidden authentic present (as in "I woke up The next morning, looked around me, + couldn't figure out where I was. Then I remembered") - i.e. not where I once had been, but where I was now Yes - I claim the Acts material in "Tears" verifies the anamnesis of 2-74 + 3-74; in the novel (1970) + in my life (1974) I penetrated to bedrock (i.e. the joyous, loving world of Christ, his place + times); + with this came the "St Sophia" prophecy, to complete the unveiling. All that remains veiled is the date of his return. But that is veiled even to him s still, I believe my experience shows that, even in This spurious, interpolated "time bubble" it can't be delayed much longer. reviewing the last few pages here, I think "boy is there cryptic messages in "Tears" all right - that it's really AD 70 Rome; our world is spurious; there are (s not levels of reality, + he (as wise old King) is either about to come back or has come back." So when I am citing all the messages in "Stigmata," "Ubik "Eye" + "Maze" let's not leave out the ultimate arcane truths in "Tears" - which express what is real. + then in "Deus Irae" the revealed into is explicitly given, not hidden. No wonder I was terrified as to the safety of the as of "Tears"; Look what I was proclaiming the judge + king had come, + our worlds ( & (2) are fake. a t i I note that back a few pages where I list the novels of mind which give the messa, I assign to "Tears" the concept that "several competing worlds exist. I would add to that: to per‐ ceive , the Black Iron Prison, is in itself not a salvific discovery, but on more road (norrow Path) to (3), the real (absolute) world. (1) is a way of obscuring (2) + (2) is a way of obscuring (3). belong together; (2), the slice of ham, must be expunged So in a sense in such novels as "Joint" + "Stigmata" I was dealing only with the evil power; but by "Ubik" + "Maze" + "Tears" the benign power was intruding. + in "Deus Irae" the curse by the presence of the evil power is lifted - was lifteufel's death the death of the bad man hidden inside the house in the dream section of "Tears"? If so, we are talking about Satan, slain by God + "Deus Irae" carries us back to "Dr blood money" fake worlds, fake humans, "Penultimate truth" must not be disregarded in all this. All these books (inc. "Do androids dream..." + "we can build you' urge us to penetrate below the surface to see what we are (e.g. "Electric Ant," "impostor") what the world is - yet not until "Tears" did I penerate to the living, loving heart both of man + of reality. No wonder I had to do eleven drafts of it to get it right, look at the magnitude of what I was trying to do. showing things to be irreal was no longer enough. The irreal I could sense instinctively; I had to labor to descern what was authentic 6 in the final analysis the universe proved reluctant to yield up her final secret - but what a secret it is! Nothing less than Christ reborn, + the infinite healing power of love, + authentic in "Tears" the route to (3) to love + the i if + the other person + the world, lies through grief, but not through grief as emotion, but grief as a drive to act: specifically to be close to someone else. I just realized: grief is appropriate to (2) (just as mixed pleasure/pain is to N. Well, this is road of Christ: first the mixture of pleasure + pain + then the crucifixion (grief + suffering, unmerited). But this in turn gave way to love + joy, where are appropriate to (3) Hence, if one asks, "why is grief [undeserved suffering] the rood to "ham sand joy?" One can turn to the [Note} ( wich models of successive levels of reality, the emotion (or state) of grief enters when the person passes from the pleasure/pain principle appropriate to ➀ the least real level. Only throug grief (2) can one penetrate to the joy of (3). Each successive level is more mysterious + more difficult to reach. Grief confronting a person who penetrates past ( to (2), is such that he thereupon turns back to ( (e.g. Joan). I am stuck in No, but I once reached (3) + knew its love + joy. But the suffering of N is an intense barrier - but which must be sur‐ mounted. It is a mystery as to what lies beyond it; there is no clue to ( embodied in (2). 6 The N.T. explicitly relates the suffering at level 2) to Satan + his followers. The joy of B is a victory, by Christ, over ( + the power which reigns absolutely in (2). In 1 there are only latent intimations of him, but in (2) he (Satan) has total power. That this is the true + only route to (3) - this is what Christ's passion + resurrection demonstrated. the joyful anticipation by Thomas shows that unlike me he has solidly reached (3), while I remain in N. Or: "Thomas" is the trans‐ formed passing from ➁ to (3) - i.e. finding ( The real goal, + becoming isomorphic with it in no way is ( the goal. It is means Only - a necessary means, but means it is. It is a victory for the devil to ensnare a person in As if ( were the goal; seeing this I see that my unhappiness is a victory for the dark power. I must find my way again to B) led by Christ who went ahead first, to show us the way - the only way. That's why his crucifix on could not be avoided: there is only that one path. +, suffering in ➁, one knows that Satan has won's one tries to return to (1). This is wrong he must journey on to the eternal life with God in (3). Where he finally comes to rest + a safe harbor (return). The magic catalys" by which one passes success. fully from (2) to (3) is the route Buckman took. he converted his grief to love, there may be no 62 other way. In "Tears" ruth rare sees grief as the ultimate emotion (perception). But at the end, Buckman finds the way from grief (+ suffering) to love (hence to the goal, (3), showing that ruth rae did not journey on past ( Jason is still locked into N. So the road to salvation is to feel fully the grief appropriate to entering No, + then finding at the core of it - of grief - unexpressed love. Ruth rae sees the connection between grief + love. But doesn't have the sequence right. she has the natural but faulty idea that love is the fore runner of grief - since grief is what you self when you lose someone you love. This is the natural sequence. The mysterious secret sequence is mild (relative) love to absolute grief, + then at the very heart (core) of grief a new kind of love, greater than any other kind, comes, + one has reached (3). If you manage to thoroughly penetrate into ) - which is what I did for at least 25 years. There is always the chance that (based on God's a Christ's initiative) your grelf will be myteriously exchanged for the intense salvific lon needed to pass across into (3), this is what happened to me in 3-74. Perhaps my love for lorraine Hynes did it, a for Isa. Anyhow the necessary transformation took place, + thus began my freedom from the black ron prison to the Palm tregarder Could be equated with the immutable deterministic world of cause + effect. No with the animate living world of sentient purpose, hence of God, the world of melted "exceptione This is a very important insight i 6 world (2) is the invisible ruler of world (1) a great secret. But ➁ invisibly overrides (, + hence is the higher level of all. (2) is clearly ananke, + (3 reason. Not seems to be a projected imge with elements of both - but mere reflection. ➁ is the sure os. of the organism at work; (3) the psyche. 3) can "melt" (2) in places + so affect (1), but ) has no power over (3) (2) is the "gene port robot world" - the programmed world which is astral "Fate" unless + until (3) intervene, + deflects. Actually, since ➁ is world soul, though it is a last court of appeal, it is under the jurisdiction of an ultimate ( the creator; but as far as we are concerned, (3) ends it. i watching Harvey on the caton of books marked in huge letters Doubleday I realized that he could see the word as well as I, but not only could he not read it, he could not even perceive it as a message (i.e. deliberate information from someone a to someone B). The enigma of my 3-74 perception of deliberate messages all over the place which we could not only not read but could not even perceive as messages at all - it was entirely analogous to Harvey + the word Doubleday. I conclude that one mind acted as sender + another as receiver. It is entirely possible that sub‐ liminal cuing of us, individually, was involved, that in fact the pattern recognition of the right hemisphere was volved, that, in fact, this is what the right hemispher is for. the messages form a control or guiding or teaching system, linked in progressive sequences of combination + recombina tion over our whole lifetimes. The purpose is to establish + maintain a harmony + integration of parts (individuals) into a whole. This goes back to Jeter's clutch theory - the clutch being out of our individual control. But who addresses us? Cf "Ubik." The ultimate mode or arena of the totality of our "guided" actions is what we term human history, the magnastage of collective, manifold, human action. The aim of these messages, then, is ultimately that of directing, con‐ trolling or at least guiding history - which is an interaction of humans so complex + vast as to extend infinitely beyond our ability to assess. Recall the search by the android for signs of the presence of his maker in "international (i.e pistorically significant) transactions. The "international arena scrutinized coincides precisely with the arena I sense these messages as crucially affecting. "If God exists, this is where we could most expect to find him," the questor Jobor 71 seem to say, why? Because this arena is the one of most importance to our species, which is said to be made in God's images. Logic leads us to anti‐ cipate that if our creator "is still alive" (read: exists) We must search for him here. + this is precisely where I sensed those supranormal messages directed What I saw of them in my brief glimpse caused me to sense that they turned 3 billion individuals into an organism "a single organism - composed of 3 billion calculatedly interacting parts. What ever any individual did that had any significance had it because his existence (actions) affected history (the total organism) in some way. This is to view what we call "history" as an exte ension in linear time of a vast composite entity also i extensive in space. In other words the term "history" is the biography of one living thing which exists now, did formerly exist (it has a history in that sense: the progression of its acts along the linear