two realms have split apart. The brain invades Realm II out of Realm I, camouflaging itself + its thoughts. Realm II is dokos over the actual. Significant for Realm II -+ us- is the return of Christ, which came when promised. He descends into Realm II + disassembles + annexes it piece by piece. As each piece is captured it is freed. 27 years of trying to chart the contours of the real landscape concealed by the fraud; at last, accomplished in "Tears." I always presumed a bogus phenomenal world. This approach finally paid off. Again + again I put forth the notion that your world -+ your memories- could be delusions + you would have no way to detect it (cf Lem's statement of the problem: the brain fed spurious reality; is there any test by which it can tell?) (+ I relate this to Berkeley's idea of God directly feeding world to our percept systems.) God can feed it to us, or he can enlighten us -deocclude us- via the Holy Spirit. The power is all his, not ours. Hence the concept of Grace, issuing out of the mystery religions + the [correct] concept of the deterministic Yin (lower) world, + his reaching down from the pleroma to free (save) us (one at a time?). No, he interfered with our entire world in 1974! But people don't see or know. I occupy the position of an O.T. prophet who pits himself against the evil king + reveals God's plan, which God reveals to him. Such prophets were rarely listened to. I've done my best. In conclusion I can't discern if I ever assigned the CAD 45 Rome world to realm I before, + so explained it vs what we see (Realm II). It seems so obvious + natural that I feel I must have tried it out long ago. "What we have is pattern recognition based on memory" + "a distributed brain" + the 4 points of Acts material - I've figured out a lot in the recent days. 1) the brain provides us with memory. 2) the world of Acts is revealed. 3) incorporated into the brain we are saved from the delusional world + enter realm I. 4) we are now part of the evolving Yang cosmos not the deterministic entropic Yin world. 5) the original state of things is restored. 6) what of realm II is not annexed (incorporated) ceases to be. 7) this process is well-along. ___ The mind, Noös, needs a brain to connect it with the physical world (so as to be able to influence or control it). It does this by making at least some people, objects + processes into one physical system,① linking the cell (or parts) with plasmatic energy or via visual + auditory messages.② Having thus organized some people, objects + processes into a brain, it, through them, can now act on the rest of the world (or cosmos, etc). That which it organizes become physical expressions of it, all linked together to form a unity. It is now imminent in all these parts, but I have a strange feeling this is not God. ① Something like transubstantiation is involved. Mimicking those parts, it is camouflaged + so we don't know of its presence. It blends with what is not it. Now it has a medium by which it can influence everything. ② The existence of these tells us a lot - that the brain exists, is very large, + very mentally active. 1) The brain is an organising principle. 2) It constantly assembles + distributes visual + audible messages. 3) These messages are the prime instrument of its organizing. 4) We are only subliminally aware of these messages; they are "latent." 5) Via the messages the brain coordinates us sentiently, draws us into itself, + frees us from blind determinism. Ie we are subsumed by it; it is sentient; therefore we are guided by sentience, not cause + effect or chance. 6) We are totally unaware on a conscious level of all this (eg 5). But this explains why I wrote what's in "Ubik." I was describing the brain's messages, +, what is more, discerning behind them, the brain, which I called Ubik. 7) "Ubik" is true. 8) So, too, then, probably is "Tears" + "Maze" + "3 Stigmata." The brain cued me. 9) It is probably rare for the psychē of the brain to actually surface in a cell (an individual human) as it did with me in 3/74, but to protect its frontiers it must now + then "epiphanize." Especially when problem-solving is required beyond the capacity of the "cell" unit. 10) What I called "Zebra" are direct electric impulses between parts of the brain, normally invisible to us. The brain was firing directly at me electrically, rather than through messages (eg the Golden Fish Sign). It overrode me, for defensive purposes. 11) The brain can be regarded as an entity (unitary) within our species, + not detected, even by its own "cells." 12) It may very well provide immortality by incorporating "dead" humans such as Thomas. They are incorporated while alive + remain. 13) It remembers back thousands of years, + to its coming here from the stars. 14) It was known to the early Xtians as the "Paraclete," called by Christ "more important than I am." (cf John: "it is to your advantage that I go ..." etc.) 15) By this I deduce that Christ was its initial form here, giving way to the "Floating Crap Game" discorporate form it has now, which is more satisfactory. 16) Through this form it can govern at least parts -crucial parts- of our world; ie direct our affairs (history). 17) So for what it's worth, He is here with us, but as St Teresa of Avilla said, "Christ now has no body but yours." How true! 18) More precisely, we are not controlled by the brain; we are the brain. It as Noös (energy) has organized us into its brain, its physical analog, to deal with this world. 19) The adversary of the brain. Something which repeats itself; ie is static + not growing. The adversary is heavy, inert, + warps thoughts (+ so actions) in dead circles around it. The brain is in dialectic interaction with it, freeing minds from its tug. 20) Those minds warped into dead circular thinking imagine their thoughts still progress in a straight line. But in fact nothing new ever occurs to them. They therefore represent a reversion to fossil forms. 21) Unfortunately, these people have been woven by the "magnet" into the power centers of mankind; this has long been so. They rule by lies + coertion. 22) The brain constantly dismantles the world + grows by incorporating more + more parts -functionally- into itself. Eventually there will be nothing but it. The time-span, in our terms, is quite long - thousands of years. 23) The book of Acts describes the first manifesting of the brain, at Pentacost. Thus Acts is the only written account of the brain's existence, + so is unique + important. It so to speak is a verbal analog of the innermost core of the brain. Outside of Acts, there is no verbal (or rather written) analog to the brain, though oral tradition may obtain in secret. (v. P. 51) 24) It is possible that an unbroken chain of true Xtians is linked through time back to Acts knowing about + experiencing the brain consciously. To prove their existence is impossible. 25) To finish the thought of item 13, the brain is not native to this planet (or world). It is an invader, + camouflages itself through mimickry + memesis. It can not only affect our percept systems directly but can alter our memories. 26) It is benign: mankind's tutulary spirit freeing us from the warping tug of the "magnet." Without it, our species would congeal in terms of growth. All progress in human history (at least for the last 2000 years) is due to it. 27) The "magnet" came into existence slightly before the brain came here. So evidently it too is an invader, but a criminal one. 28) Perhaps the brain pursued it. Using another set of terms, the "magnet" can be regarded as a sickness or virus, + the brain as a doctor or healing agent. 29) Because of its warping tug, the magnet has stopped real time in our world at about 2000 years ago. Perhaps it occludes us to this frozen temporality by projecting a delusionary world that appears contemporary. 30) Both the magnet + the brain, then, are transtemporal constants, since the moment of the brain's arrival (the time of Acts). 31) In the crucifixion, the brain as Christ sacrificed itself in order to promote new life for us, by turning itself into the distributed brain it became at the time of Acts (following the resurrection). 32) It bears some relation to our creator. This is why it cares so much about us + our enslaved condition. (For example, the magnet transmits "die messages" at us, which the brain, where necessary, overrides.) 33) In connection with these "die messages" it is part of the magnet's system of lies to declare man sinful, guilty, + deserved of punishment. The brain has the authority directly from our creator to countermand all this with joy, innocence as a verdict (acquital) + freedom. 34) The brain incorporates objects + their processes as well as humans; thus it is building an actual cosmos within a damaged cosmos. 35) The brain has a mandate for a plenary overruling of all powers in this world, thus it advances in a set of historic stages in an unfolding plan. This world constitutes a lower realm for it; it emanates from an upper realm, which, like it, is totally sentient. Through participation in the brain we are joined to this upper realm. Therefore the brain can be regarded as an intermediary between our world + the upper from which it comes, + of whose nature it participates. 36) The warped slaves of the magnet who by + large control positions of power in this world (by virtue of the magnet) do not view the cells of the brain as benign + viable, but rather as 1) unpredictable; 2) revolutionary; 3) dangerous; 4) strange; 5) immoral + "uncontrolled"; 6) different; 7) hostile to "stability," by which is meant conformity to the magnet's tug. They may even be viewed as invaders, responsive to an invisible source - which they are. They have become "not of this world, in it but not of it." 37) The growing extent of the brain's victory over the magnet is obscured from us by the delusionary world the magnet generates to occlude us. Much of the magnet's power, then, is itself an illusion. 38) Let me explain why I depict the brain as a "Floating Crap Game." It does not organize the same cells constantly, but perpetually as a process releases certain cells at each instant + incorporates others. So a given cell (human) can at one time be part of the brain (+ not know it) + be outside it at another. The psychē of the brain, of course, is a constant. So the Qs: "Who is part of the brain?" + "Where is the brain?" are meaningless. Thus there is no way the brain can be destroyed, let alone discerned. A cell of it, for instance, has no knowledge of other cells, or of what it will be caused by the psychē to do - or why, when it will be utilitzed, when dropped out, etc. This is a very superior life form; like Ubik it is everywhere but not in any one spot; it uses human media of communication - it cannot be detected or destroyed, + since we are living in spurious time generated by the magnet anyhow, the brain can proceed as slowly as it wishes to achieve its goals.