systems... or Tess would have seen it when I did Either we once saw these things + dont now or in the future, in a further state of evolution we later on will. Or both. But the capability is there. It is an insult to intelligence to believe that it would never be used, past present or future. I believe we will be restored - I was restored - to an original higher condition 30 An important point; there is a coherence to all - absolutely all - that I saw + understood. We are programmed in a regular way - I was in 3-74, de-or counter programmed against dosm what must be a/the regular programming. In effect it was an interruption, an override, of the normal. How + why could this happen? Fallabilit, in the regular syste core this) is implied here - timely implied if not thr contesting forces. Either a mistake was made + corrected, on else another force intervened. Either explanation runs con¬ trary to Christianity as generally construed. The implications ot this intervention are simply enormous. Finite (although powerful) forces are implical. Unless, of course, the breaching "through into the historic process by God, the apocalypse, is what took place. If that, then it fulfills, not circumvently our religion. For me the historic process was infringed on almost 3 years ago. Does that mean that Zebra was not here is prise to 3-74? It seemed only to remember Rome c. AD 70, which when it (Christ) was here before. In a sense, if I saw that I think I saw, the real question is not why did I see it? but nother why didn't anyone else? The best answer to that can be found in the following" ) according to the prophecy, St. Sophia (Christ) will be, nother than was is reborn 2) I was one element of the world which the intervention directly changed: it evidently deflected my entire life- track from 3-74 on. I saw the change because it directly affected me, + in a most serious way If I ask why (2) Then I can, I guess, refer to the material in my books (e.g. Tears, Ubik, etc): for instance there would have been N. Deus Irae + the prophecy therein. Beyond that there is no explanation available to me, but I can guess that possibly more is involved, a could be involved, either in what I have done or what I will do. It is most likely that the future work has to do with what I am writing about the 3-74 experience 31 I think we are now in the "herald angel" period. "Hark! I tell you good tidings of great joy that will be to all men" etc. There was no printed word the previous time. This all fits in with my vision of the true Christian church anticipating his return - into which I am now numporated - in the vision there were really not many of their or us: we did/do not know by faith but by direct experience (as in 3-74). It seems very clear to me that a progressive initiation through revelation to persons here + there, is involved. I was brought into the authentic church is 3-74 - not a church of believers believing that he came before + will come again as secondary-report knowledge, but having been given anamnesis plus firsthand experiencics knowledge that he is about to return again (i.e. I was shown the true situation, the real world, + told that he was returning - a confirmation involving immediccy). "Die stunde 1st da-die Zeit ist da" is not a theoretical utterance, but is an applied statement + from a divine source I would guess that certain prefatory signs must occur, are anticipated + cooked for, by the true church members, + that in at least one instance (Tears) I wrote that which com¬ prises one of these signs. The fact that I did not know what I was doing only enhances the significaned of the injected material. It is senseless + unlikely that no one received the inserted material... especially when I recall the tension which hung over me in the final stages of completing + sending of tease I could swear that the enemy , the dark force, was seeking to find + destroy that ms. In connection with this, consider the entire world presented in tears, not just the dream. The whole Rome vision plus the dream was involved. This is what things are really like, the book says. + God (Christ) will finally intervene + change all this. The what -will- be-changed + who-will change it are both put forth in the book: the illness + the cure; the cannot be understood without the othere. Each part alone - what does it tell us? The true conditem of our world + What is going to happen - + it did happen as prophecy of was absolutely correct. 32 what I saw in 3-74 was the master or masters of the (our) situation these - this - is/are the tree secret power, whether finite or infinite, God or merely God like to us, the impression. I get is that what we normally see was never really there in the first place, a show, a dream, a phantasm, an illusion or delusion + an evil + oppressive one which has to be removed - + was removel that which was changed was that which we could not see we were slaves to an obsome power - one we could not see, a living in a world the true nature of which was evidently concealed from us - perhaps not for good reasons. The deepest + most real core of our world was struck it - + successfully freeing us. As I figured out (supra) its nature was a creed + blind determinism which completely programmal us - without our ever knowing it: continualy engrammal to do certaine things not to our own advantage the fact is, Zebra does not truly resemble (mimic) the objects + processer of the unliving world; it causes us to see it as camouflaged - i.e. causes is not to see if or to see it by workin direits upon us - our senses. So it must get inside our heads, as well as being out there. A major point I don't seem clear in is: the inter¬ ruption of my programmine is in itself a microcosm of the great historic intervention + somehow related to it, if only by logy. But whereas the conspirators received cosmic doom. I received cosmic help - the opposite - + a part of this consisted of the revelations, which I not only price above all thing, but which should be, as perhaps the preatest gift possible to us while still alive (i.e. total enlightenment + knowledge). But, if I am not wrong, interven¬ tion for me + intervention against them are two sides of one coin - other victims, too, may have been helped, if only indirectly Helping me served to weaken them, + destroying them served to help me, it all makes sense at this point (once more) I believe it to have been the Parousia. The pre-incaration: defeat of the gentile world power 83 Note: 2.B, "Strawberry Field," in itself doesn't either agram or communicate; at one point in space-time it is made to, by Zebra, + then not necessarily again; it is not the sons. But Zebra speaking through the song - like cunciter in Ubik. The verbal + graphic "trash" of this world arranged by Zebra: which obscures Zebra's presence F it used its own voice, we would know of its guiding presence. This realization causes me to think 2. has been here for some time (not just in 3-74). The engramming usually registers on a subliminal level. But from 3-74 on. I had no subliminal level. I not only saw 2.; I also consciously experienced it working on us. (Using objects + processes as means shape + us + events) of course it shapes us; we are to part of the (its) cosmos + must be harmonized. For the infor mation to work, the person must also be "arranged" (influenced) well as the materid, or it won't register, the info is caused 8 as to be there, + the person is caused to respond - incorporate it + act on it. Again: although objects are influenced, it is we who are most influenced. We are caused to selectively learn; this is a continuation the process of teaching which I saw acting in early childhood. of doesn't end ever, but this is not intervention; this is the of normal method. There is nothing "orthogonal" about it. This is nit intervention; the intervention (as in my case) Acts to abort this very process. The intervening God is somehow not in our world + it, processes but external to it + them. The normal proces. ses cannot be mode to yield the results he wants; no arrangement o the what is will achieve fulfillment of the plan. He him self must enter + impart something new, not derived or arranged. od hoc new creation is involved. At this point at least to some people he reveals himself + his presence 34 - it was my entire engrammed self - trained by the systems meationed on these preceding pages - which was destraged just before 3-74 + replaced by another non¬ engramned or differently engranual one without a full understanding of this life long engramming it caut be understood what was replaced - + possibly why, obviously it was replaced to free me - in particular from respondig to the Xerox letter. That personality evidently didn't just die; it was deliberately wiped out, + replaced by another. But This other was not just a normal ording human personality it had 2000 year old memories - just why I don't guile understand maybe the structure is this: presume a monistic Brahmanistic substratum, a unity of "tat tvam asi" in which God is immanently all. However, to overcome the efect which Anne freemantle sees in this (that no relationsletly with God is possible under these conditions) Zebra separates off a diversity from himself, into the many, which can't he distinguished from him through the mechanism of amnesia - they are all him - which - have forgotten (other wise no plurality is possible). One a sense, then, the short. range forgetting human personality is irreal - or at the very least contrived - over the crypte morphosis which is the real Zebra me. External Zebra (Brahman) saw to the total extinction of this "fake" limited engrammed human one prior to 3-74 since he knew - but it did not - what was curing (the Xerox letter). So the temporarity abolished it for its can sake - i.e. my (individual) sake. He do this the means of a disinhibition stimulus (the Golden Fish neck race + black haired goes which would restore it by restoring memory o This explanation accentuates the element of mercy + rescue - rather than any use or mission on my part, past or future assin 2 but it also enhances the impression that I now + ther get of (: false memories laid over real ones, on my part, which explains some of my stories + (2) a greater - than -human not be shared with or actual (true) identity which may true of all mankind - which points to an even greater purpose + mission than a merely human one: viz: since Zebra can't err, he must have intended this reversion to actual trans-human trans-time identity from the start; in which case I served as a trap or bait in a trap to ensnare the enemy, the enslavers last night I dreams of a rabbit who had swum too far out into the ocean: "out of his depth," as the dream showed it + whom