conceal it - No - totally If I am correct about all this, then I say, the 1st advent was a palpable breaking - through of the supreme entity (mind. i.e. Holy Wisdom) of level (1) into level (2), the sole time it took place conspicuously. But in 3-74 I was shown - in my own novel "Tears" a breaking through of info from level ( right on past (2) + into level (! In level (3) there is such a vast component of (verbal] information that info propenly a part of level ( blends invisibly in. All the "Acts" + "Daniel" (the dreams) stuff in "Tears" is a perfect example of that I virtually conclude that level ( deliberately evolves ("programs") level ( forward toward oral speech, then writing, + at last 22 i The sout of titanically verbal (informational) construct world of the computer, at. Level ➂ becomes more + more like (1). it is thought producing thought through the intermediary stage of flesh/body / material/nature - a replication, a giving birth. Is this not a description of the 1st Adven + even more so the 2nd advent? Level ( thrusts through (2) manifests itself in (3): foremostly, in the scriptures, but + not limited to them (as "Tears" testifies to, + as "Ubik" depicts, + now I'm beginning to include "Maze"). Holy Wisdom exists before all creation (i.e. the material universe). Then it creates or help create the material universe - i.e. level ( then it in carnates in level ➁ but expressing itself verbally - in terms of thoughts, words, concepts, etc, all of which add up to Holy Wisdom which is its essence. But level ( does not find it acceptable; it is killed + retured to level (+ from whence it came. However, it will try (incarnate, be born) in level ( again as a means of raising whel (3) into an authentic replication of level ( Zebra, which I saw under going metamorphosis, invisible to us normally, is evolving on level ( but will eventually invade level (3), assimilating it to itself + infusing it with essence (reality). This means that level ➁ is nothing more than a means to an end. A sentient being (Brahman) is giving birth to sentient being, ➂, which ➁ is not. ) must be regarded as a womb ("recepticle of being."). a kind of hatching "egg." The living, sentient product of This "egg" replicates the "parent" of the "egg." Thus I say, the ubiquitous immanent being, of level (e, does not divide (e.g. binary fission, etc) but creates an intermediary - + perhed temporary - state which in a certain literal sensed is not truly real, except as a source for what ultimately will be real - lovel (). This lever ( certainly resembles Teilhard do chardin's noosphere. We can expect level ➁ to be generating progressively more replicatory aspects of its own source- covel E! The ultimate true birth is exactly what is depicted in "Ubik": the wise information 23 breaking through reality (through ( from (1) Thus will more + more resemble (+ level (3 will be I foresee in all effaced by the Not qualities of (3 This eventually a final absorption of (3), entirely, by , so that (1) + (3) are joined [directly] as a monism. Our first intimation of this diminatin process would be the abrupt 1st incarnation into our World of the embodiment of (1) itself, a sort of leap sover" ( (more a breaking through). Then a gradual (This can be expressed two ways): A) a weakening of the reality of ➁, i.e. the natural environment or world. B) as (2) becomes less real + more dream like, less substantial, fragments of ( would appear (breakthrough into) it: surfacing, as it were: swimming to the surface of (2) but not actually being part of These bits would be: X) contours of (1) topology; 4) verbal bits, which would be closes to the heart of ( A) IB): the combination of these two processes would broduce a stability of the so-to-speak amount of ontological essence of the Empirical world. But continually there would be a cryptic or subtle metamorphosis of the world as ( aspects lessen + (2) grow the ratio continually changing irrevocably in the direction of intruding + (2) diminishing. Our life spans are too short to experience this tmetamorphosis, except that the rate of acceleration of ➁ is now conspicuous. We are not aware that (I is not merely a product of E. but rather / also a thrusting through ( of ➀ ( must be regarded as ( ultimately restated; the material universe is a temporary expedient, the egg between hen + hen. (3) finally will be identical to G, as near as I can discem, whereas (2) is a "polyencephalic delinen" (i least it is becoming so [now]. 22 when (3) is completed it will be the "new heavens + new earth" + that "which will never enter the mind nor come up into the heart" will have been (2). It is interesting that the Corpus Christi (completed (3) must pass through rather than springing directly from ➀. Not only the things (objects of (2) are turned into a womb by N for (3) but the sentient beings of (2) are so used: i.e. the Holy Spirit possesses them the way externally Zebra transubstantiates objects + processes what I saw in 3-74 (Rome) is a vivid example of ➀ showing through (2) to (, if by (3, you mean me: the new self within me perceiving - finally - its origin, it's home: (i. + even the B. I. Prison: I had been/was there, too, an an early Christian. The Atman fusing with the Brahman: ( fusing with ( + bypassing (2) - so (2) is identified as Maya. So I ask, where in, is (1) being primarily born? I'd have to answer: most likely in the most sentient parts of (3), which could well be human minds (insofar as this planet is concerned). This makes of each of our heads a receiver - transduces of emanations from (1): if we evolve far enough we - perhaps suddenly - hear + see past - thick as it is. To the words, books + pages of (1). However, I am speaking of conscious reception; in point of fact, buts of ( are forever ubiquitously reaching us subliminally imbedded in + indestinguishable from info in (3) deriving out of (2 what must be rembered is that the vast gult between ( + ➁ is equally great between (2) + (1). In certain respects ➀ would resemble (3) (i.e. verbal material) but: it would seem to be nuts. Crazy, cryptic verbal material - as inscrumble as the punched tape intrinsically in "Maze: under very unusual circumstances a person might lose contact with (2) + relate directly to (1), but this would amount virtually to a trip ahead in time, because the delusional (2) is still with us, still a barrier between (3) + (1) if for any reason a 25 t persion saw through ➁ + relater to (1) he would be in the strange position of experiencing the distant past + future simultaneously: A) He would see as still extant ancient archetypes hazed over in (2) + B) He would en his own time experience what for other people would only come later when (2) peters out entirely. At first he would recapitu late the past, then phase over into prophesized events; i.e. to end-time events. The whole story being narrated (i.e. thought) by the deity would disclose it self to him +, oadly, he would be deluged with books + pages of writing since the apparatus he was plugged into is primarily computer-like (teaching machine + library like). The Bible is a fusion of ➀ ➀ + (3), of most use is that of a doorway to (1), available to minds locked into (3), read in a way excluding ( to which it unleasingly relates. The time rate (flow) of the Bible is the true time rate; that of (2) is not - is deluding in fact, giving a spurious impression (record) of a great deal of passing time. Percing by (3) to (1), or by upward into (3) it is between 70 - 90 AD, i.e. just falling the 1st Advent + just before the 2nd. My God - the Bible is the story which the punched computer tape of (1) is printing out via (2), directed at fulfilling ( I can deduce this from the Biblical elements in, e.g. I "Tears." It is (1) incising onto (3) via (2). "Tears" is a The only other way the elements of G mixtue of ➀ + (2 s could appear in my writing would be racial memory, but the "racial memory" would deal with realm to under lying anyhow, so just the why, not the what, would be changed (i.e. the reason I linked up to (1) directly, bypassing (). To sum up: realm ➁ is being spun or woven into realm ( which is a replication of realm ( which is doing the spinning + weaving. 21 ote So the material universe is a worts in which a single but 3-aspect. V. A.L.T.E. is replicating itself; that which the material universe will give birth to is the offspring of the original sentient entity but probably the entity + its offspring will constitute one single realized organism not two, since it is self-generating. That (entity or offspring) which it will produce, then, is itself, we see the universe backward: the greator lies at the end or omega point: forming (directing) greation teleologically, from its outcome backward - what I am trying to do is to comprehend a timeless spaceless, revealed reality in terms of the usual world of time + space. What I apprehended when the 5th or anja Chokra opened + I attained the 3rd eye consciousness, through the redemptive power of Christ simply cannot be forced into any mode less than itself. By bonding to that unchanging reality I left the region of determinism + the oppressive powers that rule it. I really left this world forever. s i I know that beyond which nothing can be known. I remembered. I became myself, encised by the master archetype: Christ the King. What I was I will never be t again, I was saved from illness, physical death + spiritual death. The epiphenomena pass by me now: I love - I am loved; I belong to him, the Lord who promised he would be with us worted the end. He spoke for me: the Advocate + compforter. What else is there to know? the epiphenomena pass on + fade + die. I have been pranted the wish which began in childhood: to hear e he voice. "I will be with you, yes, even to the end The Paraclete, "whose voice is heard in human courts." when no one stood with me, he stood with mes I was alone + dying. There was no life left for me fired, but the deterministis powers the end was were defeated + broken h o t A whole new universe is created when even one determinist matrix is broken, because something on the order of a variable has been introduced - its continued (rather than destroyed) existence is going to affect other lives, other events; it is not isolated - it cannot be severed from the whole universe. Therefore in the breaking of these matrices a new different creation is coming into being. It all constellates around thousands Christ as head or omphalos. When you hear her voice the journey is over. of years of -- being apart, maybe. I forget I can rest sore mystica i - jung says, through the union with the celandia A 204 rennedy/o: 15 mo The self, Christ, is born. Wholeness seft 19 coach s i monday sept 19 ny to cuxumbery coach