not veracity, activity not knowledge. Regarding (2): see preceding 10,000 pages. The Kantian unknowable can berhaps be discerned [...] detected by the perturbations it creates in the phenomenal world. If it creates none (but it does) probably it is not there. What we need to do is follow Hume's careful scrutinizing method, not German double abstractions based on Hindu assetions about the ultimate unknowability of reality behing appearance. (Note) To preserve us as functioning parts it is preserving our integrity, our health + our physical [nee]ds; the deluding serves our biological but not our purely intellectual needs; the first outweighs the 2nd. folder 02 - 035 folder 02 - 035 I realized I have another piece of evidence to support the B model; an important one. 1) Zebra's melting of causal trains This fits in th the "pretext" concept. What we see is fiction. We are controlled by sentience without knowing it, the brain manipulates what we regard as substantial as if it were plastic; in fact it _is_ plastic in the face of mind. The most profound insight of these last pages is to finally discern the meaning, the significance, of my reacting to external events before they happened briefly in 3-74 (at the time Thomas + his world were invading me + mine) - i.e. this is strong evidence for model B. +, through model B, is finally explained, the inner tape (psyche) + the outer tape (projected push-pull rebound 2-mirror world) are unitary, two halves of one whole which are prefabricated + then rolled in synchronization, giving the illusion of external cause to mere signal. In a very literal sense the station is signalling to itself, generating its own stimuli (world), but in another, deeper sense, both psyche + world are induced by something like selective site-stimulation. The unitary totality of psyche + its world are imprinted, incised so to speak, in the core or brain of the station: the psyche is no more + no less real than the analog outer world - they are the same, + totally unfree + involuntary, totally at the mercy of the incising/imprinting macro mind in which the station resides. There is no way a given psyche can disjoin from its world, or world from its companion psyche. It is a closed system which runs a predetermined course ("astral determinism"). Once set in motion it plays itself out, psyche + world in its push-pull interaction with no causality but the cause that BUILT IT - which is neither efficient or teleological as such but orthogonal. folder 02 - 036 So the complete life of a given station is predetermined from start to finish, + harmonized with that of other stations to produce the illusion of objective, shared, common, real world. Plato sensed this as ananke. He also sensed the macro-mind at work, "persuading"; i.e. dominating ananke, which is quite correct. What he did not see is that, for us, ananke is the product of noos. In essence there is no more escape from its world by a given psyche than there is escape by the psyche from itself. Its world _is_ itself. Its world + it are born together + perish together. But this is all secondary to the processing of info message traffic passing through the given station, obscured from it by the contents of its psyche + world. Amid the Pong game between a psyche + its world (in which all content is trapped) info passes into, is processed, + passes out (in some way often modified). It is that info which enters the psyche-world closed system from outside + then re-emerges boosted or changed, etc. That is the issue, the point of it all. This would appear as Set to Ground if the station had some sort of grid by which to discriminate the two. I had that briefly in 3-74 + saw a small set in "Tears". I had received it from outside, processed it + then fired it out in a modified form. What it meant I do not know. That is the status of a station. Even if it could discriminate the adventitious info passing through its oterwise closed 2-part system it would not know its meaning. So our little psyche-world systems are perpetually bombarded with incoming info which we process +, at the right time to the right other stations transmit in the rightly modified form. But all this takes place folder 02 - 037 folder 02 - 037 _through_ us as if we were transistors, diodes, wires + condensors, resistors, all none the wiser. Meanwhile our closed private world engages our attention with challenges, paih + delight, so that we will not merely subsist as slave components with nothing to do but function. After all, there will be long intervals when no adventitious info needs to be processed by us - without a world, we would degenerate fatally during these standby periods, which, I intuit, may last years or even decades. Meanwhile we have food, music, books + friends. The primal necessity of this info processing may explain events + episodes in our lives which otherwise remain enigmatic or appear even futile - pointless travail, goal-less activity. For all we know, it is during or because of these that we then or later can fulfill our data-processing task. I'm not sure of this but I suspect it. - So, data are fed insidiously into each (psyche-world) closed system, to mix with the Pong-signals trapped there, to which the psyche-world remains oblivious. Thus the routine business of Zebra is continually transacted through us; we link + arrange incoming data - the metalanguage of the macroentity - in response to covert, signalled instructions from Zebra to us. Therefore must be remembered that each of us works in conjunction with other cells, so instructions as well as data are fired to us by Zebra, instructions as to what to do with the data before we pass it on. There probably are a lot of instructions. - I have read these 37 pages over + am amazed + delighted at the direction of my analysis. What an original system - +, more important, a system at last commensurate with the revelations of 3-74. Always folder 02 - 038 folder 02 - 038 before, the exegesis plainly fell short of the experience it served to explain, or _tried_ to explain. But at last, by the aid of the voice I have made bold clean strokes, radical ones, in this B model. After reading it over I can't fault it. Such wild disclosures as those of 3-74 require a wild explanation, not a conventional or cusomary one. The principle of parsimony is involved in the B (or selective brain-site stimulation, with us as stations of a vast info-processing brain, each station given a push-pull psyche-world locked together by an inner-outer "tape" synchronization which plays reality out like a recorded tape - this reality susceptible to being "melted" by mind, + its causality only pretextual, as Hume noted, etc) model. Yes: each of us has his own world (as I've long suspected); these worlds are in some way irreal (as I've long suspected) + are recordings into which we are deterministically locked (as I had _not_ suspected): Hume, Kant + Leibnitz aided me, as did brahmanism, as did Plato. _One_ theory now accounts for _many_ diverse experiences + insights. + the brain (Zebra) can invade (like a theophany) our push-pull worlds + psychoi, as if "from behind" - which I saw in 3-74. Zebra is the true koinos kosmos, + each of our push-pull psyche-world locked-together systems is idios kosmos, + there are billions of them. So I have penetrated to Zebra, the vast brain, as koinos kosmos. Interestingly, it is not a world _at all_ in the usual sense (that each idios kosmos is). I have seen the traffic of info of this brain + see how we serve to process the info as so many interacting stations. This is decidedly not solipscism, _but_ - there is no way I know of that the existence of Zebra, the overall [brain ...] folder 02 - 039 folder 02 - 039 true koinos can be apprehended; what is required is that Zebra (known to us as "God") elects to reveal himself to us (epiphany or theophany); i.e. only through revelation initiated by "God", the koinos must decide to invade our world + show itself to one of us - otherwise it is totally camouflaged (mimesis + mimicry) + not an object of either logic or empirical scrutiny. Only the ajna eye (the dibba cakkhu experience), ignited (disinhibited) by the koinos can effect awareness (also known as "grace"). So, without this revelation, my system like Spinoza's or Leibnitz's - remains totally metaphysical (not to mention Berkeley's). Yet - it is original, interesting + coherent - + bold. + it complies with the paradigm of my writing as formulated by Lem. The inner-outer synchronized tape (or tapes) which simulates causality + so vastly puzzled me - this explains why our idios kosmos perpetually satisfies us as being "real" - the synchronized tapes so firmly lock each of us into his world that that world acquires substantiality - + we never guess that (1) we have worlds plural; + (2) behind these many subjective private worlds lies one, vast, smart info-processing brain-like AI system (whose lovely voice I have heard), of which we are functional stations. + that its real business - + ours - is this enormous traffic of messages linked + relinked (by us). (Well, "us" is "it"). This model of reality certainly explains why there is an almost universal belief in God or gods + another world beyond or behind this, + it explains what revelation consists of. Also, it indicates a high value in my writing, in my idee fix - my epistemological 27 year seach - I was on the [...] folder 02 - 040 folder 02 - 040 it's an intricate system pointing to a "many jeweled Swiss watch" -like cosmos, very harmonious: with fabulous inter-connection, purpose + exchange. I know what it is, + I define that "is" in terms of what it _does_. Also, I sense a playful, joyous quality about it, + something of a game-playing conjurer - a mirthful, secret smile. In a nonmalicious way it almost teases us with paradoxes, riddles, puns, problems to solve, illusions to penetrate, ambiguities to separate, etc, + of course lessons; it wishes us to increase in wisdom because in so doing we better micro-mirror its totality. It is subtle + delightful, + kind - to me it takes the form of a wise, lovely, soft-spoken woman, the form which would mean the most to me. (My plural worlds help explain how it can be different in form to each person, let alone each culture). That it should enjoy games - this is _so_ wonderful! We are closest to it when we are tender + mirthful. _Froh_, Bruder: sei froh. Gazing across the broad expanse of my 27 years of writing I can see how _I_ have melted away at the 1) idea of one world vs plural worlds; 2) the substantiality of world in favor of world as hallucination forced on us; 3) world behind world behind world; 4) A master conjurer; 5) a ubiquitous mysterious negentropic life-giving wisdom-entity penetrating our world (or our _hallucination_ of world) along a strictly one-way axis. (Note) "Ubik" comes closest - has the most correct elements of what I now feel to be a relatively adequate cosmological model. No wonder 3-74 seemed to resemble "Ubik". (Note) Its penetrating at "trash" strata + places may be a manifestation of its playfulness + love of paradox. The sacred + holy epiphanizing where _least_expected! folder 02 - 041 This is the paradox of, "where should you most expect to find God?" A.: "In the least likely place". I discern in this the following: "In point of fact you therefore cannot find God at