alternate worlds (e.g. "Portuguese States of America"!) In some way I don't understand the world of "Tears" really exists or did exist in 1974, + yet is/was Rome. (Cf Metz speech.) Folder 03 - 034 Folder 03 - 034 I know now that the brotherhood, which I suspected exists + worked through me, does exist + has been working through. I know they are immortal, transtemporal, + I know why + how, + what they do. But who they currently are I will never know, except that, because of P., I am one (he is one). If indeed they operate out of alternate worlds they may well be able to move retrograde in time, as it seemed to me in 3-74. That ability would allow them to operate into + out of alternate universes. I know they go back directly to Christ, + get their knowledge + powers from him, which no one (e.g. Bob Anton Wilson) seems even remotely to have guessed (nor re their transtemporal immortality + using host persons, etc, to jump back + forth across time). I just realized: they are informed + instructed + coordinated by the macrobrain via its messages -e.g. the bit in "Tears," that was the macrobrain- + it's living info itself! The brotherhood must have the set/ground discrimination, which has to do with an evolved color perception. __ Voice: "The head Apollo is about to return." See previous voice note p 24: "This is the hour you've waited for." Siddhartha is waking up? Folder 03 - 035 Folder 03 - 035 It is quite some cosmology which permits the abolition of the phenomenal world of the many, + then encounter with the one, + its traffic of messages: its thinking - + to know we are very literally actually parts of this one. The raft floating toward England - the little boy Philip getting past Scotland Yard - I was just now joking with K.W. about the Apollo sentence, + found myself saying: "A raft pulled by 6 (or 12) sea serpents floating up to England {Note} - Apollo taken off to Whitehall + being interrogated by Scotland Yard, + now there is no England-" + then remembered the dream. It sounds like Orpheus. (Dionysos, too.) Ist die Zeit da? Could the development + publishing widely (retrieval) of my (our) macro-microcosm cosmology be deliberately synchronized (in time) with the long-awaited "return" cited above (i.e. of St Sophia, Buddha-Siddhartha, "the head Apollo")? In other words, my writing is a preparatory step, one among many (e.g. the overthrow of Nixon)? {Note:} Albion Azoth England Paracelsus Albemuth Azimuth Bismuth White Fish Water (mouth of river or ocean) Every time I go to sleep now I again see writing. E.g.: "The only living reality we have now is Philip the first." (Like a pope?) This seems to express pessimism, as if the agency, the viaduct, right now is severely limited. To me? A very narrow + small outlet indeed. "Philip the first": perhaps the initial viaduct for the "we" to act through: a meager beginning, but still a beginning. Note Folder 03 - 036 the "we," not "I." Ah - "living" reality; i.e. the only present-time (see below) outlet in the sense of living (being present) now, rather than at another time. Also, "have now" could equal = "have left" [to "us"], or "now" could = at this time. "Only ... now" could mean that others once in use, formerly available, fell through. Or: the now could be contrasted to the future, not the past, in which case "only ... now" = so far, but it will later improve. They (the "we") could be losing ground or gaining ground; it is impossible to tell, but what can be told is, I think, that whoever "Philip the first" is, they are limited to him at present. Am I meant? "The first" points to this outlet as the start, not a falling off state of a previous, better process or outlet. So "the first" conveys a lot: it ties "only" + "now" not to the past but to the future. Thus "the first" makes sense as meaningful data: a process is beginning, not winding down. "Now," ; - = "so far"." "Philip the first" simply means, "Philip who is the first." ; "Philip, i.e. the first." So the sentence, so short, so laconic, opens up to mean, "we have so far only been able to take over a single piece of reality in this particular time period so far: Philip." Notice, too, it read "reality" not "person," which jibes with my notion that we as psychoi are irreal + are actually stations or places in the macrobrain. Wait. "Living" [reality] could be in contrast to non-living forms, such as communications media, RF signals, etc, which get cooked; "living," then, means person. "Philip, who is the first" [living reality that they have now, i.e. in this time period; otherwise interpreted, "living" + "now" are redundant.] Folder 03 - 037 Folder 03 - 037 Also, this ratifies my impression that a "we," not a single "I" is involved. "Philip, the first living reality to be taken over" as their outlet or agent. Boy, can I exegete a lot from this sentence! God, another interpretation occurred to me: "the only living reality we have now..." - "living" equally still alive; someone got the others, or the strain proved too much. No, I think it's living in contrast to outlets which aren't alive. Yet I sense, despite "the first" the sense of reduced to. (Because of "only..." linked to "...now..."). No, "now" means "at this time." No, "now" = "now left" not "now at this time." I sense it: then "living" means "left living." "Now left" + "left living." + "the first" means that later hosts got wiped out. I could get very frightened from this exegesis of the sentence. No, "now" just refers to this time sector. I must remember that these are supra- or transtemporal entities so "now" doesn't have the ominous ring to it I supra supposed. Or could it mean "now available"? As in "available for assignment." I sense, "Now, for your use. Available to you" - a sort of inventory or map report. Re the Bowie film, + the little boy on the raft floating toward England; the divine child won't be born, but rather smuggled in, like a cuckoo's egg in a host nest, disguised as a - human? Terrestrial? Evading "Scotland Yard" - i.e., the authorities. Extraterrestrial? No. It has to do with time, + he can mix his world in + out with ours, like with a mixing board. Space + time both. But he is an invader - but God knows from where or when - but another planet, the future? +/or an alternate world? Folder 03 - 038 Folder 03 - 038 I have the strong feeling that the savior of us all is about to be smuggled into our midst unnoticed, to mingle with us as an ordinary human, which he is not. But where or when he comes from I do not know. I do know that immortal hidden transtemporal authentic Xtians are the "we" who will do this, but coordinated by the brain, + the living info (messages) of the brain + even by the Noos of the brain - up the hierarchal ladder of levels of reality. "We" may refer to the multipersonal brain; maybe it thinks of itself in the plural form because it is a multiplex system of interconnected (human) stations; or else a secret immortal brotherhood using host humans, + communicating with each other + one another via the message traffic of the brain. I sense that "Albion" or England is the place where they will enter the divine child into our world. Part one of the book -the part in which Siddhartha sleeps- has ended, + we can expect him to awaken. The second half now begins. It is St. Sophia's return: God's wisdom to Earth, born a second time, + this time he or she will be acceptable: will prevail. I am afraid because it is an awesome holy mystery + event, the most important event since the first Advent, abolishing counterfeit time + destroying the prison, freeing us + restoring us to what we once were + are supposed to be. I feel the terrible + vast majesty of the divine close at hand. Tremens factus sum ego et timeo. In die illa, libera me, Domine, qui tollis Folder 03 - 039 Folder 03 - 039 peccata mundi. Credo sed timeo. Apollo, Buddha, St. Sophia - the whole world will be drawn together by this, the universal divine Savior. He awakens now; he is nearing the shore - like King Arthur, returning from across the sea, to reclaim his rightful throne + kingdom, on the silent, flat barge, with the sword Azoth. Maybe what scares me is knowing that the books are closed or nearly closed - the books upon whose contents we will be given life or death: it's like that night when the cold moonbeam-like white light filled the bedroom + we were as if painted in place, with nowhere to hide. The eye of Shiva is upon us: herdsman + destroyer. Time is ending, literally. Reality will now be exposed + all will become known: disclosed openly, + weighed. We can only pray for rescue in this hour; the judge -the great assize- is here: the Pantocrator himself. I must remind myself that I saw my name entered in the book of life. All I need is faith + trust. All I need is to know that I have an advocate with the Father who will never desert me. __ The 3-74 experienced, unleashed by 2-74, was the breaking of a partition between me + - what? A former self? No, I say, the immortal person. He cannot be defined by any one space, name or time. Whether this fits in with any system I do not know. (Hermetic?) There is an analog in the microcosm to the immortal world soul of the macrocosm. Perhaps it is the macro soul. Contracted, not analogous to it, but actually it. Folder 03 - 040 Folder 03 - 040 Then anamnesis, as phylogeny recapitulated in ontogeny means to break through from the transient self to the contracted form of the macrosoul, reflecting back the macrocosm, with all that it knows. The fact, actually, is that I don't know. It is, however, as if we (I extrapolate) contain an immortal person - but what system of thought teaches this? (The Atman, maybe - but no: this inner immortal person has distinct idiosyncrasies; he is a particular person. Perhaps this immortal person once was an ordinary mortal, but received immortality from Christ. Then I can't extrapolate to everyone. Thomas to Paracelsus to me. But Bruno knew of this magic memory. So I can extrapolate ... on the mechanism, anyhow. Suppose we regard this as the topology of the macrobrain, with P. + T. close to PKD but partitioned off. + the spacial partition was broken: parallel psychoi living in different times, the sum of which is transtemporal. What must be recognized is the counterfeit nature of time. With its abolition comes the re-fusion of the parts of the total (immortal) personality partitioned off into parts by time. The resulting refusion is, obviously, transtemporal. This is phylogeny in my ontogeny. __ My dream last night: Cabin, pills + copy of Planet Stories. Semi-conscious, I attempted to test out whether this dream world, so rich in detail, was generated by my mind. It was not. It didn't respond to my thoughts (e.g., I thought, "critical article on PKD," but none appeared. The contents were not generated by me, but received by me. + the generator was deficient in generating detail beyond a certain point, the simulation fell short. But anyhow it was presented to me, adventitiously. It was as stubborn + unyielding as "actual" reality.