- which is to say, also, with its mind - there being no distinction between Palmer Eldrich qua mind vs qua body This is a discovery. In the case of this vast sentient entity, unlike with us, there is no psyche-soma dualism. Hence it is Noos. The key to what Zebra is + is doing can be inferred by using "the 3 Stigmata" as model, reversing the good bad + the real-spurious bipolarities +, as I discovered when recently I read the novel, it is in fact not a study of hallucination + drugs but of the miracle of transubstantiation. So via the novel we are led back to Christ + what Helhard de Chardin says about his vast cosmic plasmatic presence 4 96 So "3 Stigmata" is not totally the reverse of the true situation. A vast invisible sentient entity is per vading our world, substituting (ah! There's the word!) substituting itself progressively more more, further + further, deeper + deeper, into the core of our world. both in the novel + in our actuality. The sacrament (Eucharist) is described, + the true results (but with the good-bad bipolarity reversed). now, as to the real-spurious. What Palmer Eldritch substitutes as world I, in the novel, deem spurious, + that which is being systematically "attacked" + replaced I present as real. But suppose the original world (or condition) was already illusory (i.e. Maya or Dokos), which is not presumed in "3 Stigmata" as it is in "Maze." The real vs spurious process runs in opposite directions in those two novels: A) In "3 Stigmata" the real is first given, + then the spurious but sentient replaces it B) In "Maze" the spurious is first given, but then breaks down to expose the real. Neither is sentient. Let us collate (montage) the two, A + B, + apply this to our actual situation from B) the given world seems real but, unknown to us, who are asleep, is spurious hon A) this first (spurious) seemingly real world is gradually pervaded + replaced by a growing sentient entity from B) the final world which results is real m A) But it is alive, purposeful + sentient. (the good-evil bipolarity is ignored). So neither (A) ("3 Stigmata") contains the total true message, nor does (B) ("Maze"), but a careful integration of selected themes from both A + B when collated do present the authentic state of being for us 97 N listed in terms of error not truth here is the contents: A) is wrong in assuming the given as real. (A) is rong assuming that the intruding substituting cosmic organism is a spurious mere imitation of reality. (B) is wrong in assuming that when the illusory world (Dokos, maya) is abolished the actuality revealed will be awful. since (A) ("3 Stigmata") was written just before (B) ("Maze"); BB) can be regarded as a more sophisto-ti cated addendum to (A), a correction of (B)'s naive error in taking the given world as real - an assum‐ ption which logically leads to the 2nd falsity, that of regarding the sentient intruding organism our world as spurious. (B), Then corrects (A). The truth is garbled up, divided between the 2 novels. Now: add "UBIk" What lies in that novel, coming chronologically between (A) + (B). "Ubik" is an extraordinarily accurate, precise + complete rectification of the good-evil bipolarity reversed into falsity in (A), in (v) ("Ubik") the intrudn sentient entity (Runciter/Ubik) is benign - + Yet it crowds into, impinges on, our world. But a false world! So (4) corrects one error, + (B) corrects the other. But the Ursatz lies in A I think: if the proper parts of (A). (v), + (B) are retained, + the erroneous parts discarded, the exact true state of affairs is put forth t Hence, with "Mazen the task is completed. I then turned to other tosks. But I had said what is real - except I devided the information between 3 novels. taken solus, none of the 3 states itu but read as a trind, then 98 In analyzing (A) ("3 Stigmata") one can discern why, the at time of his 1st Advent, Christ could say, "everything is all right; I have conquered the world" - while knows ino he was about to be betrayed, tried falsely, + crucified. The 1st Advent, viewed in terms of (A), was the inserting into the material world, as if it were dough, of the little bit of leaven - the mustard seed, for instance. utilizing the Aristotelian distenction between accidents + essence, as one does re the host - the accidents (appearances) of the world would remain unchanged. But inwardly, on an ontological, (essence) level, the transformation would go on - like the leaven or mustard seed growing: as leaven, to transmute the totality, as mustard seed to grow to enormous size (+ as pearl or buried treasure, outweigh in value all else). of course he would admonish his disciples to be vigilant, to "stay awake." The message here was, look beyond appearances, + also, suddenly the inward transformation will break through into visibility (at least for some people). As in (A), everyone succumbed to the substituted world as in (B) it was the real world replacing the delusion, as in ( It was life-giving, wise, everywhere, immortal + divine. Q.E.D. Ego dixi. But let's add "Eye in the sky" (termed (E). Sequence: 1) a real world. 2) the characters (all mankind) fall. because of a "Betrayal" into unconsciousness + a damaged condition. 3) they live out dream lives in spurious worlds 4) while meanwhile rescue attempts from outside are being made, 5) although long stretches of subjective time roll by slight real elapsed time has actually occurred. (E) We fell from reality into delusion. (A) a vast sentient entity is replacing our world not with a thing. but with itself as Noos (4) The entity is benign, wise + holy. (B) Eventually our polyencephalic delusional world will be gone + the new, real, substituted world which is stealthily taking over will replace it: + we shall I wake up 99 So 3, not 2 stages or worlds can be discerned 1) A real world - from which we fell. 2) a delusional, or many delusional worlds. 3) a new real world, consisting of - rather than created or made by, the benign deity. + then other novels + stories of mine investigate fakes, deceit, the unreal, etc. In collating this to Xenophane's description of God what is added is process - that of an assimilation of the material world (lower triad) into the upper (spiritual which will result in "thy will be done on Earth as it is in heaven." Xenophanes was aware of the all-pervasive thinking God, but he did not realize that for it to be "all in all" it had to penetrate the material world + begin to transmute it. But Plato distinguished the two realms (ideal vs empirical), although, not knowing Christ, he could not foresee the assimilation of the of lower or "came of refections" world. No - Xenophanes was aware of ➀1 the world of mere appearances vs ➁ the real (invisible) world - all the pre‐ Socratics were. What he + all the others did not know was that a process by which this dual reality structure could be replaced by a single reality was going to set in, by Christ, to restore the original pre-fall harmony of inner-outer/upper-lower/spiritual-material, that a spiritualization by infusion + substitution would set in. The spurious world of deluding appearances ("the many would be progressively + stealthily transmuted, not bolished. The normal thought would be, "Let's abolish o it but Boehme correctly saw transmutation, not abolition 700 This transmutation or penetration is wonderfully laid out in "Ubik" - the "ham sandwich" universe, with the farther slice of bread "Bre‐ 'd i fying" the ham slice progressively In more modern terms, the urgrund is the Dinge-anisich world, + acting on the phenomenal world It maniputates it in whatever way it wishes - without ever disclosing its own nature. That I saw it was entirely due to the theolepsy by it acting on me; I was to it a part of the phenomenal world, no different from any other part. Hence, what took me over (with me an phenomenological "front) was my essential cores (essence), indivisible from the Urgrund. The dinge-an sich inside me of which even I was unaware At that moment (3-74) I as one epiphenonenon out of a myrial) was transmuted, + the eternal was infused into me, making me into the not-me but also immortal. My isomorphism to the entity (Zebra) outside was tat twam as1, but also it was a case in point as to how the myriad becomes the one (again). I, + the total external reality, were one living entity. So I say, beneath the phenomenal empirical world of the many, the not-I, lies an organism which includes me. For that real me to die the entire enitity (cosmos) would have to die. It becomes obvious, then, who "Thomas" was: the mind of the total entity - i.e. ZebrA in me + outside me () is closest of all to the actual situation. Eerily so. the initial world is real; then there is the mishap (the fall) then a false world taken as real; then the breaking through of the Holy Wisdom Savior into that false world - in a way exactly like my later (3-74) experience. All that is lacking is the transformation miracle found in (A) 601 But in a sense the message is always basically the same - yet as I say, the intact (full) message is a spread out over 3 or 4 novels. The cunning counterfeit of reality, revealed as such when authentic reality breaks through - like the "tip-tip" of the branch blowing against the window in Finnegans wake during Earwickers dream. This "Tip-tip" is the clue, + the only clue. In (v) it is the commercials + messages intruding "from the other side" (Lem). Do we experience that? I did in 3-74. So I am forces to conclude that our reality is a cunning counterfeit, mutually shared - + that The wise mind is trying to signal us - to do what? To kick over into anamnesis: discharge of DNA long-term memories. To remember + to wake up are absolutely interchangable. Both equal consciousness to forget + fall asleep are also the same thing. So, in 2-74, I was abruptly (but temporarily) stimulated into waking - i.e. remem‐ bering - + in 3-74 full memory + consciousness returned. by the logic of all this, the Rome c. AD 70 (the world of "Tears") is the real world, + what we see is fake. So now we have novel (T), in which the real world is portreyed A b false world real world Good wise Transformation semi-ok to prison UbIk entity of false world te by good entity! t the larst p Garden world) into reality as end state) persecutors It's a complex message with no less than 5, distinct parts. Six if the "conspirators" as contra-(C) are included n➀ We are no longer dealing in brood cosmological outline only, but with specifics -A searingly important realization: the view (revelation) that a wise, benign, powerful true God from "outside" has invaded our spurious reality + is transforming it ontologically into the good + real - this is fundamental Gnostic view: the Bad or stupid demiurge constructed a "counterfeit" reality that "couldn't come to [full] life, + the real, distant "Stranger" God took pity re all this + entered this counter feit creation - as Christ - to begin his task of i transmuting (saving) this whole cosmos My writing is dead-on Gnosticism - to vaeu our world as spurious. My 3-74 experience added the further Gnostic gnosis of the penetration (ZEBRA) by the true God (what I saw as Zebra's modulating processes + his mimickry). In