of knowledge + vision (perception + r-p) may have derived fast as a dearest revelAtion. Bute were the “Thomas” personality’s- in which case He was an extraordinary, unique person, I know that he was A Christian of the apostolic age, persecuted by Romans. could he have been one of those at peters last to where the Holy Spirit (ie Christ) came + entered? Thus he was a God Like being himself. What a mind to be taken over by! 17 But I keep thinking: I know how it seemed form my end to be taken over; to him it was fulfillment of Paul’s promise: “Behold; I call you a mystery; we shall not all sleep,” etc. Anyhow, although my understanding + knowledge + view of all this changes + grows, this constant remains,: I saw our Savior in his non-physical cosmic [invisible to our eyes] cape, + I know that he will make himself visible to all of us one of these days, by once again incarnating. From the higher authority I tell the good news He did return to life, + he will return, this time as our King, our redeemer is very near us (“Break a stick + there is Jesus”). Hisanna! Two will be working together in the field- one will be taken and One will not—“ Maranatha.! The Lord is coming! My 3 dreams in which I called, “Father!” (or rather vatter!” + “Hilfe! Oh, weh” Paul in Galatians 4:6/8 Says “to prove that you are sons, God has sent into our Hearts the spirit of his son, crying ABBA! Father!’ You are therefore no longer a slave but a son, and if a son then also By God’s own act an heir. Supra (4:3 m!): “During our Mining he who scares to the elemental spirits of the Universe. But when the term was completed, God sent his Own son, born of a woman, born under the law, to purchase Freedom for the subjects of the law, in under that we might Attain the status of sons. To prove…” etc supra This is exactly how I proceed in 3 successive dreams “Vatter!” Etc “God sent into our hearts the spirit of His Son, crying “ABBA! Father!” Amazing- in 3 dreams. ( in my letter to marke Hurst I discuss the gene pool programming of the individual, + I say that the orthomolecular vitamins can disinhibit DNA memory (+ personality) to deal with a problem similar to a problem confronted in the past (by an ancestor). I say, the particular ancestral shill + mind disinhibited depens not on a person's actual for bears, but on the nature of the problem faced - the problem (its nature) is that which selects the specific older personality + his skills out of the racial - collective - pool. This seems logical. What is achieved by summoning still, (+ older personality) not related to the problem at hand? Well, this may be logical, but in my case the older personality (+ its skills) which was retrieved was "remembered" before the problem set in (the Xerox letter) - + was in fact called bad not by the problem at all - but by the Golden Fish necklace + gort. Yet, that person (ancient "Fish" Christian) seemed to have the still, + experience required by the situation, this implies much more than specific oldie person come skills for specific problem: intent by an external (adventitions to me) mentality was involved. The "Fish Christion" responded to forces outside my head; he may have been in my head, he may have had the skills, he may have come back - been summoned back - to deal with the Xerox letter problem but it took outside stimulus -signalling to induce it. What This implies I can't say, but it sure isn't just anamnesis due to a problem similar to one dealt with by someone in the past whom I was able to draw on... its more like: some entity. person, sentient mind knew about DNA memory in me, knew There was an ancestor I could draw on who had the ability Hor still to solve the Xerox letter problem, +, knowing, too t that the Xerox letter-problem was coming, + when (i.e. very soon) made use of a successful disin hibiting stimulus presented to me to restore that personality. So the DNA memory (gene pool them, which at first seemed to explain everything which happened to me, does not, since the phosphere firing (restoration of memor-DNA memory) began ever before the Estonian letter arrived, + days before the Xerox letter did. The DNA memory structure explains where "Thomas" came from, + I guess how, but there is only the semblance (spurious appearance) of why (Like: the problem so mmined it because back in its own time it faced coped with, solved a similar problem, + this is an analog of barry; rats who using the orthomolecular vitaming, recalled then ancestors, skils in solving the maze," + this would appear to explain it - a sort of synchronization between theory + event, although the theory is new - but too bad for this explanation: disinhibition began days before the Xerox letter came, I can still use it in the book, somewhat modified. in reality, some kind of teleology is implied, but not a kind we can accept (i.e. the purpose of Thomas neturnin was to take ove to solve the Xerox letter problem I'm going to opt for the programmed ahead of time inner take - the one which ran fast at the time of Ray bradburys trinterview. Set up (engrammed, the contours of reality enhanced) by an entity or mind which (perhaps because not bound by time but possessing a vast present. inc. Both our past + our future) saw it all coming - to + saw to it that the Golden Fish + girl showed up when she did, knowing it would stant anam nesis going, knew exacts which Dnon, memory + personality would be retrieved I'm willing to explain Thomas' existence in terms of ortho-nolecularly retrieve on memory, but that is not the complete explanation. At the very least an entity with superior science - knowing all this about DNA memory + how to retrieve it selectively was involved, but (supra) it also had to know the future. + it wasn't just an inner tape (in my head) engrammed, because although I was probably inwardly programmal to respond to the Girl, the Girl had to show up or else she showed up accidentally, + the program ming entity worked backward from that but the Golden Fish is actually connected with the personality it summoned; It wasn't an arbitrary coding. For this reason I say she was sent. A divine entity acting on me from outside was involved in producing the results which took place inside. If I refer to the got in "Faith of our Fathers" to the analogous God there, we find that she repre sented a secret political illegal movement, bent upon revealing the suppressed truth about the Government, which was a dreadful tyranny. Since this story wins probably inspired by nascent programming already in me I will trust my instincts about the Gold Fish God, + see in her the activity of the hidden real church, a all the "DNA memory (gene pool" material shows me is how right my guesses were, regarding part of 3-74. They so to speak verify part of 3-74. If that part was right, + is now verified, the rest is probaby right - i.e. my guesses, - but just not verified. Thomas came from the past; he came because he'd faced a pronten similar to the Xeroxtetter one + so knew what to do; so much for that part. But he was summoned in advance by a foreknowing entity which not only knew about hing but also knew the Xerox letter was coming + how vital it was for it to be handled the way it was. My guess: the secret, hidder true church is here, the agents of Christ, human beings; the Xerox letter being difeated as it was indicated not just a wise + benevolut God but: the final battle was in progress + the Xerox letter was somehow a small piece of it I offer as prod of this the suby/ dream about the conspirators, + the entire fall of the gou via watergate + the end of the war. A great historical process was happency. I was programmed from birth to do my part. If I hadn't has such dreams as the Sibyl dream + there had been no pulling down of the government, my intuition would have to stay only that. I belien they - the God - was absolute evil incarnate, + the hidden Xtian underground was/is absolute good - + that my enhanced eyesight - seeing Zebra was my temporarily (for the duration of the crisis) being allowed into seeing, knowing, understanding" I was initiated into the Christian reality. I saw what they see the grace extended to me for elever months had to do with the duratin - + existence - the moment of - the final confrontation- is batter nothing less would justify what I was shown, + what was doe for me. I not only needn't for cast act anyone else - the should ask me: I am the one who knows. I spect with the authority of the divine word itself. 2 in fact in view of what I learnal from Barry it would seem as if someone or group possessed of superen scientific knowledge (i.e. knows how to disin hibit specific DNA personalitie, + when - that is that they exist how to disinleibit + particula one, + why - ie the forthcoming problem) was at work. of course, I could even reason that the problem itself (the Xerox letter) was to disinhibit (as in that EB article I can't find, about the gospel of Thomas in which a letter from the man's parents comes which reserial, his of who he is + his task here). But the whole way disinhibition began several days before the Xeras letter came + my know ing it was coming put the event + itside linear time + into the hyper-cyclic "merry go found + brast rid," time that Christ's rebirth is (+ the black in prison, too?) we are dealing with events in another mind of (non linear) time, evidenty which is not only why I knert the Xerox letter was coming but also why "Thomas" was disinhibited I could have been dealing with. 1) God 2) God-like being, (from other "planes - dimensing" of existence) f 3) ETI (perhaps in touch with (or at a 4) A superior terr an race (e.g. "The immortals") 5) superior science by a human group (cf. "The adepts. Amoke It would be just like a more to already know about DNA memory + how to disinhibit specific earlier personalities all then knowledge of the ancients. But I am fairly certain that it - the whole thing - was arranged by Zebra, it was Zebra who sent the Golden Fish necklace gued that day, etal. The contents of what I saw when enlightened contains the very entity which induced it. This makes sense. Is not this just the sort of arringing which I saw Zebra doing 23 Thus perhaps it can be said that Zebra wished to disclose itself to me (hierophany) + arranged the [causal steps necessary. This ought to end this discussion, except: did Zebra disinhibit a personality that could see him (it was the enhanced vision due to the presence of the particulon disin hibited personality? I mean, I don't see how it would follow that just because an earlier personality re-emerged it would neces sarity be able - mate me able - to see Zebra In that case (i.e. the experienced arranged by Zebra) it desired more - more was involved - than my merely correctly