I can't extrapolate to everyone. Thomas to Paracelsus to me. But Bruno knew of this magic memory. So I can extrapolate ... on the mechanism, anyhow. Suppose we regard this as the topology of the macrobrain, with P. + T. close to PKD but partitioned off. + the spacial partition was broken: parallel psychoi living in different times, the sum of which is transtemporal. What must be recognized is the counterfeit nature of time. With its abolition comes the re-fusion of the parts of the total (immortal) personality partitioned off into parts by time. The resulting refusion is, obviously, transtemporal. This is phylogeny in my ontogeny. __ My dream last night: Cabin, pills + copy of Planet Stories. Semi-conscious, I attempted to test out whether this dream world, so rich in detail, was generated by my mind. It was not. It didn't respond to my thoughts (e.g., I thought, "critical article on PKD," but none appeared. The contents were not generated by me, but received by me. + the generator was deficient in generating detail beyond a certain point, the simulation fell short. But anyhow it was presented to me, adventitiously. It was as stubborn + unyielding as "actual" reality. Clearly, it emanated from the same source! But either push or pull was missing. Anyhow, here I am again, dreaming about written pages (+ which refer to me). Folder 03 - 041 The title of the story was: "Beyond Lies the Wug," an obvious combination of "Wub" and "Vug." What do "Wub" + "Vug" have in common? Both are alien life forms which enter + take over a human host by an exchange of mental contents (as in "Human Is") or simply impersonate humans - look like them through illusion-generation. This was an updated issue of Planet Stories, + it was divided into 2 parts, + was coming apart. The first, "Wub," seemed more hinted at - i.e., indicated: exchange of inner contents, but "Vug" suggests invasion of this planet by an alien life form plural (the Wub was a solo entity). The message is: This planet has been invaded by a benign super wise alien life form which exchanges mental contents + then uses the human soma as a host. (The Wub was wise + benign.) + there was material in the book (or magazine) not by me but about me. So maybe my matrix immortal self isn't human, but another life form from "elsewhere" ("Albemuth"). Thomas is not a human being - nor will be the Savior; they were smuggled in like cuckoo's eggs - they are wise + benign, like Wubs. But nonetheless they have replaced human (lesser) mental contents with themselves. This is something I almost thought of - I saw the resemblance between Thomas + the alien entity in "Human Is" who replaced the woman's husband, but gave himself away via speech mannerisms. Just add in the Wub story - with an overtone of the Vugs.. + the term "planet" itself, this has to do with planets. Thomas was born in me from the start, but had forgotten himself. They (the brotherhood) deliberately set off anamnesis in 2-74, because the time for him to act had come; anamnesis was anyhow necessary. But prior to this Thomas had underwritten my writing (e.g. "Ubik" + "Tears"). Folder 03 - 042 Folder 03 - 042 I'm surprised that I haven't always recognized the raft dream as a clue to invasion from outside - + one invader is me. (Starting as an infant.) Thomas indeed came from the stars originally (he must have first "wubized" in CAD 45 Rome, as a secret Xtian). __ Voice: "We will recant (?) progressively in time." (Recant means retract or recall.) (Means "revoke" which means "call back to mind, to memory, to restore, to bring back to use or operation. To recover. ___ P. was intimately bound up with the Rosy Cross people, + also predicted the return of Elias (Elijah). The Hermetic macro-microcosm view is that of the Rosy Cross. So the latent implicit cosmology of my writing (esp "Ubik") is Rosy Cross, + it works; they can contact what I call Ubik, the macromind. Then -+ this explains 2/3-74- I am an illuminatus. Either my writing was by the R.C. or at the very least came to the attention of the R.C., esp "Ubik," + they recognized that I had an immortal illuminatus (i.e. apostolic Xtian - ) in me, + they disinhibited me. So now I am positive that the cypher in "Tears" is R.C. My hunch was correct; I feel I've proved it, via the macro-micro Hermetic cosmology of "Ubik" etc. In other words, Hermetic (R.C.) material is not only in my writing but forms the basis of it. I am sure the brotherhood has made use of me; + 2-3/74 was RC as I suspected. But the most important thing of all is that the immortal transtemporal + -personal man is among us. That is what T. is transpersonal as well as transtemporal: that immortal transpersonal man must be Christ. Folder 03 - 043 Folder 03 - 043 Christ was a healer. P. was a notable healer. The true Rosy Cross = the true Xtians - the immortal man himself. He must have been P: theolepsized in him as he did in me. It must be so; this power could only come from Christ himself, using us as hosts. The RC if it is -+ has- what I think it is + has- must be Christ himself in them, as them; it cannot be otherwise. The hidden immortal man, who "moves about" + so can never be killed or caught. Maybe he can be in more than one place (host) at a time (as in "Z"). That the immortal man was among the Rosy Cross enlightenment + among us now is the final secret, below that of the R.C.'s powers + its involvement in history. Allied to this secret is the secret of his pure incarnation, his return, his pure return, not mixed with a host human, to assume his rightful kingship. Yet in a sense, the immortal man as plasmatic moving spirit moving from host human to host human is at least part of his return. It is him here: PKD who is latently (secretly) P. who is secretly Thomas who is secretly Holy Spirit who is secretly Christ who is secretly God. The actual 2nd coming consists of the open disclosure that he is here; he steps visibly into sight, not hidden, e.g. as he was in me in 3-74, covertly taking me over. When it is disclosed it will be a fait accompli. Thus my early-on vision of station after station being taken over (by him). In the "inner space" that P. spoke about, Christ as Holy Spirit was reachable as underlying councillor, it is the same voice that Elijah heard: the still small voice, in us now, not outside. There is an actual spacial universe within us, with us as outlets connecting it with outer space; the two connect + intersect through us as stations. There is only Folder 03 - 044 Folder 03 - 044 one inner spacial universe in which we all share; it is a koinos. This does not accord with modern cosmology, but P. knew it, + so the other adepts (Hermetics) must have known it. The immortal man moves from person to person through this inner space. Hence in my writing the subjectivity of world is shown (derived from my unconscious Hermetic knowledge - this first shows up in "Eye"). World literally is located in our minds (cf Pat Warrick's + McNally's comments on "MITHC") "Recant" certainly meaning "revoke" Inner space (of P.'s) is perhaps the key as to how the immortal man can be transtemporal + transpersonal. This places world inside us - did I not, in 3-74, when I regained my true vision, say I'd been seeing the universe backward? Perhaps I meant inside out - yes, I felt we were on the outside, like the skin or surface of a balloon, + the actual world was inside, with us outside. We are not at the center of the world looking up + around, but outside looking in. This would explain how Zebra could be behind objects, when "behind" should lead to simply more physical space. Our world is projected "outward" by + from out psychoi but is really in us plural, we are loci or "stars" on the circumference. Then we are stationary loci (sites) of the macrobrain, stimulated by its Noos to experience world - we do not move through [outer] space, anymore than when in dreams we seem to move we actually do so. My seeing Rome CAD 45 fade in (syntonically) with Thomas + his familiarity with it fade in internally to replace me is proof of this; it must be accepted literally + at face value. Stimuli (world) are fired at us Folder 03 - 045 Folder 03 - 045 by the omniaspect matrix I have posited which utilizes the dual synchronized tape tracks which give the illusion of causal interaction; but in fact my inner tape is auto-programmed + would fire by clock-cue in the absence of the "external" stimuli. So the Golden Fish did not in fact disinhibit me, e.g.; I was inwardly programmed to disinhibit, + the Golden Fish was pretextual (v. the voice supra). I was operating by an inner tape + clock, but the Noos of the brain supplied an "external" "world" of stimuli to appear to be cause, but (as Leibnitz + Hume both saw) is merely in temporal harmony (synch). I would imagine that the Golden Fish "caused" me to disinhibit. What is real is neither world nor psyche, but rather the brain + its info traffic, which traffic we as stations of the brain faithfully process. Certainly, then, world should be enjoyed as much as possible rather than being rejected; it is a present given to us so that we can find goals (ends) for ourselves + not view ourselves just as means (functions) of the macro entity! World places each of us at the center. Actually meaning is more central than pleasure as such. However, world functions as directing instrument (teaching machine, a model I have long discerned - this overview explains how it can be regulated as a teaching machine! It is a simulated construct interwoven with its analog Folder 03 - 046 psyche. They cannot be separated. They are a unitary simultaneous -synchronized- construct; all that we can distinguish out of the enormous traffic around us is that part which is intended for each of us, + by + large this small portion operates on us subliminally, the rest isn't seen as info or stimuli either one. What is not meant for us fails to impinge, even though it is there. The same event, process or object can serve as stimuli meaning a variety of things to a variety of stations: this is accomplished through the linkage-systems (coupled sections). Anamnesis is nothing less than realizing what + where you really are: you perceive the brain + its traffic, you hear the voice of its Noos, + you understand the irreality of psyche, world, causality + time. This is quite different from remembering, say, just a former life. What the macrocosm is, what one is + what one's place + task in it are - this is what anamnesis as enlightenment is all about: it boils down to a way by which plurality is experienced as the One, + the person experiences his isomorphism with it + enters into dialog with it, his micro-mind + its macromind, his purpose + its purpose, now understood as identical. Since it cannot die he cannot die; since it cannot fail he cannot fail. He knows that it guides, informs + directs him always - + that he is never apart from it {...} it + it really {...} Micro- Folder 03 - 047 Folder 03