has returned + we can't see it. Instead we see a fake, delusional, other world in which 2000 years have passed or appear to have passed. I did not put this message in "Tears" or know it was there. The Roman world I saw the month "Tears" was released is the actual world in "Tears." Unexplained are: If I did not recognize the Acts (biblical) elements in "Tears" when I wrote it, how come I properly identified them the month "Tears" was release + I found myself in that very same world? Why didn't I identify that world as the one I had written about? These questions bypass more obvious questions which more naturally arise (such as, How come I found or believed myself in 1st century Rome? etc) The questions in para one are more astute than first appears. The questions - one question actually - is formally phrased as: "If you can identify y, why can't you identify y?" (The world of "Tears" is - cupola for equals - 1st century AD Rome. When I saw 1st century AD Rome I recognize it. Call it y. I could upon seeing y recognize + identity it. Y is the world of "Tears." I wrote "Tears." When I wrote it + repeatedly rewrote it + later repeatedly read it, I saw nothing in it that suggested y to me. But I later demonstrated an ability to recognize + identify y when I saw it. There is a disruption in the continuity of pattern recogniton + identification; there is an ellipsis in - not logix, which is not involved - but something deeper. Person one (myself) both recognizes pattern y + does not. (i.e. he is familiar with 1st century AD Rome + its customs + is not. He dreams koine Greek words but does not 1) know what they mean; or 2) that they are the koine; or 3) that the koine was the lingua franca of 1st century Rome - that Acts, e.g., was written in it). This line of inquery points to two persons. One who knows + one who does not. This is substantiated by the switch of memory from 20th century USA to 1st century AD Rome. The person who wrote "Tears" used the memories / knowledge of the other without realizing it. This dissociation continued thru all the eleven drafts + readings, until the memories, personality + knowledge - i.e. the other person broke into consciousness the month the book was released. Question: Is there a literature on alternate personalities (in persons with multiple personalities) separated by 1900 years + 8000 miles? They could not have split off during one lifetime (i.e. at an early age). So childhood trauma won't explain it. Answer: There is no such literature. Question: Does the stegenographic message provide any clue to the abreative personality? Answer: the message is the "Kerygma" (Proclaiming the redemptive death + resurrection of the Lord) revised. Christ is not crucified, did not depart + hence is present. The subjective sensations noted about pointed to a confirmation of this. Conclusion: the person has a rich fantasy world. He has dissociated personalities + experiences (ever since an auto accident he has complained of periodic amnesia). The "hidden message" in the novel + the "remembering ancient Rome" indicate strong unconscious wishes directed toward Christ's imagines return. It is touching that the human hopes for a redeemer could yield such elaborate phantasies. A dearth of real experiences is indicated. Therapy indicated. # Quote: "Is it totally camouflaged (the BIP)? There is no exoteric verbal integer which represents it. Not any knowledge of it in out experience. We do not know it exists + we do not know of the good news ("kerygma") of its defeat. "Something warping + evil we don't know of has been defeated by a group secret to us, with the result (also unknown to us - hidden from us) that Christ has or will return. All 3 elements - the whole narrative - is occluded all from us." (page 52) (referring to the message in "Tears.") + Zebra (if it is an additional element) is also camouflaged - occluded off from us. What occludes us? What creates the negative hallucinations + the counterfeit world in place of what is really there? (i.e. the 3-element narrative supra.) The BIP? It is "Zebra" vs the "BIP." This is very Zoroastrian. + the fact that the true kerygma must be smuggled in encoded - buried - stegenographically. So that it took me over four years to extract it. PS1: "Why should the good news have to be encoded? It must not only differ from the ostensible message of "Tears" but from what we are told generally - i.e. the exoteric theological narrative of our civilization." No wonder K.W. thought of R.A. Lafferty's "What the name of that town?" viz" "The machine smiled again + went peacefully back to sleep. " 'that damnable piece of junk,' Smirnov growled, walking along + petting his sore shin. 'I feel almost as if I were on the verge of wondering what it is.' " -30- Maybe this kerygma is the true one. Not Christ crucified but Christ saved. "Emmanuel - God with us" - that was to be his name (Isa.) the kerygma contained in one word, as it is in "Felix" - in a name. The kerygma of "Tears" is "Emmanuel" this is what I saw (i.e. Zebra). Christus victor. You know, this all my not be a theological matter, but have to do with a future evolved race, time travel, superior technology (inc beams of pink light carrying info) + a fight between "Christ," a future evolved 3 eyed human, a uti, + the BIP, none - nothing - of which we get any real glimpse of. War waged over the millenia. An invisible war, with us occluded, in which the good side of Freedom (recognized by us as holy) won over the enslaving prison - unseen by us: + news of this in "Tears," perhaps because of the good side's intervention re Nixon. The message being "we're successfully here," to be "museumed" for the future. We were liberated from the BIP (which we couldn't see) by the "secret Xtians" + "Zebra" - none of which we could see. I still hold to the negative hallucination view, though, but as a matter of ultra sophisticated technology, not theological. The whole war + the forces (sides) are supra - or trans-temporal. Zebra may not be Christ; it may be a UTI or even an ETI, but it is here + it did defeat the BIP, but it is here + it did defeat the BIP - as the kerygma is "Tears" encoded) states, even if we're occluded, + even if USA1974 is a simulated world. War, on our planet, between 2 UTI or ETI forces. + we're not really "here" in the "Maze" or "UBIK" sense. or [Diagram of Earth circled by the BIP] BIP, a prison, + an occluding system generating (1) a negative hallucination of the truth; + (2) generating a simulated "Alibi" world. Messages of hope + cheer smuggled in past the occluding BIP, the BIP tells us, e.g. "Man is sinful." The smuggled in messages, e.g. in "Tears" speak of happiness + innocence + rescue, as in the James-James dream. + the eventual downfall of the BIP + the occlusion. At least one of the ETIs helping us is here (Zebra). The whole Tears, Pentheus, crucifixion suffering story is a lie. Credo I have considered every factor, + I have come to the conclusion that 1) Despite what we see, it is really only AD70, the time of Acts. 2) Christ returned at that time, but a negative hallucination by the powers of evil, the lie, prevents us from seeing + knowing this. 3) The world we see has been an apparent 2000 year satanic counterfeit interpolation in which evil disguised as Xtianity has ruled; 4) this evil is hypostatized as Rome which equals enslavement; 5) a secret true Xtian church exists which knows the truth + is fighting Rome, the Black Iron Prison; 6) They are led by a discorporate cosmic christ who frees us; 7) The basic issue is enslavement vs freedom; sorrow vs joy; 8) all the above ground churches represent enslavement, Rome, evil 9) Christ has won or is about to win, + the encoded news of man's exculpation is in my novel "Tears." cont → 10) The 2nd coming abolish the tears (pentheus) + crucifixion; 11) The real road to Christ + salvation is one of celebration + joy, not the cross + the passion 12) Christ is Dionysos + (12a) over threw the Nixon tyranny. 13) It is a lie that man is a sinner; the truth is he is a victim of evil, not a cause. He is not fallen but occluded (by the evil power); 14) + finally in 3-74 I saw the real world with its 3 elements: 1) the BIP (Rome) (the occluding or "warping" device) 2) the secret Xtians 3) Christ or Zebra + it was cAD70. Like the presocratic's I say, "what my senses tell me is there - the phenomenal world - is not there. It is a deliberate delusion. What is really there is cAD70, Christ returned + [..]" (All this was revealed to me in 3-74 + is verified by the total message in "Tears.") I have it on divine authority. ---------- The truth (kerygma) would sure have to be smuggled in in code if we're (actually) living in a prison. (Which we can't see - the negative hallucination + fake world.) "Tears" describes such a prison world. See diagram [BIP/messages] But the message doesn't just tell of the prison: it tells of the freedom fighters (Xtians) + their victory. Here, within the prison, with us, camouflaged, is Zebra, melting the harsh bonds that shackle us. So it's because of the BIP that the truth has to be in cypher. The senders of the kerygma are outside the prison, off Earth? or in "Realm I"? (v pp 57/8/9.) (Not necessarily. They may be the true, tiny, early Xtian church). We have an inner tape synchornized with the outer fake reality, "certifying" its reality to us. Zebra is an ETI secretly here, breaking this androidproducing deterministic coertion which we're happily oblivious to. Our governments are knowingly part of the invisible tyranny. + have been for 1000s of years - back to Babylon. There's a "supernaturaal" basis - i.e. nonhuman. KW's right the BIP warps every new effort at freedom into the mold of further tyranny. EB: the first voluntary churches were in the [..] Netherlands - the Dutch lowlands - in the 30 years war. Prince Henry + the Flyboats. 1618 - 1648 I'm supposed to believe (1) Christ was the son of God + had total wisdom, + (2) set up a tyrannical church that didn't allow the first voluntary assembly until 1580 + the wars of the Dutch Republics? No fucking way, something major doesn't compute. I know too much about the 30 Years War - mutual extermination. Fine. Real Xtian idea: God has allowed the dark power to set up a 2000+ years prison (in the name of Christ) to see who can figure out something basic is phony, wrong, fucked. Christ himself took up a totally antithetical position vis-a-vis world. + the situation hasn't changed - 2000 years of Roman prison world. If it really is AD1978 + there has been 2000 actual years of persecution + enslavement by the Xtian churcher, the I can't believe in Christ, inasmuch as if he was God he should - would - have anticipated this. So either 1) Xtianity inc Christ is a cruel fraud or 2) it is cAD Rome 70, a tiny persecuted real Xtian original church exists knowing the truth. But my 3-74 experience + the code in "Tears" proves the existence of God + Christ. ∴ 2) is