less defined. The urgraund sought self-intuition. We as diminer bits have not yet achieved that self-intuition; hence, when we suffer, we do not know why. Up the hierarchical scale there is still suffering - even perhaps an increasing level of suffering at each hierarchical stage - but also at each ascending stage there is a quantum leap in a selfintuition which bestows (permits) greater understanding of why there is this suffering. At the top, the incarnated son (heart, Logos, etc, St. Sophia) knows himself totally knows totally why he suffers. It is due to the blity + The flash of the encounter between the divine abyss the something - which must be "overcome" (transmuted this is why Paul can speak of the whole universe 89 being in birth pangs." Here enters the cosmic aspect salvation presented in collosians. of There is one thing that indicates that Boehme's "upper + lower triads" must be retained as part of the model: it would explain why ➀ prior to 3/74 I saw no divine entity at work (Zebra); then did see it; the (3) didn't again. We can see only the lower triad (v. Boehme's system). By the light of The Holy Spirit we can see the upper - i.e. spiritual triad, which is what I saw. "The Flash is the collision, as if were, between the absolute will + nature. Herein the Spirit reveals in its light the higher triad identified with the sor as the incarnation of spirit in matter this is the goal of the divine operation, whereby the opposition {Not is overcome + made into a harmony." N "Thus the Father differentiates himself through The first (lower) trial into material nature. An ob‐ stacle is thereby created to the abysmal will, which can be overcome, not by abolition, but only by transformation." It was the Spirit whose light illuminated the upper (spiritual) triad -temporarily - for me. What it disclosed may or must have been the cosmic plasmatic Christ. + it spoke of his 2nd incarnation fon the So I can't edit out portions of Boehme's system simplify it. But I can see how colossians can be + collated with Boehme's system i 90 I'll bet that a synthesis of colossians, Boehme system + Gnosticism can not only be achieved, But that a working totality (including the DNA memory coil + deranged circuit boral model) will account for most things What is especially valuable is this (derived perhaps inaccurately From Boehme): 1) God, the urgrund, the divine Father + abyse, suffers divine asony in the encounter with the material world, which he must overcome by sequentially trans‐ muting it. 2) We are isomorphic microcosms of him. 3) We feel revirberberations of his agony‐ but (in contrast to him, he being all-wise) we can't discern the source or cause or reason for our analagous pain. (Animals even less so. greater enlightenment (revelation) will not reduce the pain, + may even increase it; but the increase in understanding why will overweigh the increase in pain - + hence is a gain The "transmuting of the obstacle" fits in well with the Zoroastrian concept of the need for victory by the sons of light - also it fits such mystical sensa tioof purpose as I felt vis-a-vis the Xerox letter. (+ the general historic transmutation.) The thing is, I didn't just see ZeBRA; I was in another realm. Via the Spirit I had passed across -not to an after life - but to the uppertriad. Maybe that's where we go when our bodies die 91 -Has anyone thought of this modified Gnosticism? There was no creator of this world (planet or Cosmos) + the life therein. Atheists such as darwin are absolutely right; it was no God but simply natural forcs at work, determining evolution. owever, a loving, all-wise, sentient super‐ t entity inhabiting an "upper trind" etc has‐ entered the scene + is transmuting this purely naturalictic world into a totally benign sentient Body or organism. But what must be retained is that God is not nature nor the designer of nature, but stands inopposition to nature (the world), + must trans‐ mute it. This is what is meant in colossians when it is said that Christ is becoming absolute Lord - + judgeof the universe, n is stripping the natural (sic) powers of their authority, replacing theirs + them with his + himself. (Plato's Timeaus?) prior to my leap of awareness in which I saw -not natural objects + processes directed by immanent mind - but ZeBrA, exerting an invisible modulating control over nature, redirecting outcomes - unsil I saw this I would never have been able to understand + account for the negative or evil portions of reality! only when the transmuting entity (ZEBRA) is seen as a kind of invader does it all begin to make sense. Other‐ Wue Spinoza would have been correct about the impostibility of miracles. + yet contra-natural miracles is exactly what I saw. Thus, I owe 93 everything - this whole, "overcoming nature as opposition- to the quantum leap in discerning Zebra. That realization, a year ago, was for This exegesis the turning point, + I have always known it. The divine, wise entity must be posited as pitted against nature, not found in nature. Once this is established, some kind of resolution of the problem of evil (suffering) is possible. But nature regarded as God's design - no. that leads to a dead end. We wind up with God saving us from himself! It is a major realization that just as Thomas acquinai natural theology arguments (such as arguing back from design to designer, etc) fail to prove the existence of God, the ruthlessness + disorder in nature do not logically imply a bad creator God; no argument, "natural" or "ontological" proves God's existence. Thus, the Gnostic belieff in a deranged or inferior or evil creator isn't substantiated. Therefore we Gnostics are out on a limb vis-a-vis a bad creator in terms of argument. So out goes all cosmogony for this world. what remains is what I have by revelation: a super‐ natural divine intelligence doing what Jakob Boehme saw: colliding with the material universe + transforming (rather than abolishing) it. If I do not regard Zebra as a creator God, but a modulating God, then what we seem to actually have is divinization of the mundane, or plan over nonplan, organic interaction over chaos. No dualistic theology is necessary. I saw Zebra, who is totally benign, + I saw that material universe being what I call "transubstantiated" All the objectionable aspects of reality could thus be subdued 93 Therefore I say, what was revealed was the absolutely good, the absolutely wise + loving + divine. In contrast to My certitude about this, any knowledge of an evil deit is merely secondary + deductive (or inductive) - but not given direct. Every bad aspect of non-transmuted reality can be accounted for - not by the activity + presence of an evil deity but by the absence of a power‐ ful benign deity. Yet I witnessed such a deity. I could not assess the extent of the transmutation. For all I know, it's vastly advanced. For all I know it isn't. take the statement by the spirit to me back in 1968 about the Galapagos turtle. The import of what the spirit said was that even though it appeared other‐ wise, the dying turtle was somehow extricated: "+ she shall see the sea." one could extrapelate + say that This statement implies that even what appears to be, or remain [unsubdued] evil is invisibly ameliorated wa mysterious way Boehme wrote that man (i.e men) have a choice illumi‐ nated for them by the light of the spirit: we can remain in torment as victim of the oscillations of the lower triad (or material) universe, or "die to our self" - negate ourselves as the urgrund does, + thereby imitate Christ + follow him from suffering to triumph (joy). Thus anguish is ultimately something to overcome, not fall victim to. Anguish is the starting point. So we must not tarry in anguish, but paster with "gladdening fortsteps." In 3-74 at the heart of hisery + despair I found supreme joy + freedom; it t was totally transmuted. This is Taoistic. (+ didn't Hera‐ Clogus teach this unity of opposites, if pushed far enough I o 94 Wait. My whole "what is reality?" + my acosmic answer points to a possibility in Zebra's modulation of an t that I hadn't realized. What does modulation already illusory reality indicate? Do not the two The hologramatic projection was go hand in hand? altered - projections are susceptible to such manipulaion points to the thought-like quality of reality. There is some profound connection between my sus‐ picions about the ontological substantiality of reality + Zebra (+ Zebra's modulations by which he exerted control over the outcome of the causal processes meanwhile perfectly mimicking the morphology of normal, deterministic processes) Q: Are there in fact two categories of processes (natural vs modulated), or just one, with the modulation occluded off (i.e concealed)? I can't be certain that the answer is obviously two, not one. Perhaps I saw a vast sentient "animal" capable of exerting effective purposeful control over what for it are internal events. It regulates itself (high order of homeo‐ stasis). I may be missing the obvious. Xenophanes was correct: it is a vast mind, everywhere simultaneously, unlike men: "all of it sees; all of it hears; all of it thi thinks, + by its thoughts it weilds all things (or "shakes" all things). all that need be said was said by Xenophanes. (Here cf Spinoza). But I saw Zebra as constituting an invading, mimick‐ entity, counterfeiting normal processes for conscious endsng the ends normally not being purposeful or conscious Phil Dick meet charley Gordon. "If I'd only true a little harder-". 95 I'm just going to speculates giving up all attempts at systematic proofs. Our chaotic world has been invaded by a supernatural divine conscious wise powerful entity, which is systematically replacing parts (objects, events + processes) the way Palmer Eldritch replaced the real world with him self qua spurious world. the two differences are: (in our actual world) N It is the ontologically real replacing the ontologically spurious (the diametric opposite from what is happening in the novel "the 3 Stigmata) + ➁ The replacing entity is benign, not evil. hence I say: "The 3 Stigmata" is an exact looking glass opposite or backward view of the real world. Except for the following: in both our real world (however real that may be! + in "the 3 Stigmata" ar enormously vast God-like sentient entity is replacing the natural processes. things, portions, with its mimicking organic body - which is to say, also, with its mind - there being no distinction between Palmer Eldrich qua mind vs qua body This is a discovery. In the case of this vast sentient entity, unlike with us, there is no psyche-soma dualism. Hence it is Noos. The key to what Zebra is + is doing can be inferred by using "the 3 Stigmata" as model, reversing the good bad + the real-spurious bipolarities +, as I discovered when recently I read the novel, it is in fact not a study of hallucination + drugs but of the miracle of transubstantiation. So via the novel we are led back to Christ + what Helhard de Chardin says about his vast cosmic plasmatic presence 4 96 So "3 Stigmata" is not totally the reverse of the true situation. A vast invisible sentient entity is per vading our world, substituting (ah! There's the word!) substituting itself progressively more more, further + further, deeper + deeper, into the core of our world. both in the novel + in our actuality. The sacrament (Eucharist) is described, + the true results (but with the good-bad bipolarity reversed). now, as to the real-spurious. What Palmer Eldritch substitutes