tyranny. It's stamp is on us is any way we can exist + not wind up serving Look how it took the Reformers over. Is there hope? will Durant says, "the history of Christian t salvation by faith + good works to faith (luther inner divine illumination (the quakers." If is indeed an evolutionary sequence, then my 3 experience is of a modern sort - of recent origin not comprehensible to the earlier religious types. t read his entry on quakers, + their experience is min + the possibility of the Holy Spirit coming i heaven to enlighten + ennoble the individual s to perceive + feel this inner light, to welcome guidance, was to the quaker the essence of relig if a man followed that light he needed no p r or priest, + no church. The light was superior th human reason, even to the Holy Bible itself it was the direct voice of God to the soul. Fox is as I was walking in the fields, the Lord sain unto me: "thy name is written in the Lamb's B t life which was before the foundation of the world He felt" he was among that minority of mengchosen by before the creation, to receive his grace + eternal blis I feel as if I've finally come home. 8 the "Tears": the modern world. (Surface). Rome. (latent) seen in 3-74: Rome (latent) ("actual" world). The modern world. (Surface) i.e. "Tears" shows how Rome could "be" the modern world. Latent form as master of obvious form y rise t crucial difference: "Christ" is exculpated, throug the in-breaking of God + hence the conversion of the magistrate. deduction: Advent II, not I. Q: How can Rome be latent in the modern A: Look to "Tears." It is presented there. I trave What I believed to be a projection into the future our actual world, + Rome emerged. Did I go back time to Rome, or has Rome covertly come forward in our modern world? It seemed to be ancient Rome, the time of Acts. t theory: somehow time is involved in this the accretion rings or layers surrounding Rome are not real. Rom shows through - both in "Tears" + to me in 3-74. but the latent form has changed: acquital instead condemnation. The matic of good Friday (agape). Salva This alchemy applied to Christ - i.e. Christ saved. I: the innocent one condemned I: " is acquited. I due to the fall of i BIP (Rome)? This is advent II. 111 o The BIP as represented by the magistrate (au Buckman is destroyed (+ converted) by the in-bre of God. (Written in 1970 + published in 1974 the y actually happened.) The dream in "Tears" dep what happened 4 years later. Buckman's conversion in "Tears" due to dream (of God or Christ?) is an analog to conversion by the theophany of Christ on the R t Damascus in Acts. + Buckman is "on the road" - the But this implies that the theophany on the to Damascus was the return of Christ - as prom like my analysis indicates: He returned back the could Paul not expect to encounter Christ until afte his - Paul's - death, when he had already during life encountered him? After all, Christ had ascern Heaven back at pentercost - i.e. was gone the disciples were told he'd return. On the road th Damascus he did return; Paul was a witness to + was (like Buckman) converted - the persecute converted by Christ (the dream's King) into one filled with agape, leading to the final scene wit the black man. I wasn't just shown Rome; I was show the divine workings, overthrowing the us ernment (i.e. Rome). This is related in "Tear the form of Buckman's conversion + the acos verdict in Taverner's trial. the innocent Buckman is persecuting Taverner, just N The Saul (Paul) is persecuting the innocent Christ sters my contention that Taverner = Christ. see it see it is t t 2 ou r God in the dream says, " Taverna must die" this not God saying Christ must be Crucified But Buckman is converted by this tragedy as in the Good Friday Magic, condemnation is converted into innocence (acquittal) the fact that the innocent Taverna is to be sacrificed effects the communism of Buckman - thus in a very sense Christ's Crucifixion with the curious Outcome that Christ is acquitted! Christ saved by the ? of the ? sinner who cries ? his innocent death - which the sinner ? to bring about. ? ? ? communism. Communism of the persecution of the church which is what sault was. Buckman is at that time the persecutor of taverna, who is Christ. He is ? ? ? has a dream (vision) of him whom he is persecuting. it converts him to Love ? After all, this conversion was one of the most important events in the history of ? What "tears" does this recap the early - the earliest years of events the infant church, Acts hinges on Saul's conversion; "tears" hinges on Buckman's conversion the conversion scene - event - is the ? experience and ??? ? "tears" of ? each xtian, the conclusion was/is the turning point , all of "tears" revolves around this moment. if it represents Paul's converstion in the novel to Damascus. Then I ? recapitulated in my writing use of the creation Moments in Xtian history. ? Like Most of the i other biblical material in "Tears" it is Acts. what does this realization (about additional Acts material in "Tears") we me? When I wrote "Tears" I was con o sciously striving to describe agape - the takes us back to Rome CAD 45-70, which in is remarkable enough, but then I see it, a t me - actually there. I describe the future the past. The response to Rome is this i version; the solution to Rome is this conce effected through death, grief + years to con exculpation. I wrote it but I don't un t stand it. It is a magic + a miracle so s that it can abolish the BIP + its warp. power, as if the tears are a solvent agage The true power, issuing out of grief. I must remember Rome + these events i the experience on the road to Damascus. am I? Who is "Thomas"? He is an an stolic Xtian. He remembers. "Wer seen brennen in meiner Brust As 4 it insists on the importance of the Holy Spirit Acts attributes the spread of the developing church to the wor yous activity of the Holy Spirit, + why it seems so full of sp som + wonder at God's works - that is why the book has been called "the gospel of the Spirit'" etc. Jerusalem bi t Acts is the scriptural account of the Hol Spirit. Thus I say, about this does the spirit well kn the I i o t 11 1 So the Holy Spirit has the world of Acts me fully in its memory banks, it came from there remembers Christ + knows of his return. This (no its print out: what one could expect of it in term what it remembers. Q: What is special about the book of Acts in tradistinction to all other books of the Bible? A: it is the "Gospel of the Holy Spirit." then a print-out of Acts might be construed sign of the presence of that Holy Spirit once more for example, random messages were constructed, + enem of Acts appeared in them; this would be a reasonabl conclusion (esp. if all others were lacking; i.e. if the no other (possible or known) explanation). I have regard myself qua writer as a machine in this case, receiver + printing system. (This was in 1970.) + then there is the later (3-74) experience, as con Hon. + in 1978 I first see the absolute not rela corrolation between the stegenographic material in "Te + the world etc which I experienced in 3-74. The indepe prophecy about St. Sophia seems to imply: the 2nd Ad les very close + the explanation for the material in "Tear my 3-74 experience is this proximity. Tied in with are the U.S. historical events of 1974, which I interpret being or representing the overthrow of Rome (the BIP first stage in the apocalypse. true time resumed in 1974 where it left off abo AD 70. the Holy Spirits acts to seal - place a seal of absolute, divine authenticity - on the Kerygma. find the Kerygma of salvation (Grace) in "Tears carrying this absolute stamp. How many huma have been granted this article of authentication informed by it + armed with it I completed "Deus Irae" proclaiming Christs return. te t is So with me there is input + output; I act boosting component, + a broadcasting circuit the total system. Strangely, "Deus Irae" is enor successful on the market. It's gone everywhere great quantity, here + abroad. Critically condemn universally, but still widely circulated. By now must be a very large number of copies floating ar the western world. Is it possible that the space operating in me subliminally, worked its was through e.g. "Ubik" + "Maze" + "Tears" in order overtly state the good news in "Deus Irae"? seems to be its M.O. it worked backward, i.e. teleolog via my 3-74 experience + "Tears" I acknowledged consciously - it had begun to function in me on i conscious level at last. This might involve an intrine e prolonged evolution of its relationship with me, to at this point; it couldn't abruptly start. by 3-74 its physical protection of me was also oper extended (i.e. Zebra's "melting"). Thus I survived to o plete "Deus Irae" + get the essential kerygma into it t to complete "Scanner," which studies enslavement + ment, vs joy: completing the theme of "Tears." Jerusalem bible notes. "Felix was avaricious, co + dissolute (sic!). "By detaining Paul, Felix whi t breaking the law." All this conforms to Felix "Tears". In glancing through Acts I am t again amazed at the overlap with "Tears. Paul brought before felix the character (supra) of Felix scene with the black man. Paul's conversion on the p to Damascus. Even the mention of "3 Taverns"! course Jason is mentioned. a tly + So Realm II (pain, enslavement, guilt, tears, punishment) is being dismantled by the cosmic Christ + rewoven into Realm I (love, beauty, freedom, innocence, joy) + us with it. The BIP will be replaced by the PTG. We will pass from a mechanical state into true freedom of our minds, informed by St. Sophia, (the Logos) as psyche of the organism. The (or a) crucial transition to this took place in 1974: our historic situation was improved. Realm II is a mere stockpile + in a sense delusional (irreal - a spell, or blindness or occlusion, oppressing us). What is useful in it Christ takes. {Note} He as Holy Spirit awakens us from our programmed - android-like - sleep. By this we are released from enslavement (which we are only aware of as suffering + pointlessness: ie blind chaos ruling us). It is Noös vs Anankē. Sentience (purpose) vs the deterministic, healing (restoration) vs sickness. What we get out of this is a return to God (Noös) + eternal life (through Christ as intermediary + cosmic body with us as parts). I did not invent all this, nor accept it on faith: it was disclosed to me by the Holy Spirit, which saved me from physical + spiritual death. + freed me. We in Christ, + Christ in us. {Note:} In this manner (it can be said) he has returned. I saw him. + I have heard his voice. I saw my name entered in the Book of Life, saw the prophetic book in which my troubles were foretold from the beginning, + granted the beatic vision of