the magnet's power, then, is itself an illusion. 38) Let me explain why I depict the brain as a "Floating Crap Game." It does not organize the same cells constantly, but perpetually as a process releases certain cells at each instant + incorporates others. So a given cell (human) can at one time be part of the brain (+ not know it) + be outside it at another. The psychē of the brain, of course, is a constant. So the Qs: "Who is part of the brain?" + "Where is the brain?" are meaningless. Thus there is no way the brain can be destroyed, let alone discerned. A cell of it, for instance, has no knowledge of other cells, or of what it will be caused by the psychē to do - or why, when it will be utilitzed, when dropped out, etc. This is a very superior life form; like Ubik it is everywhere but not in any one spot; it uses human media of communication - it cannot be detected or destroyed, + since we are living in spurious time generated by the magnet anyhow, the brain can proceed as slowly as it wishes to achieve its goals. When the goals are accomplished it will obliterate the prolonged spurious time + reveal the world of Acts to us as our real world. In a very real sense the brain + its psychē have never left the time + place of Acts, but via the total psychē of it are both anchored there, pitted against the magnet in its clear form: imperial Rome. 39) If we could see a speeded-up film of world history of the last 2000 years -run by us in say 5 minutes- we'd see an oscillation (palintropos) of blow + counter blow between the brain + the magnet. We would see millions of humans organized into the brain + millions of humans taken over by the tug of the magnet, warped into a forever dead orbit - like the Persus 9 in "Maze," circling a dead sun eternally. The brain would appear as a patch or blob of light; the magnet black: Yang + Yin. The landscape would remain constant: that of Acts. We would see the light (ie the brain) pulsate, as if breathing. With each cycle of respiration it as an organism would show visible growth. The black magnet stays fixed, since it is dead. If we could see ahead into the future we would finally see a killer blow delivered by the growing pulsating brain to the magnet, + the palintropos dialectic would end. Only the brain, incorporating every living human (as well as the physically dead) would exist. Even the landscape would disappear. Just a sheet of white light would extend everywhere. It would be as if the brain had reached critical mass + detonated. The magnet is well aware of the direction of this process; it has reason to regard the brain as "dangerous," "foreign" (Fremd), etc; ie as an invader. The brain is its pursuer, + it has caught up with it. 40) The magnet never recovered from its original error of mistaking the brain in its initial form (incarnation) as just another human victim to be humiliated + killed. Thus the brain (still psychē at that time) slipped by it + entered our world, to begin its distributing of itself + acquiring us as cells of it qua brain, under which circumstances it could never be found again. The magnet allowed itself in its ignorance to become bipolarized against the brain, thus revealing itself + its nature. "I thought it was harmless so I killed it," might be its statement. "I never realized it was my pursuer." Such are the breaks. The magnet then issued a flak cloud of lies, depicting the death on the cross as "Atonement -sacrifice- for man's sins," whereas in fact the purpose was not vicarious atonement by a "pure + spotless sacrifice to appease God" or any such thing, but to issue eternal life to men through incorporation into the later brain. The psychē got exactly what it was aiming for: disbursement throughout the world of humans as the destroyer of the enslaving magnet, hence the savior of man. 41) The point or purpose or goal of Christ was the Paraclete. John makes this explicit; the real work will be done by the discorporate ubiquitous Paraclete: comforter, advocate, etc. It is not just a ghostly remnant of Christ but the next stage of the intervener savior. Jesus' ministry lasted 3 years; the Paraclete has been with us 2000 years. The Paraclete (brain, psychē, Noos) is Christ. (Logos) 42) There is a complete confusion as to the relationship between Christ + the Paraclete. Jesus was also Christ; the Paraclete is also Christ, but now a "mystical," discorporate Christ. We can't say that Jesus returned but that Christ returned. He/she/it existed before Jesus as Holy Wisdom / the Logos. The Logos became incarnated as Jesus. It survived Jesus in the form of the "Second Comforter," as Jesus calls him in John (ie the Paraclete). Jesus was the first, obviously. Here are 3 forms of one entity: 1) Pre-incarnation (Logos, Holy Wisdom); 2) incarnation as Jesus; 3) discorporate + cosmic as the Paraclete, Holy Spirit or Second Comforter. At the time of the Parousia, it will not be the man Jesus who will return, but the birth (ie disclosure) of Christ, who is the psychē of the brain, of which I have written. As I conceive it, the brain will reach a sort of "flash point" at which time all cells ever in it become conscious of themselves as micro-bits of Christ (like bits of a hologram). Their divine identity will be "remembered." Herewith the brain identifies itself, not just here or there, but everywhere; it will cease to be camouflaged. The magnet will just plain swoon away. It will be a fait accompli. The brain will be all over the place, in obvious control. 43) What if the viral pattern (of the magnet) invaded the [periphery] of the brain [itself] ie the cop, the pursuer? The brain would have to defend that cell, boundry, terminal at any cost - even to disclosing itself (to the cell). The enemy takes you out of the good computer + plugs you into the bad one - like the computer terminal left working at Saigon. ___________ Note P. 44: "Acts is a verbal analog of the brain, of the innermost core of the brain. Outside of Acts there is no written analog of the brain. Thus Acts is the only written account of the brain's existence; it describes the first [+ only public] manifestation of the brain." Whatever theory I come up with re 3-74, Acts must be involved - necessary by iron-clad logic. Well, Acts says, "Brain." It says a lot else, but it has been called "the Gospel of the Spirit," ie of the brain. After that the brain totally camouflaged itself (having gotten its transfer from Noös to the interface between it + the physical world underway?) Ie the descent of the Holy Spirit onto the disciples marked the start of the brain. It was [mere] spirit no longer. It had control over us (sic). After that no real record exists of whom it spread to. (Fortunately.) Its distribution had begun. Acts as brain print. Acts material in "Tears" pointing to the presence (activity) of the brain. Stamp of the origin? Of authenticity - ie "official"? Acts material in "Tears" as brain print. Proved by 2-74 + 3-74 + the St Sophia prophecy; ie its presence proved. (To me.) Acts material in "Tears" -+ hence "Tears" itself- as self-replication or propagation of the brain; ie the brain retrievable from each copy (!) of "Tears." Each reader as involuntary host. "Tears" as miraculous sacrament like the eucharist. A way of entering people + - v "Stigmata" + Palmer Eldritch's drug replicates him in each user (host or "womb.") Words as alive, like I saw "Felix" to be: the printed word carrying a charge of the red + gold plasmic [electrical, neural] energy. Just in that one place in the novel, next to "King." It (the organism) can reproduce through -as- information. (But only certain information - ie or eg Acts.) Burroughs posits an information virus (or "virus" [like]. (Not so, K.W. says.) If that plasmic energy is alive, + it is (or it carries) information, then we have living information. Logos? Information plasma which enters through the optic nerve primarily - or auditorily. Signals that control our brains, open GABA blocked circuits. Like pressing keys on a typewriter. Once having entered the person's brain via the optic nerve it now modulates brain functioning so that the person subliminally transduces messages (inc. instructions) + hence is a "cell" in the brain, responding to sentient override - lifted out of the blind forces Yin realm, his actions integrated with that of all others like him. It's like a beehive, a colony entity, + is immortal, replenishing + shedding continually. Member-units (v. Schopenhaur on the fruit flies). The reader of "Tears" reads the dream (he's been absorbing Acts without knowing it - the verbal analog of the brain) which subconsciously is familiar + remembered; this sets him up, + as soon, then, as he sees "Felix" the plasma travels down his optic nerve as an electric pulse + it's done; it can now replicate into the total microform of the brain, as the reader reads on getting the rest of the Acts material (esp. the agapē, which is the salient property of the Paraclete [Brain]). The opposites in him (the reader) are reconciled; he accepts his own shadow (in Jung's term). There may be no palpable or immediate effect, but the entity which I call the brain is inside him + growing. He will be coordinated with the others, overridden, etc. Also, he has sublimally received the Kerygma, the new one: Christus Rex. He has been told the good news hidden for all the preceeding generations. On a conscious level he doesn't know. The deconstruction (flip-flop) of tears is love - the final word of the novel. It seems the most likely possibility to me that the brain (more accurately the plasmic-electric life form) would disclose its presence to me -override to protect me- because some future (to 3-74) act or acts by me was necessary in its historical intervention. My previous theory that by probing me (in the Xerox letter they were violating the boundary of the brain) does not hold up, since I knew nothing + it could just drop me out. Unless info was in GABA-blocked circuits in me - for instance programming for a series of future acts, put there at an earlier time by the brain, for use at the proper time; the phosphene activity does seem to point to intrinsic disinhibiting. Then perhaps Thomas is/was an ur personality, in me, not impressed onto me but released. If so, if Thomas + his knowledge (+ programmed or instructed future political acts) were in me, yes, the frontier of the brain would have been in jeopardy. But - this still points to future (to 3-74) acts, not past ones, such as writing "Tears" - unless "Thomas" put eg the Acts material in "Tears" + knew too much. Then I was not just organized by the brain but contained stuff all along. After all, I had heard the voice back in the forties. So either the brain was protecting itself or was protecting historically necessary future acts by me which had to happen, or - well "Thomas" intrinsic in me is again protecting the brain. The future historical acts, needless to say, involved my writing to Charles Wiggens. Also (in that case) maybe the override was necessary to correctly dictate the contents of the letters - in fact to insure they'd get written at all! So my involvement in the brain could not end with "Tears." Clearly,