medium for cypher," he said. + "Tears" already existed - + he wanted "any unfinished works of mine," which suggests a connection with the hit on my house. By this reasoning I'd say the US is onto it. But what do I care? It might explain what they were looking for, though. "I wear many hats," Hal said. Well, that's of small importance. That was fielded by the brain in 3-74. They didn't get hold of the ms of "Tears" - they only got to read it after it was released. Tough shit. The message ("code") was dispatched on schedule. But boy, was I nervous. It was close. This is very serious. Okay "Felix-King" is a written thought passing among cells of the brain. But - well, it does not wish its presence here known. Protecting me was protecting itself, since I am part of it. I'm grateful. But - What are we/am I? The brain overthrew "the conspirators" - I know that. So it opposed the conspirators who murdered the civil rights leaders. That is an evil bunch. On these points there can be no doubt. The sides in this are very obscure. I'll never be able to put it together. I'm not so sure that theology is the best set to utilize, here. No one in 2000 years have reported an experience like mine. "No one has seen God." So what did I see? Yet, I did think in Xtian terms in 3-74, + my experience began in 2-74 with the golden fish sign "used by the early Xtians," + I remembered Rome + our efforts against it. Specifically, what I remembered had to do with the present: Rome CAD 45 is now; despite what we see, it is really apostolic times. This is the latent or "crypte" morphosis (form or reality). Then "Felix" perhaps -the Acts material- transmits this information? Because this information (that the time really is the time + place of Acts) is in "Tears." The truth regarding the real situation is in "Tears." Even without knowing what "Felix" signifies, isn't this highly important? The ursatz is set forth therein. Yes of course it's the signal that He is here. What I call "the brain" is He. I say this + then recall the "St Sophia" prophecy. We are living in the 1st century AD + He has returned, +, as happened to me in 2-74, he will lift the illusion. (That 2000 years have passed) Now, there is one line of reasoning I have not pursued. Viz: 1) my 2-3/74 experience has never before in the history of man been reported. (Except in Acts!) (v. p 33) 2) therefore (here goes) the importance of the code passage in "Tears" is of absolutely maximum importance. 3) the return of Christ fits that description: "news of absolutely maximum importance" 4) therefore this is what "Felix" tells. (In other words I'm taking the experience as the given -known- + working from it to the message, this is dubious reasoning, but - it fits the "St. Sophia" prophecy. So I have a solid piece of confirmation. Note to item p 32: Yes! There is one time-+-place in history where my 2-3/74 experience is described: in Acts - i.e. the Holy Spirit descending on the disciples. 1) Upon seeing the Golden Fish sign in 2/74 I remembered Acts + 2) being an apostolic Xtian (disciple). Wait. Doesn't this circle of logic complete itself? I have the "theolepsy" experience of Acts + realize (remember) that I am living at the time of Acts + am a disciple, + it was they who had such an experience as mine - + I find it all narrated in "Tears"! Where's the leak in this logic? There is no description anywhere but in Acts, + it is Acts that 1) I wrote about in '70 + 2) in 2-3/74 remembered. A 1) Call my experience Y. 2) Y only occurs in Acts (Rome CAD 45 to the true, secret early Xtians). Therefore: 3) I am living in Acts. This breaks down into even better verification. B 1) In 2/74 I remember it is the time + place of Acts. 2) A month later I have the Holy Spirit theolepsy experience depicted in Acts. I "become" an apostolic Xtian, "Thomas." (If (1) is true, then (2) could be predicted. (Ie that it would occur. If it ((2) occurred, it would confirm the objective truth of (1). + then 4 years later I find the Acts material in "Tears" I'll shore it up even more. I couldn't have been suggested into the (2) of B, since I had never read Acts. I didn't know it narrated such an experience as Y. Point: the dream in "Tears" is a theophany, perhaps an analog to my 3/74 experience - an in-breaking of deity. Thus 2-3/74 verifies "Tears" (after all, "Tears" came first, even though I decoded it after 3/74.) If I could establish that Y only occurred at the time + place of Acts + only to the disciples (or very early Xtians) then if I experienced Y, the time + place must be Acts. I am so dumb. Here I had better proof -perfect proof- + I overlooked it. By + large I sought Acts material in "Tears," to bolster my contention, but the 3/74 experience was in itself a solid chunk of Acts. I can unravel it for sure now: I've got interlocking parts. I have it now. The ideational content of the experience turns outs to pertain specifically to the locus historically -the sole locus- of that type of experience. There is no possiblity that my 3/74 experience isn't the descending of the Holy Spirit. However, the anamnesis came one month before the theolepsy. Therefore the knowledge of where + when it really is is not based on the 3/74 theolepsy; further, the information re Acts was already in "Tears." What I am saying is that the 3/74 theolepsy (which is historically limited to the disciples at the time + place of Acts) confirms the comprehension of 2-74.① Anamnesis in 2-74 opened the door to the 3-74 theolepsy. But I do not discard my "floating crap game vast brain" model; it helps me understand in contemporary terms what seems to be an experience of real time - ie 2000 years ago - 2000 illusory years. {Illustration:} (1) 2/74 anamnesis (2) Acts material in "Tears" (3) 3/74 theolepsy (4) St Sophia prophecy Four interlocking pieces which exclude any interpretation except the composite one ① The 3/74 theolepsy did not disclose that it is the time + place + situation of Acts; that I remembered a month earlier. Suppose (1) had occurred but not (3). Suppose (3) had occurred but not (1). Suppose (2) had occurred but not (1) or (3). Any one of them is important (eg (4)). But all four occurred. To repeat, if (1) is correct, (3) is implied as a possiblity. If (1) was merely hynoidal suggestion (3) is not likely, + (2) can't be explained at all, since (2) came four years before (1). Suppose it is proposed that (1) was suggested by (2), which came first. But in 2/74 I did not know of the Acts material in "Tears" ((2)). What if it is argued that when I wrote (2) in 1970 I knew (1)? Very good; I knew (1) unconsciously. But (2) is a complex presentation of Acts material: many elements. I had never read Acts. The only "common sense" theory is that at some prior time I read Acts. But why should I put it in "Tears"? Anyhow, the core Acts material in "Tears" came as the result of my dream. (4) is left unexplained anyhow. + (3) came the month "Tears" was published. Why? Also, in "Tears" for the first time in my writing career I deliberately set out to depict what is, rather than to ask, "what is?" If you view me as a machine solving the problem of stating "what is," then perhaps we should simply say, "okay, I succeeded. The machine was given a problem, + this is what it came up with." That's (2). Four years later (1) happens. A month after, (3) happens. Six months later, (4). (1), (3) + (4) confirm (2) which hasn't even been decoded yet by me. Okay, so we say, "I wrote (2) because in a previous life I was an apostolic Xtian." Fine. That explains (1) + possibly (4), but what about (3)? - in which I saw Zebra. Okay - I'm really an apostolic Xtian, so for me, anyhow, it's the time + place of Acts. Now what about the code word "Felix"? Why wouldn't I know what it means, if I'm the author of all this? In 4 years + 5 months I've never been able to crack the message. But what I've left out is the sequence of US historical events of 1974, at the time "Tears" came out, + to which "Tears" is related. The point of all this comes with the intervention -the in-breaking of God- into history in 1974. The auditory + visual messages I saw, in 3-74, which I construe as thought-processes of the vast brain (ie Noos expressed physically) (leaving aside at this point who -Christ?- the Noos is) were formed out of normal human artifacts, media info, song lyrics - most of all, "random" arrangements of printed matter. "Tears" with its code sequences is printed matter. If I scrupulously analyze how the latent messages are produced by two-part temporary joining, then I deduce that such code as "Felix" will (was) be joined with its completing piece - + there is absolutely no way I can guess what that is - unless "Felix - King" is in itself a 2-part latent message joining. Anyhow, since printed matter is the prime medium of the brains thinking, it should not surprise me that a s-f novel would be made use of. "Morning of the Magicians" put this theory forth on the basis of a priori reasoning anyhow. Pop novels are an ideal vehicle of esoteric information, it says. As I figured out once before, that way the recipients of the coded info can't be identified. (Contrast this method to the Xerox missive.) Ah! Realm I is at CAD 45; Realm II is at 1978. (Am I repeating myself? Oh well.) {Illustration:} I {trigram for Heaven} Real time: CAD 45, the Roman Empire + the infant church. II {trigram for Earth} Spurious time: AD 1978. Or world of "Tears." Any world you want to name. To experience Acts time + place is to encounter the upper realm, which has plenary override power over the lower realm. My stories + novels in which spurious realities are depicted refer to realm II. The two realms have split apart. The brain invades Realm II out of Realm I, camouflaging itself + its thoughts. Realm II is dokos over the actual. Significant for Realm II -+ us- is the return of Christ, which came when promised. He descends into Realm II + disassembles + annexes it piece by piece. As each piece is captured it is freed. 27 years of trying to chart the contours of the real landscape concealed by the fraud; at last, accomplished in "Tears." I always presumed a bogus phenomenal world. This approach finally paid off. Again + again I put forth the notion that your world -+ your memories- could be delusions + you would have no way to detect it (cf Lem's statement of the problem: the brain fed spurious reality; is there any test by which it can tell?) (+ I relate this to Berkeley's idea of God directly feeding world to our percept systems.) God can feed it to us, or he can enlighten us -deocclude us- via the Holy Spirit. The power is all his, not ours. Hence the concept of Grace, issuing out of the mystery religions + the [correct] concept of the deterministic Yin