has balked against it, reveals its ersatz quality. The process does not work by (1) first discerning to be ersatz and then, on the basis of that, balking, but always (2) one balks, and then the ersatz --counterfeit-- quality is exposed; what is undoubtedly more important is the manifestation of the Advocate, once the initial balk done without knowledge of the counterfeit quality of the world. I perceive the crucial existential act as a volitional rupture with the world, which according to the Gnostic structure, throws the person back to God. The man must determine that this repudiation, this rupture, this crisis (which mirrors perhaps an ancient analogous crisis in which he broke with God, the true vine) this crisis must take place; what he does not know is that this rupture heals the primordial rupture with God -- that which started the cosmos into being in the first place. If the man were aware that this rupture would start the machinery into motion which would restore him to God, he would probably have little hesitation in doing it; everyone would do it; but he must enact the rupture without knowing the joyful consequences will result; he does it for intrinsic reasons, without yet knowing that he is healing the original break. This explains why my denial of the world as we see it was simultaneous with my affirmation of the apostolic reality; the two acts constitute one act, because they are twin sides of a single act. When I saw the golden fish I knew the truth; I simultaneously knew the counterfeit quality of our world and knew the reality of the apostolic world; these were not sequential realizations, but in fact one realization. It probably is of extraordinary significance that repudiation of the mundane reality and acknowledgement of the transmundane is a single event or act, rather than two. The two realities cannot both exist, evidently. They are counter-realities. This is what the Gnostics believed: that the world stands between man and God, and must be eliminated. Who would expect that disavowing the world would instantly expose the divine on the far side of it? "Man and God in essence belong together against the world but are in fact separated by the world, which in the Gnostic view is the alienating, divisive agency." (E philo). Well, then this being so, look what my writing tends to promote: it promotes a sense of the counterfeit quality of the world; it promotes a repudiation of it which dissolves it by assisting the withdrawal of assent to it; and finally, by so doing, obliterates the alienating agency and brings man & God together. I can claim this for my work, on the theological level. My own 2-74 to (3-74) et all experience, then, undoubtedly stemmed from my years of work and the viewpoint in me elaborated in and by that work -- culminating in a moment (when I saw the golden fish) that I could deny(world/affirm(God) on the basis of it. Thus 2-74 and 3-74 were the logical end-result of 25 years of epistemological scrutiny and evaluation, and did not just happen sui generis. My experience seems to ratify the Gnostic 3-element equation; otherwise a repudiation of the world would result in a solipsistic autism. For it to divulge the divine upon its abolition, the world would have to constitute the divisive agency between man and God the Gnostics perceived us to be. folder 32 - 005 folder 32 - 005 But it is amazing, the amount of substructure of reasoning which would have to go into this repudiation --successfully-- of the world thus exposing the divine. One would have to separate god the creator from God the True Father. As long as God is assumed to be creator, one could not conceptually divide him from the world, and thus affirm him in the act of denying the world. This is why all natural theology has failed. God cannot be discerned from nature; the argument from design back to designer is specious. What I saw that I term VALIS or Zebra must then not have been immanent deity at all, but, as I later realized, a mimicking entity not rising up from within but descending into objects and processes from above or, better, outside. It had, so to speak, landed here. As with Runciter's words in UBIK, it was penetrating through from --this is best formulation of all: from behind. Reality is constructed like a ham sandwich: man is one slice of the bread, then comes the slice of ham which is the world, then the second slice of bread which is God. The words in UBIK pierced or filtered through from the other slice, through *to man, to us, the this slice. It's funny that I could read the E of Philo about the world being "an alienating, divisive agency that separates man from God" and not instantly perceive the value --perhaps the ultimate value-- of my writing & its preoccupation. In point of fact, such novels as UBIK, MAZE, STIGMATA, etc., tend to dissolve away the world -- and, if the Gnostics' 3-elements situation-view is a correct view, God should be reunited with us thereby. Now the incredible accuracy of UBIK can be appreciated. The world is not merely counterfeit (as in STIGMATA and all the others)x; there is more: it is counterfeit, but under it lies another world, and it is this other world, this Logos world, which filters or breaks through. UBIK, then, is a step up from MAZE and STIGMATA is presenting this. It presents a triune situation, which evidently is the actual one, whereas the other novels & stories present only the aspect of world as hallucination, without disclosing that another, actual one lies beyond, below or beneath.* It is God who, as the far bread slice, takes the initiative toward us, as Runciter does toward Joe Chip and the other inertials. This is what I saw in (3-74), when, under the power of the Holy Spirit, I read the dream section in TEARS and found a latent or crypte message embedded in the text. My experience and view, then, are not only Gnostic but what is more tend to prove the correctness of the triune Gnostic division, in particular their view of the world as alienating and divisive between man and God (Joe Chip & Runciter). Had the Gnostic view been wrong, when I "abolished" the world (suddenly withdrew assent from it) I would have exposed nothing, no sublime, sacred, divine reality beyond; a religious experience would have turned out to be nothing but a psychotic break. Were the Gnostic triune division wrong, my writing would serve a malign, sick purpose: leading the reader away from reality and toward autism. But the Gnostic triune division is correct; otherwise I could not, would not, have had my 2-74 and 3-74 et al experiences. As the *This is incorrect. MAZE shows another, actual reality lying below the hallucinated one, but it wrongly shows it as bad. It is this world which is bad, is the prison; beyond or below it lies the divine. In fact there seem to be 3 levels: hallucinated good; prison below, which is real, but not the final layer, and then the wonderous divine ground of being below. folder 32 - 006 Gnostics realized, the world had to be dissolved away in order that man and God could rejoin. My task was primarily limited to what, for us, would be step One: the dissolving away of the world, which is to say, the negative side of the matter. Yet, as my writing progressed over the years, I began not merely to question away the world but to affirm the God beyond (as in UBIK and MAZE). The affirmative theological theme becomes stronger & stronger, going hand-in-hand with the negative epistomology. UBIK presents an exact depictment of the Gnostic triune divi-sion of the world. This undoubtedly explains why I had the uncanny feeling that my 3-74 experience resembled UBIK. The Gnostics even believed that for salvific purposes, Sophia slipped messages into "the inferior bulk" of human information. in POT HEALER this is all presented, but presented wrong; however, in UBIK it is presented correctly (as witness the latent message in TEARS, which is an analog of Runciter's messages manifesting themselves in UBIK). Starting from my "True Vine" revelation, we are kept in a "lopped-off" relationship to God by the world itself -- the faulty pseudo-cosmos in which we find ourselves living. A mere undercurrent sensation of alienation mut blossom into something greater, or anyhow can; it can lead to a moral repudiation of the world (the kind of ethical balking such as the Ramparts tax strike) or it can lead to an epistomo-logica "dissolving-away of the world" such as my writings contain. Perhaps where I made my mistake for several years about God being immanent was that whereas I thought I saw him _in_ nature, in point of fact he, like the messages in UBIK, were filtering through nature from beyond, beneath or below. Nature could either become transparent, or the reality of the divine could, through its boundless power, assert itself through, breach through. The latter is what happened in 3-74. However, it was not visible to the unenhanced eye. The world did not weaken; God chose to make his move -- the real God, not the demiurge. Beyond doubt, the true God could annhilate our pseudo-world, not merely permitting a temporary vision to one person (such as he did for me by having me taken over by the Paraclete) but for everyone. The Paraclete, possessing me, literally saw _through_ the world, as if it were transparent; I remember that; wow, it was something, that gate, those geometric forms, and the presence of Zebra (God). (Or the cosmic Christ.) Lem says that in UBIK "a sacardotal power buried in the gutter or rubbish for aeons has been resurrected"; I can begin to see what he might mean by that. It's damn strange how the OCCP keeps show-ing up in all this. Have they picked up what they regard as signals? Not emanating from "space" as anticipated but filtering through reality, to its surface? The world as hologram, pierced by information from the far (other?) side... An interesting point is that this whole presentation places a new light on my theory of the human being defined by balking. Viewed from the Gnostic standpoint, the act of balking is a refusal not just to be involved in the world but in fact a no to the world itself. It has an inherent power of literally _dissolving_ the world. It is the "metaphysical strike" which the E of philo article on Gnosticism speaks of. folder 32 - 007 folder 32 - 007 In a sense, positive action of any kind is an involvement in the world. It takes the world as real. Balking, oddly, carries perhaps a greater weight, since the step prior to affirming God seems to be the denial of the world. (Or: the road to affirming the true God stems from the initial denying of the world.) The Ramparts thing -- that was a direct disavowal of the power of the warden-archons, perhaps. I wonder if this sheds any light on the mysterious Xerox missive. What I did was act as mere transfer agent between it and the bureau. Or rather between its sender and the bureau. I did nothing but _immediately_ pass it on. I rerouted it. I had as little to do with it as possible. That was the essence of how I handled it: as little as possible, like something hot (i.e. stolen). the last letter I wrote to the bureau stated that UBIK had scientific information in it, and the OCCP knew. I think now that I was right. Information filtering through the "sandwich" is not merely theological, religious event but a matter of cold hard FACT. Information is information, even if of a stenographic kind. The OCCP