-ones, + a knowledge of how to arouse this know se in others (as with the messages in "Ubik") its as if I suspected the true situation + finally someone who knew decided to let me see openly the ver e tion of my years of surmise. I certainly didn't crack it tn my own. I suppose that what happened with me con stituted an ultimate liberation, but I suspect that one is given This gift only after a long painful personal searc I have stressed frequently the point that havi t o seen what I saw I can never forget its meaning: that God exists, can intervene + does. Why he does not always intervene I can't explain. Why he need intervene at all f can't explain (a two-party dialectic is implied). My ne et "low level decisions which can be overruled" is perhaps the final truth. A structure has been set up which is from time to time corrected from without. There is a count of higher, final appeal. This dovetails with the "great assize is theme in our religion. The highest of powers audicates ma t here This matter of ajudication fits my subjective impress i of 3-74. For me the intervention possessed a finality walls is hard to describe. It was not an intervention but the one + only. It was a closing of the books upon a decisive resolution of the worth of my life. It was an either / ou situation: I was doomed or I was saved. I did not ex i cate myself; I was extricated. I keep thinking, "this was not a natural event but on the contrary the interruption of natural events. Such an interruption certainly indee i cates more than one level or order of law (causal forces) the very thing Hume + Spinoza dimied. My conviction the nnot based on logic but on experiences would I be wrong in saying that what happened to me was the 126 before the breaching. Upon the breaching it cease to t be true in our future + our present, so, I ded also nullified in our past! The black iron prison existed as a supratemporal/spacial reality, + when it t I ch went (out) it went out at all linear times - w is, maybe, my boldest surmise so far. Nixon never was (sic) an evil tyrant; he saved the world for t H-Bomb war. But in track A, was this then so? Hence, in 3-74 I saw the "false work" wink out. te remember the evil... or do we? We don't remember the we world of years" (track A, but I maintain, originally lived there + died there, + now it never was (sic). eventio The verklarung was "surgical" - e.g. in the intere until for me the prior reprogrammed variable didn't pay off 3/74 Thomas track o 3-74. it PKD track B t The historic intervention cannot be comprehended without including the realization of prior track n + for all linear time (past, present, future). e.g. it is no longer true (but was once) that wron was a brutal tyrant. It's like 1984 in re-edit t the past - only this really did get "re-edited" there we s no error in forcing Nixon out of office; at that time (on that track he was as he appeared to us to be. We were not cormy. but now we are were wrong, the past has changed even the principals are having trouble remembere what reall happened. 25 we suppose this -- etc when in fact it is really this: the philosophical cosmologic i etc basis for this certainly lies in the Platonic d t realities + the medieval concept of archetype + e not. I have written about this repeatedly: train b stantiation is ontologically real. But it is not limited to the eucharist, our whole world follow s through the passion + resurrection [yearly). (Cf te rock-throwing of mercer in "Do androids..."). Be neath appearance lies the is. We have been deceived by lin s time + the corrolate of forgetting. (+ to remember n This sense is to restore to being in the now.) Pinky was Christ. The Aristotelian distinction between accidents of essence is valid, but perhaps more far reaching than realized. "Latent form t I is structure master of obvious form: t the nature of things is in the habit of concealing itself t So we turn to "Tears" to see what the "nature our world which is hidden is, + it agrees with what I saw of "remembered" in 2-74. Tesla devices + microwaves + don't explain "Tears." What does explain it? t the ursatz. 1) Years of epistomological inquiry had led he at last to 2) The novel was cooked, + by entities knowing the tr (in both 1) + 2) it is agree on as the truth.) the the dream indicates (as Kathy Kurtz says) I she we was were written through. but in what year did God intervene? Look at the of this page -- -- vs E. Did he not plunge through tot "Sound on sound "layers to the ursatz which is 1) pas the ) present; 3) future, because "Tears" depicts a ubiquity s present in all 3! It was, is, will be (or had been "will be is 274 Everything points to time travel, + my reconstruct on of the Fish sign as crick + watson's double helix DNA me i cule tells me who in the past these time travelers (undou t tly from the future) presented themselves as. The Xtian theme is a constant thread through time - with the "Christ as child, little old man, bearded youth, fall, short, etc" shows hy in the "St Elmo's Fire" "hologramatic" quality I saw Zebra - i.e. the ability to cause us to either see it t use any shape it wishes - or not at all 1) That's be in a certain real sense it isn't there - it's a project o a some kind of plasmic electrical conduction. However, let us not err; the whole world is irreal " in the same sense, + this projected beam can "met the obvious (+ deceptive) solidity of the world like a soldering gun. It's one hierarchical step up from matter to both animate + inanimate: it's an element" unknown (c us but suspected by Heraclitus ("fire"), related to m lightning. As thinking electricity it can reweave real 8 My novels + stories have never presented it but the have done yeoman work in depicting reality - not as it is to us - but as it is to Zebra: totally "soap bubble is + plastic mere dream stuff which is imagined + then re-imagined differently, i.e. transformed by psyche or Noos, ahem - that makes "the 3 Stigmata" one of the m te n mportant books ever written - much more so than "Ubik we're back to the Bantam trilogy - with "Joint" + "Eye t o the prise his father scene in "build" thrown in - not to mention time slip." + look how another world intri tates into that of "MITHC" after Tagomi, exactly like me gazes at a piece of sewelm! Yes, there was a track A for stre 128 My 2-74 experience is described in only one place: is in my own prior writing. What happened to me to my not just similar to the sort of things that happene he characters but identical. But never before seeing t e Golden Fish necklace + the Girl did it in any way actually happen to me. 1) This must not be my first go around, or to 2) on some level I've always had + been able I as he tap, my "anamnesis memories existentially, pro I theory but in practice. The cardinal mystery is, who n o i jecting or weaving reality - which I caught not just we i nes) but reweaving. I believe the pre-socratics (cf Xenopha y its grasped it - that which weilds or steers or shakes t mind, as such. If it is Noos, the physical (empirical t e phenomenal) universe is irreal; if psyche, it is soma ( Spinoza). My writing suggests Noos (or Brahman, who that either is the universe, or assumes the disguise of - ach m is closest: the universe is as mask to visage, layer us the layer. (AD 70 was a deeper layer but not the final one. final one is probably the abyss: totally not, "is" is a dis lies fuse which "is not hides behind. Under the masks there nothing, but how gentle + warm + unlinking. s Yes, I am an acosmic Panentheist. + I saw the change its mind + hence our reality along its entive tempora axis, not successively but as a simultaneosity, like digital watch numbers changing. under all the layers there lies the void which is more real than that which is. "is" really means perceptible to our senses. We have a daseen relationship to God (Noos) not a sense-perception of. It is a - the absolute - state of being to be reabsorbed back in - the work of Shiva, hi ho destroys an entropic, aging, wearing out world + restores it to its source. 26 I'm not sure I follow my own thinking: te 2-74, did I break through to 70 AD Rome or the world of "Tears" which (oddly enough hat just been published? There is no problem if we regard the black Iron prison" standing as the archetype of eve i at all times + places. But how come it never i acute to me to suppose I broke through into the worl i Tears"? Because in "Tears" the Xtian ele ment is not there, but it is (cf Acts). But only later did I discover that. Then God destroyed his adversary, the physical embodinent of evil, the black iron Prison, wall places at all times. God is not only ubiquitous; So is his (or was) adversary in any case, the world of "Tears" had existed, + I wrote it via subliminal memories There is something peculiar here. Can it now be this (correctly) : "Tears" is true? No when was it tr is 2 only at a deep level - + then it was abolished is possible that no one else remember it bec it i ise no one else saw it? but the true Xtians saw it, + fought it. + in i listed me. Then the fight is transtemporal - with both i ies forever at combat - which generates linear time until Christ/God is victorious, + the black iron prison destroyed. But that moment care. Then ie it the case that no more linear time is gene rated? What we have now is a conflict-le t consolidation - of vast silence - as we await The coming of the King? Yes, this is so 30 we are waiting in a silence; the enemy i been eradicated. The dialectic interchange of c concluded in victory for God. Right - I said to KW last night "there's something wrong, but not in terms of what, b ut rather in what is lacking. A spiritual quality has gone out - our material wealth does not quench our yearnings." What do we yearn for? Why, the rightful king. The material from Acts in "Tears" proves that my 2-74/3-74 vision anamnesis + experience with the "Romans" are correct: I can't speak for anyone ale. but I (at least) am really living c. 70 AD as a secret Xtian in pagan Rome - despite what my w naide senses report. This is the nitty grity of it all. that is really some discovery to make. + I (+ the i there of us - there are others) are awaiting Christs imminen return. + not waiting in vain, as proved by the St. Sophia" prophecy I heard. + the dream in "Tears" is a preview vision