to its edifice - have I had an insight here without realizing it, that what is being built in linear time is identical to the Builder who lies outside of time - is it/he/she completing itself? the highest level of homeostasis: it is its own creator - SELF CREATED, which is next to impossible for us to understand (somehow it would have to stand outside of time or anyhow normal linear time, not in bondage to it as we are - + so I found it to be - precisely that. Self-creating a quality of God himself: what else is self creating? isn't that the ultimate hierarchical form of structure? All it needs is something to make itself out of - at the end of time there it stands complete,+ therefore, I experienced, it travels backward + creates itself Backward (in reverse, retrograde sequence, the way the writer of a mystery novel writes backward), it does not travel backward to the Alpha (starting) point, + begins there in normal forward linear time sequence; it does not have to wait until it gets bad all the way to the start - it can better do it retrograde since this assumes omega, the outcome,+ also it baffles the blind forward - moving creator - they work in opposite directions + the forward moving one can't figure out what is going on + how to thwart it (since the wisdom entity possesses absolute foresight + hence always knows at any give instant which is the best possible play (arrangement) at that stage (it is obviously limited to + bound by the obtaining conditions at that - at any - given stage; this is why we perceive it as arranging only, not creating - how can it create if it is moving backward? In view of its intentions -+ direction of movement - it is easy to see how it could readily act to extricate the oppressed; it is continually bettering conditions in terms of justice, truth, freedom, righteousness + joy. It, too, would assume a forwarding quality, of anticipating evil bondage rather than [receving?] it after it occurs; thus much of the salvific work it does would never be perceived by us, since the malign conditions would be aborted - never be. it would not there cure evil, it would intervene in advance + direct the universe along a better causal path thus the enslaving plans by the creator simply would never materialize (i.e. be actualized); they would die out as mere intent + design - absolutely the opposite from the true God's plan which is never just intention but always absolutely actualized simultaneous with its concerting evil purposes but cannot over execute. The divine has always already executed (evil, like us, is stuck [first?] in forward moving linear time, so it can be said as Paul says in Col I, that God is rescuing us from the domain of darkness + transferring us to the kingdom of his dear Son: I can set that no matter what ill seems to happen (grow) we are on a continual path (dharma) the kingdom. Life can be regarded as a linear path of obstacles (trials, tests) which are surmounted in after invisible ways in that they are converted into stages of growth bringing the Universe itself -+ us - closer + Closer toward omega: the kingdom. What we see happening + what actually is happening are 2 different things, usually the "birthpains of growth, being so painful, obscure the growth itself. We confuse the two - identifying a reduction of pain with progress. (Due to the faulty dualism of the pleasure-pain principle.) - these messages: I just suddenly realized (remembered) that they serve to program us, subliminally, usually this way: a written message one out if hundreds or even thousands which we see, is somehow caused to [link?] with an interval (in one of us, whom Zebra selects) system, as if the [system?] is engrammed by Zebra via the message very [deliberately?], with the person consciously none the wiser. This possibly answers the Q: whom are the messages for? evidently just for a small conscious elite but anyone at any this possibly points to analogous internal [unintelligible???] presynchronyzed (from birth) differing in different individuals, so as to later linkup a good example of a big one for me was the Gold fish neckless thus Zebra continually guides (controls?) us as we move (are moved) through the "maze" of the disinhibited constantly at the right time +place by the right signal this. is a major insight. Zebra uses these messages to communicate with all of us -exactly like the Runciter messages. Wow, did Ubik to touch on a major undiscovered aspect of the univers: it (God or Zebra or Ubik) talking to us if necessary via the trash grafitti the gutter walls. But a message only works this magic if the analogous inner programming has been put there, a prearranged monadic harmony Ubik -"Runciter"- is talking to us but always subllimnally -+ of course even if we were consciousthat, say, a certain song lyrics had "affected" us, it would still not occur to us why -i.e. from whom, +do how puposeful. Half of the brain is involved (right half-) maye this is a major right - hemisphere function so the message in Tears could link us differently the 2 parts joined - in different persons; only ½ the message is on the Pages; the other halves are inside the brain of certain various readers Like the internal the pre-message analogs possible estabilished in dreams? then 3-74 was a hightening into consciousness of a continual subliminal process of "programing" (more accurately harmonzing into a continual cosmos) that goes in all the time. This suggest a new possibility to the Xerox letter The 3-74 experience was to abort an imminent verbal programming contained in the lettler were I to read it, Zebra had to prevent what otherwise was inadvisable: That I should glance at the Xerox letter - + the harm woud be done. Ohne holt maybe, + what else? + programmed disinhibited?) by whom for what purpose ? me + Zebras; + it changed its mind? a rare occurance? Look- this must have been the opposite of the continual normal programming process - + ook te what this entailed How difficult (out ot the ordinary) to acheive? surely this situation must be very rare in the Great Cosmic System of how things are done. AHA! the whole historical deterministic process was being rewoven (changed) at that time? said by our bible to be the first + only time in history! He aborted -altered - his own procces +the mechanism thereof? to create a different future an alternate better one branching off - + now I know what the Black Iron Prison memories were: Yes yes - we had just been in a dreadful alternate present - so something(s) in our past also were changed. A time traveling entity - Zebra. "all in a dream the loading had begun"! true main message. 14 Aborting the programming or disinhibiting of the Xerox letter was connected with the lateral reweaving (interventic into the historic determinist. process); the black iron Prison world, to be abolished, + it had been exoting for at least some of us (as shows in Tears) was tied to the aborted effect of the letter (eviderly one bit to be rewoven out of more). So: the my personality which had the internal waiting entelechy programming part -- that per¬ sonality was suddenly (just before the letter arrine) switched someone with one lacking the internal half supposed to link up. So there was no link up. That is why it failed. the message in tears links to "After the Gold rush" in some way; another pt of the whole intact messbe is optical vig linking both. But more - such as internal analogs are/were needed for firm to take place It is entirely possible (even litely) that the change in the past responsible for the changed personalit in me (change of) preans a loss of memory as to the nature of what before the intervention I had been a new set of memories took then place. The Xerox letter is a clue to the actual former me: had to do with the CP But I can't remember; it dident ever exist (not afle the orthogonal interumt; so 3-74 was not the date of the "uncut stone that took place in our past - + the results (payoff) later 3-74 on this place as a natural effect (water cats? 15 I remembered the black Iron Prison + others oddest because. 1) I was more changed by the prior to 3-74 inter¬ veation. +/or 2) the Xerox letter caused [further?] anamnesis of the other time track which previously had obtained for all of us - the Golden fish may have started the disinhibiting - is - it linked up - the Xerox letter caused the anamnesis of the paralled time track - 3-74 was the alternate future All right. Because of the intervention prior to 2-74, my new personality (which the old wouldn't have) linked up inside + out with the Golden fish insted of with the Xerox letter. The actual old personality would not grou laked up with the Fish sign as the replacent one eid outwould have respect to the xerox letter, which still came anyhow + which caused, not linkup which always passes unnotial, as it is constant + natural) not link up smoothly but on the contral memory of the other Yardled world the Gold Fish Gul may have been the intervent. for me at least. Occuring the same day as the sodiun partathol it changed me into another alternate prison + then a month late when the Xerox letter cane anyhow to link up, there was nother to link up with. the Gold Fish caused me to forget I was CP trained - to love that me, + in its place Zebra installed literan created at that moment) the Xtian me. One subconsciou orgramming not replaced by another opposite me 16 Oh dear God - the black iron prison world [means this?] were of USSR. Yes. I was -has been - there. The Gold Fish - girl - intervention so that when my signal came instead of acting I partially remembered. They gave - had given me "you will forget" post-hyp. implant. Probably 1971/2 but God worked a miracle - Zebra - via the Fish + Girl, so no linkage - [wired?] the CP program right out of my mind. We hadn't been there (black I.P.) I had been. The whole uncut some - the Gold fish + gal, me not us. Whole new theory: Black iron prison world not memory but subspecia aeternitas of our world; the CP USSR secretly runs the whole world. God. Determinism = CP world. In 3-74 I saw this world at this time as it really is - the devil's world. Gnosticism is correct. The scales fell off, + not only did I get saved but also my son. True Xtianity is a tiny thread in this devil run CP world. Zebra has invaded our world replacing merciless determinism with its own loving + living body, to deprogram + save us, this is the great white fish giving us of its body, by which it suffers pain, that we might live (find salvation - freed from "astral" determinism). The Black Iron Prison is simultaneous in all time planes + it is the merciless world from which the living Corpus Christi saves us. I have seen it + its nature - + Zebra + its. It has the (magic to us) power to transform 17 Zebra mimics the determinism structure by inserting its body between it and us. This is the how of how ["]astral" determinism is broken; instead of the blind, striving mere mechanism, there is living volition ( the salvific). the previous mechanical force is rewoven for (1)