system are restored, the man sees God + can be with God wGod's Kingdom - which was formerly invisible, although righteres I have seen the Kingdom, + recognized it: it is the original "Gride" which we were cast out of, in it are frees, + all the animals + people live in harming. This is the main thing we lost which Christ restores. It is our rightful home, our ancestrat home, which deep inside we all remember + long for back there, we are no longer alienated or stranger, in a world not our own the fact" that the Kingdom turns out to be our original home (I am sure it is) verifies the Christian - Gnostic belief (intuition) that we are strangens here, that we came here from elsewhere - a far better elsewhere which we still long for. The Gnostic theme of alienation is ratified. The Kingdom is the sine quo non not just because it is intrinsically so wonderful but because we belong there. (There is no disagreement here with orthodox Christianity, excep that the Gnostics would probably place the Garden off earth somewhere, maybe even in the stars. Where it is however, is not that important. However, the fact that I experienced it as being here supports the non-Gnostic orthodox view of it being on Earth a long time ago: anyhow evidently it will be on Earth sometime + can be experienced here now by those whose sight + other senses have been restored. If it could be here now + in the future it could have been here in the past.) (However, it did seem to me to be part of another world in some sense that I do not understood. Maybe in what I like to thint of as "another dimension; or "the next continuum," to use the language of the Neo-Platonists 2 t t if was (for me) as if the Garden (or park - I recall the words "the Buddha is in the park" is this the sane Park? The pastoral Kingdom?) sort of swam into focus. the war we s-f writers describe an alternate world as doing when that track has been tinkered with, maybe in the past; "Jor's world." This world did not become it so much as of it replaced this world: locked in briefly in place of this world, exactly as the Roman one did, except that with the park I did not see it as the way our Earth really is but rather an alternative Earth: instead of what it actually is. t I could be wrong about this, though; both worlds (myster. iously glimpsed as fading alternatively into focus) could be what we s-f writers call "two alternative presents branching off from a critical nexus or previous point in time, + which of them becomes real depends on some act or event back in the past" - as in that Col. moore novelette in astounding about the two alternative futures hinging on which of 2 God's the guy marries in the present. Cone to think of it, the black Iron Roman world + the "Sitting in the sun" palm tree world are almost identical to the two alternative futures in that story conceptually, they are the absolute opposites of each other which is probably why col. moore selected then out of all the possibilities - or: she, like me, was subconsciously prompted Anyhow, these two are absolute epitomes of ( the hell world: âž€ the heaven world. Also, I had the distinct feeling that the Palm tree Garden had won out over the other, perhaps due to the historic intervention. One also could assess the two mysteriously. glimpsed worlds as two opposite mutually contradictory "crypte morphoses" latent in our [present) world: two opposite outcomes hinging on the historical event taking place now (this puts them -maybe correctly so - in the future - but as I say, I had the impresson that the Palm tree one won out (due to the success of the intervention which not only got Nixon out but ended the War). The black iron one was in the process of becoming real 26) ontil the intervention. This is why intervention tooh place - to avoid it as the final outcome, + to rearrange a crucial event back in our times that would instead establich the Garden as the end + outcome + goal of the linear becoming process extremely important, ther, is the perception I had of the activity of the Logos working back‐ ward from the end to direct causal events (persuade?) along - not chance lives - but along the one right line at every nexus or junction; this - all which I saw, inc. the historical intervention, would fit perfectly with that: a retroactive mending of the past, which explains my ver first impression: that people from the future were tinking around back here at our time to bring about a better direction of historical events: i.e. time travel (they would be the 3-eyed people + their Bathosphere technology). (Also this would explain why I knew the Xerox letter was coming, down to the very day; the spirit which took me over + controlled me was from the future. This, too, would explain how I got phased ahead in time + started reacting to events slightly before they happened."!! (So herewith we revive the tachyon et al theory.) It is certainly true that I did see the great sentient God - entity traveling backward thro time, + there fore absolutely knowing the future, + certainly it was the decisive force in we determining all outcomes of events; it seemed able to melt into causal chains +, by a sort of trans‐ substantiation become them (as Brahman is said to trans‐ form itself into the universe or take on the appearance of it) So the Black iron Prison was what our world really was, + the palm tree would was what it wasn't but could have been can infinitely more desirable alternative. + by the time "they" were finished, the latter was real + the for mer abolished ( + if this was a reweaving of the present by an entity or entities from the future, the reason I saw the was that Somehow I was involved in the change. Then the personality which took me over did not come from the pass but from the future, + the reason I felt the presence of the past is that our world is the past to him, an archaic world, bleakly tyrannical: as Rome is to us, we (or world is) to him; also maybe to him, to then, our world is viewed as the tail end of the wester Roman empire. Maybe I saw our world as the black Iron prison because that's how he saw it - i.e. one world is his past. So the black man world could be an alternate (bad) forture from which he had just come, + remembered, or it low he his view of our tyranny-dominated world. In both cases the Black Iron world is the is, + the palm tree world is the not real future hoped for + sought for. However, this uncertainly on my part as to whether he remembers the black Iron world from his own time or perceives it as the real nature of our time, is just a paralled versin of the confusion in my "man from the past" schema, in which I am not certain if he remembers Rome c. AD 70 or experiences - reveals - it as being here. In neither case (assum ing either to be true) can I determind which it is. + this confusion is confounded by dies of the ancient world in which There is super-modern technology - e.g. the high-speed up-down transport in the Roman trium, one argument that he came from the future, not the past, was his ability to drid my car. + his knowing the Xerox letter would arrive + when it would arrive the "man from the past" theory ony works when the theological elements (the theophany by God) is added to it, but conversely, the "man from the future" car be made to work in itself without the addition of any divine help or knowledg so the laten is more economical (dechan, razor principle.) 28 So: the man (men) from the future, equiped with superior technology could account for it all, but the man from the past needs God's help to explain his presence + abilities. Now, this man exhibited God-like powers (at least in perception - but also in knowledge). Wouldn't men from the future be more likely to seem God-like to us upon our meeting? For the "past" theory to world I have to posit a unique individual with knowles, + abilites I have no reason to suppose ever existed - in fact I must view the antique past as far more advanced than our own. it's more reasonable that the future, not the past, would be supering to us in knowledge, skills powers, abilities. In addition my dreams of the 3-eyed people showed them as resembling supposed futue man, certainly not past: large craning, mute, telepathic, with (surrounded by vastly superie technological equipment (even if these attributes are symbols called forth from my own mind, they are distincts symbols of future man, not past - + these would still be valid clues as to the reality the depicted, which I had come in contact with). In fact if what I saw were only symbols of transduction, I om even more inclined to think that contact with the future, not the past was involved. What I took to be God (the luminous plasmic Stiff everywhere) could be living energy from the future, or something. or maybe men from the future are evolved upward (which coincides with the way they looked) + they can see God whereas we today can't. (the next stage up involves the "3rd eye; + all the superior percep tion involved will be natural to our descendents. The "future man view would explain the "this (engineering) principle was known (sic) in your own time" dream. Maybe they were from a future kind tme in which St. Sophia has come back + transformed man (3 The problem is, both theories are so fantastic that neither is susceptable to verification. + then there is of course an obvious God possibility: AnE.T. I, came here from above - that would explain all the facts, too - esp. the 3-eyed, tech nologically advanced people. One sure looked like he was either in a space vehicle or at the very least behind glasst breathing a different atmosphere from us. + then there is the fact that I had a deep + abiding intuition that the Russigus were involved. Maybe they are mixed up with an E.T I. Maybe they rule in the future, + Russian is spoken (Russian, not greet). Their technology could account for all the miracles in the world - likewise the people from the future. We have no idea what ETIis micht be like or our own future descendents. Anyhow whoever they were they were here to tinker with major social (historical) events + determine this out come (for the good). Our parents (the one man identified him. self as "Tames father")? From the stars, who watch over earth, as its theirs ("we belong to someone"). All I know for sure is 1) They were powerful (more so than we) 2) They came here from elsewhere (past, future or outer space 7) They are benign 4) They possess incredibly advanced technology 5) They have 3 eyes + super large cranin If I go on my subjective impresson, it was that they cane (backward thru time) from the future. One possibility, though, that is most intringing: anamnesis, with my own orisin bery on anotter planet. Did these people come from there) i.e. they (we) colonized this planet thousals of years age; we are