explanation: he _found_ it. + the proof is in his presence in me. Analyzing the info contents of 3-74 we get an impression that the specific knowledge by which this renaissance illuminatus achieved his immortality was/is due to a possession of the original xtian oral gnosis now lost - _long_ lost. + how did he get it? Through an apostolic xtian (CAD 45) who _already_ had achieved immortality + who taught him. Thus we come to the conclusion that because Christ's offer of eternal life was bona fide, certain very early xtians are still alive, secretly, + can teach their gnosis to later persons. It has to do with recapitulation phylogenetically in some way; the individual's psyche or soul or identity is reassembled; via anamnesis it surfaces + takes control, until then it lives on in its own other time, but aware of the folder 02 - 090 folder 02 - 090 host brain, person + space-time world which carries it, + can work _through_ that host without its knowing (e.g. me). Thus we have here a master or matrix personality _living_in_more_ than one _time_; he is a transtemporal constant, + can add later persons to his rank, at his discretion. This is the highest initiation possible in all history, _+_is_kept_extraordinarily_ secret - which I must do. This is the matrix secret of the renaissance illuminati: passing the secret of immortality _directly_ from the secret immortal early xtians who learned (?) it from Christ. It has been passed to me: it is not knowledge as such (gnosis), like a recipe, etc - the life _itself_ is passed on (what I call "Firebright") using later humans as hosts. Under certain circumstances the immortal self surfaces + makes himself known to the host, which "initiates" the host, so that he, now, is drawn into this ongoing process. Some kind of "phylogeny in the ontogeny" is made use of, like an ultrasophisticated scientific principle. (Jung's collective unconscious.) Hence this symbol: [DNA double helix symbol] or ["whale's mouth" symbol] or: [ichthys symbol] or Bruno's "magic memory" - i.e. anamnesis. + not only does he possess immortality, but is also in touch with the Logos, Christ himself, St. Sophia, the AI voice I hear. The microcosm has entered syzygy with the soul of the macrocosm. Folder 03 - 001 The "Rosicrucian Enlightenment" book shows that these 16th + 17th century RC illuminati humanists were a vital force in promoting freedom - political and religious, etc, as I was shown in 3/74. They aided the Elector Palatine Frederick + the protestants generally. I believe absolutely that 1) they largely founded the United States originally as a new world of freedom; + 2) they (secretly, using their ultra sophisticated - in fact supernatural, divine - power) overthrew the Nixon Imperial Tyranny. I am really not theorizing, I know, since I was brought into the latter effort. The eye of Horus watches over this republic, + I saw that eye + its two aspects: discernment within, + the lethal scourging of evil outwardly. So these Xtian immortals, descended directly from Christ in an unbroken supratemporal line, are assisting mankind by decisively involving themselves in directing history. Undoubtedly, e.g., (as is speculated in "Morning of the Magicians") they crucially entered to destroy the nazis. I have no doubt of it. I also have no doubt that they, as part of what I call the macrobrain (or Zebra) inserted code into "Tears". Not only can they move ahead in time, but back - as far as Acts, as I discovered. These secret political agents are literally the agents of Christ (God). If they could destroy Hitler + Nixon they can do - + are doing - their job. But they must remain hidden. No one is to know. Their chain of command passes Folder 03 - 002 Folder 03 - 002 through the Nine Levels which I experienced, this Low Realm (#1) must be brought into harmony + synchronization with higher realms. ---- 1) The form-axis regressions in "UBIK" could only occur if the Universe were the Hylozoic animal which the Macro-Microcosmos schools believed it to be. ("Phylogeny contained in ontogeny.") 2) A major reason for their believing the Macrocosm to be an animal (analogy of the human, the microcosm) was to believe -maintain- that, like a man who has a soul, the universe has a soul or Logos; Because 3) if it does, the human micro soul can link up with its analog, the World Soul (Logos). 4) Precisely this World Soul or Logos appears in "UBIK" as the entity/force UBIK 5) UBIK processes (transmits, etc.) information. 6) This sounds like the Logos. Q: How, when I wrote "UBIK," did I know that the Hylozoic Macro-Microcosm Universe presented would have a Governing Soul (Logos)? + how did I know it would be processing verbal info (as in 3-74 I saw it doing)? 7) This Macro-Microcosm system stresses the ultimate value of "magic memory" or anamnesis. 8) Several years after writing "UBIK" I experienced this very anamnesis. Q: Who wrote "UBIK"? Not me. I didn't know what I would have had to know to write it. Therefore another more learned self had to exist in me. In 2-74 that very same self (and in 3-74) surfaced. + he knew those things {that} Folder 03 - 003 Folder 03 - 003 would have to be known to write "UBIK." Not only that, I was thereupon able to see Zebra, which now I realize is UBIK. It is a Unitary Cosmic data (info) processing Brain whose messages flow as traffic through our world, embedded in our communications media, exactly as in "UBIK." So "UBIK" contains Great secret (or unrecognized) truths: 1) Possibility of form axis reversion due to dialectic interfight between love and strife (i) (Phylogeny in ontogeny in the macrocosm): (i) negentropy vs entropy 2) which points to a hylozoic single animal universe. 3) which ratifies the truth of the Macro-Microcosm Hermetic Cosmology; 4) an info processing cosmic brain (Logos or World Soul) as analogy to a man's brain and soul (mind) exists; 5) it is directing us salvifically but subliminally through its traffic of messages, 6) it opposes the form-axis reversion to more stable but more primitive states, presumably both in the macro- and microcosms. 7) It has a spokesperson or voice which we can hear (as well as see its written information) which we can link up with in dialog, which is very desirable. Ah! If the macrocosm has a phylogeny, and it is contained in its ontogeny, then prior times do lie "under" (latent) the surface: the "onion" model is correct - not just for the human [mind] - But for the universe [qua animal] as well - So under certain unusual circumstances there could be a time reversion (like in "UBIK" - but my plural psychoi-worlds push-pull system show how it could/would happen to an individual only) Folder 03 - 004 Folder 03 - 004 So much for "UBIK" but "UBIK" is just one of an interlocking series of novels & stories - what about e.g. my acosmic view & my plural worlds view? Is my grand theme part of the esoteric knowledge of Thomas, as well? After all, the Gnostics were acosmic, & Gnosticism played a major role in the doctrines of the 16th, 17th century Illuminati. Not to mention "Tears" really being composed out of Acts. Just how much Illuminati material (or should I say UBIK's messages) is/are being transmitted -broadcast- through/in my writing? How about "Faith of..." as a portrait of Yaltabaoth? & Eugene Warren pointed out the Gnostic tinge in such novels as "Maze." & isn't "Stigmata" a Gnostic portrait of the evil deity who occludes us with sinister spurious worlds? & then there is the mysterious figure of Mercer. In many ways related to the Walker-On-Earth. How about Glimmung? & (tetragrammaton) who is specifically Yahweh? Ubik & Palmer Eldritch diametrically confront each other - like the antithetical deities in "The Cosmic Puppets." & the Deus Irae is explicitly identified with Catharist doctrines. But "UBIK" is the closest. World devolves, regresses, & melts away, & the vast benign info-processing messages-of-assistance-dispatching, salvific negentropy-assisting brain is revealed at first in "trash" guises- everywhere!- & then at the end its divine nature is unveiled & it speaks clearly about itself (not any longer in riddles). It stands above the Empedoclean dialectic! It is a -or the- reality support ("the ultimate bastion against non-being"). __ RC Brothers: Christ pitted against his own church, the Catholic Church. Folder 03 - 005 Folder 03 - 005 For the first time I have inferential evidence that a genuine secret fraternity of authentic Xtians exists, + has affected history (e.g. supporting regarding the Elector Palatine Frederick, overthrowing Nixon) + possess supernatural powers + immortality, due to direct links back to Christ - so they are the true hidden church. The two historic interventions which I am sure of collate: the secret fraternity fights the Empire (Rome in all its manifestations) + promotes the evolution of man to higher levels by inner + outer regeneration. The 16th, 17th century illuminati are connected with this secret brotherhood of authentic Xtians linked to the macrobrain + to Christ. (This may be the same thing.) The arcane symbolism + cryptic tractates + codices of e.g. the Hermetics, + Bruno + Theophrastus + Boehme may conceal a supratemporal movement of political radical activists (like the Freemasons vs Maria Theresa). They were crucial in breaking the power of the Catholic League in the 30 years war in its effort to crush Protestantism; without the Brotherhood in Holland, England + Germany, Protestantism would have gone the way of the Catharists, instead of being the first heresy in 1600 years to survive. The entire new world would have been Catholic: divided between Spain + Portugal. This is why the AI voice said: van ("fen") Walloon Portuguese States of America. An alternate world was alluded to (or it was actually speaking from it) in which the Walloons (i.e. Catholic Flemish people) + Spain + Portugal defeated England - + there was no U.S.A. At the very least, this otherwise inexplicable statement of origin of the AI voice points to the Protestant-Catholic Folder 03 - 006 wars from a position different from the outcome we know ... a bad outcome. I say they were successful in their intervention despite Frederick's defeat at White Mountain - that didn't end the war. The end consisted of the Protestant states surviving - as the Nixon overthrow was a success. The secret Xtians are very interested in promoting an end to Rome, to the imperial entropic leveling itself. Point I: So the book "The Rosecrucian Enlightenment" gives me my first hard evidence not only of R.C. intervention in history but the precise direction + purpose of that intervention - it is as I had dared, barely dared hope. Next I now also have my first hard evidence (point 2) of an elaborate theological-philosophical cosmology of a special kind appearing in my writing + one which I could never have arrived at on my own (+ I had not read it anywhere!). It happens to be the system (the macro-microcosm system) of those thinkers of the 16th + 17th century known to be connected with the Rosy Cross. Also (point 3) the "in another century" personality who surfaced in me in 2-74/3-74 (Thomas) brought with him the exact same system of thought of points I + 2. (Baldly put, Theophrastus, Bruno, Boehme et al.) In addition to elements known to historians there are, in Thomas' accompanying system, elements very definitely not known exoterically. These have to do with supernatural knowledge + powers going back to the earliest apostolic true Xtians who got the oral gnosis directly from Christ (+/or the Holy Spirit), + through this they are immortal + can initiate others -like me- into their transtemporal + supratemporal immortality + - they (we) are in touch with the Logos or world soul of the {macrobrain.}