that is anything more than the sum of all its efficient causes. But this is not the case, as I discovered in 3-74. The sum of all the efficient caused in my life had led me to doom; thereupon God introjected - from outside the world a sua generis phenomenon; this view is one in which "Thomas" is viewed as literally created, rather than his presence being a transferred one to me from elsewhere. There was no history (prior processes) which could have given rise to or could account for Thomas, which accounts for the miraculous quality I felt about him at the time. Taking this as an example of the continuous creation which goes on, I can see how God Acts to modulate history. Arranging (joining pieces together in new combinations - Gestalts) accounts for general emergences; these new emergencies, however surprising to us, are nothing more than the total sum of their efficient causes, their histories, + are the work of The 2 dialectic contending demiurges. But if this were the whole story, the universe would cease to grow, + entropy would inevi tably win out, as our laws of thermodynamics show. However God's introjections of the historyless totally new is negentropic + true miracles. I saw Zebra + I saw it modulating causal processes, but I think also it, like Ubik, added adventitious Spin" or "velocity" or energy to the closed system of which I was a part - + a highly entropic part at that. This, in the garder + vine image was the gardener himself, aiding a languish cutting which he had 1000s of years ago pruned off of course the Gardener would like to see the cuttings prosper - they were not proned off to be destroyed, but to grow. What I am grappling with is OCCP vs Xtianity; the latter in 2-3-74 was seeming, but on scrupulous scrutiny seems an archetypalization of the former. Perhaps the matter can be resolved if the latter (as I have often said!) is regarded (e.g. Acts + the whole Christ story) as a code (stegenographia), + not literal. Rome literally isn't meant; CAD 45 isn't meant; Christ is/was not a person; the synoptics are a way of talking - but what about? Not that time, nor space, nor those people. This is the resolution of the mystery, not just as to the esoteric meaning of Xtianity but to my 2-3-74 experience which 1) is related to historic change. (Not any one time.) 2) overthrow of the BIP (not literally Rome.) 3) secret revolutionary group (not really Xtians.) OCCP isn't excluded. (4) A dialectic is involved: antithetical forces (represented to me in 3-74 as those of Zoroastrianism, which brings us to Jim Pike and his discovery that the actual essence of Xtianity was Zoroastrianism, and now to Thomas) it isn't Xtianity nor OCCP yet includes both (the basic elements are common to both; thus, Xtianity is a form of OCCP, + OCCP a form of Xtianity; both are equal expressions in history of something underlying both, originally expressed in the Christ story. I have been assuming the Xtian story to be literally true; there was a person Jesus Christ. But no; this is code. The correct symbol is the Fish, not the cross. What does the Fish represent? It includes OCCP, as hinted in "Faith of..." Off the top I'd say, the ultimate revelation granted me was seeing Valis. But Valis is not Christ because Pyth wrote about it 600 years before Christ. When I realized this, I could no longer take the Christ story seriously, or rather literally. Blow up the BIP. What is the BIP? Scramble Generator? {illustration: In the middle a cube} BIP (Telos) {surrounded by a circle} Kosmos {surrounded by a circle} Atelos {which are pointed to by an arrow} Xtians OCCP To shut off the scramble generator at the omphalos? Maya machine. The Fall: man's occluded faculties (v. Calvin + "Scanner"). V. "Maze." {illustration: A seed} Telos which is alive + grows Valis (kosmos, an organism) {surrounded by a square} Generator (BIP) {surrounded by a circle} Scramble (atelos) {; the seed is pointed to by an arrow} Xtians, Pyth, OCCP: deposit seed (telos) from which kosmos (Valis) grows outward from center of the irrational - from center of its generator (i.e. sabotage) {illustration: Square} BIP {with a seed at its centre, pointed to by arrow} Xtians / Pyth / OCCP penetrate barrier + deposit explosive seed which when it detonates grows into "fitting together" transubstantiation of irrational irreal scramble atelos. Devours it, from center outward. Grain of wheat planted. Of course: Generator of acosmic scramble is protected by a barrier. Scramble generator wasn't always here (hence the legend of the Fall). Yahweh: Scramble Generator. "Valis" is right: irrational but deliberately so (symbolized by "bichlorides of mercury - aspirin of mercury" : it deranges us. It must be shut off - this is done by planting seed (telos or limiting factor which grows into structuring. Ach! Dialectic is insane (atelos): leads to endless procession of impaired "truths" as in Greek philosophy which winds up saying, 1) Nothing is; 2) + if it did exist it couldn't be known; 3) + if known, couldn't be communicated. Something is wrong. Scramble. No way by which we can arrive at knowledge, not due to limitation of our percept systems but 1) a priori scramble ("Scanner") + 2) empirical scramble (Buddhism idealism). V. Calvin. We can neither think nor apprehend, but the morphology for both is there but deliberately impaired (by the scrambler, the generator of the dialectic, which, as I've said, is unstable (irrational). Negation of every negation (Engels). Telos weaves a coherence (Kosmos or Valis) which is stable (rational) + can be known both a priori + a posteriori. Christ is a term for that seed. His death + burial in the tomb + resurrection is code for the sneaking of the seed into the scramble generator (called “Rome” in the code story), its being planted (his passion + death) + its coming to life + growing into Valis. The growing is represented graphically in modern terms as the detonating of explosives smuggled into the BIP (fortress: barrier around the scrambled generator). {illustration: A center} Scramble generator {surrounded by a cube} BIP fortress barrier {surrounded by a circle} Atelos: Maya acosmos, in macro form as world; in micro form in each of our minds. {Center is pointed to by arrow} OCCP + Xtians smuggling explosive seed (telos) into center of scramble generator of dialectic The scramble generator is not blown up; a seed which explodes into growth is smuggled into the center of it, whereupon it [the planted seed] expands in creating Kosmos (Valis), the rational devouring the irrational: feeding on it: an organism eating the atelos. (Dialectic infinitude which endlessly contradicts itself). Preying on the atelos, + is totally stable (coherent, + hence can be known). Nothing can be known of the acosmism (Maya) because we are scrambled +, I guess, it is scrambled (but since we are, there's no way to know that - if all the percipients are scrambled). The heart of the matter is, we are impaired both a priori and a posteriori calculatedly - but the generator can be obviated by the smuggling in of the potentially explosive seed to its heart. "Small as a mustard seed, but will grow into a tree so vast that the birds can roost in it." No wonder 1) He spoke of the "Kingdom of God" but 2) was enigmatic in saying where it was; + 3) He had to die, be buried (at the core of the scrambler generator) + 4) be reborn + grow to cosmic proportion. James-James: The scrambler generator, who has us hypnotized with his light show. Mad as a hatter. Apollo: the god of telos + harmonia. Then telos is a life form come here to exact hagocytosis on the scrambler generator: to prey on it as a supply of parts (food). Viewed biologically, the scrambler generator is a life form harmful to us, + the seed harmful to it, hence our friend. {illustration: 3 interlinked boxes:} Us: lowest life form / Scrambler generator: higher life form / Seed: highest life form Then the N.T. is not an historical narrative but an instruction manual, a "how to" manual. How to 1) bamboozle the scrambler into thinking you're a "normal ordinary human" (read: victim of its [scramble] power) 2) it kills you (read: lets you into the BIP as victim where it springs the trap); 3) you spring the trap + die (read: undergo explosive growth within the scrambler as telos growing into more kosmos - ie adding to the coherence). The scrambler organism (or mechanism or both) admits you past the barriers (BIP walls) to ingest you, but this just plants you as seed which dies (transfiguration) + detoxifies - descrambles as part of Valis. Valis grows outward but more seeds move inward to the core. So Acts isn't a space-time but a NT code situation which is invaded by the seed (telos - read Christ in the NT code). Hence the dream in "Tears" - the seed invading the BIP. There is no one Christ, it's a way of talking about one life form ("telos") preying on another ("atelos"). Now, to the living info, the plasmate - this is the information basis of the kosmos organism growing as it feeds on the helpless "atelos" which is insane. It's like a parasite preying on a parasite which preys on us. It starts with us. Call us A, scrambler B, telos C. NT: instructions to Cs as to how to invade the body of B + get to its center. Get past its defenses by mimicking A, the prey of B. The predator of B poses as A, its prey. Just as B is hungry to eat up A, C is hungry to eat up B, + so knows how to mimic. I was right: mimicry, mimesis + camouflage is the basic survival technique of C (Valis or Pyth's Kosmos). It mimics us (A, the prey of B) + mimics B by growing within it. Micro-mimicry of A; plural. Macro-mimic of B, unitary. Mimicry of us (A) is a way by which C gets past B's (its victim's) defenses, just as at some primordial time B got past our defenses. I am a C seed mimicking A, + I successfully fooled B, according to the instruction manual, the N.T. This is why whenever I'm loaded I write, "Ich bin der Retter; ja; ist Wahrheit!" All that the Acts material in "Tears" shows is, 1) I knew the manual (technique) + 2) could re-narrate it for modern readers (Buckman traps Taverner, + Buckman - read procurator - read Rome, read BIP - read scrambler - read parasite on us B is destroyed, not Taverner). The trapper trapped: core of the (NT) manual. This is why I have the (correct) impression that in 3-74 I 1) died + 2) came to a second new life. I was just following our instruction manual (known to my disassociated self "Thomas"). B) Buckman: King Pentheus, king who suffers final ruin. A/C) Taverner: the stranger, who effects that ruin The old king = Dionysos, the hidden C side of what appears to be an A. Maybe the B life form is plural + poses as As to prey on them. The Cs prey on the Bs, + do so successfully by posing as As in order to draw the Bs passing as As into revealing their true B nature. To understand this you must conceive of Cs as predators stalking the Bs who are here preying on As + hence posing as them. {illustration:} A) Jesus / B) Pilate (Rome) / C) Christ } all parties either A or posing as A The Cs have started Kosmos into being: Cs are the seed stage of Kosmos (Valis, or the cosmic Christ who/which we could call D. So: