only look to "Tears. The novels + their "Tears" is organically related to tend + stories which came before it, but they more more to ask, not answer. I think, though, there are answers in "Ubik," "Maze "Stigmata" etc than readily t appear. It is just that the essential pieces of the answer don't come until "Tears." The best approach is to take 5 or 6 of the novels prior to "Tears" + read them as a unit which concludes with "Tears." This seenes must But include "MITHC" + of course "Eye" + "Joint" only perhaps time slip." No real answer can be discerned before "Tears" - only hints + clues. This is why it was so vital to get "Tears" published. + with it ended the entire 27 year sequence of questioning + answer. The great dialectic is resolved in a ruthless. pitiless way, a way of total truth without mercy: we are living in "Rome" (meant here as elong-term Platonic archetype) + the authentic Xtians have been persecuted + driven into hiding by the police estab‐ lishment, but God is intervening now, + the old tyrannical system is to be thrown down this time, as it was not before. The great battle has come "Tears" in answer to the questions of the previous stories + novels states that agapē is required of us a spreading of the true Gospel, which tells + a whole planet groaning under the chains of oppression = but the answer is not just to of overthrow it (although this is called fort 84 This is what the dream in "Tears" calls for - but one more act is necessary: reconciliation + love with the enemy "Tears" decoded, then, calls for, first revolution by the prisonery led by God + the hosts of heaven, + then love + reconciliation, whereupon the oppression lifts, finally. Time is not seen as reads it could be the past or present or future (as in "Scanner" - a novel about the past set in the future - time is treated as nonexistent, as in "Tears: only timeless constants are taken into account. The past invades the future, or, viewed another way, the future invades the past. The present isn't even discussed - only what was + will be as a single continuum. There is some thing of this in "Joint." When are we really living (+ as a corokery, as in "Maze" where?). I wonder who "Tears" was directed at. Who saw in it what I now know was in it? What about people who had progressively read previous novels + stories of mine? Would they be moved along the same path as I - most important, would my writ culminating in "Tears" promote what it pro‐ motes in me - anamnesis? Would the writing undermine their assent given to the empirical world which I know to be delusional? The doubt about its reality is sequentially raised in novel after novel, story after story - even fake mem‐ ories are consident - + fakes of all kinds, + lies, + then comes "Tears." i oddly, "Scanner" sheds some light an "Tears in that the structure of it is the past treated lies in the future, something of this sort as if it in "Joint" + "Ubik" + "now wait: occurs 90 I Asimou did this in "Pebble in the sky" + the "founda novels + oddly, it was Xtianity + the Roman Empire once again. + van vast dealt with fake it memories, concealing a God (Ptath). I guess could be said that I took their work very ser lously. Specifically, trains of thought in my own mind were set into motion, which bore fruiti the novels + stories I've written. Well, then won't or don't my works do the same to later readers: the messages become clearer + cleared. Inhibited circuits are affected. Either "Tears" stemmed from such GABA-blocked circuits in my i heas, or the blocked circuits were disinhibited by " Tears. my own novel! ( GABA blocked ( t neural circuits (Tears" 85 namnesi but more is needed: the true secret under ground Fish - Xtian church + its covert activities settle for this formulation: my stories + I'll novels don't contain the whole message, + alone they can't induce anamnesis (i.e. waking up, as in "Maze." "Ubik" "exe" + "Stigmata," etc) but they do contain a necessary part of the total message is not my writing them probably my role being (esse) that I spoke of earlier? + now I'm beginning to hint that my writing is to be taken as truth But what I've temporarily lost sight of is my revelation the Christ is here, "buried beneath the wrappings of degradation" etc, since this be so, 91 + the passion, death + final triumphant resurrec to continually occurs (when any man or animal is humiliated + killed) then of course it is true that in a certain real sense we are actually in Rome c AD70. But it is not so much that we are there, but that the is here ( see earlier pages for analysis of the "esse" rather than just role-playing analysis). Yes, that supercedes the importance of knowing where we are. It's where He is that out shines it. we have gone to Rome CAD 70 +, reciprocally He has come here. Again, time is viewed as an illusion, then it all makes sense. He is summoned into existence here, by certain conditions; simultan a eously, certain (prison) conditions either summon Rome or return us to Rome. Just as He is always here + everywhere, the original Xtians like wise, + the enemy, too. Yes: Thomas, as an apostolic Xtian was (esse) me as an analog to Pinky being him. The same miracle of trans t substantiation was involved t The permanence of the archetypes reduce linear time to a zero factor savings 22018.08 22150 check 11 1183-74 450. dentist 8756 bank - 3245 14000 state + fed tox a net 18400 Page 8 What Good does it do to kill everyone who has melded with the spirit if Zebra can roll back time to the period of "Acts" before the true, spirit-filled Christians were killed? Perhaps it can be counted a miracle of God rather than a defect in creative power by Yin that the intervening 2000 years are [made] irreal, since, if they are irreal, Pentecost is restored to the present and nothing is lost. In any case, the evil entity and counterfeit world are connected in my writing. Also, one could see why someone today seized on by the spirit would be returned to Pentecost and the world of "Acts." That was when the spirit first descended onto the 12. In a sense, then, the 12 would be restored to life. The true deity has reasserted itself in the overthrowing of the American government. Perhaps one of the reasons for its victory is that the evil powers did not understand what they were up against, sincerely believing that they had destroyed -not just banished- the Light. Especially since the Light re-entered by "trash" routes. They did not recognize it even when confronted by it. That was its intention. Since the evil one posed as the solemn, the dignified, the noble, the true God took on all the despised and rejected and Looked-down-on forms. (cf the messages in "UBIK" and the Last one, where its cheap and vulgar mask is thrown off to disclose its true nature.) Wind, blowing through the dry weeds... tracing a path: the abyss, the sacred void. Silent and invisible, like electricity. "The answer is blowing in the wind." It's like that dream I had in Canada where Kathy said, "Now you can know the point to all this concealment and acting." And everyone took off their masks. I knew then that someday I'd understand, and so it comes to be. It certainly is evident from all this why Zebra would be recontouring causal train outcomes. That's why it is here. To be here and not do that makes no sense. By this it is obvious how and where Spinoza erred in stating that a "miracle would be a sign of God's weakness." Page 9 Page 9 (9) Spinoza was not in possession of the secret that evil had won, a long time ago, + ousted God from this world. What an extraordinary theological thought-answer to the Q.: ["]if God exists, why can't we see him + why does he permit evil?" Fact is, evil did him in - temporarily - + banished him. This is all in keeping with Christ's passion - + the words the voice said to me: "...she was not acceptable before." The entire tale of the N.T. is rejection of the light, the killing of it, + the promise that someday it will return. Well, it has, but disguised, as a beggar, so to speak. Burroughs may have got the real situation down in "The Ticket That Exploded" - the criminal virus related to words, submessages, the nova police. In 3-74 I saw the 50/50 juxtaposition he discusses. IF his view is correct, what happened to me in 3-74 is that I temporarily got well - was somehow able to throw off the word virus which had entered me + infected me - or it was done for me - probably the latter (cf Asklepios). (The dream "We need medical attention," the "Asperin of Mercury Albemuth," the "Bichloride." But finally I was reinfected + again blinded. But what is Zebra? A healing organism that has come here camouflaged to fight the criminal virus? Master Controller with idiosynchronicities: beer, calling dogs "he" + cats "she." Soviet? Have we recently been invaded? Or a long time ago? The myth of the Fall: the truth is, an evil power enslaved + blinded us (to our condition). The personality + idiosynchratic changes in me were due to a tampering with the past. An alternate "me" was created, in the present. I am sure this explains it. But under everything is the ur person Thomas. The real fight is back there. Page 10 Page 10 (10) I know little about the enemy; but the sentient power which took complete control of me is connected with the cosmic Christ, a healer + wise entity. Equal to Burroughs' nova police. Certainly it seems benign to me. It saved me, + it was here in pursuit of "the conspirators" to do them in. It had been watching: it told me that - watching with the ajna eye. Bob Wilson connects this with the star Sirius. An information virus which has infected us all - our whole planet. We are dying. They (the healers) countered this with me by surgery: implanting Firebright, through whom I regain my destroyed immortality. The healers have left me, but Firebright remains, alive but dormant within me. Is he a microcomputer? (Or more properly a computerized guidance system?) If danger threatened me again, they (Zebra) wouldn't have to return to help me; Firebright would click on + guide me - would take over, the way Zebra took over (inc. altering the past to change me + the present) (in other ways.) Symbiosis? Well, Firebright is added to me to watch for certain kinds of danger. I.E. danger from the enemy - they who e.g. sent the xerox missive. In the nitrous oxide experiences it communicated with me. It warned me about Joan: she was one of the enemy - I don't understand them (Solarcon, as I call them). My sudden insight that the good God suffered a terrible defeat about 2000 years ago, leaving the evil powers in control here, would explain undeserved suffering. God (Zebra) must sneak in here, camouflaged. The BIP rules + so inflicts suffering on the innocent. It is a typical evil lie about "joining Christ" on the way to the cross in suffering; he came here to abolish it. Metz 87 68 48 41 8 June Page