our world; the CP USSR secretly runs the whole world. God. Determinism = CP world. In 3-74 I saw this world at this time as it really is - the devil's world. Gnosticism is correct. The scales fell off, + not only did I get saved but also my son. True Xtianity is a tiny thread in this devil run CP world. Zebra has invaded our world replacing merciless determinism with its own loving + living body, to deprogram + save us, this is the great white fish giving us of its body, by which it suffers pain, that we might live (find salvation - freed from "astral" determinism). The Black Iron Prison is simultaneous in all time planes + it is the merciless world from which the living Corpus Christi saves us. I have seen it + its nature - + Zebra + its. It has the (magic to us) power to transform 17 Zebra mimics the determinism structure by inserting its body between it and us. This is the how of how ["]astral" determinism is broken; instead of the blind, striving mere mechanism, there is living volition ( the salvific). the previous mechanical force is rewoven for (1) the fulfillment of Zebra's plan; and 2 the benefit of the indivdual involved. Any event can be headed off, aborted, altered or brought about. Evidently this is Grace in divine providence, and the individuals may very well sense it. Where freedom enters into it I'm not sure, but I know one thing; before theinsertion/intervention there wasnone - in fact that's the main quality (bad) of the "ananke" world. The person is flatout programmed - caused to react to cuing. The ancients were right about this being a - or even the - prime purpose of God is "the stars." At the time I recieved intervention I rose up out of the deterministic catogories, and, freed from them and able to see things at work (on me, and everywhere) I was astounded - that's why I described myself as a machine; it was so - had been, anyhow. The party and the Xerox letter were part of that - for me, anyhow. Evidently the different or other universe I was switched over to (from the Black iron prison which equals - is a vision of - the (our) deterministic blind world) was to enter Zebra. The palm tree world is the vision of that; evidently as the first equals Rome the second equals kindgdom of God/Christ. If I could retain my lost year (c'71) I'd know what Zebra saved me from; its tied up with that. The Black Iron vision is of the unrelating deterministic machine world here. The Gnostics are right. Then, the Gnosis (as vision and revelation) saves me from that. Evidently the others, who do not recieve the Gnosis, stay stuck in it. Without Zebra we are programmed reflex machines - slaves to engramming - i.e. instinct. 18 Evidently the Black Iron Prison represents a continued from ancient time to at least 3-74, but whether it was generally abolished or just for me (i.e the [influence] of Zebra) I dont know. The "we saw conspirators" vision given some evidence to generally- but, as always before, I count [Besme] )i.e. dios in Roines). I must have found the answer to the "why are they [not-me] personality." i.e it was programmed by the James-James world would have been triggered off by the xerox 6th (supra). Perhaps I can consider this issue closed J-J laid down my sublimed track; Zebra [me] below it in another, in., before J-J got to me. So, too by dating the intercention as [pin] to 3-74 I solve other misleads: e.q. people dont notice becasue they have new (replacement) memories. Either they never saw the Black Iron Prison world on their memories of it [or] retroactively altered. If 3-74 was not intervention but pay off of 19 "It (Zebra) not my mimics the things of this world it also imitates the [inocosses] "([kas] me changes birth defect "casuality " of insight). there in that case the birther [sang] the earlier scrotal pain, and the brutality bear of light cominc through the first sign did not cause the knowledge to enter my heart: it was,rather, a simulationof casuality, of the actual deterministic kind found outside Zebra. so Zebra does not just"persuade" causilty alone, diffrent outcomes [lines]; it also simply mimics, them. However, to me, at the time. I knew that the info came from "Him", not from the apparent causes. However, Zebra knew it [god] discloses itself tome anyhow. Its causes for chist out weighs its desire to retain its usual concealment. 20 That same purpose necessary is/was serves by this B.I.P. However, I see in the superimposition by invading by Zebra a dialectic opposition to this would, not just improvement.[I]. Functions, my noetic vision shows two game-player as opponments at strife with each other. I think Zebra knows what it knows and when it knows it-and when it doesnt. It never fails, in what is true. To do because it never attempts what it cant do-which certainly doesnt mean it knows it can do everything. it wins but only [trick by trick]; step by step. It is pitted against J-J and they are rather evenly matched. A zero[astrion] dualism (in Gnosticism) seems involved. Since J-J always moves (acts)first he very much resembles the Bad (limited) creator God of Gnosticism, with Zebra the "kind stranger" god who enters in to give assistence to us here. Also the way I learned all this fits with the how learned of the Gnostic revelation. I can readily see a difference between Zebra savior, us and the [revelation] itself to us; it can do the former without doing the latter..but specifically in Gnosticism salvation comes through revelation- that is not only a definition of a fundemental meaning of the term itself, but also the content of my revelation was very much the content. To define Gnosticism is to talk about saving revelation about 1) a B.I.P. [world]; 2) a blind or purposeless evil or [dammed] creation; 3) an external-to-this-world salvitic entity wntering out of kindnessand extending a secret revelation which consists of knowledge about this world not otherwise known. let me outline what was revealed to me not known generally. 1) the world is a Black Iron Prison of determinisn, in which we have the deliberate inspired delusion of individual freedom (free will), whereas in [concealed] fact we are programmed by mercies mecahnical force which use us seamlessly. they control us and cause us to do as they please- we are slaves who work, suffer and die for no good reason; meanwhile we believe there is a point to all this illness and [labor] and misery. 2) the creator of this world doesnt care what happens to us, and kills and maims us recklessly. 3) It is opposed by a wiseentity which mimics the objects of processed, here, modulating and simulating the deterministic agents on all sides of us to informand release us. Release from the deterministic forces is its first major goal regarding us. This determinism is much like the colony wheel believed in by the religion of India. 4) a happy life awaits us within the body of this saving entity, we are actually incorporated into it. We are not only extracted from the B.I.P. but attain a happy immortality as parts of this great wise brain- like being entity. it seems to be holy wisdom, which is chrsit. 5) possibly we have lives [from] lives. Basically, we have been decieved as to the Goodness of this world, which is to say, life here. we are actually kept in a Quasi hypnotized, delusioned state by obscure evil entities which not only creates us but which now enslaves us. the landscape we see is not the New landscape- the actual me is actual; a veil or 22 to the deterministic forces but also its abilities to transfer us to a beautiful peaceful hobby pastoral palor tree holy land scale of placed core. I had known nothing about this entity and its [extinction?] activities, and I had not suspected how bad this [would?] was, although I had suspected I was doomed. Had I not read about this entity as I read up on Gnosticicsm I would believe this the intervention I saw had [ever?] happened before, but for at least isolated individuals that is, me on an individual basis- it's [bee?] [Goim?] and in 1900 years the contents of this revelation was kept secret. Connection. the salvific intervenity entity is encountered in UBIK and Galactic pot healer, possibly in "stigmata" in the [person?] of Louis Bolono... wow- in "stigmata" Palmer Eldritch and Louis fight each other as [did?] the z force, I saw noetically. In fact, to reference UBIK in terms of my zebra formulation, I am staggered at how close I came to Zebra- the way it sends its messages of [help?]- and [reconcile?], like christ , was our leader who died yet is alive. the intrusion quality is the same- the places it shows up, the ubiquity. I wonder how I could have come so close without consciously having had the revelation. there are also the - [emending?] demi deities. Also R's messages are to make them aware of their true, unrecognized [humble?] condition-i.e. what their world is made up of. it is madeup of ice- resembling my first LSD experience. Is ice, too, an image, condition or symbol of the actual state of things: heat loss death (entropy)? and UBIK itself is warm Could the Marxists have recognized UBIK as a picture of Zebra and wondered if I (consciously) knew? Do they know? it is their antagonist. maybe they dont view it theologically but rahter as a superior life form.(may their right.) this would be scientific truth, as I told the bureau. 23 I concieve of Zebra as a weak "vegetable [level" field, barely able to arrange matter. (Trigrams sun and Li.) But its level (Capacity to exact force) seems to be growing. To have thresholded recently. I have seen what it can do and have heard its voice. Interesting--if the xerox letter is connected with the Soviet interests in Ubik, since it is in ubik in which the entity which saved me from the xerox letter is described! Maybe there is a connection: Lem-Ubik/Ubik-Xerox Letter The soviet unit about UBIK and the to get me to come over there, because I write UBIK, nad it is UBIK in the actual world which opposes them and saves me. Ah! UBIK (zebra I mean) doesnt want the person (as they) who wrote about it(evidently who it inspired and informed and made use of to unit about it) to fall into soviet hands I never thought of before. That coincidence. maybe Zebra/UBIK would have protected me-even did- against anyone who read the book and knew what I didnt and who this to net me may be to try to see how I knew and I knew more, and if so what Zebra/UBIK may consider nightly that I got into trouble due to what it influences me to say, so: the answer to the question, why did Zebra disclose itself to me is: it caused me to unite Ubik, I got into trouble because It's based on a [great] secret hidden truth, so it wishes to protect me. the missing piece in Gnosticism is the "imprisionment [spark?] of the divine" and loss of memory as to [publish?] identity , but this is exaclty the anamnesis and [navigation?] I had in 3-74: regaining memory and sense of divinity, the [after?] being a staggering discovery about my self. 24 I certainly got that, + only Gnosticism + neoplatonism contain that. In fact it was that most of all that I experienced A new schema: the Lord of the universe (Brahman God) saw the crail "dead" (prechanistic) world that YHWH had greated here + sent his son, Zebra, to do battle for us against