I'm supposed to believe (1) Christ was the son of God + had total wisdom, + (2) set up a tyrannical church that didn't allow the first voluntary assembly until 1580 + the wars of the Dutch Republics? No fucking way, something major doesn't compute. I know too much about the 30 Years War - mutual extermination. Fine. Real Xtian idea: God has allowed the dark power to set up a 2000+ years prison (in the name of Christ) to see who can figure out something basic is phony, wrong, fucked. Christ himself took up a totally antithetical position vis-a-vis world. + the situation hasn't changed - 2000 years of Roman prison world. If it really is AD1978 + there has been 2000 actual years of persecution + enslavement by the Xtian churcher, the I can't believe in Christ, inasmuch as if he was God he should - would - have anticipated this. So either 1) Xtianity inc Christ is a cruel fraud or 2) it is cAD Rome 70, a tiny persecuted real Xtian original church exists knowing the truth. But my 3-74 experience + the code in "Tears" proves the existence of God + Christ. ∴ 2) is correct, which dovetails with the 3-74 thing + the smuggled - in message. The solution lies in the satanic inerpolation + my "backing" theory. "The Bacchae" shows a connection between prisons + tears between joy + prison - bursting. King Pentheus is buckman "(King of Tears") + Jason Taverner ("frequenter of taverns" i.e. a drunkard) is the stranger who enters his realm, is arrested, although unknown + innocent, + imprisoned. This destroys the King of Tears, because without knowing it he has attacked Dionysos. The prison (the FLC society in the novel) is burst to bits. Not just joy + innocence is the encoded message - vs the exoteric one of Tears + Prison - but also the presence of the God in Disguise. "Felix" as a code word refers to Dionysos, the Joy-God. (i.e. a linking of "King - Felix" instead of "serious - king.") The dream is a red herring, a false trail. There will not be a killing of Taverner, as the king decides (i.e. acts as judge + rules on death - this is to say the "great assize" is a hoax, + the stern white haired king is a mask.) The plot of the novel proves the serious king wrong (powerless). Taverner, instead, is found innocent. But the Acts material show that the trial = the trial of Christ. Taverner, who is Dionysos, is also Christ. He is exculpated, hence not crucified. Tears is a cover story for Joy. Guilt for innocence, + the "drunkard" is, although Christ, not identified with Golgotha but with celebration. even before cracking the coded message in "Tears" I knew Christ to secretly be Dionysos (v. my U.K. speech). ➀ it was revealed to me in a dream; ➁ that quatrain of Pindar; ➂ My StP trip. Also Dionysos is a shaman, possessing God, which fits my 3-74 experience - one of theolepsy. The Fall of "the King of Tears" in my novel (at the hands of Dionysos) was exactly duplicated in the overthrow of Nixon (King Pentheus), so we can deduce that Dionysos (Christ) was behind the overthrow, probably via the secret real Xtian church. We deduce this by assuming that the novel is an analog of USA 1974 + the events there of. This application of the code-story to Nixon's fall fits what I already was shown. I knew that the novel + it being released at that time in some way bore coded material (e.g. "Felix") connected with US political events in 1974, but only now, 1978, upon cracking the coded message can I see the parallel of the message. The BIP is such a graphic - visual -sight to me not an intellectual conception but a thing. Is there such a place? If so, when + where? I know that place, + we blew it open + ran away. Rastenberg? It warps everything + yet no one sees it. In cybernetics terms it is the source of malfunction of our circuitboard. Signals don't pass by it - they are bent toward - at - it. That's as far as they go. + it has its mobile agents - "Romans" - all over the place - i.e. the flat landscape surrounding it. Their loyalties are warped to it - they're not extentions (parts) of it, but their thoughts, expressed as signal, have been bent, like light rays passing near a large dark star, toward it, all deflected [..] a circle that repeats itself endlessly + doesn't grow. [Diagram - BIP] these agents, caught by its gravity, are oblivious to it at the same time they suppose (Imagine) they are traveling in a straight line, as they once were. The whole task before us is to (come here +) blow up this dense metal fortress, + so restore the signals to their straight paths. But, warped into circling it, they defend - interpose the [..] against attack - penetration - to it. In human terms, it warps thoughts + perceptions (one result is to create the negative hallucination: i.e. it can't be seen or thought about it "isn't there." No semantic integer exists or a verbal analog of it. Noös can't grow, here. Like a complex, it prevents anything new occuring in their part of the cosmic mind. Signals (thoughts) get in here, but never get out, like the roach noted, since newness of thought is blocked. Time is stopped. The agents are not aware that mere spurious time seemingly unfolds, but it just goes around + around the BIP. But the sacred Xtians see the BIP, + also their thoughts aren't warped into circles around it. But now do they abolish it (what does "blowing it up" mean?) Is it a literal iron mass? This must be a metaphor, as vividly (graphically) as I saw + visualize it. It's somehow connected with Tears (grief? suffering?) Am I just analyzing my own head? But when I read that fucking little read book, there was all that shit about sin + guilt. The BIP transmits die messages which its agents act as the police enforces for. Yes! that's how my 3-74 experience began translimination die messages from the radio. Those were literal die messages. What a shock. What have we got into here? Are we talking about literal RF transmissions. Maybe all this is no metaphor! Jeez how scary. Literal die messages as part of an enslaving system. I have never been able to work that RF disturbance into my exegesis. This is not quite theology - it is technology + it indicts the establishment church as a [..] the chief offender. + this is congruent with my "Joyful saboteurs" + the word "Felix." The this is what the 3-74 "invasion" (rescue) consisted of starting with the phosphene activity. The power (sentient, a movement + an entity) of joy. They broke the hold of the BIP over me, but it has reasserted itself. But they literally showed it to me - I saw the BIP, + them, + they were laughing. We were laughing. The Xerox Missive - from the "Pentheus" tyranny. That makes plenty of sense - didn't I just (supra) write about the "agents by them "morality") certainly the CP is puritannical if humorless. Like that Goldie Hahn movie about the Russian girl - maybe that's the nautre of the battle - they (the BIP agents) got her. That delved one layer below politics. The FBI + the KGB - unified in their humorlessness. Her real crime was not being serious (depicted as her being a "parasite" - but maybe the humor was really it. Not just humor in the limited sense - it's even more than a way of life - it's a world. Parasite: One who doesn't work. It's all collating. Being intoxicated = playing. The purpose of the die messages are not to kill you but to lower your self esteem so you will do what you're told (i.e. labor, sacrifice yourself. Fine. The crucifixion is the supreme example of this via dolorosa. But - he was the Job God crushed. This is the paradigm: you eat, drink, talk with your friends, love - + they arrest, try + crush you. The passion story = the Goldie Hahn movie; story - she was arrested, too, finally - crushed. Likewise Jason Taverner, all he was doing was getting loaded on mescaline. ➀ The Christ story simply states facts about this world. It doesn't show the crucifixoin as good - it was awful. ➀ Yes, but he was exculpated. The punishment by the serious old king failed to come off. This all fits together with what I've worked out over 4 years. I may be back on the track, here. By arresting + killing (without knowing it) the son of god - i.e. God - what a mistake the agents of the BIP in their warped delusion made! (cf "The Bachae"!) But if you are a dancer, one who plays, a [..]; picking up a gun is no answer. Force is no answer. When the joyful one is arrested, like Goldie Hahn, he can only succumb. Fighting + playing are mutually exclusive. (Consider the throat-cutting Zealots.) But cooperating with the BIP is out of the question - i.e. sobering up + going to work in the tin mind. v. "A Thousand Clowns." There it all is. Being a fit person. Murray Burns is the arch criminal, as viewed by the BIP + its misguided (warped) agents - its police. Work for its own sake, is what they want - like play (homo ludeus) for its own sake. It becomes an end in itself. A distinguishing mark. "By their fruit ye shall know them," + work esp for its own sake, marks you as okay. Just as play marks you as a "parasite." "But are you writing something serious?" Note the word. Fuck. If they couldn't get us to write serious things, they solved the problem bty deceiving that what we were writing was serious. taking a pop form as "serious" is what you do if it won't go away. It's a clever tactic. They welcome you in - look at Lem's 1000 page essay. This is how the BIP handles it if they can't flat out crush it. Next thing, they get you to submit your S-F writing to them to criticize. "Structured criticism" to edit out the "trash elements" - + you wind up with what Ursula writes. Like I say in "Scanner," our punishment for playing was too great. + my last sentence is, "+ may they be happy." (I got that from knowing what "Felix" meant.) "Let them all play again, in some other way, + let them be happy." I showed the unfair punishment for playing. "Scanner" is a study of what the BIP does to you (punishes you) + what for (playing, not growing up, "not toiling"). Like the Christ story, it simply (as I point out) just lays forth cause + effect. I don't wind up deploring playing - just that particular way of playing. So in a way, "Scanner" is a study of the punishment (too great) for playing instead of toiling, not drugs. Thus the secret (encoded) theme of "Tears" is carried further. Amazing, since when I wrote "Scanner" I had not yet figured out "Tears"! Knowing what I know now after 4 years of exegesis re "Tears", what I'd write on the basis of it would be "Scanner." How do you explain that? "Scanner" logically follows "Tears" if you know what "Tears" is. really about.➁ play is one of the antiphonal themes in "Scanner" - play + punishment. What an insight! You playt - + are punished + far too severely; as I say, "the punishment was far too great": it opens (the postscript): "This has been