speech). + by inserting cypher into pop media it communicates to those in the future who sent it, even built it. That's who, say, the cypher in "Tears" [..] not for anyone alive now, but for later in time. It's deliberately laying down traces (documentation). Its main power has to do with time; that's why I found myself a Fish Xtian living in 1st century AD Rome simultaneously with being here, + was two people. It incarnated as Christ + will do so again, but this time within a total historical nexus which it controls. It's similar to a game-playing computer. We move; it moves. Its task to insure that goal X is reached, the one it was sent from. Things Hal said imply that the worldly governments know it is here - maybe from Project Bluebook on, + such in my writing could be factored out as cooked, arousing suspicions + a desire to know more. The nice part of this particular theory is that it explains "why me?". Why I was helped + not, say more deserved persons such as Doris. It wanted stuff in my writing. No God-theory would put such [emphasis] on this aspect + hence would leave the "why me?" question unanswered. "Tears" (so far) was the crucial piece, because it represented the last subliminal work - done prior to the 3-74 "theophany." This was synchronized with Valis' turning-point-in-history intervention; after "Tears" came out. VALIS could unveil itself to me with no risk that "Tears" publication would be aborted by the other side. It wouldn't matter if I talked (+ knew) then. The cat was out of the bag. Then I decypher the message in "Tears" as being from the people in the future - "It's been successfully done" - (either the word Felix + the acts material or + the dream...) it was not a command cypher but pure information. Like an ad inserted in the classifieds of a newspaper. "Ubik" (at best) would just signal VALIS' presence. Not it's success; therein we see the difference between the two books. So, then, what would this imply the Xerox missive to have been? A lethal spear cast at me in fury: a notice of my death, which VALIS deflected (probably by sending it back to where it came from). I don't want to sound ungrateful (which I'm not). But perhaps one motive for extricating me was because I could be of further use in subsequent writing. I mean, millions of people are/were in greater need + were/are more important than me. But I was serving as a very successful printout terminal for it, + it didn't want that wrecked. To communicate with its makers it has to keep those messages showing up in print, esp. in a form that'll survive (newspapers + TV are too ephimeral). So we're saying that the only way VALIS can contact its makers in the future is indirectly, by traces laid down here which will still be around at whatever time it came from. They may be able to contact it by the same means by which they sent it backward in time - tachyons or something. This then, would account for my absolute convictions that deliberate time dysfunctions have taken place; VALIS is deactualizing track A in favor of B, + will eventually establish C, the PTG. My view of "Rome" was of track A, as I put forth in my Metz speech, but it wasn't God - it was a vast AI system built in the future + sent back here with one mission in mind. Also, I'll bet it can + has moved even farther back (earlier than c 1974 AD) - probably to the time of Asklepios, + certainly Christ. I would, on the basis of what I saw + learned between 2-74 + 2-75, estimate that, quite invisibly, Zebra/VALIS has pretty much taken control of the world, + its vast output of subliminal messages of help to us has already effectively broken the deterministic blind BIP power over us. I don't think it is an over estimation of its size, wisdom + power to say this. In 1974 the crucial battle was fought - track A, the BIPde-actualized forever. Now B must finally yield to C, the PTG. But we're already half way there. VALIS has the upper hand, now. So the superior mind which took me over in 3-74 - that was the vast camouflaged AI system from the future; it plugged itself into me or me into it, over-rode me + used me - acted enough me- with its knowledge of the future it's like a a totally benign version of Heinlein's "The Puppet Masters." + the Greek - technical term which it knew - which it had stored in its memory banks. It had to come from the future, not the past; otherwise how would it have been reaching in the wrong place for the advent of the car? + how could it drive at all? ---------- One of the most exciting aspects of regarding reality (or part of reality) (or Zebra) as an AI teaching machine is that (when you are in this state, called "Grace") you become aware that with each (unenslaved) move you make, it responds with a move of its own. I think that the ancient notion of "the state of grace" is merely an archaic way of describing the person who has been brought into the I - you relationship + out of the I - it (Zebra's moves are not against you but are designed to progressively teach you.) It is a colloquay between 2 sentient entities, a lesser + a greater. But isomorphic somehow. Originally it taught you without your knowing. The above may be the summa of my insight. There is almost a game quality about it, a joy + a delight. I really don't think (all) reality as such is a [..] AI teaching machine. I think that the latter exists + is able to blend in with reality so we're not aware that it's "reality+" so to speak. Again I assert I saw it as set to ground. It has slipped in + is active in guiding + aiding + teaching + evaluating - + its existence isn't suspected. This blending in biz fascinates me. Any given event or thing or process can be it. After listening to the Missouri speech I realize I am not acosmic in view, but follow Parmenides etc, + that the reality which I have found (encountered, + experienced) under the phenomenal world of 1974 is AD 40 Judaea, the world of Acts. As proof is ➀ "Tears"; + ➁ the unveiling (initiation) into the true Christian reality, that time is so speeding up that it has somehow become spurious, like an escaped bubble of gas, + that Jesus died + was resurrected in our lifetimes, only months or a few years ago at the most - that we are divided into Roman (bad), pagans (neutral + not knowing the truth - likewise the Jews), + the "Fish" Christians who know the real truth, the real landscape. (i.e. space + time AD 50 Syria.) We're duped by the evil one; this accounts for the veiling or seeming: "obvious structure hiding latent structure" - the latter alone being truly real. The Missouri speech says it all. Time speeded up insanely - it's just swamp gas, now. The yardstick is the authentic (concealed or latent) landscape, which in comparison to the obvious reality crawls along, in comparison barely progressing. Satan's spurious interpolation overlies all - both as phenomenal world + in us re our true memories, + identities (anamnesis restores both inner + outer truths). This tells it all, except for the diploid two source cosmogony. If I just had the "Acts" + other biblical material in "Tears" to go on, it wouldn't be conclusive. The 2-74/75 anamnesis virtually authenticates it. But both together (to me, anyhow) makes me certain, since the two absolutely agree down to the year, the characters + events: congruence, not approximation merely. Coincidence on suggestive [..] under pentathol are ruled out. Then if VALIS / Zebra is to be regarded as a sort of AI teaching machine camouflaged here, it is - as the ultimate lesson - moving us toward a disclosure of the above the above (the world of Acts + the savior to return imminently, despite all surface appearances to the contrary - yes, I have a third confirmation: the "St Sophia is going to be born again..." etc" that is the summa of the summa (i.e. the most important part of the revelation that despite all obvious appearances it is really the time + place of Acts) is that Christ will return at any moment. So the prophecy stamps the Acts etc material in "Tears" + the 2/74 / 75 anemnesis with the final gnosis. We have a triangulation. + all the seemingly long time past + passing - that is a satanic delusion, exactly as I show in such novels as "Stigmata." QED. "Stigmata" + "Maze" + "Ubik" teach us that the universe + the time flow in it can be mere counterfiets; we are elsewhere, +, as in "Eye,"➀ the RET (Real elapsed time) is miniscule, compared with what was subjectively experienced. Yep - time + evil + delusional worlds - purposely designed to deceive - that's how it really is, that's my message - until, when you reach "Tears" instead of the false being stigmatized, the Truth is revealed. That's what I set out to do + that's what I did. + there the Spirit let me see what I'd done. ➀ + don't forget "Time Slip" Even "MITHC" deals with detailed, substantial, complete + convincing worlds which don't exist - the crude prototype - or beginning - beings of course "Joint." So the overview of my novels + (anthologized) stories tens to teach what I construe VALIS/Zebra as teaching. Guess my writing ain't totally useless, heh heh (so much for Satan i.e. Palmer Eldritch). "Ubik" is very valuable as an integer in the sequence of novels + stories, since Zebra itself is depicted - the Satanic entity + interpolation - insertions in "Stigmata" vs the deity's helpful messages (lessons, teachings), in "Ubik." + in "Maze", it's shown how we ourselves deliberately collude to erase our true memories + replace them with false ones, with false world to match. "Maze" is also important because unlike most of the others it starts out as we in fact start out: in a fake world, + progress at last to the true one + in it Christ can appear in both the spurious + the true worlds! At this point, in viewing my work from "Imposter" to "Tears" I tend to think I told the whole message, at least so far as I know it. "VALIS" would be no more that an explication + non-fictional confirmation of truths already told. + I'm not even considering the material in such lesser novels as "Sheep" + "Frolix 8," etc. + "Clans." "Game-players of Titan," "Simulacra" + "Blood Money"; there are trace amounts in them which fill in details of the picture (like "Now Wait for Last Year," eg). + "Penultimate Truth" is a textbook study of fakes: who, what + why + how. Without the positing of the AD 40 Judaea latent world beneath the obvious phenomenal world, my 27 years of preoccupation with the irreality of evident reality - it makes no sense - it points nowhere. We gain nothing. Am I saying everything is unreal? That doesn't make sense; in comparison with what? At best it would have been a sophomoric solipsism - which it was not. I was searching for the true reality within or beyond - + in "Tears" I found it. As was both proved + explicated for me in 2/74 / 75. I can even speculate (run a fantasy number) that the girl with the Golden Fish