this, no human has this faculty; it's connected with the ajna eye (chokra), + hence with three-eyed-ness. It is a discernment of what is what, an apperception of what is, + what will be. The AI voice said it was a forgery. The source of the AI voice knew (45 years later) it was a forgery, + said so. Probably it knew this even before the Xerox missive arrived. It was anticipat ing it, + all the actual arrival did was confirm its insight; the arrival merely told it it was right in its overview. There was an enemy, + this thing came from that enemy. Now contact had at last been made directly with the enemy. This was good. The right (proper) response would be of unique value, here was the opportunity sought for: direct contact, at last: name + address The proper response was to select the course of action which would do the enemy the greatest arm. turning the missive over to the puream would accomplish that, + so I did its folder 22 - 105 folder 22 - 105 101 So the ratiocination was: 1) Enemy. 2) do it the greatest harm. 3) sending the missive to the Bureau would do it the greatest harm I certainly if it was a forgery by an intel ligence officer in the (us) army it was the enemy 1) The missive wasn't sincere. It was a trap, a deliberate trap, + 2) Its source bought "Tears" in 2-74, +, in 171 had hit my house so indeed it was the enemy - despite my ferocious Anti-CP mood at the time - i.e. at its enemy. If it was CP it could be viewed as from the enemy, but if it was a forgery, no view was needed a forgery is a hostile act, beyond dispite, requiring no interpretation, It can even be argued that my brain hid from itself what it knew; the right brain knew one thing, the correct thing (forgery) + this knowledge was concealed from the lift; nonetheless it was acted upon - without ideation which matched the action (response). This I understand to be "split brain" - like response; the linguistic hearis. phere is conceptually in the dark concerning its own reaction - e.g. to something subliminally picked up by the mute right hemisphere left brain analysis right brain subliminal CP (KGB) forgery (us) So there was left-right brain cooperation: the left supplying the needed erroneous ideation, the right brain (which knew the truth) mutely t supplying the motivation (act) + urgency folder 22 - 106 10 but the subliminal info "Olive Holt" was I t suppossed to buttress the overt impression. did the opposite, through some paranormal ability, the personality in the right brain saw the real significance of it. This rules nted la out the "CIA patriotic sub-personality in the right hemisphere" theory. It wasn't patriotism which urged my swift + accurate response; it was self-preservation, as an instinct, in the it face of an enemy (+ its trap). + this enemy recognized as U.S., despite what my left hemisphere may - inaccurately - have ideationally believed. It was a bilateral response, but extrication required that the left hemisphere be in the dark (which shows the paradoxical or "chinese finger trap" nature of the puzzle; only a total brain both cooperating with itself + divided against itself could have solved it - + did solve it, but not telling part of itself what it knew). Actually, I displayed vis-a-vis the Xerox missive all the characteristics of split brain response - but It culminated in temporary right brain dominance. which gave me a chance to get to know "Thomas + his ist century C.E. world + his apostolic Xtianity + his postmortem experiences his direct knowledge of God, plus all else which he knew (e.g. cosmology). I can deduce from my response that my right brain saw something (+ figured out something from it) that diant - since I know the overt contients, I can I guess the covert contents + what it pointed to So what we're dealing with here is a very unusual bilaterial competition - cooperation of an uetion - sophisticated nature, perhaps pointing to the authentic purpose of our two brain (twoven folder 22 - 107 folder 22 - 107 o dissimilar brains) construction. Perhaps it exists to handle unusual (unique?) situations in which digital + analogic computations are supposed to give differing results - with an astonishing effec it on I organism, which now is confronted by hi dure psyche (twin + differing psychoi) nature the 3-eyed people have a special kind of personality in the right hemisphere; it is not human but plasmatic. That is the state of it it is override by the immortal + the divine. This is a special case. Not just the binary nature of the human is revealed, but we discover that the other side of his brain is not human. I have been told (last night) that this does not apply to everyone. This special paranormal functioning only surfaces in a situation which is so dire as to be life threation in: since it gives away the homoplasmate nature of the person showing the paranormal functioning under the emergency conditions. (Other people could not draw on such a paranormal ability.) (This is a functional dete nition of the homoplasmate: that he has this para normal talent in a life - threatening situation, one in which an apparently unsolvable puzzle is posed. + So under certain narrowly defined stress situations, where no solution is available to the normal single - brained person the 3-eyed person, the homor plasmate, here unveils himself (to his own surprise). He can work his way out of a trap out of which there is no exit - he does this by pairing synchronized + competing brain-function simultaneously. The total dual system holds back information from itself while at the same time feeding motor centers instructions to alth from the standpoint of biological adaptation This organism is extraordinary, because it can "think" its way out of a hopeless situation vis-a-vis folder 22 - 108 folder 22 - 108 164 thinking per se. In essence; it can think what cannot be thought; put another way, it can decypher what Acts it should take in situations which cannot yield a cognative solution. This may signify the end of the line for the logic-utilizing human it may be an evolutionary leap forward into a kind of organism which has no parallel in phylogenic the purpose of the two-brained morphology can history. now be understood - to the extent that anythin other than itself can understand it at all. It can deal with ambiguous reality without having to falsely hypostatize it + thus cognatively + perceptually fail to come to grips with it as it is - i.e. ambiguous, paradoxical in short a maze without a logical exit. Traps get built that have no exit; the trapped creature, however, finds an exit anyhow be executing a self-deceiving maneuver (who would have suspected the utility of the right brain being unable to think? + unable to communicate with the thinking left brain - by "think" read "analytical logic processing"? Rationally, it would seem in theory always desirable that there be as much info transfer as possible available to all parts of the total brain. How could not knowing have survival values well, 3-20-74 was an example. I needed to know (right brain) + not know (left brain). The left brain would do the thinking + talking; the right brain would do the acting; therefore I sensed an override "by another mind" - which is so, but the "other mind" was the mute right hemisphere (which now thinks rather well, or anyhow com municates through the corpus collosum during hyp na gogic + sleep states This matter is the core-topic of "Scanner s but what is startling is the phylogeno memory + recapitulative personality of the right hemisphere, which has its origins, its folder 22 - 109 folder 22 - 109 168 roots in the world of Acts. It seems to be an actual human who once lived as a single brained person, became an immortal plasmate + now has reconstituted itself yoked to my left hemisphere, obtaining thereby the physical to resurrection it was promised. (Its relationship time perplexes me; it may experience time as augmented space) (in which case it is not bound by time; it seems able to experience events before they happen, which is how Avicenna says God experiences time.) bear in mind that the plasmate part has undergone death + a postmortem existence - v. Plato's comments on this. It has come back from the other side + remembers the other side it has unimpaired phylogenic memory, which i at the service of the total organism - for example it seems to have seen such traps as the kind used on me; after all, there are only so many traps - kinds of traps - in the world, + the best ones are probably venerable. This shows the ad vantage of unimpaired phylogenic memory over ordinary ontogenic memory; consider what the species knows o the species. The DNA. So it is a na firing (cf Robert Anton Wilson on the higher stages of consciousness). This is not just right brain; this is the ajna chokra. There may be a triangle - like formation in which the Shiva eye dominates - or is an exponant - of the two hemispheres: as: "the total is greater than the sum of its parts." The totality is both in time + not in time, etc - the homoplasmate which I conceive of. It is important to realize that the homoplasmate has a supramundate existems, since it has undergone death + is not (in itself) a human being any longer. This aspect of the right folder 22 - 110 folder 22 - 110 100 brain psyche makes it into something to us unfathon able. For one thing, all the right brain plasmates may be a single organism, since its memory is phylogenic; we are not talking about an individu mind, here, an ontogenic identity: we are talking about the corporate mind of a species distributed over thousands of years + miles; pascals "one im mortal man who continually learns" this answers a question which I raised decades ago; what is the point of an organism (individual) storing up knowledge + experience, then dying, + its progeny must relearn + re-experience everything from the beginning all over again? Here is a startling answer: a phylogenic personality + memory is created outside of time + not limited to this world (but includes the postmortem world), + it is beginning to manifest itself in us ("phylogony is recapitulated in ontogeny" If it can be shown that in one case phylo genic knowledge, memory, skills + experience + personality are manifested so as to be available to a given individual, then this could be a general situation. So the disclosure of last night (the man on the collapsing stairs who knew how to get to the (safe) landing above) states that the para normal problem-solving ability which I showed in 3-20-74 represented a difference in me, which showed itself due to the life threatening nature of the problem, this overriding the need for secrecy, this + only this justifying a dis closure: justifying it for evident reasons; but what this manifestation accomplished is already known to me; what was not tenown was the ontological difference in me. folder 22 - 111 102 This overcomes my easy supposition that the ability I showed is somehow always available to all life forms or anyhow to all humans. I am told: "There is an ontological difference in you which showed itself in your possessing paranormal powers to deal with a paranormal situation. The emergency justified the use, which is to say, disclosure." But disclosure there was, + now I am told of