out + another phased in; finally either the first one or a third one just phased in. Yet they seem to be versions of one world. The "alternate universe" theory doesn't seem to account for it. No known theory does. One further argument for model B: If the world of Acts were an actual absolute world, + it irrupted into our world, I probably would not have been alone in seeing it, this is obvious. Equally obvious is that Acts qua world is locked into Thomas, who is only in _my_ head. As hard as it is to conceive of this, Acts, evidentially, exists only for Thomas (+ such like him, if such there be). If - as is evident - you require an inhabitant of Acts qua world in your head to see Acts, then we have logically stripped Acts of any intrinsic reality outside of its reality for Thomas (+ such as he); i.e. Acts exists only for those living in it: so there is no justification for my continual assignment of the term "real", "more real" or "absolute" in connection with Acts. It is only subjectively real, to certain narrowly defined persons only. To suppose that it is a higher, more real or eternal world crowding into ours (like the Bevatron scene in "Eye" [showing?] folder 02 - 029 folder 02 - 029 through the subjective worlds) is possible, but more likely it is mere speculation using "Eye" as the model. What distinguishes the Bevatron world in "Eye" as objectively real is that at least in theory they all can perceive it, but the diametric opposite is true in the case of Acts. Only Thomas (+ such as he if such there be) can see it, so the analogy to "Eye" breaks down totally. Clearly, Acts as world is subjective. I saw it because Thomas took me over. When he faded out, it faded out. It might be the real world, + we are all collectively deluded in believing the USA 1974 world, which we see is real, but this is both outside verification + not reasonable. In point of fact, USA 1974 is real to me + Rome CAD 45 is real to Thomas; it is as simple as that. Probably my main reason for supposing the Acts world to be the real one + the USA 1974 delusional is that basically I presume an overt Maya layer covering the true reality - but Zebra + its info traffic is that true hidden reality, not Acts. What the manifestation of Acts in place of USA 1974 more likely points to is the illusory + transient nature of world as such: any world, all worlds. Like in "Tears" they can phase in + out one after another + none is more real than any other, which means not real at all. What the phasing in of Acts showed was world as mask. Had there been no epiphany of Thomas in my head at the same time, I would never have been able to explain what happened. Let us imagine, that Thomas was a totally separate mind + body from me, + I got a chance (normally impossible) to see through his eyes: see the world as he sees it- + folder 02 - 030 folder 02 - 030 what I find myself seeing is Acts; meanwhile inwardly I experience his knowledge, recognition + fear of this world + the romans, his knowledge of secret early xtian codes + sacraments, the Koine - everything. Could I reasonably assume he + his world were real, whereas I + mine were not? Obviously, given our internal differences - + different perceived external worlds - I could argue that one of us + his world was the real person + world, + the other was not. But that would be arbitrary. On what basis would I make this judgment? Especially, why would I pick his over mine, + him over me? This, in effect, is what I have done. "I got into Thomas' head, experienced him as psyche + his world; he + it are different from me + mine, + he + it are real (correct, absolute, objective) but I + mine - we're just 'aspects' i.e. phantoms". This does not follow. I have been governed too much by my own fictional models (e.g. "Maze", "Joint"). In actuality, all I've really established is total subjectivity of world, related to - locked into - self. I just happen to house two selves in my head. Each with his own subjective world. What makes it so startling is that each of these two selves lives in a world thousands of years + miles from the other's, + is quite at home there, in each case in his here + his now. This is what topples our conception of space + time, +, finally, world itself. My faulty reasoning is based on Kant's distinction between the phenomenal world + the Dinge-an-sich; to wit: 1) What we see as the phenomenal world is folder 02 - 031 the USA 1974, therefore it is irreal. 2) Acts irrupted into it, displacing it 3) Therefore Acts is real, the Dinge-an-sich, or, boiled down to Aristotle's 2-value logic: 1) If there are two worlds, one must be real (i.e. only one can be real) + the other false. (irreal) This is palpably faulty; viz: because 1) Both could be real, equally so, or: 2) Both could be false (irreal). Equally so. Had I not seen the vast interface brain Zebra + its messages I'd have to choose (1), because if I didn't I'd have to deny reality to everything but myself; however, I did see the vast brain + its traffic of living info. So I select (2) as more probable, + designate Zebra as the truly real. (To avoid one very blatant error, that of reasoning that I regressed to a former - ancient - incarnation + world, let me point out: 1) He + his world came here; I didn't regress anywhere + 2) We have no proof of reincarnation anyhow. This line of argument presumes former lives (cf. Lucretius on the fallacy of this). Better evidence, even is: 1) The two worlds were syntonic: could be readily blended into one Gestalt with dual aspects 2) I didn't remember: I saw, + was (Thomas). I have abundant evidence that Thomas is someone else, not me, in my head [...] folder 02 - 032 folder 02 - 032 living in this century". This brings me to the fact that Thomas knows about me + my world (the one way access which I discuss supra), but I don't - didn't know (much) about him + nothing about his world. How do I account for this disparity? I connect it with the historic intervention in 1974 by the secret (until then latent, concealed) early xtians deliberately in our midst. Zebra has a foe in 1974, it acted against this foe, using these immortal early authentic xtians whose existence here is unsuspected (or was - had been - ) by the enemy. Thus I reason my two-self brain was the result of deliberate planning by Zebra. This is the part I can't talk about. This is the _why_ - why I house two selves separated by thousands of miles + years - + why Thomas specifically comes from the world of Acts, rather than somewhere + sometime else - + why he took over - emerged + seized unilateral control - in 3-74, not before + not later. This was the plan from the beginning. Thus as master personality in me, he + his world would seem more real, even absolutely real, to me, in comparison to my own self + world. My confusion can thus be readily explained. For me, Acts would seem absolute. It overwhelmed my world, just as Thomas easily overwhelmed me + then performed all manner of deeds with no disorientation, even for a moment. Covertly, Thomas had always masterminded my writing, moves, plans + thoughts. He is still in me (now, in the present); I can get transliminated info from him, yet, + regularly. folder 02 - 033 folder 02 - 033 At last! This direct site-stimulation accounts for the inner-outer "tape" synchronized that operate in us, anticipating (on the inner tape) external events (stimuli) yet to come - i.e. laid down long before. With none of my prior models could I figure out how that inner-outer system, (which is half inside each of us + half in the "world") could be constructed, let alone why. World + self are a unit, via the push-pull two mirror structure. Self + world are absolutely locked together. The inner-outer "tape" which so puzzled me is not only comprehensible in this B model but obviously necessary, or else the given psyche involved will stray from its push-pull world, get out of synch - exactly as I did in 3-74 when Thomas + his world took over; for obvious reasons I got out of synch - a different world + a different psyche were taking over. The inner-outer synchronized "tapes" prevent any chance of the simulated nature of world being detected. But: cause + effect between the outer (in the world) + inner (in the psyche) is pretextual, a case of Leibnitz's preset clocks. A moment's reflection shows why this rigid deterministic mechanism must exist if 1) the illusion of world is to be maintained; + 2) if the station is to be kept harmoniously functioning. So this, which so baffled me, this iron immutable cause + effect control (but the cause - + - effect is actually only seeming between inner + outer; the 2 tapes merely run at a synchronized rate) now makes perfect sense; selective site-stimulation would be ineffectual otherwise. In fact my knowledge of this preharmonized inner-outer tape clock is huge proof that model B is correct. folder 02 - 034 folder 02 - 034 It is not enough to DISMISS time, space, causality + the phenomenal world as irreal; two questions remain: 1) If they are irreal, why do we experience them? Why should an organism arise that perceives things which don't exist? 2) What is real? It cannot actually be said that we can't know something; all that can be said is that we don't know how to know it (I am thinking of Kant's Dinge-an-sich), no one can claim to know what can't be known. (Note) Regarding (1): we are locked into this irreal structure by Zebra, which creates it to maintain organization + functioning of its parts. Zebra is not interested in making us aware of our actual situation but only in organization + functioning; these irreal elements are essentially expedients - the criterion is use (i.e. a pragmatic one) not veracity, activity not knowledge. Regarding (2): see preceding 10,000 pages. The Kantian unknowable can berhaps be discerned [...] detected by the perturbations it creates in the phenomenal world. If it creates none (but it does) probably it is not there. What we need to do is follow Hume's careful scrutinizing method, not German double abstractions based on Hindu assetions about the ultimate unknowability of reality behing appearance. (Note) To preserve us as functioning parts it is preserving our integrity, our health + our physical [nee]ds; the deluding serves our biological but not our purely intellectual needs; the first outweighs the 2nd. folder 02 - 035 folder 02 - 035 I realized I have another piece of evidence to support the B model; an important one. 1) Zebra's melting of causal trains This fits in th the "pretext" concept. What we see is fiction. We are controlled by sentience without knowing it, the brain manipulates what we regard as substantial as if it were plastic; in fact it _is_ plastic in the face of mind. The most profound insight of these last pages is to finally discern the meaning, the significance, of my reacting to external events before they happened