"two source" hologram cosmogony. Perhaps the macro brain which I saw is the real world outside the maze (hologram-world). Or: It is the cause of the hologram-world, the "lasers," which are in fact pure info. Macro Brain then equals Persus 9, or the floor of the Bevatron - or esp.the info breaking through in "Ubik" - this info is not just from the real world but is the real world. There is an actual basis for our irreal world, + that actual basis is information (which we are caused to hypostatize); the info is the traffic of a computer like (cf the Tench!) entity. But it so to speak lies outside our world. However, Zebra has invaded our world in its camouflaged form, to assist us. Through Zebra we are linked back up with the macro brain; it's as if Zebra is a mobile extension of the macro brain within the hologram created by the macro brain. The melting, then, is a sort of dissolving of the hologram by a form of its own source. Thus in an ultimate sense Zebra does not override but just [accelerate, accentuate], or, so to folder 22 - 019 folder 22 - 019 19. speak culminates (at a higher velocity) the normal control process. But, it was be realized, Zebra although in the hologram is not part of it; Zebra is not projected but is. In the sense that the Macrobrain is. It is obvious from this analysis why being taken over by Zebra would mean receiving a titanic inflow of information since it is the "Logos" of the Macrobrain (in Hermetic terms). The ground plan of reality would be known, then, by the person; he would not just reacquire his own personal lost memories, etc. - except that he himself was originally in possession of this Logos in the first place before he fell into the maze. The maze generates a deceiving power over the persons, rather than merely being, in itself, deceptive. It is irreal, but poses as the real; to do this it must get into the person's cognitive + percept systems (v. "Scanner"). It is a very sophisticated maze, + is or is as if alive. For example, it can simulate long stretches of time when in fact no real time has passed at all, so that it seems as if we have been here thousands of years ("He causes things to look different so it'd appear time had passed."). In terms of RET we may not have been here long at all. Once the maze gets hold of you, you're in it (v. "Stigmata") for what is subjectively experienced as forever, or nearly so. For example the maze outwitted Christ (indirectly) by so prolonging our sense of time lapse that we suppose that 2000 years has passed since the first Advent, which is a way of circumventing the inexorable abolition of the maze. We are expert craftsmen. Still, upon having constructed it, we were willing to match wits with it, confident of the outcome. What is important to realize is that all our sufferings were taken on voluntarily (v. Supra typed pages) inasmuch as we folder 22 - 020 folder 22 - 020 20. entity 1) entered the maze voluntarily knowing what was in store for us; or 2) take the risk - + so it came to pass. A certain hubris is evident in our act: our conviction that in matching wits with our creation we would win. We may have overestimated our abilities, but: these are the same abilities by which we built the maze in the first place, so it would seem reasonable. This may have indeed been an anarchy & rebellion, a rising up against God - but the punishment was self-inflicted, in the final analysis, & Zebra may not be a failsafe device of our own devising but the vox dei itself, mercifully extricating us (this is a more orthodox view) seeing what a plight we had created for ourselves. God mercifully sent aid into this our false world. Aid, so to speak, followed after us. The servant became the master, but God supplied the talking horse's head to advise us cryptically as to the path out. The question as to whether we created & supplied the "talking horse's head" which I call Zebra depends on the extent to which our original unfallen nature can be equated with God's. Via anamnesis I have reason to equate them fully. The crossbonding with the plasmate is the moment when the persons "doomed" to salvation are finally released from the maze by knowledge which reverses the original intellectual error (or taking this world for real) & restores the original free condition, instead of the imprisoned servant-to-the-maze-as-master role. The plasmate comes from outside the irreal maze & appears to be the life (energy) of the Macrobrain; i.e. it is real & crossbonds with what is real but buried & asleep in the human, the part that originally was. folder 22 - 021 21. Viewed this way, crossbonding can be seen to be a relatively simple event. The original error or ignorance is revisited by a symbiosis with a mind or the mind outside the maze, so that the person involved de facto ceases to be in the maze but is yanked (or transferred) outside it. Thus the ontological status assigned to Gnosis by the Gnostics is correct: Gnosis is the key to extrication (salvation). The Macrobrain has reached into the irreal world (the Gnostics' acosmism is a correct view, too) & fused with a given person; "& one by one, he is drawing us out of this [the?] world." The Labyrinth which we wander around in, in circles, occluded & forgetful, is breached from outside since it is impossible for us on our own to find the way back out again. "Astral determinism" is the control & occluding power over us per se by the maze; this cryptic term (concept) expresses our total condition in all its aspects. To have this "astral determinism" broken (not break it, but have it broken for us, over us) we have to be, like fruit or flowers or a crop, ripe; there must be a state of balking on our part, intellectual, or moral, against the maze (irreal world) in preparation, hence an openness to salvation. I was wrong supra, P 6 in defining the occlusion as to occlusion to the presence of Zebra. The occlusion is to take this irreal world (maze) as real, & hence to experience its power ("astral determinism") over us. "Astral determinism" equals Maya: the coercive power of delusion; this is the occlusion. It follows naturally that if we experience this irreal maze as real we cannot distinguish Zebra, which is real. The precondition for exper- folder 22 - 022 folder 22 - 022 22. ience the truly real is to jettison the irreal. This provides the essential set-ground discrimination which discloses Zebra, the Living Info + vortex. World is now thrust backward as new ground. The real is secretly here within the context of the irreal. It has literally invaded the irreal. Summary: Zebra is the intrusion of the real [world] into the irreal, as in "Ubik," + our only contact with the real: the "Narrow Gate" to the real (i.e. to "God"). As I figured out a long time ago, Zebra is an invader into our [irreal] world, modulating it + us into info carriers, with the ultimate purpose of extricating us from the "Lost" condition we have gotten ourselves in, by the means of reversing our condition of ignorance through information (Knowledge). The power of this irreal world - or maze - over us is expressed in the concept "astral determinism" or "Maze" - the coercive power of delusion; hence I say, our original error was intellectual, not moral. But in a sense we did rebel, by creating this counterfeit "reality" which they fell victim to, inasmuch as we overestimated our ability to deal with it. The above paragraph expresses a cosmogony + cosmology. All that is needed to make it complete is 1) to consider the crossbonding with Zebra which restores us; + 2) the nature of true reality, a Macrobrain or Noos, the thinking ground of being not included in this irreal world except for its micro form. Zebra sent here by the Macro Noos to rescue us. folder 22 - 023 folder 22 - 023 23. Christ was Zebra incarnated. He left a secret church of true Xtians who possess the Gnosis. They benignly affect history + act to create other "homoplasmates" - i.e. humans bonded to Zebra, i.e. further Christs, but covert ones. Zebra plans to incarnate again soon, or already has. This will be overt. "Tears" depicts this second in-breaking; this time He will sit as Lord and Judge, + this spurious world + its spurious time will come to an end. All those "doomed" to be saved will be; the others will perish. The maze will cease, + all things will be revealed. No one knows when this will be, since our time is counterfeit; hence the "time" of this event by definition cannot be known: it is not an object of knowledge. He is already calling his new flock of disciples, + I am one of them - but I am not to tell this, because it would reveal his still-secret presence here (i.e. the Parousia) + that the assize has already occured + he is selecting out (picking like ripe fruit) his own, who were always his own. I hear his voice often, now. I just realized from the dream scene on in "Tears" the (Christ / God) [ Zebra ] calls to Buckman, + makes him a convert, like folder 22 - 024 folder 22 - 024 24. did with Paul. That is what happens, there it isn't the black man who is converted, but Buckman. So the cryptic (stegenographic) message in "Tears" is, [...] He is here + he is calling his own, now. (+ King-Felix identifies him.) Hence the dream points to the great assize, as I have long suspected - + hence the Parousia. "Calling his own" (as he did me) + "the great assize" cannot be separated, + those he calls "one by one He draws out of the world" - takes to himself. As the Gnostics foresaw, the divine sparks will be drawn out of the world, + what remains possessing no reality, will cease to be, because it never was. Only the divine sparks were real. __ In reading this over, I am struck by two points. (1) We overestimated our ability to deal with our own creation + triumph over it. In point of fact, only through / by Zebra, dispatched by the true Noos to rescue us, are our memories + identities restored + we are saved - extricated - from our own irreal world - the fake world we created + then fell victim to. Thus our sole hope depends on the benign true God whom we rebelled against by fashioning this counterfeit world. Thus I see his mercy as infinite; he is rescuing those who rose up against him by aping his world-creating power. (2) The role of knowledge. It is the nature of the maze, which is quasi-alive, to thwart know- folder 22 - 025 folder 22 - 025 25. ledge. Maze + knowledge are antithetical; also maze + reality are antithetical. Out of this I derive: knowledge + reality are interrelated. So we can expect the active deceptivity of this maze to interfere with our ability to know, which means that it will perpetually occlude us in every way possible (v. "Scanner."). Further, that we are occluded will be a fact occluded off from us, which is the core-insight in "Scanner." + why "Scanner" is so valuable in the presentation of our total actual situation. Yaldabaoth is the quasi-mind of the maze, not its creator - since in fact it does not really