what or who one is grieving for - that would summon his aid (or advent). Once He has erased the forgetting (of having been voluntarily pruned from the vine + sent here, without memory, to see if we could be happy in our own cosmos) - once memory returns to one, the issue is decided; the soul has begun - rescued by God - its return journey. Anamnesis is everything. The key that opens the door - but God must cause it. For, once one remem bers, one would never be satisfied with or reconcited to This world ever again. ( After anamnesis, one would know over what one grieved - the loss of what (i.e. of God)... + then the grieving, So well expressed in wordsworth's "ode" would be creater than ever; it would be a constant companion. God would Then provide the psychopomp, the savior, to accompany the person (the Paraclete as comforter), not just to lead the person back but to be with him to reduce the terrible ache (nostalgia). After anamnesis it would not be a good idea to leave that person by himself. our various religions are all just rumors about God i none is right but all have a kernal of truth amidst the Garble. Morality probably plays a very small role; what matters is the real, actual, unfeigned longing to return (home to God the Father). In a way the underlying truth is simple; all who long to return will be taken back, as they wish, those whom this Godless cosmos does not give satisfaction nor joy - interestingly, the crucial aspect would not be the tribulations of this world failing to satisfy (no one enjoys tribulations) but the pleasures, the gloria munde; failing. This shows how right the Gnostics were in their sense of alienation of this not being their [true] home. + that God reached down into this world from, somehow, entirely outside it. What I saw that I call Zebra - no wonder I perceived that rather than being the objects + processes of this world (Pantheism, Brahman, monism) it mimicked them. It - Zebra - was in a sense an invisible invader from outside the "shell" of this "sphere." But the initiative is always with God, upon his seeing sincere need (called "repentence") for him - + repentence is a good word. repentence that we ever decided to leave him + thought we ( could be happy (satisfied, fulfilled, etc) in this simulacrom cosmos - fake is that it lacks the true ontological ground of being: it is not grounded in him. But he can extricate us en masse by infusing his ontological being into our simulacrum-cosmos: i.e. he could restore vs all by assimi lating this cosmos, which is the task of the Messiah. The Messiah in taking human form brought God here introjected him into the core (heart) of this cosmos. There are quite obviously two solutions: we can one by one return there (Gnosticism, Neoplatonism) +/or still better, he can descend - as he once already did, + was rejected + despised - he can again descend + this time conquer. (I.e. be accepted, not rejected). For him ("St Sophia) to be "born again" would be to annihilate the counterfeit null-God cosmos we are accustomed to be (his] absorbing it. unlike the Gnostic theory of removing us as ascending sparks one by one he would literally conquer this world for all our sakes. His presence here, then, as I witnessed in 3-74 is his move in that direction: him toward us. not us (returning] toward - to - him, + marks a momen tous shift in direction (as the French article said. "This is not the God whom we join in death" - i.e. whom we return to. I in 3-74 witnessed the ultimate event possible in + for our null-God cosmos: his entering it, which means it is no longer counterfeit. There could be no greater act of loving kindness than for him to come here, which will save the entire cosmossert just sparks that escape it ( one terribly important advantage of his coming here + infusing this counterfeit cosmos with his thinking, volitional being would be to abolish the interval of grieving, painful separation during "this life which so many of us feel so keenly; that unhappy state (or episode) would be abolished; But ah! This brings up the following point: is this not precisely what the did for me, in this life in 3-74. Ended before my death, my separation from him, which, as the french article observed, is not usual? Then by this reasoning I must assert, from a new standpoint, that for me, at least, the Parousia did indeed actually fake place! + even though others didn't know, he intervened for them, too, in history So an interesting spin off of my nitrous oxide revelation is that my seeing "Zebra" does indeed indicate that the Parousia did is now taking place. Anamnesis is the basis of restoration [to God); this is the secret of what "baptism by the Spirit" (born again") means: remembering (the grape vine we volunteered foolishly to be lopped - proned - off of). The anamnesis was an end in it self: it was not to remind me of my mission (purpose) here, but rather to restore me back there (to God + my place of origin; + this it did). For this anamness to occur (during this life time) God in some form would have to come here - I just realized this. The Holy Spirit? But anyhow is some form. If this (i.e. my anamnesis) is part of a trend, then the Parousia is here, but if it's atypical, then it's the Holy Spirit, But Zebra was external, + the Holy Spirit is always internal. You don't see the Holy Spirit. So Zebra is not the Holy Spirit. 49 t one: model March 15/18: phosphenes as 1) GABA drop s or 2) OCCP micro-psi trans But model one is incorrect in either version 1) or version 2). Because: model two: March is (ie phosphenes as Feb 20: Golden Fish sign 1) GABA drop i t or s linear time 2) OCCP micro-trans probable solution: pre-emptive Xtian disinhibitive i emanating from future eb 20 March is/18 phosphenes: OCCP micro-psi trans s t t linear time anamnesis began - not in march with the phosphenes (et al, which were probably soviet + enslaving) but in Feb with the ancient Golden Xtian Fish sign which was liberating + pre-empted deliberately (knowing) the Soviet signal which was to come later. This is the M.O. I saw the wise mind generally employing: via retrograde passage in time to move 1) small + 2) first. Thus the OCCP control command was received not by me but by a 2000 year old 3-eyed entity. This points to a conscious active deliberate true hidden small authentic Xtian church corpus) fighting evil, + the OCCP activity as evil, all that which happened were moves by the 2 players in the contest 8 the cardinal experience of 3-74 was anamnesis, + that was not set off by the phosphene-activity - source or any source which followed, but by my seeing the Golden Fish sign in Feb. This must always be kept in mind anamnesis began before the phosphenes, by a couple of weeks, + was, I am positive, deliberately induced, by a concerted group, as extensions of the cosmic Christ i.e. as parts of the true vine). I camet be sure if there were OCCP command micro-esp signals, but if there were, I successfully fought them off; what I am sure of is that there was Xtian anamnesu, + it was triggered in Feb, by the Fish sign, + not in march In a sense, the cause of the Feb Xtian anamnesis the OCCP signals which were to come later, in March was the effect came before the cause. It is clearly evident to me that had the Xtian anamnesis (possession by the Holy Spirit) not set in in Feb. the OCCP microwave psi commands vis-a-vis the Xerox missive would have been successful; but, as it was, with the Feb anamnesis firing, it was not. Evidently this thwarting was deemed vital to his historic pran by the wise mind fundamentally, however, I favor another theory, which does not include any soviet micro-psi commands. It is this: that "astral" (deterministic) programming caused me to did in March or April of 1974. But that God reran that segment of linear time (which is how I knew the Xerox missive was coming, + when), +, by his grace, by his power over the planetary influences," what ever they might be, he saved my life, then, from march 15th on, I experienced post morter events, since in the previous "playing of the linear time tape" from then on (3-74) I was dead. 51 it must not only be realized that through God's grace (+ the cosmology that implies - the sublunar astral powers, etc) but that in the sequence where Thus survived - that was not the first + only time that linear-time sequence was run. In I other words, there was a retroactive reprogramming me, during a time when, evidently, major + tensive historical retroactive (orthogonal?) repro‐ of gramming - intervention - see dream in Tears took place in no way do I rule out Valis or Zebra being "ourselves in the future," as leary speaks of, + that the tinkering was with genetic coding which in turn affected history. Ency of Philo on "Gnosticism": the regaining of knowledge (the Gnostic revelation) reversed the original descent into ignorance, which is what we mean by the fall not an immoral fall, but into non-knowledge. Thus, reacquisition of knowledge is the true deity restoring himself by regathering the lost pieces of himself (deposited as sparks of the divied in the class of mer called pneumenatics). Such a schema shows why the reacquiral of knowledge is in itself salvific The Gnostics are right: this world is a prison. but a further secret - which I saw - is that either the good God (not the creatori)ames-James) has pene‐ trated into this world invisibly mimicking objects + processes, to ameliorate our situation. Perhaps the blind genius creator dearsurgt does not know this. This event would be the 2nd Advent of St Sophia, I think. 50 In other words, unbeknownst to the Jailms, this prison wo world has been invaded by a liberation deity, who restores our knowledge - reverses the original process (Fall) into ignorance - + also influences history No - this, too, is Gnostic; what I experienced as Valis or Zebra is the divine savior who has been sent here by the true God to save us (partly through anam‐ nesis). He alone is not at the mercy of fate, + by his absorbing (transubstantiaty) us we are freed by him + as part of him from our various fates (as presoners here). anamnesis + being freed from fate are interconnected. in Gnosticism: "Sophia, in 812-75 her task desire) to save us 938-1194 puts her messages into the C-) inferior bulk of writing by the mere demiurge - i.e. creator." certainly the novel Ubik seems to describe this: a 97 penetration, into This universe (cosmos) of divine, helping material from outside. 92708 t tues tues Nov 29 Nov 22 oak Orange oak s Orange oto Thos 9:30 1035 284 8251 ( close encounters of a third kind." Mysterious + excit religious wonder + awe. At the time I saw Zebra I saw a sanctified world, such as the Char freitag zauber scene in act it of "Parsifal" interestingly, it was just about that time of year - it was, I have been told + come to believe, the true nativity (birth) day of Jesus Thus Zebra was an epiphany of the savior, when all is said + done. The world was changed + I, too, as (art of it: it