selves. The phosphene "microwave psycho-energetics" beam came not from the [..] but from the future. This is why I reacted to the Bradbury stimulous in advance. My future personality was already taking over; it had done so to deal with the Xerox Missive it was "script - breaking." The break had already occurred: i.e. on Wed March 20 when the Xerox Missive came. The Bradbury thing was the following Sat night + on that Friday I saw the Cabella print out - which tends to - Olive Holt. Subliminal, but not by the [..] but by the bureau. No ich denke, ich glaube, es war [..] partie. Somehow a Tesla transmitter was involved - + circumvented by the future or macro self. Only something of the magnitude of a Tesla coil experiment would justify the future or macro self intervening. We're talking about total enslavement of my present self. Its virtual extinction. We're talking about one sophisticated technology (USSR present) countered by a superior one from our future. It's as if 3-74 was a summit conflict. ---------- Ah! as soon as the dream material got published, the future self knew it could reach me + change the (to it) past, which [..] once did (vis-a-vis the Xerox Missive). But it needed absolute feedback - something it itself inserted, not just precognition on my part. So there was a track in which either "Tears" wasn't published, or was different. Contact wasn't made.. Maybe the other coded material (e.g. "Acts") was in [the] recollection. From Thomas' mind. The future self saw that + guessed correctly that Thomas + I were (+ it, too) one that we had an extratemporal entity, here, of which it will be a part (is a part). (It could contain my memories as I contain Thomas') The simultaniety of lives might fit with my orthogonal time model. I must grasp + understand this: I wasn't Thomas in a past life; I am Thomas (c. AD 50) now - like in another spacial compartment [..] that compartment broke through - I saw koine, Syria - I experienced the Romans + knew the Koine. The divisor (barrier) between [..] Thomas, + at least 1 "future" self broke down + they superimposed, triple exposure. No doubt of it. ---------- This life, Calif 1974 (1978) as a past life; I experienced this life in a different mode, as it all of it had already happened, + even the post mortem part. (Which I've never been able to explain before.) That's why I've long had the [..sion] that my go - around with the Xerox Missive was not for the first time. I (still) claim that 1974 as the past was altered, inc. my response to the Xerox Missive. But there really are two possible explanations: 1) a future temporal self intervened retroactively in time. or: 2) A (the) timeless macro-entity intervened. or 3) both were present, which explains why Thomas was there, too, from 50 AD Koine. He came with the macro self; [..] was/is my major temporal "injection." (Since, according to my theory, the early Xtians had learned to make up - connect by anamnesis - these several temporal personalities as one, as a supratemporal one: this was what Christ [..] the Holy Spirit taught + enabled them to do. This (Ted Sturgeon's theny) is the superphysics the Xtians were into. This is why he could promise resurrection + eternal life - with him, maybe he is the sole macro entity, of us all, which injects itself into temporal forms - + forgets? The manifestation (intervention, memory) of a future life does not prove Ted Sturgen's theory of the circle of [time] correct, but it gives weight to the argument. I can reason that a linear future me intervened backwards in time, inserted material in "Tears" etc, but that doesn't explain Thomas or why I found myself in both "my" 1974 world + "his" AD 70 world. So I think Ted is correct. It's as if all my lives [got] together to handle the 3-74 problem, + that points to the "injecting macro entity." ---------- I have to get perspective on this. The Ted Sturgen - Scott Apel notice of simultaneous "former" + "later" lives is absolutely the explanation of why 1) I saw Rome; 2) believed I was in danger from the Romans; 3) heard the koine; 4) was taken over by "Thomas." Either another of the simultaneous lives broke through to me or I broke through to it. + part of the theory is that the full script of each of the selected lives is known to the macro mind before it [injected] itself into it. Suppose there was a PKD who merely began a normal [..] time life in 1928 - + lived it out to its end. Then a macro entity injected itself into this life (as well as past + future [ones]; e.g. Thomas, the 3-eyed evolved humans, etc) +, in symbiosis, as [Jeter] believes, worked with me, surfacing to take full control in 3-74 (But it was there back when I was in high school, + later, too). [..] this macro entity runs a number of lives spread out along the linear time line in sequence, but, for it, simultaneously. Either I was bailed out by the macro entity or by other lives, past + future Christianity is involved; the macro mind - which I saw externally as Zebra - is Christ, in any case, I am one part of either a supratemporal macro intelligence's or a poly temporal intelligence. I'm not "the only game in town," the only entry in the race. But it is not PKD who is this, PKD normally only has knowledge of this one "entry" in the race, [Diagram] Macro mind → (Thomas AD 70) → (PKD 1974) → (Future) There may be several or even many more, or a few more - but I'm sure of 3. It is also possible for the macro mind to operate more than one subform in the same linear time continuum. (Thus explaining why I suddenly switched to beer, called all dogs he + all cats she, knew how to drive a car but reacted in the wrong place for the air vent.) (Suppose - just suppose - the other linear-time contemporary is a Soviet national.) A future self wouldn't have to transmit to me via such external carriers as tachyons; it, knowing above all this. Could / would do so via the Quelle: the macro mind. Maybe the future of the polytemporal lives would be testing this theory out. When the dream material appeared in "Tears" it would know it (he or she) was me - + the Acts' material would disclose "Thomas" as well. So the "Acts" material came from a past self + the dream material from a future one. 3 of the polytemporal selves collaborated on "Tears." Maybe "Tears" originally was published with only the "Acts" material cooked into it. The future self figured out about me + Thomas - + either also figured out about its relation to us or suspected it. To that it, it would have to work via the macro mind - tachyon carried material would get info back to the past, which is a heavy thought, but I think this future self wanted to establish contact with itself specifically. Zebra is the macro mind, an UTI - ultra terrestrial life form, discorporate: plasmatic energy, for whom all things are one. To Xtians it is known as the Holy Spirit, + those humans (+ animals?) which it acts in symbiosis with are made into polyforms of Christ. It sanctifies those whom it chooses - + it is it which does the choosing. It chose the original 12 + is still choosing. Anyhow, the simultaneity of times opens up, finally, an absolutely certain, proper explanation. Coaxial worlds, as I [..] called them. Mounted along an axis orthogonal to linear time. I guess they, although sequential in linear time, occupy the same space as the same orthogonal time; they are all here spacially as well as (from the standpoint of the polytemporal viewer) temporally - all superimposed. I guess the mystery religions - starting with the Elyseans - discloses this. Psychedelics may have been used to break down the temporal compartmentalization. For instance, Thomas, "back" in AD 70, has experienced a life - his life - 2000 years in the (his) future. Him occupying me + trusting me (PKD) aside is just one side of the coin. The other is the experience, knowledge (gnosis) + certitude of immortality which the macro entity, the Holy Spirit, gave him. I'm going for broke + say, probably all the polytemporal personalities merged in 3-74 to give aid in the [3-75] trap situation. Perhaps this equals the macro entity. I guess in the previous go-around for me (PKD) without this symbiosis. I was done in. + I must not forget the general historic intervention. Future selves were working backward to our time via the macromind, + perhaps pastimes were doing so, also (if this be true then it was perhaps the Parousia, the time of the Presence). Sturgeon speaks of one being trapped by the power. Perhaps I was trapped (with amnesia) + so needed the help of the other polyselves. Anyhow, using Sturgeon's model, it is clearly evident why the Gold Fish necklace had the effect on me that it did - given my simultaneous life as an apostolic Xtian of the First Century. Since the Holy Spirit had entered (into symbiosis with) those early, authentic Xtians, "Thomas" could be regarded as the erleben of all the polyselves. Then in a sense the rest of us are forms of him; our route to self knowledge lies through him + what he knows (because of the Holy Spirit decending over him in theolepsy). So being taken over by Thomas would amount to being taken over by the Holy Spirit, since he + it became one (+ the Holy Spirit is a manifestation of God, the One). There is an aggagate personality compounded of out (or many? several?) of the polyselves of one particular macro entity (there may be only one). Anyhow a plurality of selves met the Xerox Missive head on, + one or more saw it from the future looking back, or anyhow from a standpoint where that script had been completed. Not, as to the Bradbury "out of synch": that points conclusively to at least one polyself from the future in relation to which my entire life had (inc. the arrival of the Bradbury stimulus PKD had been pre-empted by a future self or the supratemporal macroself. If the BIP was from the past, then I bet that the PTG was a future polyself: its world. Just as I was once in the BIP, later (to use linear time terms) I could live a life in the PTG. All this indicates that I was absolutely right [..] my Metz speech about tracks A, B, + C. What I did not realize is that arranges along the linear-time axis. They are sequential, but (as I said in the speech) they are alternatives in orthogonal time, + when we move from one to another we suffer amnesia re the one or ones we had been inhabiting. This "track transfer" when viewed as Ted Sturgeon views it coincides with the several worlds of "Tears" which Ted reviewed, + from which (if not also from my previous works) he realized, as he said in the interview I kept bumbling in + out of an understanding of. It is quite possible that a time (linear) will come in which a scientific knowledge will exists by which the coaxial worlds of "Tears" can be readily understood + explained. So once more "Tears" appears involved in all this. Even I, the author, when I wrote it, could not account for the substitution of worlds. I knew about track-hopping, wrote about it at the time - but