in order to come to life (become disjunctive from what is not-him). He can join the world or he can repudiate it. This is a very serious game, this guessing game. It only serves its purpose if man knows he will be rewarded for backing he will balk in order to obtain the reward - the test will be contaminated. He must balk with no knowledge of reward; in fact he knows he will be punished (by world, the BIP). So "he who gives up his life will save it," etc. This all really presumes another, invisible landscape at odds with the palpable one. Two realms, perhaps a lower + a higher, are implied, each with its own laws. The lower realm alone does not tell the full story - in fact may not even tell the true story or a part there of. In the lower realm, deity appears in a debased + trivial or besmirched guise, marginally (like the cheap commercials for UBIK). Only at the end (as in the reading of the last chapter in "Ubik") does deity unmask itself, + we see it as it truly is). This I say, if deity exists in the lower realm it will not bear a noble heavenly dignified beautiful aspect; it will be where least expected + as least expected, so there is no use deliberately looking for it - it will have to come to us + unveil itself to us. It could be an old sick - even dying - tomcat stinking of urine, degraded + humiliated, out of our ignorance. However, it aids, advises + monitors us. The world is a oneway mirror; God can watch us but not we him. The Christ story carries an episode in which God, in a poor + humble form eternally enters his own creation + is despised, thus showing that everything here in the lower realm is reversed. Christ comments on this often, being well aware of it. His bipolarization to world should be our clue + model. (Lower realm + powers: "Earth" or sublunar upper level discretionary powers: pleroma.) The upper realm powers can overrule the lower; this is very important to understand. Anything here, is dictated by blind forces, can be retroactively undone. So the two realms interact in one direction only: upper imposed on lower. (Christ asks us to pray for this.) To repeat: salvation involves transfer from the lower realm + its blind forces to the upper where sentience prevails. The upper is a realm of noös. The lower of physical forces. Thus successful elevation brings one into contact with mind. The lower realm (+ powers) does not reveal the higher realm (+ powers) except upon those occasions when the higher realm overrules it (e.g. 3-74). It is only if we posit two dissimilar realms, the lower one not obeying God's Laws or resembling him, that we can suppose God is benign in view of the evil we see here. It is certainly possible that the lower one was once in synch with the higher, + fell. In that case it may be that at that time it was possible to speak of only one realm - part of which, so to speak, lost consciousness. Lower realm = phenomenal world, + is entropic. The higher realm is negentropic of all things," like UBIK invading the devolving world + revitalizes it. In my writing I do not say all reality is illusion but that this one is, + the authentic one is hard to find. It is a question of a counterfeit one vs a real (but lost) one.➀ The nature of what I am doing is suspecting a counterfeit. Trying to discern it, + then comparing it to an authentic "original." All these steps are necessary. ➀ + trying to get (back) to it. Not only was getting from the lower to the upper realm the goal of the early Xtians, but they had secret techniques to achieve it (inc. ways of breaking the hold of the lower realm over them + freeing them). This is what it was all about, this journey (back + forth/) (In this [..].) The upper realm corresponds to Parmenides' Form I; the lower to Form II. +, a Parmenides says, Form II may not exist, except in the popular imagination. What if Parmenides is right + Form II doesn't actually exist. Suppose USA 1974 is Form II, + Acts is Form I. A strange thought comes alive here...an only seeming world fading out - the BIP (Form II) does not exist - its coertion is a fraud. Only the PTG (Form I) really exists. We are under a dreadful enchantment when we see + believe in the BIP. True seeing reveals the PTG only. This is the goal. Hence all my writing that world is merely simulated is correct. (Form II.) Another, better, higher world lies behind it (Form I). The false world is malignant. As Leo Bulero + Runciter lead us out of it, so does Christ - back to reality (upper realm, Form I - PTG). The walker-on-earth; to a place where it is always sunny. 1) First revelation: we are in the BIP. 2) 2nd revelation: we will be led out of it into the sunlight (PTG) This (2) is exactly what happened in 1974; we were led out of it. By the deity. Precisely this (+ more) is narrated in "Tears." The first shift of worlds is from one like ours appears to the BIP. Finally there is a shift out of the BIP - but not, in fact, back to the original world; but, via the conversion, to the PTG. (Epilog.) the dream is the breaking through of the PTG: "The countryside, in summer, brown + dry." Since realm II (the lower one - BIP) is irreal, the way out of it is by knowledge (gnosis). I now triumphantly play my trump card: my "Two Source" cosmogony / cosmology, but with this improvement: the dead yin Form II BIP one constitutes a "stuck" irreal superimposition - the two realms are together - out world is a lamination of the two - like (to us) aspects or ways of being in the world: as if there is one world but two "ways of being" in it (this is how we experience it, but in fact there are really 2 sources. It's like Land's two light source from which all colors derive. The two realms are not to be regarded this way: [Diagram ➀ upper/lower ← wrong. It should be regared like this:] [Diagram ➁ source I → world ← source II] Our world is a composite yet I bet the feeling that we're primarily in Form II. Certainly all that we object to, + which inner - + - outer tape programs us is lower world (Form II). The lower world has a decisive grip on us (moribund though it be) to such an extent that God himself is needed to break it. Normally, the upper realm is regarded as heaven + a separate world from our world. I wonder if this is so, we may be in both realms as one world. But the programmed hold of the lower is pitiless. A specific breaking process is essential if we are to lose Form II (the immutable cause - + - effect yin world). The dread grip of the irreal - is it not not-being, against which God is the bulwork? Delusion the programmed evil lower counterfeit prison - delusion (maya) has us. That the irreal could be more powerful than the real) But in the final analysis it is not. Its power resides in the innertape programming, fucking damn electric ant tape. The mechanics of the system is the power, the lever. We are enslaved. Thus the supernatural value of what Beethoven did for us - decisively burst our programming. Aldiss says the horn of freedom blows in my writing. If I stigmatize the lower realm as counterfeit, aren't I rendering a service, + an unusual one at that? Who else has unscrambled world into two realms (well, Parmenides for one) the malignant part of which is bogus? In my writing I posit a false inner analog ("take" or memories) to the outer. God, I have broken my self in this pursuit over 27 years. Critics compare my malignant false worlds to cancer. I demand that deity appear or somehow put its stamp on world before I can accept it as anything but a diabolic counterfeit interpolation. We have been deceived for thousands of years. The neoplatonists such as Plotinus knew of two realms. The Essenes (v. Josephus) report a lower realm of feverish unconsciousness, the poison, intoxicated soul. "Men like to sleep." A thought: the lower level inner outer programmning the enslaving tape, doesn't go anywhere. Just repeated reflex "gestures." Because source II (Form II) is stagnant - is dead. So in the programming there is no growth, no true evolution, just circles in time. Breaking the programming is an evolutionary step, then - we can assign the term ladder arrangement between the two realms. Well, then we have arrived at a biological hierarchy. The human species repeating itself remains in the lower realm; advancing, it evolves to the noös realm. So within our own contemporary selves we can speak of two distinct plateaus of evolutionary life, one insect or android like, the other elastic. My theological set gets here with linked to biological morphology - we have here diverse morphologies of "Geworfenheit," of "being in the world;" schizophria = total tape repetition - nothing new ever coming in entropic mind devolving. The schizophrenic has totally succumbed to the fucking tape loop. He represents a being-only-in-the-lower- realm (Form II). Then for the rest of us there is some Form I growth. Some admixture. I see the battle between the two ways of being in the world: change + newness + growth vs repetition on + [..] + I who have worked this out - I am day by day ossifying into Form II, caught by the lower realms - I who invented this bipolarization. Have I served my biological, genetic use, + nature is through with me now! I have insight, devolution toward torpor + simplification + return to the old. I who 4 years ago was taken up into Form I! Was salvation wasted on me? Did if fail? This year I failed. I was so brave, so fucking adventurous last year! That "fuck you" from Laura re the trip to Europe - it poisoned me. I represent an injured, damaged organism which has virtually ceased to care. The life impulse is in her + not in me. I guess I wanted to share her vitality. Instead of transferring some of it to me. She slew me with it - I, who gave her that life in the first place. I'm getting old, but part of it, too, is loving Laura so much, me running after her across the field + not being able to capture her. Like the butterfly in "Nichts Neus." The lower realm is the eternally old, + the upper (Form I) the eternally new (creative, yang). So the lower realm is dead; it looks backward into the past, + is blind. From the standpoint of ontology it has passed out of existence. ---------- "Dokos" does not mean forgery. It means a forgery good enough to pass (all tests) as is it were a product of the Gov. Mint. This distinction, applied to the empirical world, is a crucial one. It passed the tests + therefore is, in a sense, metaphysical. This implication was was not lost on the pre-socratic philosophers. That there could be forgeries that good - it is a whole different concept from mere forgery, + of great value philosophically (metaphysically.) ---------- Re the two realms, it looks like I have found a quasi-biological basis for my android (lower, reflex realm) vs human (upper, free-realm) bipolarization,