Maze" it's themselves. if "lated is correct - that they" are not Etis + in issence they are manipulating our perception of reality - Then my novels + stories are important because they deal with reality as a plastic multfaced matrix viewable from plural standpoints (all the way back to Eye"). unless we grasp this we will not be able to header what is being done to us. t i So now I say, there was a reason they intervened in my particular life: because my writing is of value vis-a-vit 9 then efforts to remove our occlusion, + emancipate us. It would seem from what Valise says that they are principally concerned with "softening" our brittle (sense of reality. latter considers the possibility that the experience is induced by microwave radiation + by "pulsating colored lights. Gee- that's what I saw: pulsating colored lights for a certainty, +, by inference, microwave energy I learly identify the written messages I saw in 3-74 with the Ubik messages in "Ubik. But I possess a secret nowhere discussed: they" know of latent (inhibited) meta circuits in our brains, slumbering in anticipation of this time, + there circuit) they deliberately disinhibit. From this piece know ledge much can be interred about them, us, + their relationship to us ("masters" of us). They must have placed these neural circuits there originally + then inhibited then other wise how would then know about Them + how to disinhibit then? 3: rroughs in "the ticket that exploded" says of the Nova Mob parasites that as they move from one human host to another they give themselves away (to the Nova police) by the continuity of their habits, such as tastes in food (in Hamburger mary's case a taste for peanut butter). this was exactly true about Thomas. + I've subjectively felt myself as a female, a womb into which something like an egg (firebright) was deposited - like a cuckoo's egg. was Thomas a saprophyte turned parasite, + deposited his "egg" in me? Does this mean that burroughs is either intentionally or unintentionally describing something which is true? + he's onto those pasted-together sub ciminal messages, too (16 KW has noted a resemblance between several Thing. I've described + what burrought has writted e e.g. My conviction that as a race or even planet we are "sick" i.e. occluded perceptually, + that a divine doctor-entity is restoring us - coincidence? Burroughs speaks of a virus - a word become a neural - cell virus, infecting us. After reading burrough, I dipped into "Ubik." It certainly would be easy - + reasonable - for a reader to think that both burroughs + I know something, + we want our novels to be taken as at least partly true They have a strange ring of [revealed] truth about them I feel it about his book. About mind - is, as Kathering kurtz says, something writing through us? isn't Palmer Eldritch a kind of parasite, replicating himself or itself using humans as hosts? But my sense about Thomas was of a benign, not evil, intrusion. Still, it was an intrusion into my psyche, a taking over. Are such intrusions always to be deplored? or was I beguiled? Didn't it - he - get me out of trouble? there is just no doubt of it: such passages in Burroughs novel as the "Do it - do it - neck" message within another message - words that werent originally There but are like the inner trigrams of an I ching hex that is one absolute "triangulated" element with 1) "Ubik" + 2) what I saw in 3-74. Plus the parasite criminals + Nova cops, + the infecting virus Burroughs novels 3-74 Burrough's novel is related to "Ubik" + "Stigmata" "Ubik" via the 3-74 experience, ( The virus (of Burroughs) is an information (or word) virus, but in this sense: it blocks to reception of information. So it is an anti-information virus. + Then it substitutes false (homeo) info (die messages inside your psyche) that replaces the genuine information, auditory + visual nformation- blocking, as represented in "Maze" symbolically by the erasure of the instruction tape. This tells us what kind of info is blocked: our instructions as to our purposes or tasks: all that the term "instructions imply. + where do the instructions come from? A satellite: in other words, another "planet" or world from this. + also (somehow relatedly) we are not really where + when we think we are is the erased" instructions include needed accurate + full info as to where we are, as well as what our job is. We are cut off from + not receiving verbal transmissions. We can no longer hear what we're supposed to hear o his can be collated with Julian Jaynes theory of the loss of the voices of the Gods. Kw points out that our finding info in "randomes arrangements - they may not be random in the first place. the visual part is in the color discrimination circuits which permit set/ground apperception The auditory part is the "agin voice of inwin, + depens. upon a suppression (suspension) of sub-vocal thinking as burroughs points out, over 10 seconds of inner silence is impossible: innerchatter occurs. There is an inner raving, howling, clamaring bug, which deliberately creates derogatory noise on the line at all times. A amming, an override. t information we can't receive audio or visual information; it is Jammed or cooked. So "St Sophia" (divine wisdom) must tis jammed land behind enemy lines - withing or cooked the prison, + inform us here, located here with us, since its info is not getting through. Each of us has an override in him, + there appears to be an override layer in the They could transmit to me only for a brief interval: ther atmosphere. slew the morritor within, but presently another one replaced it. So again I am cut off. They are at present diversifying their arrivals, feints within + among which the real landing (2nd Advent) will be lost in the confusion of absure raw data. Which among the fake messages is the real one? "Garbage in, garbage out; in terms of feeding data to our computers. Random + bizarre + ubiquitous. But primarily, as John Calvin said. The damage is to our brains, to our faculties. We can't see + we can't hear. Restoration of our lost faculties signifies the end-times, + my faculties, in 3-74 were restored. That this restoration could only be temporary shows why "St Sophia" must be incarnated here again. t Bulgakov. "1) the world, or cosmos, is an organic whole animated by a "world soul" or entelechy that is revealed in the structure, function + connection of its parts... The world is God as becoming, the divine nature fused with nothingness. 3) Mediating between the absolute + the cosmos, uniting them both within itself, is a 'third being" - Sophia, the principle of divine wisdom. As the world of Platonic Ideas. Sophia is the ideal basis of the cosmos; as the object of divine love purely receptive + conceiving everything within herself as the womb of being, Sophia is "eternal feminity"; as the principle of the Divine within the created, she is the "world soul, or entelechy, as a participant with the trinity in the generation of the cosmos She is a kind of 'fourth hypostasis; in God." EB: "St Sophia - a heavenly figure beside God that presents itself to men as mediatress in the work of greation as well as e mediatress of the knowledge of God. Thought sometimes as a divine hypostasis of mary (but I believe this is an error.) St. Sophia identified with the world soul. But mainly as unifying - linking - entelechy between The nothing (cosmos) + absolute (God), even containing Themboth. She so to speak faces the absolute in one direction + us in the other. something which contains God (as well as the universe)? (or rather corn for) plato says of the world soul. "... it is not pure intelligence; being united with a perceptible body, it may be imagined as having internal feelings... Hence Plato speaks of its discourse as always true, although it contains, besides rational understanding + knowledge, judgments + beliefs - etc now, it was revealed to me that St Sophia incarnated herself as Jesus Christ. If she is also the Platonic world soul, then the world soul incarnated itself here + will again. The E.B. recounts a fascinating Xtian myth that Christ entered the world in a humble human servant form, "as Bait" which Satan rose to thinking that since this was just a man, he (Satan) had power over him (Christ). It is not slated what Satan's "grasping. The bait (not knowing Jesus' heavenly origin) accomplishes. Also, "in the middle ages a further feature was added: the understanding of the devil as the "ape of God," who attempts to imitate God through spurious, malicious creations that he inter‐ polates for, or opposes to, the divine creations "(P 480) Here is a basis for my "much of reality isn't truly real but is spurious" theme. Look how perfectly "Stigmata" collates with this: irreal (spurious) creations are equated with evil or are works of evil. These evil, spurious creations are inserted (interpolated) for - which means not in addition to but instead of - true creation. "Interpolate. carries the connotation of 1) the false; 2) that which does not properly belong there; 3) is foreign to that into which the act occurs. 14 At first I saw nothing important in this "are of God" theology. Counterfeit of God's creation (more precisely, God's act of creation - but from our stand point it is the spuriousness of the creation that is salient But how does this lie in with the "disguised Christ as bait" theme? The only way I can discern a tie-in would be if the (this) world is one of Satan's spurious creations - an idea which seems in keeping with the fact of Satan's presence + power when Christ came here So; this is a counterfeit world, not just ruled by Satan but created by him; however, it is not merely evil; it is irreal. Then, from the real world, the ruling intelligence (world soul, Logos) arrives in humble disguise. Maybe parts of this world are Satan's spurious interpolation. Yes! He does not create a different, separate world (biplolarized to the authentic one) but (as the EB says) interpolates false sections. We can be sure that these are malignant interpolations (the EB strictures them as malicious). Then our world is an admixture 3-74 experience: a This fits with my malicious, false Palm âž€ Satan's unalloyed creation te black tree tron world ) The admixture (our world) Garden prison ) ) God's pure, authentic creation 3 3 (3) true creation has been encroached on by a malicious spurious one. Thereby the developing plan for God's creation impeded. So St. Sophia appears in a deliberately humble disguise to act as "bait for Satan to grasp" what Satan does is accuse him falsely, plot + carry out his arrest, try him unfairly + finally executes him in a horribly painful + degrading way I have long had the feeling that I myself was bait let me be candid. Appearing to the forces of evil as I did (opposed to them, fighting them but powerlees) They (who ever "they" were or are) set a trap for me is is to destroy me. This can be tied in with my revolu‐ tionary concept of "sacred" or continually - the same sacred-drama-unceasingly - acted - out" time magically underlying spurious linear time. We do not merely act roles as if we are the dramatal personal; as with transubstantion we ontologically are them. But do I understand why it is a disaster for the powers of Darkness to [agains again - eternally fail to identify God in his humble human form + hence terribly