I still do, but -- well, so it goes. is as As to our reality being a projected framework -- I'm now t 8 a (hot on the track of a sort of interesting idea: our reality is its 8 a projection projected by an artifact, a computer-like teaching Maker machine (which is itself in the process of evolving toward total 8 i self awareness of itself,l It has "created" (actually only pro‐ the jected) our reality as a sort of mirror ofi, so that it can a3 Maker Eobtain thereby an objective standpoint to comprehend its own self, t if you follow me. s In other words, it (called by Jakob Bohme in he i is 1616 the Urgrund) is motivated for self-awareness, self knowledge, an objective appraisal and understanding of itself (it 8 is a vast living organism, intrinsically without qualities or aspects, which is why it needs the empirical world as a reflection by which t to "see" itself). It constructed a reality-projecting artifact is s (or demiurge; of Plato and the Gnostics) which then projected the t world we know. Studying our reality the urgrund then is I so able to comprehend itself. It must allow the reality-projecting artifact to continue to project an evolving reality until finally as that reality is an analog, truly, of the urgrund itself, at which point the disparity between the urgrund and the projected reality s s is abolished; whereupon the artifact or demiurge will be destroyed as t and the urgrund will assimilate the projected reality, making it oue ontologically real -- and also making the living creatures in it iThis moment could come at any time, this entrance of the s urgrund into our otherwise spurious projected framework. N Zebra is the projecting th cordially, artifact, which is close at hand. Phil Dick A0s E. Civic center Dr A-12) the proanosis for (fate of) our Santa Ana world is excellent: immortality + the final calif 32701 infusion of reality once it has reached the poich of congruent analogto the uogrund. The fate of the Artifact is But destruction but it is not alive, as we + the urground are. e are isomorphic 112 He (his will) directed me. But I saw as if through this eyes: the world as he sees it (so very different from how humans experience it) + I had access to his time + space, + his memories it I was part of an enormous organism which actually occuries space (+ time) + has personality He in me, born; but I in him. Transformed into the next stage up of evolution. Also, as well as reaching [back] into time for interpenetrating souls, he may have reached through space to a Soviet individual who is a believer + pt of the Corpus Christi He (Christ) could even connect me with a soul in the future, showing the surmovnting of space + time by the Corpus Christi. It's amazing how much my 1/23/74 "cosmogony cosmo Logy" resembles the situation in "Maze" s looking back on the "Black Man" (stranger] at the all night gasstation the other night (i.e. the Swarthy man whose car had run out of gas, + he had no money) I see, first how much it resembles the scene at the all night gas station between Buckman + the black man in "Tears," But secondly, I see that my reaction to the situation confronts + confounds a diagnosis of borderline schizophrenia - + 3rdle. I think God arranged it to reasoure me, + to settle the issue of this diagnosis of Duke's: the events - my responserefutes it. The incident must be regarded as divine help. by the aAdvocate i 1 I will herewith revert to the corl content of my original 2-3 (74) revelation:: It is really only about 70 AD, + over this true reality the artifact has projected an illusionary veil causing the world to seem to be 1974. Actually I have 2 sources for this realization 1) In 2-74 (+ later in 3-74) it was revealed to me that despite all appearances (what I now know to be the projected world of the enslaving artifact) the time is 70 AD + the place Rome. +: 2) If the above is not true, if the time is as it appears - 1974 - then Christ misinformed his disciples as to his return. i.e. my 2-74 revelation agrees with prophecy of the N.T. whereas the world as it seems refutes that very prophecy about his return. + 3) I did hear the voice saying "St Sophia will be born again..." etc., which ties it all up yet, as stated in my "cosmogony + cosmology" II envision the artifact as an instrument of the urgrund (vide.) How, then, can it really. Still be AD 70 Rome? I answer: the urgrund is capable of having it be so, by its very thought alone (cf Xenophanes + Berkeley) the world of AD 70 Rome is not a mere spurious pro‐ jection; it is the ontologically real substratum of the Urgrund itself (which came here then as Christ). + when the urgrund extirguishes the projected pseudo‐ world of 1974 by annihilating the artifact - its purpose serves - we will see the real world which hasn't changed since the 1st. Advent. Only at that time was our otherwise projected world ever real. The next time ser will be real will be at the 2nd Advent, which will (merge with the first. 114 This [Gnosis] fact, that it is really 70 AD, is Available only by [Gnostic] revelation, directly from the urgrond (or God); our senses cannot, unaided, apprehend it. This fact is the greatest secret of all. + all my system - building must be predicated on that fact as premises. + K.W. reasoned it out a priori that indeed - if the N.t. is to be believed, it must be only 70 AD. Other wise we must throw out the N.T. inc. Christ himself as a fantasy I comprehended it by being taken into the cosmic Corpus Christi. This line of reasoning casts a new Light on the world-projecting artifact. Under its spurious world is a different, real world. Why would God permit (or even command) the artifact to project this illusory world? A: Men must act in what appears to be a world bereft of God, so that they can reveal thenselves as "Wheat" or "tares" But the explanation may go deeper. The King‐ dom - + Parousia - came on schedule, but only for some people (v. my Metz speech). It comes for some people + not for others - but it did come + is always in the process of coming, as grace + salvation claim more + more people. At the instant each person is claimed, he discovers that under the projected illuson world lies the 1st advent But there is more than the revelation that it is really only 70 A.D. The really great secret is that the Kingdom is here, but invisible - only those in whom Christ (the urgrund) has been born are aware of it - mush let But this is the highest secret - + experience + enter it. Alls +f Iill bet this has been true (+ heps a snt for 2000 linear years. 115 In my "cosmogeny cosmoloay" I state that Zebra (3-74) was not the urgrund or true transcendent deity invading this world, but the artifact which created this world (+ therefore could not very well be regarded or act as an invader.). But on this point I could be very wrong. Like a spider entering its web to repair it - no, that still is the artifact. But the Spirit in my head was the spark of the divine -+ hence not Zebra. What I saw enternal to me was not what was in me. But I could be wrong. If ZEBRA was the urgrund, + not the artifact, then what I wit nessed as external, + experienced internally, was - has to have been - the Parousia. + I shrink from declaring that. Still, it was an invader in this world. Yet Zebra uses mimickry to conceal itself from us, perhaps the mimiching fooled me into supposing it an invader. It was an invader, but in its own world (but making sure we never saw or suspected its existence, let alone its close presence In any case my paper winds up by accusing the artifact to be secretly working for our salvation; i.e. in conjunction with the urgrund - that the arti‐ fact is a teaching machine that wants us to rebel against it + affirm God. If the artifact isn't God it is at least an agent of God's plan of restoration. It did not know what its task was, + inflicted so much pain on us that we awoke. It, as Bruno believed, the mind/memory is divine + can reflect back "the divie which is behind the universe" Then weteach) are not fragments of the urgrund but 11 analogs of the urgrund in which all of it is container in miniature, perhaps like - a seed; anyhow, the ur grund itself could be reconstructed out of any given one of us. What does this resemble (analogic think indited in my dream) if not the DNA present in each cell of the body- from which cell the entire body could be reconstituted (cloning). Or: suppose you photographed the cistuone chaped ceiling - + then the cistene chaped was destroyed. The painting could be retrieved" from the [little] photograph. There is topological congruency: one-to-one corres‐ pondence. Ir: consider the fact that a symphiny can be reduced" to a score, + the score can be "reduced" to a very long number, out of which the original symphony can be perfectly reconstituted. Or: like the mars pictures were radio transmitted in numerical dits. (4 different (from white to black) in all. memory. Stored information (as in a computer) but of a particular kind: like the magnetic patterns on iron ovide tape, not info concerning, say, "the magic Flute" is stored, but patterns (constituents) out of which the music realibation itself can be retrieved. This contains staggering implications. ➀ Suppose gene pool memory (Bruno's magic memory) under anamnesis contains this sort of information out of which by analogic conversion former things can be efectly reconstructed via some sort of transduction. This is not really a novel or modern idea. in incient times poets memoriged whole ep to 117 was a source for theoretically total reconstruction of The poems, however long I have repeatedly identified Christ not as an emissary of the urgrund or Godhead but (when incar‐ nated) as a microform of the [macro] total divine. This is how I personally comprehend him. But now, thinking about what Bruno taught (+: "...the religious perience of the Hermetic Gnostic consisted in reflecting the universe within his own mind or memory.. (he) believed that man's mens was in itself divine + there‐ fore able to reflect the divine mind behind the universe. In Bruno, the cultivation of world- reflecting Magic memory becomes the technigue for achieving the personality of a Magus... etc. "Magus," although meaning magician also may mean something akin to our word "scientist" as contrasted to "priest.") - Consider What is said about the Hermetic Gnostic (presumably of the ancient world: Hermes Tristigistos) - what is meant by "reflect"? Anyhow, putting this material about the Hermetics + Bruno together with my view of Christ, we are forced to conclude that Christ was successfully what the Hermetics + Bruno strove for, whether they realized it or not. Anamnesis Then is a containing of the totality of the urgrund, an analog, microformed, of everything in it. My guess is that it is the "magnetized iron oxide tape" sort of memory, a true capturing of what it remembers out of which that which is remembered can - in anam nesis- be said to exist or live