US history: we were devolving along the axis of evolution which leads forward to greater homeostasis of the individual - ie greater self-programming. Thus the brain sponsored the "leaderless revolution" against the Viet Nam war. Perhaps the first successful totally leaderless revolution in human history. This is what was important, this evolution/revolution. The brain incited this advance in consciousness + awareness. Just to examine what was overthrown is to miss the point. I am -have been- missing the point. It was how it was overthrown. I was shown the divine power overthrowing (represented by the Sibyl). No amount of lies or force, fear or threat, could halt the collective consciousness: the manifestation of this moral collective Noös was one of the most important stages in all the millenia of human history. It was a physical expression (map) of the brain. I'm not theorizing. I know. The brain operated through me, e.g., at a conscious level. The establishment, with all its financial + industrial power, was opposed by a mind. The mind coordinated its parts. This is a miracle! Then the 60s + 70s represents a quantum leap by the brain. In a sense, it actually came forward into actualization (the open: visible: if to me, then to others - it must be so; I can't be unique; that runs contrary to common sense.) (Well, I didn't put the code in "Tears" to read it myself.) The authorities did not understand -at all guess- what confronted them. They had inaccurate, very inaccurate, intimations of a coordinating "group." They must have succeeded in discerning a pattern (of coordination); ie the results but not the cause (source). They saw revolution; they saw the anti-establishment counterculture articulations (voices) + plotted correctly a synchronization, but could not account for it, despite the efforts of the police - Who were the leaders of this revolution? They had killed all the leaders, + it made no difference: the psyche or psychoi of the leaders lived on - literally. Impossible! (For instance, in 3-74 + on I toyed with the idea, for really quite a while, that it was Jim Pike who had "come across" to me! It was like him!) Timeo. What are we dealing with? I'd hate to have tried to kill it, like "they" tried. Who have we read about who was murdered - + invisibly came back {Note}, resurrected + - ubique. Then it was "Ubik" that - {Note:} The brain contains the saintly dead! (eg Jim) "Ubik" depicted a spontaneous generation of guiding messages from an unknown source, which was ubiquitous. The Marxists took great interest in "Ubik" + wanted to know what Ubik was. My 3-74 experience resembled "Ubik" - why? The presence of the vast (ubiquitous) brain (Zebra or VALIS) of course. In other words, in 3-74 I encountered the mind which in "Ubik" I called Ubik. It is the Logos, St. Sophia, but the Marxists, although evidently aware of its existence (how come?) could not accept that explanation. They may be right; more modern, more precise formulation may be possible. I am not able to do that; I keep falling back on traditional stereotyped theological terms + concepts. What I am doing in this exegesis is, I am continually month after month trying to do just this. "Noös" replaces "God" + "Brain" replaces "Noos" as my key term. Zebra is a vast brain (etc). Rome is a dead circuit that recirculates the same signal. It warps human growth by tugging it backward into fossil stages. The lightning swift brain is dismantling realm II - the BIP's circuit board. Messages fly back + forth between the stations of this distributed brain, etc. The voice: "Plenary override exists." Not knowing what "plenary" meant I looked it up. "Absolute, complete, perfect." I must bear in mind: the brain is very old -2000 years- back to Acts. It remembers the BIP back to CAD 45; thus my "pattern recognition based on memory" (P10). The brain's field of present is so extensive that it extends from CAD 45 to now: a 2000 year present. So for it, CAD 45 is now, as well as AD 1974. While I was incorporated into it I experienced vast space + time - + I looked to the starry sky for me place of origin (ie the brain's place of origin. __ In its moving about (discorporate in one sense) the brain is like a giant floating crap game. If it's like a floating crap game, this vast brain must be an organizing principle. A system of linking. This fits in with the disassembling + re-assembling into a new structure. I was taken into a thinking system ... how, if at all, does this system exist independently from the constituents which it links together? The same question has long been debated about the relationship between a human mind + its brain! Can the mind exist independently from the brain? This model (brain-mind) is a good one for my understanding of 3-74. I keep hypostatizing Zebra as God or Noos, + now as brain. But we are the [physical] brain [components]. The plasmatic entity I saw which I called Zebra must have been the analog for the electrical discharges constantly moving through neural fibers - ie throughout the brain itself. Those electrical impulses are the life of the brain: its activity. So my brain, made up of millions of cells in billions of [electrical] combinations, became one station (cell) in (of) a larger brain, linked to other "cells" (persons), some dead, some living, some yet to be, with Christ as the total mind (psychē). As an aggregate we comprised [the mystical, cosmic] Christ! No wonder I thought of electrically (ie micro-wave) boosted telepathy. The thoughts coming to me were the thoughts of the total mind or brain + they took some kind of electrical form (which makes sense). + there was a boosting of the initial signal, etc. Then the phosphene activity was an initial transmission (signalling) to me to come on, to begin functioning as a cell of the brain, not as an individual any longer. Plenary override imposed "Thomas" onto me; he probably was a station long in place - I don't know; I think he was an early Christian man, not Christ the total psychē. Ah! He was my superior in the system; the relationship between him + me was, functionally, quite clear. ("tutulary spirit") I have an intuition that prior to 3-74 I was a cell in the brain, but kept unaware of it (eg in writing "Ubik," "Tears," etc), but in 3-74 the peril I was in necessitated the plenary override by another more qualified component. One might speak of the brain protecting itself, its boundaries. Not just I was menanced but it, a portion of it. Well, then the total brain's intelligence -or a portion larger than me- met the problem (challenge) of the Xerox missive + dealt with it. Here is proof of the correctness of my brain model. Not I alone dealt with the Xerox missive; the brain used its plenary override + applied its power of thought, of problem-solving, much greater than mine - far greater. Did I not experience it problem-solving (as well as merely thinking; + I heard its voice, which is to say its thoughts directed at me). This is what brains are for, as compared to mere organism as such. It solved a very difficult problem, + in doing so gave me a sample of its mental powers. It outmaneuvered something - which I have construed as a no-win trap. Yes - I first heard the voice back in physics class in high school, so I was an unconscious part even back then. I still am. Then Zebra was a surge of electrical information, such as our own nervous system processes; my model works. Long ago when I comprehended Zebra as "sentient electricity" I should have thought of a brain, very large + distributed vastly, with myself as one cell. This thing, then, is actually real + not some mere theological hypostasis (concept). Subjectively I experienced the larger thinking/problem-solving/personality, + outwardly I saw Zebra, the electric (energy) flow entering things + determining outcomes of causal processes; it can invest objects ("charge them") as well as people. No big problem there: a human is an object - ie physically real. Yes: Zebra, the electrical (or whatever energy it is) flow carries the info from one cell to another. With this model, 3-74 is reasonably easy to understand. It (the psychē) fired me. I reason, now: if info can be transmitted to me, I must have some function; memory storage? No - I suppose it's my writing. This certainly explains the Acts -+ cypher- material in "Tears"; good example of my function. I can transmit that way - in my writing. Its forever whipping messages back + forth, like any brain; that's how it maintains its existence as a unitary entity. So seeing all the messages tells me more of the story. It fits the brain-model. Written + auditory messages are its thoughts! The word "Felix" juxtiposed with "King" is a perfect example -not of code, really- but a message evident (available) only to parts of it. (Set-Ground discrimination is involved, which its conscious parts must possess.) All that's needed is the ajna chakra working. Boy, have I gotten close to figuring it out! How large do you suppose the brain is? Does it extend beyond this planet? It could. Yes, + much of our reality (world) is spurious; ie directly imposed on our percept systems by the brain - I'm taking a wild guess. Not just by the BIP but by the brain. "Ubik" with the spontaneous generation of messages - I was close. Unconsciously, as a cell of the brain. I knew, UBIK = the brain. Negative ions - wow. I can't rule out the possibility that someone in the Soviet Bloc guessed. Then there is an entity within an entity! A species within a (our human) species, camouflaged here. It uses some of us, not all; it uses some of our visual + audio messages as its messages (thoughts to + in itself) but not all. It controls + motivates + coordinates some of us, but not all. Evidently it has an adversary (what I call the BIP). The possibility of an invasion must not be excluded (something on the order of "The Puppet Masters," I guess). (Or "3 Stigmata." Only benign.) From my own 3-74 "theolepsy" I know that its mind/will overrides any one of us. But this saved me - + it protected itself, really. It was infringed on as a unitary corporate entity. Does this fit in with Hal's talk about wanting me to put code in my writing? "SF as a good medium for cypher," he said. + "Tears" already existed - + he wanted "any unfinished works of mine," which suggests a connection with the hit on my house. By this reasoning I'd say the US is onto it. But what do I care? It might explain what they were looking for, though. "I wear many hats," Hal said. Well, that's of small importance. That was fielded by the brain in 3-74. They didn't get hold of the ms of "Tears" - they only got to read it after it was released. Tough shit. The message ("code") was dispatched on schedule. But boy, was I nervous. It was close. This is very serious. Okay "Felix-King" is a written thought passing among cells of the brain. But - well, it does not wish its presence here known. Protecting me was protecting itself, since I am part of it. I'm grateful. But - What are we/am I? The brain overthrew "the conspirators" - I know that. So it opposed the conspirators who murdered the civil rights leaders. That is an evil bunch. On these points there can be no doubt. The sides in this are very obscure. I'll never be able to put