intervals as 4 years of linear time can be judged as really being only seconds. It is another kind of time entirely, speeded up so that, as in stop action photo graphy of sprouting seeds, furious change-rates shot by, with everything moving + melding, etc. I relived my way back up the 2000 years from 70 AD to 1974 + saw all like flash cut film. +, within the blur of change, eternal forms could be distinguished: that of the joyous preparations for his return. As I read about + study authentic Xtianity I gradually learn that what I experienced wasn't weird or strange at all, but, on the contrary, constituted the core perience of being a Xtian + being redeemed or born again or receiving (becoming) Christ. Only ignorance on my part prevented me from understanding the trans‐ formation, the divine alchemy at work in me ➀ The modern slavic sophiasts believe Sophia to be this ideal substrate of the cosmos. 28 This does not prove that those who haven't had my 3-74 experience are not true Xtians; but what is a certainty to me now, four years later is that I became" Christ, or, more accurately, was absorbed into the cosmic Corpus Christi. It all happened in 1974 the way it happened almost 2000 years ago, to those of the early church. I can't determine, however, but suspect that (as Luther said) there exists an authentic, hidden, true Christian church not the same as the above ground ones So, because Christ suffered + died He is able to be present in + as every suffering & dying creature, as well as leading them through the 3:5 door to their resurrection; It must be a door in time, the only way he could join with them (us) was to have lived through the stages + so laid down the template. Thus he saves each creature at the instant of greatest suffering; the fusion begins with that suffering + ends with joy + release. to discern - literally perceptually discern - the presence of Christ + the enactment of the passion, discloses not one thing but two: 1) Christ is real + Christ is resurrected + is here; + 2) the person who literally sees Christ has been taken over the "narrow bridge. To the far side, inasmuch for him the veil is lifted + the ledger closed So there is inner + outer synchronization: to see exter‐ nally is to have been received into the sacred world normally totally obscured by the mundane Faith is no longer necessary + the judge has ruled on the case all during his life the person was encountering his Lord countless times in countless ways (incidents represented very clearly in Buckman's encounter with the Black man at the gas station: the Paradigmni) 9 suddenly he understands. But it is too late now to rectify anything: the judge has ruled + the ledger is shut. That he did not know at the time at all the times - he comprehends the nature of The trial + testing, the winnowing process. It is now so clear, + previously he never guessed. He played out one of the several roles. Tormentor or the tormented? It's stressed, however, that in Xtianity, in contrast to Indian avatars, God descended + became man only once, at a particular, unique time + place. Therefore, to witness Christ purely, + not just the "reverbera tions" one would have to travel backward in time + spacially to that place: there are no plural avatars showing up in many, several, all or a few places to enlighten each country + age. The 1st Advent was unique, so, in order that it can be experienced, linear time (+ space, too) must be dissolved. This probably is accomplished through gene pool memory, or perhaps It's simply a miracle: God wills it. Actually, it's analogous to the regression along the form-axis I described in "Ubik." This axis leads back ultimately to its rock bottom stratum: the original time + place of Jesus. Which is to say, buried within all the variations + evolutions of any form lies the pristine + unadullerated original form, regression from which is impossible. As Joe Chip thinks, "the man contains not the boy but the former man. It's intereting in "Ubik" that I seemed to think That the genuine, ultimate form lay in the past, not the future. But re Christ, this is so. 30 I did see the form regressions as an entropic process which in the world of reality it would be. The interesting thing is that it points to a normal negentropic movement, forward in time - + yet we usually see entroy as lying ahead. 3115 Adobe drugs bank: 9852-75 938-1144 mutual 22018-68 450 410-222 bentit turns 8 2475-75 31 will Durant says that one of religions - any religions - prime functions is to explain evil, + to find for men some scheme in which they may accept it, if not with good cheer, then with peace of mind This is the task most religions have attempted to fulfill. Since the real proflem of life is not suffer but undeserved suffering..." etc. the usual Xtianity does not adequately do this. in fact this is where I think its greatest failure lies: in trying to explain undeserved suffering. But the Hindu explanation (punishment for deeds in a former life, +/or that suffering is illusory - this doesn't satisfy me: not only does the creature suffer, but he is told that it's because of something bad he did but does not remember. This would be an or explanation If it (karma) could be proved, but it can't What I see the most promise in is my extra‐ ordinary perceptual revelation - which I actually saw in '74 - is that when any creature is humiliated injured, killed, it is always Christ who is mocked + murdered The creator becomes Christ or Christ becomes the creatured. I (creature (Christ Christ takes the blow. In unusual (exheme?) cases The suffering creature actually experiences Xtian anamnesis + "remembers" who he is + how he fits in with the "passion play." As I did, he actually sees the world stripped down to the eternal acting out of the passion play. At this point in my exegesis my only viable 32 line of reasoning left open to me is this super‐ natural insight. Pinky was Christ because Pinky was mocked, humiliated, ricked + killed. Whether during this, he remembered his identity I do not know, but either way the facts are the same his becoming Christ due to + under those condi tion is the archetypal situation But why is suffering necessary at all? why is the rood to deification (transmutation into Christ) achieved in this terrible way? I turn, here to Plato's Timaeus + his concept of ananke. The good God does not have complete control of the universe; the universe is part growingly) cosmos with an irreducable chaos in the midst of it, at every level. All undeserved suffering comes from this purposeless disorder unable to compel ananke to not torment a given organism, the deity does the next best thing: he substitutes himself in a mysterious supernatural way for + with the doomed organism. to see or experience the literal real presence of the savior in the doomed sufferer is perhaps to have penetrated to the heart of Xtianity I wit nessed it myself; I know by divine revelation + since Christ can + does become all living creatures (since all suffer undeservedly + die) he, like Brahman, is ubiquitous (immanent) in the universe moving foward a final disclosure that the universe is only a form which God assumes, + that the ultimate 2 result of this so-to-speak self-inflicted (unknow‐ ingly) pain on its sentient parts is to restore to those parts their memories + hence true identities They awake, remember, know + rejoin the urgrund ("Tat Twam Asi"). So the unfair pressures of a unknowing causal - + casual - universe reawaken the one sleeping mind in its pluriforms + so it encounters itself. Who or what has inflicted undeserved pain or who or what? God as creator on God as son, + the 3rd member of the trinity the Holy Spirit, is the agent which effects this "Blitz" or catalyst of remembering. The jolt to remember lies in the very quality of the undeserved: puzzled + horrified by this undeservedness, the organism must search for + must find not just an answer but the answer. it becomes the sole key problem, + he knows that the key to everything lies in it. If he can grasp the meaning of this he will possess all meaning I did not work out my "divine substitution" view theoretically - or a priori - I saw it. Lived it through revelation from the deity. I saw that suffering (undeserved) could not be avoided (agean Timaeus), but I also saw the most beautifull + louching mystery of all: the bringing into being by This crushing process the Redeemer himself. If I forget or reject this revelation I will have exhaused all possibilities, I had only one revelation, + only by revelation does the answer come 34 no amount of a priori reasoning + empirical observation (sans revelation initiated by God) will do it, as barth or otto pointed out (v. Calvin) our reason is impaired; we cannot discern the answer: God must tear away the veil for us interestingly the E.B. says of this perception of Christ's presence "under the wrappings of degrada + misery" in one's fellow man that it is the great Xtian mystical miracle, the great understanding. it is not just an aspect of Xtianity: No! Christ is actually seen - seen as alive (risen) + here with us, invisibly so until now at this moment in which the veil of illusion is torn away + ontology replaces mere appearances. The viewer is restored to his good friend - + oh, the love: on Christ's part for us (shown by his doing this over + over again, eternally + ubiquitously), + our love for him, partly because we understand what he has done, + partly because now through anamnesis we remember what it was like when originally we had him with us. Before the temporary superation (because of his death) Another aspect. If at the ultimate moment of our pain we remember who we are - well, we (he) came back here voluntarily; we did, all of us, even though we had/ have forgotten. This makes more sense to me than saying we did something bad in a former life to deserve it. + the reason why we returned, knowing what our fate here would be? I appeal to the argumart of God's plan. It - our voluntary return - has to do with our knowledge of it + desire to act out meaningful roles in 36 it. Even though we had our long term (i.e. trans-incar‐ nation) memories blocked. We have tasks to perform; some vast entelechy is taking final shape. I say "we" but at the moment of anamnesis the "we" vanishes + only the "I" remains. The total "I" the deification of the mundane world: the holy manifesting itself in the trash of the gutter This is the Kingdom of God - + it becomes (perceives here. Then, too, I must remember the Fate-breaking power of Christ, the freeing from "the deterministic script." Here ananke would be regarded as necessity, even if Plato did not so construe it. certainly the Greeks were aware of destiny or fate via Babylonia. + for sure the graeco-Roman mystery religions - + Xtianity - were. (Moira) conrrrection with this I must bear in mind my decisive revelation about they are responsible for lower level decisions which can be overruled. aybe the solution is to conceive of two levels: the lower random + deterministic, the upper sentient Also, there is a sacred