undeserve suffering - all these stem from the part of God which is irrational. How‐ aver - St Sophia is the noos or rational part (i.e. Logos). fames-James was crazy + capricious. In a particular very specific way: childish, tuntrumish, with no frustration tolerance. The opposite of what the "AI voice I heard seemed to be like: it was totally reasonable one of the greatest errors I made was to assess a theo‐ phany as undication of immanent deity or even panpsychism. were that argument correct, there could be no revelation of a transcendent deity, as each theophany would be thus construed t I think of Bruno's notion of the divine mind behind the physical universe. What does "behind" signity? Within? Or the "ham sandwich" model (i.e. layers, as in an onion.) I now perceive The theophany as a kind of invasion of the inanimate by purre mind, with the result that the inanimate is transformed into a mallable animate "body" - not soma to psyche, how over, but much as spinoza regarded the universe as God extensive in space. But was just one limited part o 34 of the total physical reality animated - a localized trusion? No, I don't think so, inasmuch as the transformation of the perceived seemed to stem from a transformation in the perceiver (i.e. me - after all less saw nothing different) - so it was an attered t perception on my part (or a half-+-half, so that unless the perceiver changed, the empirical was not seen as alive) an equation between observer + observed: a homo‐ geneity of mutual interaction. I, being more animate, found myself in an animate world. Then the Godhead was as much in me as outside me - equally so. In fact, I + the world around me became a single continuum which Zebra animated In comparison with this animation I was in my equally normal state, virtually as dead as the reality around me The customary bipolarization of living perceiver + the external reality was abolished. + it was not a matter of lives plural but of the one (life) - that is terribly important to realize : the living I + the living external would were animated by the same mind. This is really the basis of the transmutation this theolepsy/theophany poured into me + the world as a single continuum. The organism-like quality - with me included - was palpable. +, since it was in me as well as outside me. I could hear its thoughts. Now as to its melting of the rigidly causal. Was it melting its own self? Or was it infusing what prior to the experience was not infused? I offer myself as Paradigm: I at least, was newly infused, so is it not likely that the external reality was newly infused? This points to a descended transcendent deity opering in what had formerly been a more "low level causal (i.e. mechan ical + blind) world. This points completely away from panpsychism + immanent deity, + toward "the light it came down from abon + shone into the dartless. 69 There was a tremendous "amping up" in me, which is all I can be positive of, but if my presumption of a common continuum is correct, the animating life seized we are al the reality around me + modulated it as well speaking here of a life form so exacted that to it I + objects presented no real distinction except perhaps one of degree. It brought a higher level of life to me + it brought life to the inert, the dead [things] so in effect we are speaking about the bestower of life per se; it can animate even stones. But it does not bestow an individual life to each thing; all things are intorwoven to form the vast universe -living-organism As always, I can't help thinking that what I under‐ went + perceived was the pristine, primordial state of man + the ain world before the Fall. Animate dropped to a low ebb which left us only partly alive + the universe dead. The vast animal sank into madness, + illness (vitiation) as well, much of that which animated it withdrawn. Thus it is said that with man the cosmos itself fell. Our fate is interwoven with it + its fate; also, man because something much more powerful (called lucifer + his host) fell. So renewed life must be restored to the total cosmos, + man as a part of that cosmos. no full, adequate appreciation of the disasterous magni tude of the fall can be entertained unless it is viewed as a fall (drop in potency) of the entelechy which comprises the entire creation. This is why, although we may object to the lack of justice involved, it is nonetheless factually true that at the primordial fall we all fell, even now So much later. Now and to this injured condition of the entelechy a continued malignant working of the evil one. Blow + counter blow coming faster + faster as Satans time runs out," as the E.B. puts it. The organism must heal itself: throw off the vitiating sickness which t struck it down at the beginning. Here, again, is the 61 theme of the crisis in the Godhead, the God + not-God, +, as cornford says the element of the irrational in the world soul. Part of the organism has ceased to respond to the organism's mind + has become - or remains - disorder (which egeals a kind of cancerous madness in which spurious evil realities, counterfects are interpolated for the real thing as being one my novels picture the universe it in which the true life- bestowing power has receded even more than we generally experience - but it is only (in such novels as "Stigmata" + "Ubik") a matter of degree. There is nothing in the writing which is not with us to some extent. "Stigmata" + "Ubik" need to be collated for the full message to appear: the evil creator of the counterfeit (Palmer Eldritch appears in "Stigma" + the heat-giving-life-giving bipolarization (Ubik) appears in "Ubik." But the collation seems to say, this, our world, is largely counterfeit with Ubik thrusting into it from "the i other side. in "Ubik" the normal theme of the world of the living invaded by the dead (as in Jim Pike: "the other side") is reversed; the living world (or forces) intrude on the dead (or virtually dead). Am I saying, then, that our world is not that of the living, real though it may seem to us, + the "other side" is not dead, uncaning as its intrusion, seem? What "Ubik" + "Eye" + "Maze" have in common is this reversal of the normal real-unreal bipolarization; I am saying "This here is the not-real one" which expresses the spurious interpolations by the evil one perfecing in "Stigmata" it is precisely rendered). Have I then hit on the ultimate secret truth - that despite its ) 6 seeming authenticity, our world, if there are counter‐ feit worlds + we are aware of this - our world is in point of fact one of the counterfeit ones. t + by what standard do we measure this why, by memory of a truly authentic world which we once inhabited (+ concerning which our memories are now blacked). I see no way by which we could determine the spurious without the real to compare it with - or even conceive of it being spurious (viz: spurious in relation to what?). However, there is another very obvious possibility: that only portions of our world are spurious, + the com‐ Parison is with the genuine portions. The counterfeit interpolations may be intricately added to Gestalts So as to deform (mar) them: thus a few deft touches at the appropriate times + places converts a palm free Garden into a prison - or is it the semblance of a rison? A cunning multi-layer trick is involved, here: I 1) top level: the world as mixture of good + bad 2) Below this, the Black Iron Prison 3) Below that, the Palm tree garden. The evil interpolations constitute a concealed enslaving reality, which is more real than level (, but more real than that is (3). The structure is clever: in the attempt to bypass the empirical world + reach reality one merely becomes hired in a different, but no more real delusions to stop at this point is to fall for the trick. Evil underlies the evident, but good underlies evil. Satan has anticipated the sophistication of rejecting ostensible reality in favor of the hidden absolute behind it." by a twist of awful cruelty, those who persist + penetrate below (1) find themselves stuck in something worse, not better. It is somewhat like an acid trip turned bad. interestingly, this structure resembles the "ham sandwich" model, with an isomorphism taking place if - + only if - the search goes all the way: if it stops one layer short (in (1) There is suffering, increased over (1), instead of the joy of (3) in which isomorphism - reunion at last - is re-established. So it is true to say, a normally invisible world of suffering underlies the surface reality we perceived, but it is more true to say, "underneath that lies joy," which fits one of my nitrous oxide revelations to halt at (2) is to have risen to the epistomo logical bait - + the bitterest irony is the knowledge (authentic) that one has "pierced through surface sensations to reality" - without ever grasping The notion that there could be more than one under lying reality (it is not an "A or not-A bifurca tion) I think I am a foremost example of someone who has been sophisticated enough to dismiss (1), but then I became ensnared by (2) + preached that. Only in "Tears" is there a penetration, at the end, to (3). the novel opens with world ➀, shifts to (2) for the bulk of the work, + then, from Buckman's dreamon to the end, esp the all night gas station scene (3) emerges. Not concealed ➁, + (2) concealed (3). Well in "Tears" I did what I set out to do: not just say what was unreal, but penetrate to, + explicate, true reality; + so I did in the scene of grief (tears) transfigured into love. The proof of the veracity of my vision of (3) is found in the secret of its paralled to Acts - which is the actual space-time world we are hi living in without the slightest awareness of it. The material in "Tears" paralleling Acts confirms my 2-74 anamnesis - but it is not restored memory of the linear past, but memory of the hidden authentic present (as in "I woke up The next morning, looked around me, + couldn't figure out where I was. Then I remembered") - i.e. not where I once had been, but where I was now Yes - I claim the Acts material in "Tears" verifies the anamnesis of 2-74 + 3-74; in the novel (1970) + in my life (1974) I penetrated to bedrock (i.e. the joyous, loving world of Christ, his place + times); + with this came the "St Sophia" prophecy, to complete the unveiling. All that remains veiled is the date of his return. But that is veiled even to him s still, I believe my experience shows that, even in This spurious, interpolated "time bubble" it can't be delayed much longer. reviewing the last few pages here, I think "boy is there cryptic messages in "Tears" all right - that it's really AD 70 Rome; our world is spurious; there are (s not levels of reality, + he (as wise old King) is either about to come back or has come back." So when I am citing all the messages in "Stigmata," "Ubik "Eye" + "Maze" let's not leave out the ultimate