(not unless there is electrical stimulation of certain brain centers). Fine. This brings us to Lem's paradigm of the brain being fed an entirely simulated world via technological (electrical, etc) stimulation of very folder 02 - 015 folder 02 - 015 selective brain sites (centers, tissue). Is there any way it can tell? Lem sees this as the paradigm my writing (e.g. "Ubik") presents, this is his formulation of my paradigm. Lem asserts, "the brain could only detect the simulatedness if the technology fucked up" - i.e. if there was the kind of incongruity that "Ubik" narrates, which I feel is better expressed in "Electric Ant" by the flock of ducks sort of anomaly. In connection with this I cite bishop Berkeley's view that world isn't substantial or there really, but that God (whatever that means) stimulates our percept-system directly. In my case the phosphene activity of 3-74 suggests the disinhibition + first-firing of up-to-then blocked neural circuits. Open this firing (probably triggered off by seeing the Golden Fish in 2-74) I saw Rome CAD 45 + became Thomas. Actually, I did not see a different world in the sense of world Y replacing world X; what I saw was world X as Y. A different aspect appeared to me, but it was a massively different aspect. + Thomas parallelled it inside me. Does this constitute evidence pointing to Lem's paradigm (really mine) as the actual situation we are in? Or bishop Berkeley's, which is a variation of it but basically the same? folder 02 - 016 To me the key clue is that this someone else who is not living in this century is in my head. Lots of people once lived in other centuries, +, later on, more will again - but in my head, in this century? As I pointed out supra, Thomas + I are somewhat but not entirely partitioned off from each other. + he is totally aware of me, my world, problems + situation (whereas until 3-74 I was not aware of him or his). I have designated him as the master personality + his world as the master (absolute) world. I claim his world (or aspect of world) is the real one + mine merely relative (myself as well). Let us reason contrarily, re Lem's + Berkeley's paradigm. I am stimulated to see USA 1974 + I am located in part X of my total brain. Thomas, located in part Y (probably the right hemisphere) is stimulated to experience world Y. This binary stimulation is simultaneous + constant, but got fused into one superimposed world + one personality temporarily in 3-74. What does this tell us, this explanation which views both me + Thomas - + our two discrete worlds - as equally real? (But emanating from or located in one head + brain). (+ syntonic with each other). It tells us that our world is simulated a la Lem's / Berkeley's paradigm. Mine is + Thomas' is: viz: one part of this brain is stimulated to experience as real world - or aspect - space-time - of world X, + another part Y. But X + Y are totally separate in both space + time. But, if the folder 02 - 017 folder 02 - 017 twin-track binary structure breaks down + the two superimpose (are both available to the two now-fused persons) they are syntonic, they do not compete but harmoniously blend. This suggests to me a recepticle of being that is omni-spacial + omni-temporal. It will "receive" or even project AD 45 as well as AD 1974, Rome (Syria) as well as California, USA. So in itself it is atemporal + aspacial - i.e. neither one. Something seems to be out there, but it is plastic - totally malleable, to any projection (read: brain-center stimulation). (By God knows who or what!) So to reject the absolute nature of Y (Rome CAD 45) + hold that we have here twin, real, equal, separate selves + worlds housed in +/or emanating from one brain sticks us with a cosmology, an epistemology, more bizarre than the absolute vs the mere aspect one. We wind up with the theoretical possibility of an unlimited number of equally real (or irreal) worlds + selves due entirely to brain-site stimulation or some such sophisticated technology - which is a more radical Weltansicht than even brahmanism, who can be in whatever form he wishes. Instead of a real hidden world vs fake seeming world we have more than one (2 to infinity) worlds all simulated uniformely , + selves to match. 2-74 + 3-74 then become a "technological break down" which "reveals the true state of affairs" + that seems folder 02 - 018 folder 02 - 018 to be the site-stimulated brain that Lem's perceiving is the basic model of my writing. My writing is proved by my 2-3/74 experience + vice versa. What I seem to be is a malconstructed entity: somehow the "factory" or "mechanism" fucked up + stuck two personalities in my head (brain) living in different worlds 1000s of miles apart 1000s of years apart - thus disclosing the nature of self + world in general. + I have written it all up in many stories + many novels - i.e. called world-wide attention to the paradigm at least as a fictional or -better yet- theoretical possibility. So I can choose the multiplex "all is stimulation + simulation" model, or I can choose the "fake world + memories hiding the real world + memories" model. But not both, +, as near as I can tell, there is no other choices but these two. Which shall I choose? I think there is an omni-faceted matrix which operates in a push-pull relationship with humans + can be any time, any place - any + all (but just me for/to each person). I happen to house two persons so I get two worlds which happen to be vastly disjunctive in space-time from each other (from which much can be deduced). Time + space, therefore, are shown to be totally illusory or anyhow not what we think. + Above all, this Q. arises: who/what is doing the site-stimulation, + why? Offhand I'd say I saw the entity: it is Zebra, but what is "Zebra"? A titanic brain of which we are folder 02 - 019 folder 02 - 019 mere cells? A titanic phagocyte? Is the total universe a living, thinking animal? Or is this some sort of teaching machine? You can posit brain-site stimulation via highly sophisticated technology. But who/what is using this technology, essentially to dupe us, + why? I will concede we are duped. The world(s) we see isn't/aren't real. All my writing cries out that theme (take e.g. "Stigmata"). But what is the purpose of misleading us? Placing us in a veil of magical Klingsor's castle + garden? Is it Satan? Is it God? Are we being victimized or are we being helped? Or put to functional use? My 3-74/2-75 ajna eye or dibba cakkhu experience suggests: 1) A benign entity 2) It is an animal which thinks or a brain which thinks; anyhow it is benign, alive + thinks 3) We are tiny cells or parts of it 4) It is evolving + growing 5) It may have an enemy (stress may - anyhow it progresses via a dialectic) 6) We evolve through growth stages with it or in it as replica micro bits; i.e. we are isomorphic to the totality 7) Of what I do not know I speak not. folder 02 - 020 folder 02 - 020 Conclusion: The vast traffic of information which I saw in 3-74 when I saw "Zebra" is the answer. We are in an information-processing entity - it may even be (living) information. It uses us to receive, modulate, store + transmit information. So it is computer-like - or AI-system-like, or brain-like. A cybernetics or biological model will both work. Basically it knows. World is - worlds are - push-pull projected/generated for us, by us, through us, so that we see world, not the entity as it is (supra parapraph). Why this is I have no idea - i.e. why we are given what we call "reality" (world) + don't know what we really are (supra), are for, where, why, what. Are we being given lessons, + tests which we pass, to ascend a scale of gnosis? I have no idea, butMy writing is right on. If I had to pick one opus I'd pick "Maze" + second "Ubik". - Voice: "Pretexts". I.e. what we see as (call) cause are just pretexts for the controlling entity to have the results he wants happen + appear to do so for a physical reason. folder 02 - 021 This is what I saw Zebra -as the real cause- doing. But I didn't understand until now that this is always so. So there is deliberate deception (by it vis-a-vis us). __ I have a choice between two totally wild conclusions: A) Either it's really Rome CAD 45, + the USA 1974 world is just a way of viewing Acts, a mere illusory aspect, through which the real world of Acts broke through in 3-74 or B) Our world (space + time) + all other worlds are simulations due to direct stimulation of certain brain sites, projected onto an aspacial, atemporal plastic matrix out there, by an entity unglimpsed. The historical involvement (tinkering) of 1974 suggests A. The sight of Zebra + the info traffic suggests B. As did the word "Pretext" last night. In B there is really no world, just a giant brain-like thing of which we're a small part or parts. If A, then the apocalypsis came in 1974. In both A + B, USA 1974 is considered irreal in some sense or another. B is implied by the sentence, "there is someone else in my head + he is not living in this century". Up to hearing this, I had gone with A, now I am forced, really for the first time, to consider B as likely or even more likely (than A). The "Pretexts" idea when explicated totally ratifies B. folder 02 - 022 folder 02 - 022 However, if my writing is introduced as evidence, A is favored. The Q is, Does Acts as world possess any claim to being absolute? A) The fact that the savior was last here at the time of Acts suggests Yes. If Acts is absolute, the return of the savior would glue the two advents into a single uninterrupted event with the between-time voided as an aspect or downright irreal. B) But the sentence "in my head + not living in this century" seems to imply that Acts just seemed real to me (even more real than USA 1974) because Thomas is locked into it, + Thomas is my master self. If Thomas were locked into 16th century Italy, I would have seen the renaissance. (But I saw the authentic early Xtians as unique in being transtemporal constants, i.e. immortal. Yes, well this points to B, not A. Their world, Acts, is only real because they are real + are locked into it. It acquires a kind of absoluteness or durability because of them. This is kind of an Abalard middle position: Acts as world acquires transtemporal qualities which makes it unique because it is the world of the truly absolute entities, the authentic apostolic Xtians who lived/live (sic!) there. As long as they exist, it will exist - + they are eternal (put more strongly + perhaps more accurately. It was/is the world of the first advent. I.e. the space-time of this the temporal world into which the upper eternal realm originally + uniquely (so far) irrupted. Put this way, the breaking through into our world of Acts might be construed as Christ himself breaking through which fits with my impression of the divine intervention in US history in 1974. The world of Acts, then =