we have novel (T), in which the real world is portreyed A b false world real world Good wise Transformation semi-ok to prison UbIk entity of false world te by good entity! t the larst p Garden world) into reality as end state) persecutors It's a complex message with no less than 5, distinct parts. Six if the "conspirators" as contra-(C) are included n➀ We are no longer dealing in brood cosmological outline only, but with specifics -A searingly important realization: the view (revelation) that a wise, benign, powerful true God from "outside" has invaded our spurious reality + is transforming it ontologically into the good + real - this is fundamental Gnostic view: the Bad or stupid demiurge constructed a "counterfeit" reality that "couldn't come to [full] life, + the real, distant "Stranger" God took pity re all this + entered this counter feit creation - as Christ - to begin his task of i transmuting (saving) this whole cosmos My writing is dead-on Gnosticism - to vaeu our world as spurious. My 3-74 experience added the further Gnostic gnosis of the penetration (ZEBRA) by the true God (what I saw as Zebra's modulating processes + his mimickry). In other words, my writing presents one Part of the Gnostic worldview, entering over into the com pleting of the vision by the 3-74 revelation. I deduced the first premise + then by divine revelation received confirmation of the completing part. The Gnostic reproach about our world is not just that it is but spurious: imperfect, as a mere copy of the true pleroma. evil I couldn't get any more Gnostic, once I saw Zebra as invading + mimicking as he modulates, if I tried. with the [vision of the] entranue into our spurious world of a transmuting benign deity (ZEBRA) my Gnostic cosmology is complete. But already, before my vision in 2or 3/74, I had written about it; I mean "Ubik." I need not get Zebra + his transubstantiating activity down on paper to I have succeeded in writing out the full picture. It's there in those 3 or 4 novels. The collective totality of the message in those 3 or 4 novels (Or5; if "Tears" is included) is absolutely + indubitably Gnosticism - which I knew nothing about, When I wrote them. 103 being Then I must stamp my 3-74 + on revelations as ore ut the salvific gnosis, + accept not only this fact, b the of importantly, that the revelations - + the totality we i messages in my writing, are the truth. Whether like it or not Jakob Boehme's single revelation of God colliding with nature + then transmuting it - that is the i or bottom line of it all. + out of this collision obstacle comes the divine agony; + so we, being like him, suffer, too, but don't know why. He would (as in "Ubik") like us to know. I just thought of something important which the above (ie. God vs mature) clarifies: the (DNA] programming which I was so aware of, when God lifted me up + out of it to safety. This programming, + astral determinism are the same, + it is against this, the natural powers, that God's grace + salvation are victors. In other words, my awareness in 3-74 of ➀ being to programmed to react in certain deterministic ways saving external disinhibiting stimuli, + my sense of God (8 me from this - my experience confirms Boehme! in if God were not pitted against nature. Then own effect in 3-74 he was overruling himself, his programming, which makes wo sense, In fact what I experienced is exactly what Boehme talks about: God colliding with nature an obstacle, + trasforming it. There is no possible way that my experience can be colloted with the generally-hell view (Vspinoza) of Godwaking through nature. (+ its programming. 109 This pits God against death, pain, sickness. injury, loss + decay. Whereas if one reasons that God works through nature, God becomes the s of all this evil ourse + to say that he lifted me out from the grip (i.e. prison) of nature, + freed me, mean s he freed me from the material universe (of matter - the lower triad) itself. I had been nothing but a robot, a machine (as I told sergeant kelly). God restored my lost freedom - hence all the inner + outer images of the Black Iron Prison, prisoners, + external (to the material universe) intervention we are talking about the Subhuman which does not know it is under an exterial control at all times. The concepl "salvation" means nothing it to because it does not realize that it, like the is totally enslaved (e.g. by the DNA) Salma Gnosticism must be turned to as correct now another novel of mine enters: "Clans." This is so a prison world, re my Metz speech about that, + God's historic intervention. He did not interveni th one individual (i.e. me) but for all men, on an historic scale, where I differed from others was not in being freed (since they were, too) but in seeing it. For some reason it was given to me to see to understand, + to remember the previous prison world as well as the change-process; other people are unaware /or have forgotten. 10 I It may be that the divine is re-entering not I s 3 entering our universe (viz to -=: this would I indicate a fallen state of our world, + the divine enters at the botton - i.e. in the trash, the lowly The discarded. Christ spoke of the tiny Mustard seed, + the gloss on the J. Bible spresses that the Kingdom will enter inconspicuously - very small: i.e. lowly. Where we would be least likely to look for it (cf "The stone rejected by the builder" This realization is very important. + this lowly, trash, bottom penetration it i exactly how I portrey it (Ubik) in "Ubik on match folders: in tawdry commercials t thereor lie the divine messages Entra from the "provinces" - Galitee - now takes the form of entry from trash in the gutter on up - a trashy (S-F] novel which contains trash (the chapter opening commercials) is the triomphant return of the rightful king. "Ubik" is trash containing an even lower orde of trash: the UBIK commercids - but which are in fact roy de. The entry of God into the material universe equals the manifestation of the Kingdom, since kingship of God is more precisely meant. Always we must turn to the Lord'; prayer: "May the will be done on Earth as in heaven" - i.e. brought or entering here t which logically implies a place or state (situation) here on when (where) it was not done. Earthy Do I rememeer the former (Black Iron Prison) world because I wrote about it so often - therefore revised memory for me woorld not suffice to conceal "ta etrack A"? 106 The Nixon imperial presidency which we experienced is An example of hysteresis, or the stubborn, obdurate nature of reality (the woven tapestry). At leas t One [prior] reweaving, to remove the "Rome CA" o to or Black Iron Prison" had taken prace, but the themes rewoven/erased resurfaced due to hystere 815 a in the Nixon gov, + so as an involved varind bey reweavn (v. Metz speech) I got to see an additional which included me. (Re Wiggens?) The crux (or key) which reveals the previous historic reweaving is the latter reweaving vis-a-vis the Nixon crowd. Our world is not an artifact, b of ut is rather a print out by an artifact - by a last AI system, which in its original weaving made an error which it is correcting. This reversion to the "what once was" is dealt with elliptically in "Ubik" as form reversion (which is associated in the novel with entropy). The Val 15 rewove at least once but history "reverted" in the form of Nixon, so more reweaving (in '74 this t ime rather than in the '30. or 140s) was necessary. It tay not yet be complete. By knowing the nature of the Nixon goverament we can deduce what was rewoven out (also v. "Tears"; t. 10 In the EB macro article on Christianity there is of section in which the fallen condition a man is depicted as a totally pervasive slavery +redemption as liberation - the acquiral of freedom "through Christ's fighting." The article relates this process to actual (physical or empirical) emancipation of humans as slaves in history, esp. in the 18th + 19th centuries. The section is too long to copy, but it absolutely iron dovetails with my vision of the now - gone black prison, + my own emancipation from what I or regarded (correctly or incorrectly) as engramming programming of a onA-like robot-creating determinn stic structure, all if which is a -or even the- main thread of both my 3-74 experience + this exegesis. Also the EB article expresses my own insight that it is both a personal (individual) freeing + an historical event of evolutionary nature. The freeing (liberation) is acheived by Christ himself as the Holy spirit, over bondage to the world (+ such as be its powers called astral or sublunar or fate - whatever - see colosians). see. The truly divine spark was not there I I in the person (in this case me) or was asleep - Christ either put it there in 3-74 or awakened it. Since the sight of the Golden Fish in 2-74 brought on anamnesis I would guess the spark was somehow there but dormant or asleep. Anyhow, the EB article makes clear the indubitably authentic Christian (conversion) nature of my 3-74 ich lag in todtesbanden. experience. Thus I see why, at some other place, the EB says of Christian salvation that it is a -estoration (of man's lost freedom." This spiritual + a as 06 Freedom cannot be separated (as Hegel showed) with the evolution of empirical freedom it is not a mere subjective experience or metaph or. God, in those first days of my experience I recognized myself for what I was: noth, n more than a [reflex] machine, which had not yet] attained humanhood. Most frightening of all is my recent realization that my [DNA or role/script model] programmng in called for me to physically die in 3-or 4-74! no wonder I was so scared. The trap which was is closing around me was the thralldom of dea ths (In sharp contract to Feb 76 when I could not k 11 myself no matter how hard I tried!) Although I do not believe man is sinful deserving God's wrath, I do believe that he is in "fallen" or debased - best expressed as ignorant + a deluded by spurious pseudo-realities + enslaved thereby + that he can't save himself - only Christ (or Vishnu, etc) can. I see the original error as inte‐ lectual: our divine ancestors mistook the phenomen of world as being real. Actually, it is a "hologram-like in projection by a teaching mochine - like AI system, which is in itself an artifact. We must learn (+ do, as part of learning; i.e. make the right choices); once we ave done this, the savior intervenes + frees us; but also, he assists us (through "Grace") borh in learning in making the right choices. Thus he is related in some way to the teaching machine, inas much vaids us in learning - as well as frees us si in 108 is the key. We are partly asleep, + are automatons sleep walking. The teaching is not hit or miss: it is carefully arranged from our births on. We live many lifetimes, before salvation sets in; it sets In when we have reached the point where ➀ we despair the most, + (2) are in a position to make a decisive act (cf Zoroastrianism). We must choose + choose rightly