2000 years ago, + the transmutation, like an alchemical one, began. (+ there were prefigurings of the Logos even before Jesus.) The yang principle is literally bombarding us with light (information). Meanwhile its [micro] polyforms appear - are born - as "cuckoo eggs" inserted into the indiginous "nests" (wombs). The awareness of sorrow is the first step in the encountering of God, as is laughter. Both are transmuted into an awesome silence, at the epiphany, as the divine other manifests itself: can be discerned. Parmenides says Form II is night, dense + heavy. It certainly sounds like the BIP, + Hussey himself equated it with yin, + Form I with yang. I did not derive my belief that Form II is not real from reading Parmenides; I've put the notion of its counterfeitness in my writing for decades. Odd, that he + I would agree on this, if he was wrong; it does not seem evident that that form which is heavy + dense would be irreal, if either form is. The "E. of Ph." on Parmenides points out that it is the phenomenal world which he is denying reality to. + it is precisely that world which my writing dismisses as irreal, we are both acosmic. So when I had that set vs ground discrimination I was seeing Form I (set) "pull apart" from Form II, ground. Light vs night. + set could [think] it was sentient + purposeful. Form II was not + could not. Form I was alive. Normally it blends in with Form II - so half the world is alive (i.e. God). In "Ubik" the decaying world they are in is not real - it is Form II. Runciter + the UBIK messages - + UBIK - itself - are Form I + are real, the 2 forms have pulled apart. So, if "Ubik" is to be believed, the very part of the (this, our) world which you would least expect to be Form I (real + divine + thinking) is - trash + commercials, etc i.e. the lowest stratum of our world: no wonder Richard saw pre Socratic cosmology (i.e. Empedocles) in "Ubik" Empedocles is close to Parmenides, with his 2 primal forces. I think, though, Parmenides is close to it. Plato allowed some (eikoi) reality to Form II, but of a lesser, incised, merely passive nature which only receives forms (which alone are truly real). It is a twolevel hierarchy for him. Upon consideration, why would I or Parmenides or anyone wish to deny the reality of the phenomenal world? It goes hand in hand with the intuition that another reality - this one truly real - lies behind the apparent one. In my 2½ decade of writing I could not discern the contours of that hidden true reality - this only took place successfully in 2-74, + not through my acuity but "done to me." So to speak [..] What did it consists of, this revealed, hidden world? Was the proximity in space + time to me (to us) of the First Advent. This was the moment in human history (the only one) in which the supralunar penetrated the sublunar (to use Aristotle's terms); if Aristotle was right, the two realms normally do not interact. What the time of the 1st Advent consisted of (esp the period of Acts) was a doorway, via the spirit, into the next or other or heavenly world. If, while alive, a human were to see that other world it would be through the doorway opened up at that time; hence, the manifestation of that space-time continuum of our world equals the sole entry-point into the next, via Christ as the Spirit, living persons could cross over + back - not permanently as they do upon death. Thus Paul could correctly say, "tod, wo ist dein stachel? Hölle, wo is dein Sieg?" So the quest in showing that Form II (the phenomenal world) is a forgery is just a step in unveiling what truly is real: Form I. Perhaps Form I is the supralunar, + Form II the sublunar. Maybe not. In any case the power of Form II, the yin or BIP world, is broken. This abolition opens the door or gate to the real world, which is lumunous + light filled + colors + geometric shapes + beauty + alive + loving + totally wise. In no sense is the BIP alive, but Zebra is. If redefining Form II as irreal automatically redefines the phenomenal world as irreal - a forgery - then Form II must constitute a hell of a major part of our phenomenal world. In fact it must equal or virtually equal the phenomenal world. Well, how much of what I saw turned out to be ground rather that set? The answer is there. Set appeared merely as an invader of ground's world: only an entity modulating it very slightly. We are in a yin world - + by "yin" read Form II, so indeed to withdraw assent to Form II would constitute a de facto dismissal of world qua world - hopefully giving us a glimpse behind it. Ah, but the true reality is not behind it but rather incised onto it. What lies behind (if these terms have any meaning) is the BIP: i.e. "behind" equals the innermost nature of the yin world, its "heart," if heart it had. To see the BIP is to see into the ultimate depths of the world (the yin world) + amounts to a disclosure, a revelation about the nature of the world. But it is still the world, the yin world, Form II, + hence, in the final analysis, an appressive delusion - pain inflicting but nonetheless a forgery. In no way am I saying the pain it can afflict is not a true affliction (as the "E of Ph" points out, the Hindu demonstration that suffering is "an illusion" has no significance as an argument, since we labor under the absolute compulsion to believe in + experience that suffering). However, what we can extract from these insights is that the yin world of oppression + suffering stems from the yin side of the Godhead having exceeded its proper authority (limit). It is out of balance, creating + then destroying without a coherent plan. It [was] the Logos specifically which brings / brought that plan to the (yin) world. Everything is turned around; yin as YHWH bellows + curses + rants; whereas the true [Abba] the authentic yang part, is gentle - + its voice is mild + small + reasonable; it does not threaten or rant. This voice seems almost feminine. That which is truly all-powerful (cf Zen) has no need to threaten or intimidate. This is a "hall of mirrors" - the true creator is nice + gentle + loving; the ursurper bellows. ("the arrogant one who does not know there is a loving father above him/her") Here, again, we are presented with a puzzle + a lesson: Q: "Which is the real creator, the 'still small voice' or the booming, threatening one who can curse the land with plagues + blights - i.e. has Mekkis?" The coercive or the reasonable - persuasive? "Come, let us reason together." God, the loving father wishes us to discern this along our path of enlightenment - not to worship power but to trust wisdom + love. In a coherent theology, one must manage to understand how Form II, oppressive + unreal, a phony creator, gets utilized by Abba, Form I, yang, set, the genuine creator for an overall good purpose. VALIS may be accomplishing several things. 1) A riddle is presented to the human: powerful evil is in control, + oppresses at random? How can this be? There are several responses available to the given human a) He can worship (collude with) it because of its power, + accept on faith that it is for a good end. b) He can denounce it as cruel + unfair, + look elsewhere for a morally fit object of worship. c) He can decide that all is random without purpose. d) the course which appeals to me: he can view the cruel + oppressive yin world (BIP) as something to be overcome with God's help, while recognizing the yin world as a provisional, temporary framework to be transformed by the intruding authentic creator, the deus absconditus. This leads the human to the dynamic idea of reality as process, + a dialectical one, "blow + counterblow" with a kind of lag on the part of the yin world. The key lies not in what the yin world is, but what it is not. Ultimately, after perhaps virtually a lifetime of searching + seeking, the Aima reaches the amazing conclusion that it is not merely in certain respects that Form II (yin) is not (this aspect or that aspect, etc) But that in its entirety it is not: it is a mere foil allowed to exist as an external-to-God standpoint, a formal counterthesis by which to introduce chance + hence the growth to completion of the copy of the Godhead: the universe. In fact, the yin world (Form II) is a plastic matrix for Abba to recontour - as I saw him doing. It is essential to understand that as while Form II (yin) has the first word, yang (Form I) has the final say. Suppose it were the other way around - good beginning + bad end? Not right. Thus evil moves first. + good moves last. 2) The yin world is an opaque barrier between the macroform + microform of Abba. In facing this barrier the human puzzles as to how it got there + what it conceals. Will he - not knowing he is a microform of the Godhead - try to get past it? He does not know what he will find. It turns out to be a reunification with himself + a recollection of this divine identity. But the major share of this momentum toward reunification stems from the macrocosm at the top level, for there there is correct knowledge of power (knowledge of the true situation + true identity; therefore, it is said that God finds man, rather than man finding God. In any case once the parts are reunited this distinction is meaningless. Since, upon merging, the man resumes his Godship (i.e. has entered the kingship of God at last). 3) The yin world is a problem that God has posed for himself, a "testing - self-testing of his powers, + as the "I Ching" puts it. Can he, reduced to the lowest level of the (yin) world, robbed of his identity + memory, "come to himself"? Or can he split himself, the vast unitary urgrund, into pieces by such a self-imposed barrier? It is a challenge to God as well as to man. What is he, when stripped of his power, wisdom, awareness of true identity? What will he do under these totally debasing contexts? i.e. can the Godhead destroy itself? The answer is NO, + this is the grand point of it all" God reasserts his nature even in such circumstances. So even God cannot extintuish God, therefore nothing can extinguish him. If he cannot annihilate himself, what can? ---------- At the First Advent there was just one Christ: Jesus. But in Acts, when the Holy Spirit came over all the disciples, there were Christs plural. The BIP can't find + destroy them all. The life form "Christ" (micro form of God) has proliferated. There is just no way the BIP can do what it did to Jesus to them all, since the spirit goes "where it wills." It can take over anyone. + through this, it can gain a secret control of human history, + determine its outcome. Even the persons themselves don't know at least for a while. They do not even guess. ---------- "Yin: the immutable world of cause + effect" ("Secret of the Golden Flower") Exactly