the religion of complete spirituality: Christianity. The progression thus proceeds from man immersed in nature + functioning only at the level of sensual animal consciousness, to man becoming conscious of himself in his individuality a distinct from nature, + beyond that to a grand awareness in which the opposition of individ rality + nature is overcome in the realization of the absolute spirit." like for me in 3-74; I saw Zebra outside, + also experienced it inside me as well. + the evolution Hegel gives in evactly the direction I already knew through my revelation that the progression toward greater human freedom is taking us. ( Again what I saw (i.e. was revealed) agrees with Hegel, + also I saw this progression happening by the very same dialectic process Hegel posits Ath: the final state (supra) would be tat tvam ast realizing the identity of Atman within + Brahman with out I have a strong feeling that the Spirit active in history is the same one that was (+ maybe still is) active in biological evolution. In a very literal sense, evolution has passed ove from the area of biological evolution to the evolution of man within his social context - i.e. human history. (This theory isn't original with me.) Human morphology stays the same but new + different kind of men arise over the milennia of human history. In having seen Zebra I was given a chance to see the teleological entity which directed the evolution up from the uncellilar organism of pre cambrian times to the human of the mustarian age. I have a feeling that a new type equal to the magnitude + importance + novelty of the protestant is right now beginning (cf my vancouver speech). He will be much more inner directed, not susceptible to contral + manipula tion by ideology, official doctrine + view, rhetoric or slogans, etc. just as in the protestant the "inward light" enabled protestants to sense moral right, perhaps now the "inward light" will give each man an inner self-determined intuition as to what is factually true, versus what is false, under these circumstances, not only is the pope, bishop + priest not necessary, but even the last inter mediary between man + God, the sacred texts of the Bible. The Holy Spirit which dictated the Bible will speak directly, inwardly to men. Perhaps even an actual verbal colloquy between ordin just speculating. ary individual (man) men + God will take place. But I am viewed this way, my 3-74 experience was possibly a "mutant like" leap forward : opening the unused eye or some such thing. What I experienced in 3-74 was sentient teleological historic + biological pressine to change (forward). Eventually I fell back, but not until the historic pressure, experienced as absolute necessity + my role in I had passed (with evident successe). ( If indeed the entity I saw (Zebra) has previously been respon sible for the biological evolution of life, + now operates on the historical area, then it can be said to be our creator to have made us, + to still be (re) making us. Perhaps the competition between organisms + species which I have never been able to accept as good is an example of the dialectic interaction which Hegel "the good refines saw in history - thesis + antithesis. The bad, + the bad the good." (cf Empedocles: stride us love). But to see how there was, on me, acted an urgency such as has pressed all life forward from cambrian times a perhaps the condition I was in (in 3-74) is more important than the actual content of any act I performed while in that conditon - it was what I knew, as well as what I did - what I did grew out of what I knew, + what I knew grew out of what I had become. The 3 (what I did, knew, had become, + by "knew" also read "perceived) can't be separateed; they blend into one another. I had to become what I became to know + perceive what I knew + perceived + all these were necessary for me to do what I did, which was the final step : it completed the event/process. This is a wholly different way of looking at it, rather than the purely religious - There is a religious element in it (Zebra, + the awe I felt in perceiving Zebra). But great natural, biological processes are stressed too. This is how life advances. The underpining was divine, but many mundane processes were also involved - only the cause, so to speak, was divine, not the events themselves. Viewed This way (more inclusively) I see that I experienced a greater piece of how the universe works + what it is than I have up to now, limited to a purely religious explanation, realized. 1) how biological evolution works 2) how history works 3) The goal of history 4) how God acts 5) What God is like 6) What in human terms God wishes to achieve ) The organic living nature of the universe (8 one question arises, now that I have stopped limiting my inquing into purely theological areas. Does the evolutionary process seize on you + use you + then simply discard you (i.e. the "gene pool" or whatever)? I mean, is the individual sacrificed in this dialectic process (or game board war)? This question always arises when the "life force" as shaw called it comes under scruting (cf James stephens' poem "nature"). I am sure that in my case at least I can show that the "life force" (Zebra outside me + in me) acted for - among other reasons such as biological-evolutionary + historical - evolutionary - to save me as an individual. In fact, it seems evident, + a very inportant point, that my evolutionary leap forward up to a new level of being hence knowing + perceiving hence doing was a response on my part to danger (or at the very least distress + threat) + that what was set offin me (however done, by whatever mechanics achieved) was a superior defense system of which I had previously been unaware. It is like a bird that had never used its wings until one day its nest caught fire. This is a view in which my biological evolutionary achievement is stressed, + external aid is ignored; it views it as intrinsic mechanisms + does not focus on the divine entity (God) who supplied me with that mechanism - in this view I am taking all the credit, as if the bird imagined that by some daring ingenuity he grew the wings. But the wings were given him, + not only that, also the stimulation (suggestion, etc) of how to use them. "You have this mechanism it is now urgently needed, + here is how you use it - here is what Ht's for - here is what you do with it" - so speaks the voice of God. Not only did he originally equip me with this escape (defensive) mechanism, but when the time came to use it he 1) told me it was time; he disinhibited the untried mechanism; 2) he also told me exactly how to exercise this hither to unsuspected mechanism (faculty): 3) He saw to it that it worked successfully (or that I worked it successfully. 4 In short, nothing was left to chance; he did not slep with (1) providing it; (2) telling me that the great danger was here at last, (2) He brought the mechanism on; he virtually worked it for me - so to speak took hold of my never-used wings + flipped them successfully, in doing all this he made me aware of him as well I was conscious - not just of having evolutionary powers never before suspected because never before needed - but that he was guiding me. + in addition to all this he showed me that my experience was part of a vast historic (which I now see means evolutionary) process + finally he showed me the is goal of that process (human freedom). What there conceivable that was not done fo me beyond any doubt my welfare was it stake, both as an individual + as a participant (member) in an historic human group whose victory was necessary to evolution acted out i history. We (our group) had to win; I as part of it had to win. My trouble (danger) I assess now was the danger besetting us as an historic group: the wave of the future, the "next stage of man; to be grandiose my fight was not merely an individual fight. But I don't think it was the tax thing; I think it was me as "ungeliebte autor," as not-liked author (of the I Ching: "If a person travels with two others there will be suspicion; i.e. fellow traveler - suspicion on the part of the us authorities). As dissident intellectual/political person. I do not take that part, or rather the whole pattern (as they saw it) seriously enough; of Kathy's statement of why the police were suspicious of me, which would cover why they hit my house. I know perfectly well who was after me + (generally speaking) why. I (at this point) see myself as getting in trouble (8 in the first place because of my my "next step" identity (unknown to me); this identity - self generated values - first got me into trouble + then, due to Zebra's help, the full (defensive in this instance new faculties came into play. The "next step" human is, in addition well lets say, it was my inner ability to hear directs free God what was true about our society (i.e. it was a slave society) that caused me to write what I wrote, which got me into trouble, but that same divine voice extricited me by activating inhib iled faculties for defensive purposes. God did not enter at the moment I was attacked; God blessed me with new facultues from the start, which accounts for my writing. He would not - did not - abandor or sacrifice me - on the contrary the faculty which in an attenuated unconscious form penetrated to the truth about our world, about realitie 4 (my 25 year preoccuration) emerged to consciousness in 3-74 due to the danger + penetrated to the truth of that situation, too, as a part of reality. Perhaps we are talking about the same faculty. But most of all, we are talking about the "still small + oice" which my ancestor Elijate heard, + which I heard again ( once more the vernal equinsa, + the birth date of Christ approaches. The more cenderstanding I acquire about the experience of 3-74 the more amazed I am. There are not even claims of experiences such as mine, when one realizes what I found myself able to see + understand. Jesus himself said But I saw the "process that "no man has seen God." deity of history, modulating processes + inhabiting things how could this have been? what occurs to me now is that I know as certainly as I know anything -can know anything inferentially - that the objects + events around me are being arranged by him into new unities, that although I can no longer consciously read it, his language (word) fill, the universe: the vast single organism with all its subcolonies of monads sig nalling with colored lights back + forth into total harmony I could say why me? or I could say why no one else! I guess This revelation is not new - if Hegel + Leibnitz + whitehead + Spinoza + Plato are superimposed; it all can be found in the montage. I don't know how much they saw + how much they inferred. What I saw came by way of revelation which is to say, unaided, by my own effort. I could