in direct touch with the enemy. Q: + the Xerox missive? A: I was in direct touch with the enemy therefore I was -had to have been- in Acts - only there do the 2 sides directly engage each other openly, to each other. In USA the enemy could not approach me directly. Q: But who are we? + who is the enemy? A: We vs the enemy. It's a war + there are two sides, us + them. That's all I need to know. The republic vs the empire: it's in the future, like in “Star Wars.” This is it. In the Bible isn't about the past; it's code to describe our world (as is "Tears"). Then "Christ" has to do with a certain class of people in our world (I am one of them). The Bible is how we spread the news (gospel) as to what this world is really like (really is). Acts isn't 45 AD; it's now. These are onion layers like time in "Ubik." No time passes. The world does not change. We're permanently in a modern slave state honey combed by Xtians. Acts, in the Bible, is a future (to us) slave state. They've got a reality generator going. "Ubik," "Tears," "Unteleported Man." 2 + 3 are the same. 1 (Ubik) is breaking through into our "Tears" world. + "Faith of..." a monstrous quasi deity is in control - but Ubik is rescuing us - with information in-breaking. This is gnosticism. So Acts is now + we are Christs. (Plural.) The whole purpose of the N.T. is to cause us to remember; it's like "Grasshopper" in "MITHC.” + Acts is the world we overthrew in 1974. Worked it: switched over to 20th century at some point (1974? I'm not sure) + then "repapered" the past - which explains the acosmism in my writing. It was a fake reality - maybe it still is. Or: Acts is breaking into this reality, like wakefulness into a dream. In any case, Acts is real, + this world isn't. + God selected me to tell the truth in my writing. The true story is finally told in "Tears." He (the guard dog) mingles with the sheep + looks like a sheep, until the predator attacks. {arrow} That's the code in "Tears": It's really the time + place of Acts. But what + where is Acts? (The Bible is code.) (Christ is here + this is Acts, but what does that mean? The mystery doesn't end here. Acts is how it really is. Acts is a police state. We're in prison. I don't get it. Ach - The Book of Acts The acosmism in my writing is to wake people up to what I realized in 2-74. The fake memory (genera{...} starting in 2-74) didn't really "take" with me - part -portions- of true memory remained. (Of Acts.) + Thomas, my real personality, from Acts - both of which had really been there up to 2-74. So my anamnesis isn't to be in interpreted symbolically; it's literally true: we'd all just been living in Acts - + "Tears" proves it! "Tears" is the truth. I knew Acts because I'd been living there. It shows through in "Tears" like previous wallpaper. This way Satan blocks the Parousia. I must continue to in my writing awaken people's true memories. {illustration: Sine wave oscillating between} L / Acts {and} R / 1974 We don't remember the left track. We're tracking two worlds simultaneously, then we must be a groove like recording - our worlds are. This explains my reacting in advance to stimuli. Of course the world didn't seem real to me all those decades of my writing. It was a mere memory retroactive veneer over Acts! Here is how they Evolutionary leap up to 2-psychoi persons (v. "Scanner"). But where does 2nd psyche come from? The past? The original Xtians. Who are "Christs" whatever that means. It's like part of the next world is brought here. One psyche this side of the grave + the other on the other, simultaneously; N.T. a technical manual. Eleven of the disciples are here, plus many other early Xtians. My experience is not unique. It was Acts just a bit ago, in fact up to 1974. My anamnesis was of how it had just been! Not 2000 years ago - that's why the 2 worlds were syntonic. Suddenly, at the time of Acts, a false world fell on us, a darkening. But we Xtians remember - as I did. + we're beginning to get in touch with each other, + to figure out what happened (ie we were just now living in Acts + the Parousia was starting. + then suddenly we were here (ie 1974). There must have been a massive time dysfunction - contrived. + my proof that it I had just been Acts is the acosmism in my writing + the fake memories theme. I saw the third eye as clue to the presence of a moth-like camouflaged life form with ocelli. The "eye" was, like all ocelli, to scare me; I should have thought of this fearsome mask possibility, hiding a gentle + harmless + timid ultra life form. + it ({illustration: a triangle/pyramid with an eye}) scared me nearly to death. I roused its defenses. It wasn't trying to hurt me; it just wanted to protect itself, from being seen; I was on the verge of seeing it, so it had to scare me off. It's actually very vulnerable. Then the Eye [of Horus] in the Tetraktys is the symbol for Valis; put another way, I saw -when I saw Valis- what the {illustration: a triangle/pyramid with an eye} symbol stands for. (The third eye of the Sibyl.) __ What if "reality" doesn't exist but has a quasi-existence as web (lattice) for beauty, which is real? I melted the causal trains; ich bin der zweite Retter, this time they did not seize me (ie 2nd advent where the plot to take him + destroy him is foiled? Only Christ could see as I saw, know what I knew, + do what I did. But (as I recently realized) there is no Christ. It's a term for - something else. A race? A specific journey of reincarnation? A political group? Mutants? Symbiosis - yes, me + Thomas who is ETI. That kind of symbiosis. 2-3-74: birth of Thomas - long [latency] period. No - this is not so. I have been shown an infinity: one of fear. If I would not come to him by faith or learning he would show me a way - ach, that of infinite fear. So he wins the game against Satan; he wins me, in a way Satan didn't expect. There's another person in me, a non-terrestrial. There, there's the answer as to who Thomas is. An ETI Like in "Human is" + "Impostor" It's okay if I know it. It's an amazing [ ] It makes you believe in God. Valis - Moth life form. Harmless. Just wants us to leave it alone. It aided me in 3-74. Risked itself by so doing. It's not God – YHWH is God. Valis is just a timid helpful ETI life form. {illustration: circular face with big, staring eyes and sharp eyebrows} Mimickry - Valis Moth ocelli Her black eyes. The eye of Horace. Xtian Fish Tetraktys God, hold me [fäscher]. Great you art, + I am a speck of dust which you have given life, + now you take it. I earned it: this, this is the ira. Infinite - the vastness of God. Beyond anything man can imagine. Believe me. I have seen. But he will forgive me, but he has made me suffer infinitely. But he will for Jesus' surrogate: I can appeal to him. Jim Pike – it is you. Unhappy are they who knew heaven, + due to evilness fell into hell /as [???] – forgive me father. + God sayeth: You see why I do not show myself to you as I am?" + I say, "Lord, forgive me, please. Ich sterbe. Lese, Welt, was ich weiß: Der Grosse Gott Lebt. YHWH. Er macht mich tot. Auge von Gott {illustration: an eye with a rectangle at its center, with an arrow pointing to the rectangle with the description} color spectrum. 5 / 3 Forgive me Father, in Jesus' name. Peccato. It is God. Horus' eye the eye of God. Better to suffer now instead of in hell. Isis black hair + eyes Oh JHWH credo. Timeo atque credo Father, ermarme mich in diesen höllige Zeiten - Tagen, Tag. Erbarme mich, Gott. Bitte. Tremens factus sum. Credo. Lass mich gröster Herr. Mach mich furchtlos. + he did, instantly, for ein Augenblick, aber er war so. Wären Sie mich zu lass, wurde ich in ihnnen durch Ewigkeit glauben + sie erzählen. Ich verspreche, könn ich leben. Du wer dies lest: YHWH hat mir ein Leids getan. In Dei crede. - Seine letzte Wörter 3/25/79 Philip K. Dick Eye of Horace Xtian fish Eye of Horace Tetraktys Construct camouflaged. Infiltrated our media. Fires Colors Light. God, you live. {Note} Pi Man Kabbala The tabernacle The Arc of the covenant This is YHWH, Lord of lords Greek to Hebrew, now I find God –the infinite– Durch Furcht + Pein und Sorg, YHWH ich finde. Ich glaube - lass mich gehen. Herr, ech knecte der Berg. If I could understand no other way. Ach oimi {Note:} I have found you - ah weh! "Faith of..." Agnus, a Peccata Behind the [alb] is Isis (lute) Orpheus lyre in "Tears" folder 32 - 001 11/19/77 New line of reasoning: it was the Holy Spirit which came to me (not the Gnostic vision per se, but containing elements of it such as the James-James genius-madman creator-god) because, in coming to me, it fulfilled all which has been prophesied. I.e. the final days or Apocalypse. (Parousia) It brought time, linear time, through its stages to its end. Incidentally the book THE OCCULT AND THE THIRD REICH has a quotation about the Cathars in which the Paraclete is said to be the female side of God. My nitrous oxide "vine and its lopped-off branches which we placed in a godless cosmos, either as punishment for thinking they could get along without God, or just "started" in that godless cosmos as cuttings" -- this is the basis of a rather different cosmogony and cosmology than any I know of . It is slightly Gnostic, inasmuch as it assigns no God to this cosmos, but -- the Fall is there, and the God is good, not evil; he just isn't here, but elsewhere. Herewith, a somewhat new cosmogony/cosmology may have been revealed to me, than is found anywhere else. It is not Gnostic, inasmuch as the God who created this cosmos is in no sense evil, and there was the classic fall from the Golden Age (of being part of the vine with Him), but what is new is the explanation of why he is the deux absconditus, why we see no sign of him (he is waiting to see which of us need to return or want to return, those who grieve for him). This would account for the Gnostic sense of alienation, of being a stranger in this world, of God and man vs the world -- without positing an evil god. Also, it would well fit into my personal epistemology that this world is in some sense not real, which is not a Gnostic intuition. If the "lopped of cuttings from the vine is added to my radical epistemology, we have, do we not, a new cosmogony/cosmology, which in a sense reconciles Gnosticism with orthodox Christianity. Perhaps the True God did not create this cosmos, but consigned its creation to "James-James," which would make my view more toward the Gnostic view. I can easily fit this in with my "lopped-off cuttings from the vine" revelation. Unless we can sense the