+ our palm tree world, the kingdom of God. The "70 AD" landscape, then, is not a landscape but the landscape, located at the start of the final apocalyptic battle which has in a sense always been taking place, involving all or many of us, reaching its climax (payoff) in '74 (1974), at which time I personally entered consciously to do what I was supposed to do, although previously unconsciously I had been a warrior on the side of the light, which had always been the true issue involved in what I had been doing, inc. my writing. (2) Only by resorting to the Zoroastrian/Manician [should be: Manichean] view can I grasp the fact that world temporal power had been usurped by the dark force at some earlier time (the Black Iron Prison) + we had been sent here, engaged in overthrowing it - secret + revolutionary Xtianity but also Zoroastrian "sons of light" as the Essene scrolls reveal. Zebra's role in this must never be ignored, as he/it/she is our divine commander + king (+ [upholder?]), invisible to all but us as he/she/it modulates events toward victory + to prepare the way for his resumption of his rightful place as king. He, rather than the now deposed (or partially deposed) dark power. The colors which I saw, such as the phosphene graphics, show him to be the lord of light shining in the darkness (but "not comprehended" by the darkness, which is to say, not perceived as being there at all). Thus the most accurate single word description of the absolute (BIP) landscape I saw was: armageddon. The scene of the final great battle, + "Thomas" was the authentic pre (or [from?]) 1928 on personality sent here to fight in that battle. (Which we won.) What I saw in 3- to 8-74 as Zebra is a [will?] once incarnate: "St. Sophia" etc. or better yet, since 8-74 "the buddha is in the park" i.e. Zebra is now re-incarnated - the spirit of justice, the savior, Zoroaster. Ahura Mazd created Earth as battlefield between himself + Ahriman, 9000 years in all. At start, Ahriman perverted the original human couple - Ahriman held supremacy for 3000 years. Then Ormazd obtained supremacy for the final 3000 years. Saviors have accompanied these epochal changes. We have just (1974) seen the changing from equality between the two to a slight - + growing - edge for Ormazd. (3) In Christian eschatological terms, my BIP "AD 70" experience, as - even as - anamnesis must be viewed as a revelation of an ancient landscape. But: in Zoroastrian terms this battlefield - which is what it is/was [-] can be viewed as perpetually - always - there, behind the veil; so I say, Zoroastrian eschatology makes it possible for me to comprehend how that landscape can be somehow under or within 1974 now, it being timeless (which only to a very slight extent is the Christian, although of it one cannot say it is not). Jayne 663-8306 Neil Christianson 526-6541 (home) 870-2718 (library) 309 4128 200 Pack bathroom stuff empty cat box leave keys at Jeter's 800-648-4100 Discovery of anti-matter universe throws entirely new light on VALIS. People, and cars + everything. Explanation to follow. Key: transfer of information (first geometric/ math graphics, then cosmological model, written info, medical, engineering, in hierarchical order) so: My knowledge of Greek: transferred information, as from computer to computer, brain to brain. In fact, an entire mind ("Thomas") was transferred, but (1) by whom + (2) from where + (3) who? (4) The Pantocrator judges the world. But first, before the dies irae occurs, Elijah is sent here to change the world, to make it acceptable before the judgment comes. Thus Elijah not only comes (first) but also changes the world into something that will be judged favorably - so that not a curse - God's curse - but God's approbation, will later occur. This does not mean that at the "Elijah stage" the world will be made perfect (i.e. the kingdom established); he will merely make it good enough - tilt the scales a la Ma'at's weighing. So at the time in which Elijah returns + does his work there will be crucial but not complete transformation; he, + what he achieves, is (only) the necessary forerunner. + it is said "he will come with the sun with healing in its wings" - it will be a sort of healing - but if one wishes to appraise the sort of changes Elijah would tend to make, consider what he did vis-a-vis king Ahab. In Malachi it's stated that "on that day" (when God acts) * "the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in his wings, + you shall break loose like calves released from the stall. On the day that I act, you shall trample down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet, says the Lord of Hosts... Look, I will send you the prophet Elijah before (sic) the great + terrible day of the Lord comes ...lest I come + put the land under a ban to destroy it." This is not the Parousia (track C); this (the above underlined) would be the events of 1974. USA. Portugal. Greece. Spain. * Is this not a description of what I/we underwent in 3-74 + after on? In most exegete when the "rock not cut by human hands" (+ [flame?]) is discussed, Elijah is left out. Elijah is a sort of precursor of the king - his agent or embassador, so to speak. Could it be he (God to Christ to Elijah) who [hurls?] it? Chain of command? (5) I traded minds with an anti-CP Soviet national (that was the plan). But instead of my going there, as he came here, I experienced a post mortem experience - didn't go there, as he came here. He was anti-Party. The plan: he displaced me, but - I went "beyond," not to the USSR. Hence the xerox letter - but he was unreliable - he saw his chance. His taking me over killed me - I therefore had "beyond the grave" experiences. I was displaced - ousted (into the next dimension/world[)]. I didn't just "leave" my body - I was forced out - displaced (temporarily). By a Soviet national who was a secret Xtian + a double agent who betrayed them - he hated them + didn't do what he was supposed to. NO - my reaction in Feb. to the gold fish shows I was (had been) the ancient Xtian - awakened to fight the Soviet national intrusion. My ancient Xtian self won out. 3 selves: (1) ordinary 1974 me; (2) my underlying apostalic Christian self - [eternal?]; (3) the Soviet thought transfer. God made (in Feb.) a prior move to their [March?] move - + won. I was a microcosm for the struggle between God + the dark counterplayer (Xtianity vs CP). (6) I am really in error when I talk about distinguishing, experiencing or recalling 3 worlds; there are 4: 1) The Black Iron Prison (Rome (USSR) fascist USA) 2) This our normal world. 3) The Garden world. 4) the experience of 2) under the "revealed guise in which Zebra or the Logos was [slew?], inc. the set/ground separation into mundane vs holy; e.g. the "illuminated letter" (color) passage in TEARS. What does this signify? Our world (2) is woven - by Zebra. It is not normally seen for what it is - a 3-D web by Zebra in which Zebra is (i.e. Zebra is not outside or above it but rather is concealed within it[).] Ah! The worm metamorphoses into the butterfly; that's what I saw: the old "worm" corpus of Zebra is being rewoven into the moth or butterfly transformed final state. This is the cacoon stage - these are not analogies! This is what I saw that I correctly sensed as a reweaving. It was not reweaving a construct by it, but its own physical body (self) - reweaving itself; this metamorphosis we see as the sum total of all change, which means: we see as the category (processes) we call time. Thus Paul correctly - + significantly - says, "The universe is in birth pains." Something is being born; I refer back to saying, what we see is the embryo stage of a living entelech, but I add more precisely, it is not just growing + developing, but undergoing what we know of as (in the strict sense) as insect metamorphosis. What is important about this distinction (between mere growth vs metamorphosis) is that in such a metamorphosis, 1) constituents are fitted in newly to perform functions they did not before; 2) some parts are discarded, + the changeprocess exerted on the parts remolded may be subjectively experienced by them - not as growth - but as pressure, as pain - loss, stressful alteration. (7) I'd almost say that what I saw was a "cannibalizing." I've got it now, though this pinning down what I saw as as form of what we see in insect metamophosis. [Jesu?]! + to think I got the concept of Zebra from a book about insect mimicry! Is Zebra insect-like in other ways than this metamorphosis? Two insect qualities: camouflage mimicing, + morphological metamorphosis - the breaking down of the old to produce the new eidos! (Morphe). + "St. Sophia's" voice: neutral, dispassionate, neither male nor female. How much of our universe is involved? Just this planet? Not "the cosmos is -" nor "the universe is -" but perhaps this is just a world phenomenon (entity). No - I guess it to be trans-planetary. Very large. (A bit like the transsystem entity which was Palmer Eldritch.) The pulsing plasmic laser light color: its blood, so to speak. I must turn here to the Logos doctrine. It is not human but also not mechanical nor artificial - it is dispassionate insect-like - a benign one. It is not pure energy; it has a physical body (in so far as anything is material or physical). This explains what Xtianity cannot: pain + suffering; this is all part of its grand metamorphosis process. It thinks, + its thoughts have the force of will, to affect - "warp" - the outcome of physical causal processes. Deus absconditus - ich sah es. Look at the positive - negentropic - value which change, all change, acquires from this "metamorphosis" discovery! Heraclitus was right: change is real, all right. But there is a theos, as Parmenides realized, an it which changes. (8) Now to connect the Black Iron Prison world + the Garden world to the metamorphosis: the former is what it was; our world is the continually advancing state of the process going on; the Garden world the tranquil outcome - the end state headed toward. Basically my speech (Metz) is correct but not radical enough: The Black Iron Prison is the corpus of the great it as it was; our world is the process metamorphosis interim, of an insect like camouflage, mimicking organism. It was this whose "still small voice" spoke to Elijah. This breakthrough realization unifies all my themes: 1) What is reality really? Not what it appears. 2) There are "androids" or "the mantic" among us which appear human but only simulate humans. The key linking 1) + 2) is: simulate. Here is where I went wrong: the simulation is 1) not evil (as I thought) + it is not less than what it simulates (as I thought) but more: not clever simulacra-reflex machines, but angelic, + not a human here + there but our entire reality (or nearly - it does cast out - reject - parts of what it was + not incorporate them.[)] As I said correctly in my UK speech, its mask fooled me: I was onto it, all right, when I wrote my UK speech. Behind Palmer Eldritch's cold cruel mask lies the visage of a totally harmless + virtually defenseless