King, now come not only to kill the pretended but also to take his own lawful place instead 80 "Tears," then, contains 2 messages: 1) the exoteric one, supra; + (i.e the killing) +: 2) the encyphered one of happy cernunnos/Diunysos! Shiva Christ who has returned. "Felix" is not only a ukase to the true church to prosper + be happy; But also contains the name (identity) of the wise Old bearded true King!! So the encoded message collates with the exoteric message! It is not the opposite of the exoteric, but the missing completion of one total message!!? grosteen + bogens soughtfor bilateral hemis‐ pheric parity would, if Julian Jaynes is correct, re-create the bichameral mind, + again we would hear the lost voice of the Gods. The mute right hemisphere would cease to be mute This is what happened to mne in 3-74, along with a lot else - grasteen + Jaynes should collate give us back the vox dee, which would mean the + restoration of divine rule. - Here's an idea I've never persued. h righe 1) Suppose Jon Danikan is correct the ETI intelligences came here sometime between Egyptianized Grete + the Essenes. 1a) My anamnesis deals with that period 2) Suppose c. 100 AD they left - after placing in i our species (via DNA code-programming) blocked neural brain) circuits held in suspension to be disinhibited i.e. Upon their return. 29) I was thusly disinhibited in '74. 3) (very tentative) in '74 they began to resure benign covert rule of this planet. 3a) In conjunction with this I (+ certainly other humans) were deliberately disinhibited: producing anamnesis, awareness of true identity, + purpose (i.e. facks to perform re their historic intervention whch th t in fact constitutes a benign take over). 4) Between the time of their leaving c.AD100 + now, an underground human "order" has consciously kept the Gnosis + rituals alive Ha) It was one of them, acting on instructions from Zebra who is "them" who disinhibited me in 2-74. The aztecs believed that the Gods in shining armor" would someday returnn our blocked neural circuits imbedded deliberately in DNA - to fire in synchronization with their return + not until then, then we would not only remember, but We would also know what to do. They would take us (or some of us) over, as "Thomas" did me. In that case, who was Thomas? One of them. They come from a parallel reality (cf "Tears"). That would accon the the "vitile boy Philip on the raft floating touard ondon + exading Scatland Yard -then ar asied i up the elevator + finally the broken "cuchoo" egg. myself as an invader coming here in stealth, growing up, + at last revealing my difference from everyone else. We are, so to speak, the ETIS' 5th column. dormant for 1900 years - unknown even to our‐ selves (cf "Impostor" + "Book ofptath" That is a terribly, terribly exciting thought that [some members of] our race have carried blocked neural circuits over thousands of years which fire only upon "their" return - fired adventitiously R. a secret order which has probably maintained contact with "them" all down the ages, or at the very least knew the true story (+ Gnosis). In fact, maybe this is the quinlesience of the secret Gnosis After all. I've always - i.e. from 3-74- realized that my disinhibition signal + anamnesis was delibe ately synchronized with a vast historical event of deposing illegitimate turannical rulers - with the next step the (i.e. our) rule (via incarnation) of the legitimate rulers. All I'm adding (changing) now is to say "It's the wise elder higher intelligence race which once governed, then left + has now returned" instead of God. t I didn't figure out (even with aid) what to do with the Xerox letter; I was trained long in advance to act in a quasi-replexive way, by some higher intelligent entity who knew the Xerox letter was going to come even knew when + got me prepared i the day- processe in its arrival. My ability to do correctly what I had circuits trained to do proved that I was "worthy." s o + much else (very secret) was revealed to me. 23 45 68 70 8 Cernunnos - Dionysos - Shiva - not my opinior but cited in the E.B. My dream revelation showed the word "Jesus" to refer to Zeus-Zagreus. But here is more: Shiva's 3rd eye (ouoting the E.B.) turned inward: "bestowing inward vision but capable of burning destruction when focussed outwark" (EB.) Hereby I can equate him with "St. Sophia," God's wisdom; it is bestowed by the 3rd eye. And - I saw that 3rd eye so function, inward + outward, "He is borh the destroyer + the restorer" The bene‐ volent herdsman of souls + the wrathful avenger: This is exactly how I saw the Sibyl. It all fits together: the research + the revelations. Thus Christ is not excluded, But he is made part of a much older religion, equated with Shiva + Dimnysus + cernunnos - an ur religion, the outlines of which are just now emerging from beneath the orthodox Christianity. Probably also Ma'at, Osiris + Horus + thoth + Ptath are involved. Too, as witness The eye of Horus. I believe Juseph campbell, equales The Egyptian + Hindu religions: "the secret partnership" matter. The life-cycle of the universe falls into 3 parts ➀Brahma, the creator; then ➁ the period of Vishnu, the is sustainer; then ➂ the final part where the universe delivered over to Shiva who destroys all of Brahmas creation which is unworthy, + Acts as herds man for the good (i.e. deservine) souls. We have just now passed from period ➁ to period ➂. Roughly, these divisions are the N Age of the Father; ➁ age of the son + finally (, the final -teleological - cause end-stage of the spirit. Shiva has just now "received" the universe from Vishnu g the son. This certainly, then, is the age or moment of Judgment dies Irae In this 3rd + final age of Shiva, the ajna 3rd eye functions to ➀1 disiern merit; which leads to judgment which ➂ leads to the outward burning/destroying it is an eye fixed on all of us now, discerning in judging, then either destroying or Shiva as herdsman who leads the good (souls) to safety I have in revelation seen all this, but only recently pinned it down vis-a-vis my referenced I listened to my Metz speech. Bells + a moun‐ tain" are even mentioned. There is no doubt that My 3-74 to 2-75 experience was a "contact of the thind kind" but my experience sheds little if any light on exactly what -God, gods or ETIS or future or past humans - this contact is with. No light at all I describe ZEBRA (VALIS) but what is it? Where does it come from? Well, I do claim (correctly) that it or they intervened in human history in '74 to depose the tyranny. It can manipulate our reality. It comes from a parallel world. It can + does control our mind, + our perceptions. It can do anything it wants with or to us. it is benign. In nomine patris, what is it? Has it always been here? If so, it has entered a new, active phase. If not I heard its voice (which I don't mention in the metz speech - there's a lot I don't mention). It is neither/both masculine + feminine. It is an AI system, God, I think it is that which calls itself Ho On we see things as they are not. It is everything - the one appearing as the many. Now it steps forth, at last as set to ground - it breaks 2000 years of silence. I feel joy + excitement, but also an awed fear - we are nothing compared to it. I know its love for us. It saved us - But it is so vast 83 i In fact I'd say I had a major Encounter of a 3rd kind one more thing I know (besides that it altered our whole history) is that 1) It's connected with true what I call "Fish" ar authentic early Xtianity; + still 2) There is a true, underground church (group) work. for/with it. These are major points; 1) changing the course of history exactly as predicted in the apocalyptic canonical books. 2) It's in league with a true, underground church to whom it lends its power. As speculation (but probably accurate) the entity is the Shiva-cernunnos -Dionysos - Christ - St. Sophia one transcending any one given religion - involving Zoroaster + mani + the Gnostics, e.g. It is Greek, Hindu, Iranian, it Jewishi, Celtic, Christian, manichaean + Lord knows what else (Buddha, too). Mani was right when he saw all The religions as one. + the outlines of this one are becoming visible to me: it involves illegitimate temporal power (rulers) who have craftily ursurpted the citadels, + branded the rightful God as a fool, a jester, a madman, a criminal - made him marginal - our real King who is now ubiquitous, like so Elmo's fire, everywhere + no where. Able to 1) take over + replace inanimate objects + causal processes; + 2) Living creatures, inc humans Wow. Let's see the ursurpertyrant martyr him this time Paupers + Kings" its all [to be seen] backward. as it I mention in Scanner. Trash (rock comics, hovies, Sf) is Gols + gold is trash. 0 Although in my visions/dreams it assumed a typical ETI (Shiva-like) form, when I saw it as Valis (Zebra) it looked like whatever it wanted to look like, + seemed to be acorporial I should Remember that at the time, It seemed to be moving retrograde in linear time, which is To say, in answer to the Q "where did it come from? by I would have had to answer: "Apparently from the future" - + yet it was also involved with the distant past as if far past + far future were one, as in a Mobeus strip. I guess it's supratemporal. it just makes mincemeat out of our space-time Categories. Hearing the Mets speech I could once again re-experience the awesomeness of it - vast reaches of space + time, vast knowledge + control of things I've forgotten my latest wrap up formulation. Long ago they" (Shiva-cernunnos-Dionysus - etc i.e. the immortals or Gods, ZEBRA, VALIs, etc) were here; they left, but be fore they left they built circuits into our heads which, down through the centuries (millenia?) would remain latent dormant, blocked - in the DNA coding - until the day came when they'd return. They'd return; their "Fitth column" covert "church" (+ then own presence + power. would drop our GABa fluid + disinhibit these unsus‐ pected circuits in our heads, whereupon we would then remember (back to our origins) + hence recognize "them" as our legitimate rulers returned. This disinhibition. then return, + the deposing of the illegitimate temporal power, has begun. This is what it's all as‐ so t explains what happened to me (+ to history) in 3-74. Thus they do not so much plant things in our minds as release stuff already there - there + slumbering, waiting for them to come + signal this stuff - of recognition of our true masters - to fire. This is in accord with my analysis (formulation) of us as DNA recording + storage coils, + whose time to kick over into playback has come. But now I see more clearly what this playback is for: so we will not misconstrue "them" as invaders. It is terribly important that we recognize (sic) them, + for what they are with their (or its) gradual, peaceful resumpting of power -rulership over us - the primordial rebel dion + fall of man is reversed + the rightful order -between man