a concept which does not accout for this element that cornford calls "the dark domain of the irrational powers" (P 210). Also, Plato's cosmology in Timaeus, as cornford interprets it (probably correctly) coincides exactly with what I experienced in 3-74 " except I add him who had not yet come in Plato's time: the savior, who is the penetration of Holy wisdom (noös) into the microcosm. not only does the omnipotent creator God of the Jews + Christians not fit observable facts, it also does not fit my revelation. Plato's cosmology does. (+ real in mind: Plato censured anaxagoras for believing the Noos "set the world spinning" + then lost interest in it - a criticism I would agree with.) if I am to be true to what I see both normally + by revelation, I must accept Timaeus, adding to it the descent to the sublunar world of divine wisdom (or divine reason), + perhaps herewith rest. The world as living, evolving organism. Yes, I saw that (in 3-74). But its psyche partially irrational? + the demiurge (divine reason) "persuades" -i.e. subdues - it into order? 2 Then the demiurge (divine noos) lies outside the Tuche universe. So "world soul" = my "artifact," + "Demiurge" = urgrund. The demiurge or urgrund or "divine reason is not the creator of the world, but bemiurge (gruat merely finds its + subdues by per I suasion its irrationality (which in Plato is ananke: chance, the not world torates soul rational). What does this imply I that the world soul is either irrational world (world or "part of it is irrational"? t tuche human foresight, purpose motive, + tuche, unforeseen non-human agencies - irruptions into the course of nature divide the field betwee them" free "A view of the universe in which this irruption of human agency is tacitly assumed is... illogical if it denies the possibility of similar irruptions into the course of nature by nonshuman agencies" - cornford. agreement between thucydides + Plato It is this disorder (chaos) of ananke which shows up in my books (e.g. "Ubik") as entropy. cornford says, "it's always present being overruled by divine reason (order). So it is not just the decay ou form; it is an element of the irrational: a destroyer of Eidos, as I depicted in "Maze"! I cornford specifically uses the term "overrule" by divine order over ananke - the world disclosed to me. persuade - overrule - cornford). Reason overrules ananke. What a fantastic cosmology: the universe is a living animal whose soul (psyche?) is either [dr?] timal or has an element of the [dr?] in it- identified with disney and casual change horkings- and divine [dr?] is over [dr?] (a resuadia or subduing) it as best it can but it (divine [dr?]) lacks the power to compell Consantly changing, like all living, animals so this [dr?] is always unrelying-as a constant-not [dr?] to [dr?] but "under" it. It is possile to say that the universe- organism is insane or partly insane? and doesnt this fit in perfectly witht the gnostic revelation? This dis[?] (irrational or party so) organism has been penetrated by [divine] reason, which can't compel but must persuade - I intuit: through it's omniscence (sophia). It outsmarts the partly damaged organism. this timaeus cosmology perfectly fits my "James-James" dream! Natural processes aren't just blind - they're nuts, and must be interfered with. I was right! Zebra is extrinsic to this world - and hence camouflages its presence here! In 3-74 divine reason overrule the [dr?] in me; this perfectly explains what happened. My chance response to the xerox missive was overruled - and I felt if being overruled! I experienced divine [dr?] The artifact may not be the creator of the world, But relates to it as psyche to some: Ie mind and body of a living creature: artifact psyche, world soma; but ([vicornture?]) the psyche (world soul) is irrational. You ask "How does reason persuade, overrule [ak] Ananke?" I can tell you: I, peronally, experienced it. Meanwhile, as Tuche, it was (Noos) irrupting into history (C and thucydides) Plato would have been amazed to learn that 400 years after his death, divine Noos (reason) was born -- incarnate-- as the man Jesus-- and that it's going to haooen again, at which time divine reason will acheive total order and absolutely subdue the disorder (chaos) of the [partly] irrational world soul (who we may know as the creator of this world)... Finally, for the first time, the component of disorder will be eliminated-- IE the world soul healed (made sane). 1) The "mad" God Dionysus probably is Sane and 2) The irrational world soul (Psyche of our animal universe) may be hallucinating, in his madness, thus creating spurious, irreall worlds; this brings in the theme of my uniting: the [irrational world] soul [merely] imagines some parts of our world. Hence my sense of it not being real. The "Joined" random messages + information (as in "Ubik") are the visible + audible thoughts of Divine reason ( the invader (doctor) into this partly irrational universe - organism or cybernetics like circuit. The organism, in contrast does not think. Zebra (Christ So divine wisdom - reason, the Demiurge - cloes not create: it does what I saw it doing: arranging (joining) what's already there into a "good" pattern (outcome). Beyond any Doubt this divine arranger (organizer of what was disorder) is Plato's demiurge or divine reason. An artificer certainly, then, in this sense it is true that God's basic M.O. is to bring good out of evil the disordered, irrational, chance process is secretly + sublly rearranged, joined, to produce the best possible - note: possible - outcome that is the whole secret of what noos is doing with this world. Its material which it works best with is that which is random: trash barely thresholding in our world. the irrational world soul is the ranting God of the O.T., whom we need not worship as he has been replaced by Noos (Logos, wisdom Christ). I have come to the reluctant conclusion that YHWH (the O.T. God) is the irrational world soul - the irrational ananke part - + that Christ represents (is) view Divine reason, which conforms to Gnosticism. YHWH is not fully rational, but very powerful. He is capricious + erratic - not constant. ("James-James" Therefore I remain a Christian, but a totally Platonistic Christian, with all Jewish elements rejected. YHWH, as Runcimen says in his book about the manic. eans "the creator God. But the wrong God to worship," to worship him is to worship a terribly powerful erratic power which must be subdued by divine reason (Noos or Sophia; Noos displays the quality of Sophia - wisdom). Hence Christ says, "our ancestors at manna in the wilderness + they are all dead. I bring you the breas of eternal life." I.e. what YHWH gives does not bestow immortality, in contrast to what Christ offers. The Father: Abba, to whom Jesus refers, is not YHWH, the world soul, but the Demiurge, the divine artisan. Christ has been sent here to rectify what YHWH has done, who is out of contral. But YHWH triumphs for, already, 2000 more years. Still, the "mustard seed" of divine Noos has been planted here in stealth where YHWH can't see it. This is a dreadful conclusion to come to but, based on prof. Cornford's analysis of "Timaeus" it appears to be the logical conclusion, esp. if the Gnostic revelation, which I had, is experienced as the eye opening "blitz" the contest is between Sophia + caprice, + YHWH represents caprice - the blind + random which Noos arranges into cosmos (order out of disorder). We must not listen to YHWH's raving threats - he is this which I saw e We humans have a blocking agent preventing us from receiving - i.e. seeing - Zebra) informational constructs. It isn't that we just don't - we could but don't. It's not a mere failure; it's a block. - re the black iron prison us the polm Garden world a mere shit of meetin ) P.G.W. say 10 70 of pattern Bil Matrix (very slight but skill ti -if ful accentuations + suppressions) produces degrees These "alternate universes -these manipulations of [perception of reality, + the uncanny intrusions + the "trash" messages all appear in "Ubik" - + their source is given: Ubik itself, but it isn't clear what Ubik is, except that it is 1) negentropic, 2) sentient, 3) immortal, + Y) in control. If it is true (supra) that a blocking agent preverts us from a normal perception + reception of these messages then in "Ubik" an unoccluded state is presented - which may be actually our true normal state, somehow lost in the distant past - laid on us by a malign agency, which "They (Zebra) is/are now removing. Zebra is Ubik "Ubik" (+ to a lesser - the perceptual alterations in Oh, + esp in “Pot Healer" 1 extent in "Joint," "3 Stigmata," "Maze") are precisely what "they" (Zebra, the ufo entities) are (capable of) pro ducing in us - e.g. in me, in 3-74. Reality is treated as a neutral plastic receptacle of projected image, which they can control by controlling us + our percept systere I think I've been under Ubik's control for decades all the way back to "impostor" N but in "Ubik" I really did it (also in "Tears" The black Iron prison world, etc). ich weiss wer es ist. Es ist der retter. Der Erloser. Ex 1st zuruch. bekenntnis: confessing of belief. Gestalt bekenntnis: acknowledgement of form, by us - as it is present to us; we receive My published writing bears on all this. Actually, in one respect "Tears" is the most important, because in it is a portrayed the world Ubik/Zebra is or has saved us from extricated us from. The B.I. Prison world is the one is which we're blocked off from the messages (in "Ubik" which are from Ubik). what about Tagomi in the park with the piece of + silver jewelry? Slight shift, + he is in or world. Like Jakob - Bohme seeing the sunlight on the pewter dish in "Ubik" something (or someone) is initiating contact with them from the other side by uncannily intruding in a one-way fashion into the "trash" level of their world not in lofty (i.e. spiritual) ways. It is even bombarding them, +, despite the ultimately sacred nature of it (of Ubik) It continually (up until the very end) presents itself in cheap + debased ways - may I say absurd ways, as in the ads? then there is the form-reversion axis, never before on all + human history imagined or described in "Stigmata" the intruder is evil; in "Ubik" benign; in Maze" it's themselves. if "lated is correct - that they" are not Etis + in issence they are manipulating our perception of reality - Then my novels + stories are important because they deal with reality as a plastic multfaced matrix viewable from plural standpoints (all the way back to Eye"). unless we grasp this we will not be able to header what is being done to us. t i So now I say, there was a reason they intervened in my particular life: because my writing is of value vis-a-vit 9 then efforts to remove our occlusion, + emancipate us. It would seem from what Valise says that they are principally concerned with "softening" our brittle (sense of reality. latter considers the possibility that the experience is induced by microwave radiation + by "pulsating colored lights. Gee- that's what I saw: pulsating colored lights for a certainty, +, by inference, microwave energy I learly identify the written messages I saw in 3-74 with the Ubik messages in "Ubik. But I possess a secret nowhere discussed: they" know of latent (inhibited) meta circuits in our brains, slumbering in anticipation of this time, + there circuit) they deliberately disinhibit. From this