know the message (meaning) of "Tears" nor whom it was for, although I suppose it was written by Thomas. The fight by the early Xtians, possessed by Christ as the Holy Spirit, is supratemporal - it (+ they) always are, [..] when Christ says, "Before Abraham was, I am." Then not only is the BIP Template Frozen (uncharging) but so is the God-possessed opposition to it - maybe not frozen but outside time: absolute. The whole war is trans or supra temporal as long as the template of the BIP exists, so does the original band of disciples who opposed it - they travel as eternal verities down the DNA gene pool line. Then Thomas is the ur-personality underlying PKD, not imposed on PKD, but disinhibited (disclosed), PKD was not imposed in 1974 but was retroactively imposed back years or decades or to the Beginning. Thomas had already once lived this life, + then it was repeated - only with PKD this time; this is why I knew the exact date the XEROX Letter would come: Thomas had been deliberately adventitiously revived by the Girl with the Golden Fish Sign, for an obvious reason: that this time the Xerox Missive would be correctly dealt with. I actually got to live my life twice. This accounts for the precog material in my writings + (e.g.) why I knew I'd meet Tessa, "Tears" faked someone or some group out. Since Thomas wrote it - I think it depicts a previous track (see Metz speech), one in which Form II had total control here (which is probably who gave me the idea for MITHC). But it must be understood that the ur-level at [..] Thomas operated / operates is "further down" in the sense of "within" as put forth in "Ubik" - so much so that it taps the original forms + space-time the combatants took (i.e. Xtians vs Rome). These are not previous but within, a hierachy of ontology is involved. With each encounter adding less + less. Plato's theory of forms or archetypes, is involved, as I mention in "Ubik." (e.g. "the man contains - not the child - but the former man," Thomas is that former man but not former in a linear sense - rather in some accretional way. (Like a radar screen sweeping out over + over again [..] years: [Diagram: comparing human1 and human2, vertical in years 0,25,50,75.. connecting horizontally across time lines] It can be real horizontally as well as vertically, in terms of movie forms, the progression can be projected along either axis. We normally construe the vertical axis as the only real one. But in "Ubik" I [prefer] another axis, the horizontal form axis. This is what caught Patrice's attention, this presentation of an orthononal axis never before glimpsed. But palpably a spin off of Plato's theory of the existence of - reality-of-the-forms). If Plato was correct, such an orthogonal axis should exist. I possess the living, experiential knowledge of the reality of this orthogonal axis, + hence proof of Plato's theory, although when I wrote "Ubik" I hadn't experienced it. But Thomas had. [Diagram: ☯Good I/Evil II → Artifact → Our Reality ← ☯Good I/Evil II] Here is a modified, more precise model. The urgrund contains the Yang-Yin complementary bipolarities within it. It wishes to separate its opposites, + does this by projecting the artifact, the creator of our reality (world); this is YHWH. This is what Mani + the Gnostics correctly saw 1) about the nature of the creator; [..] the nature of our world. They also saw the salvific stranger God "outwitting the archons" + penetrating our "copy of a copy" world to extricate us. According to this model the Good (Form I) which we experience is a sort of invader, unable to coerce or complete the Frozen BIP template. But on the other hand, the Good (Form I) is real in a sense that Form II - which is a copy of a copy) is not. Thus we can call the template projected ceaselessly by the artifact dead or counterfeit, + Form I (ZEBRA) the authentic (Good, Form I), + thus agrees with Parmenides. To repeat: Form I, which represents not only God or Christ or St. Sophia, is found at the outskirts or trash or bottom level of this world, as far from the imperial Omphalos of power as possible. This would adequately account for the way Jesus appeared at the First Advent. But the Second Advent (actually the remaining section of the First) will consist of a direct + successful attack on the inner fortress of imperial power itself..But, put another way, this has always already happened if we are to accept the formulation of Parmenides in denying actuality to Form II + calling it only seeming (i.e. Dokos: veil of counterfeit). There is something spurious about it, however real it may seem. It is a copy of a copy, whereas Form I is, in contrast, authentic, my set ground experience bears this out. Set was alive; ground was mere sacred in a sense, time as devoured Form II; it died somewhere along the line + leaves only an imprint of an empty shape. It is a hologram, but Form I is not a hologram or mere projected image. So the making is only partially right; or a sense our universe is a hologram, but ZEBRA (Form I, noös) is not. But ZEBRA is not part of our universe; it is an invader into it - which was my great insight 15 months ago. Authentic reality has breached through into our world - which signifies that the end times have come (maybe long ago) but the irreal, the hologram, effaces it from our perception. The true great revelation (Gnosis) is precisely this: that ZEBRA (Form I, the urgrund) has come already. Invisibly since I saw ZEBRA outside me, it cannot be the Holy Spirit. It is God (or Christ). The book which Doris has on the Gospel of John: "they will no longer see Christ externally, but he will indwell within them as the Holy Spirit." But ZEBRA was both in me + visible externally. Ergo, it is not the Holy Spirit. Ergo, the urgrund has irrupted into our mock world [..] battle with Form II the BIP template. The "St Sophia" revelation may be the decisive clue to whether ZEBRA is Christ or God. Christ incarnates: God does not. Could be the "Cosmic Christ." ---------- I just realize: my "ajna eyed" humanoids fit in with Robert Anton Wilson's notion about Sirius (with Earth the Heart Chokra + Sirius the ajna chokra.) Coincidence? + we were in touch at roughly the same time, with them. 2 points of overlap. ---------- The artifactual side of the urgrund is decidedly yinwish: inevitable cause - + - effects, + enslaving + cruel, the set, then, ZEBRA [..] yangs [Diagram: ☯Yang,FormI/Yin,Sophia,FormII → Artifact(Creator),BIP → Our Universe ← ☯Yang,FormI/Yin,Sophia,FormII ] The Artifact is unaware that it is an [..] (yaltabeoth). It is the "Jealous God" of the O.T. Furthest from the urgrund, the immutable iron prison of coertion The artifact was slain by the urgrund in 70 AD, + transmits a Frozen signal also all real time stopped when it died so this is really 70 AD now, not AD 1978. The yang side of the urgrund enters our "copy of a copy" universe at its lowest "trash" stratum. The true God is present at the extremities of the totality, + not at the center, where a "blackhole" tugs everything close to it into it, a template of force + coersion. The very lowest is identical (isomorphic) with the very higher in our universe we do not get nearer to God but to the dead, mechanical template projected by the artifact. This is a cosmology consisting of two sources: [Diagram: Artifact BIP → Our Universe,BIP ← urgrund PTG] Our universe is a melding of the BIP (ground) + PTG (set), + [..] do not distinguish these two signals. Our universe is half real (set, urgrund penetration) + alive, + half dead + irreal (ground. From the artifact). The predominant power in "the copy of a copy" - our universe - is the BIP yin artifactual. The yang part of the urgrund seeks to establish balance (Palintropos + palintonos harmonics) in our universe in such a way as to make our universe a replica of the dipold urgrund itself. Without the urgrund's penetration we'd just have the yinnish BIP, so our universe is both real + irreal simultaneously: the PTG set is real + the BIP (ground) is not ("real" standing for "alive" + "irreal "dead"). (or rather forgery rather than irreal. For "forgery" read "copy" (of a copy). The cosmogony of the Gnostics is basically correct. But the dual nature of the universe must by perceived i.e. the penetration at the lowest stratum by the yang part of the urground. It is crucial that the yin part of the urgrund does not herself directly enter our world but is separated from it (us) by her offspring the artifact (yaldabaoth). Whereas the yang part does not create our world - as does Sophia through her progeny, the artifact - but does enter it directly. So this is why the ground is artifact-produced, + the set projected onto it by the yang (masc.) part of the urgrund (which is an androgany). Yin cannot create; she must be the receptacle. Thus the yin part of the urgrund is passing beyond her limits in creating; that is the job, correctly, of the yang part. However, the yang part does not wish to destroy his female half's creation, but, rather, to "heal" it by balancing (the forces within) it. What he will slay, or has already slain, is the artifact, so that it projects - has projected - a frozen image, for 1000s of years. My model indicates why Parmenides believed that Form II did not really exist: it is because Form II does not enter our world directly as does Form I (+ also the projected image of Form II is static because the yang a Form I part of the urgrund has slain or may have slain the artifact). There is no doubt that Form I really is here, + Form II really is not the mere hologramatic quality of our universe is due to this projected quality of Form II. But Form I is no illusion, no mere projection. So we can equate the irreal with evil (the BIP), as I do in my novels (esp "3 Stigmata"). It was a brilliant piece of reasoning by Parmenides that only Form I was real. + his insight tends to point to the correctness of my model, in which the artifact is interposed between our world + the source of Form II. It is real when + where it starts out - at half of the urgrund - but by the time it reaches us it is a forgery (a copy). Those who are devoted to it (involved with coercive power, etc) worship a false god, as well as the wrong God. It isn't even real by the time it reaches us. So they are doomed to fail. + not just because its dead + a forgery but because it is opposed by the authentic Form I of the yang part of the urgrund, who is reweaving this universe into love, kindness + tranquility. One odd point, as it enters our world via the artifact the yinnish power (Form II) advances out of its proper bonds + simulates yang, the masculine - but spuriously so (see top line of hex 2). All the war-like iron trappings are displayed. +, Form I as it enters our world, assumes a mildness, a "still small voice" quality, which characteristically we associate with the feminine. So the genders appear reversed. The vast Black-Iron Prison is yin (beyond its proper bounds) + the little clay pot Ho On is the almighty, the