of that intervention - it is as I had dared, barely dared hope. Next I now also have my first hard evidence (point 2) of an elaborate theological-philosophical cosmology of a special kind appearing in my writing + one which I could never have arrived at on my own (+ I had not read it anywhere!). It happens to be the system (the macro-microcosm system) of those thinkers of the 16th + 17th century known to be connected with the Rosy Cross. Also (point 3) the "in another century" personality who surfaced in me in 2-74/3-74 (Thomas) brought with him the exact same system of thought of points I + 2. (Baldly put, Theophrastus, Bruno, Boehme et al.) In addition to elements known to historians there are, in Thomas' accompanying system, elements very definitely not known exoterically. These have to do with supernatural knowledge + powers going back to the earliest apostolic true Xtians who got the oral gnosis directly from Christ (+/or the Holy Spirit), + through this they are immortal + can initiate others -like me- into their transtemporal + supratemporal immortality + - they (we) are in touch with the Logos or world soul of the {macrobrain.} Folder 03 - 007 Folder 03 - 007 I therefore now have hard evidence that (1) my writing was masterminded by an immortal true Xtian (illuminatus) dwelling latently (i.e. secretly) in me; + (2) my 2-74/3-74 experience was indeed -as I suspected from the start- the Rosy Cross initiating me - but this does not necessarily mean AMORC. Who the true RCs are is as impossible to detect now as in 1605 - no one has ever done it. Part of the reason is perhaps because they are linked by the AI voice (the brain, the Logos) + not directly to one another. They equal the true, hidden Xtian church, too - as AMORC claims. As the voice revealed to me, the organizing or animating plasmatic spirit of the fraternity simply moves on from one person to the next + so itself cannot be destroyed or even found. So I am pinning down explicitly what I suspected from 3-74 on. Well, my anamnesis in 2-74 told me the main thing (level #3, that of Acts; i.e. the true Xtians -the phagocyte- vs Rome -the BIP or heavy metal particle). Level #3 is where, when + what is really going on (cf "Tears"!). Yes, this substantiates my intuition + analysis of "Tears" + explains why anamnesis came within a week of its release. The Brotherhood, when they (or someone of/in it) read "Tears" they knew they had -in the old king dream- successfully reached me, or had linked up with Thomas, knew I was, because of Thomas, one of them, {Note} + could be disinhibited - i.e. Thomas could be brought to the surface in me (which would defend me). {Note} i.e. had one of the Xtian immortals "sleeping" in me Folder 03 - 008 Folder 03 - 008 All this is why the voice cautioned me not to disclose that I am "an early Xtian" - which I guess I am. __ Will Durant on Bruno: "Space, time + motion are relative ... Since the universe is infinite, + there cannot be two infinities, the infinite God and the infinite universe must be one ...There is no prime mover, there is motion or energy inherent in every part of the whole. 'God is not an external intelligence ... it is more worthy for him to be the internal principle of motion, which is his own nature, his own soul.' Nature is the outside of the divine mind; however, this mind is not in a 'heaven above,' but in every particle of reality. "The world is composed of minute monads, indivisible units of force, of life, of inchoate mind. Each particle has its own individuality, has a mind of its own, + yet its freedom is not liberation from law but behavior according to its inherent law + character. There is a principle of progress + evolution in nature in the sense that every part strives for development. "There are opposites in nature, contrary forces, contradictions; but in the operation of the whole cosmos -in the 'will of God'- all contraries coincide + disappear ... Behind the bewildering, fascinating variety of nature is the yet more marvelous unity, wherein all parts appear as organs of one organism. 'It is unity that enchants me.' Hence the knowledge of the supreme unity is the goal of science + philosophy, + the healing medicine of the mind." + the fuckers burned him. The E.B. calls him "a precursor of modern civilization." He held the Neoplatonism idea of the ultimate experience being unity with the {...} Folder 03 - 009 Folder 03 - 009 E of Ph Bruno was very into Hermetic stuff. + he believed in reincarnation. "For the religious experience of the Hermetic Gnostic consisted in reflecting the universe within his own mind or memory... Man's mens is in itself divine + therefore able to reflect the divine mind behind (sic!) the universe. In Bruno, the cultivation of world-reflecting magic memory becomes the technique for achieving the personality of a Magus, + of one who believes himself to be the leader of a religious movement. "Bruno had some profound things to say in his books on memory concerning the imagination, which he made the sole cognitive power, + on the mental image in relation to the psychology of the 'inspired' personality." Clearly, Bruno is my main man, + could of all people explain 2-74/3-74: these experiences of mine make sense [best or only] within his Hermetic Hylozoic cosmology. Clearly, his animism is not the sign of a primitive mind but, as my reference books all say, a very advanced thinker, even by modern standards. He was impressed by De Rerum Natura - he did not believe in death. Only in change. In summary: within these past 4 days I have cracked the case; I now know what formerly I only believed or merely hoped, suspected - it is all as I supposed. From the start I was always really right - informed by 2-74/3-74 itself. In my 49th year, September 7, 1978, I know complete fulfillment. Amen. Folder 03 - 010 Folder 03 - 010 A clue pointing to Paracelsus as being Thomas! Paracelsus was a physician + the first to use mercury to treat syphilis. "Bichlorides" "Aspirin of mercury"?? I.e. two forms (or mentions) of mercury (not the god) used as medicine. God +/or the Holy Spirit wouldn't bring you news about bichlorides or mercury. But a Hermetic illuminatus physician who used it first in all history might - as a clue. Or rather, it is (sic!) on his mind (Thomas). + Paracelsus leads us to Jacob Boehme, who had experiences very much like mine. + I had the feeling that Thomas was a physician - I thought of Luke. + Paracelsus was a notable physician. Thomas healed me + esp Chrissy. __ "Ubik" is constructed around a now-discarded Hylozoic macro-microcosm cosmology which has been replaced by Newton by a mechanistic model; the "Ubik" one, although I didn't realize it, is an animistic biological model which I did not know ever even existed, it lasted from Empedocles to Bruno. It also is Gnostic. This model really did not survive the Renaissance - but there it is in "Ubik," which so puzzled Richard. Paracelsus knew Erasmus. + was "tricked into behavior that could justify dismissal + arrest." Folder 03 - 011 "He died, perhaps of metal poisoning". ("A very poisonous poison.") He believed in the macro-microcosm theory, Gnosticism, Neoplatonism, alchemy, the Hermetics, belief in a bisexual, homogenous hylozoic universe, a cyclic theory of time + an animism approximating pantheism. "A mystery religion of life rather than merely of gold ... Private communication for adepts ... He explained that alchemy's real desideratum was the secret of life." "God spins ultimate matter out of himself. This yields by separation the prime matter of individual objects, perpetually spawning nature, perpetually resolvable back into ultimate matter. Human creativeness in art ... repeats the primal act. The human demiurge, like God, separates rather than combines." "'Above' + 'below' are substantially the same. 'Heaven is man + man is heaven, + all men together are the one heaven.' But microcosm + macrocosm are contained by membranes or partitions. "Every natural object has its own sulphur, salt + mercury..." "He described illness as intrinsically evil" (hence accused by Erasmus of "dualist heresy." He had a very complex theory about there being two kinds of time, which I don't grasp. I wonder: did Paracelsus crack the true nature of the 2 times + become supratemporal? His native language was German. Folder 03 - 012 Folder 03 - 012 E.B. on Paracelsus: "He was one of the most extraordinary + outrageous men of the renaissance. He also had the characteristics of a natural extrasensory perceptionist + was perhaps best described in his own time as a 'magician'. He said 'Magic is a great hidden wisdom - reason is a great open folly - resolute imagination can accomplish all things.' "Remarkable discoveries in the field of chemotherapy. He despised universities. P. held that the rough + ready language of the innkeeper, barber + teamster had more dignity + commonsense than the dry-as-dust scholasticism of Aristotle, Galen + Avicenna. "He was free to express his rejection of the prevailing view that the stars + planets controlled all parts of the human body - i.e. astral determinism. "He took part in the Netherlandish wars as an army surgeon. "'He who is born in imagination discovers the latent forces of nature' (?) 'Besides the stars that are established, there is yet another -imagination- that begets a new star + a new heaven.' "He loved the common tongue - German. "He died in mysterious circumstances at 48. His use of mercury in measured internal doses to treat syphilis wasn't rediscovered until 1909! (1530 to 1909!) Jung said of him, 'we see in Paracelsus not only in the domains of chemical medicine but also in those of an empirical psychological healing science.' He knew all about metals from his childhood vis-a-vis metal mining. Folder 03 - 013 Folder 03 - 013 E.B. on alchemy: "Some physicians + a few alchemists turned to the elixir of life as an objective." [This surely means "of eternal life."] "...Medical chemistry may have been conceived in Islam, but it was born in Europe. It only awaited christening by its great publicist, Paracelsus ... His pharmacy (against all views of the time) was to lead, by a devious path, to modern chemistry. "Most famous was ... Nicolas Flamel who dreamed of an occult book, subsequently found it, + succeeded in deciphering it with the aid of a learned Jewish scholar learned in the mystic Hebrew Kabbala. "...Emerald tablet of Hermes Trismegistos, which begins, 'that which is above is like to that which is below, + that which is below is like that which is above'". Thus began the macro-microcosm worldview. {Note} Elixir of life: "thought to cure illnesses, prolong life, + bring about spiritual revitalization." {Note:} Actually the book was by Appolonius of Tyana ___ What I am developing here, regarding Paracelsus, is this: he was a foremost alchemist but he was no fraud; he was one of the great physicians of history, + fundamental to chemistry + esp chemotherapy. The E.B. speaks of him having -not claiming to have but having- paranormal powers. The Hermetic macro-microcosm cosmology (which shows up in "Ubik" + in 3-74) I have specifically located in time + space as that of Paracelsus + Bruno et al. It is not from the ancient world but from the Renaissance. P. was the first to use mercury medicinally, but he knew it was a "very poisonous poison." His natural tongue was German (when I'm abruptly awakened or Folder 03 - 014 Folder 03 - 014 under sharp stress I revert