itself into created thing. (Such as us) or assumes the shape of - whatever this which we in fact do have going on here. In the act of transforming itself ino us or assuming the appearance of us, Brahman is temporarily no more thin us: the transformation or assumption of shape is thorough: both inner + outer. maybe Brahman wearies of being alone (the one), + so divide. tial into the many + then deliberated greates amnesia in all its particularities so that it is truly no longer alone - like a child with imaginary playmates wishing to make the illusing of then realit binding primarily on his own self - on him who crested them in the first place. I recall the two played (amn contest which I saw. It must be playing against itself - but as I clearly saw a blind self who either does not know of the receiving savior at all, or if he does he does not recognize it as his own self, his sighted will self. An exegesis from this would identity us (who also are blind) as somehow belonging to a partaking of the blind player + this is probably so, since her created us + our world. For one of us to be captured by Brahman would result in this perion waking up to Brahman on hime + outside him 91 2 So this is why we have been blind to Brahman from binth: our creator James-James is blind to Brahman, + we are made in the creath God's likeness (he is the archetypal for incised on us). We are stuck in the sub wald (sublunar) which the blind creato-God greated for us. Well, it is obvious what liberation signities; the sat wheel, the world of suffering which Brahmanism teacher us to escale from is only the world of James-James, the creator demiurge. However, unknown to the creata God. Brahma is everywhere, even here - in the trash in the alleys of James panes world. J-5. can't see it either, what is the world which Junes-James created? Why, it is the phenomenal world Brahman now assumes the appearove of or transforms itself into, the Savior (Christ) who comes here to tell it of our situation + awaken us to our peril; he will enable us to overcome the world. But Brahman's real goal is to assimilate this entire world to itself + this save it entirely. Perhaps what it intends to do is part of the reasorption part of its cycle, Anyhow to experience Brahman is to escale from James-James + "flual up into the air singing [buzzing" without known it or intending to, James-James is compelling us all in that very direction - pushing us right over the edge of his flatland world where, as we fiel along a third dimensing, he cant get it .Pushing of right out of the world he commands + into the invisible secret wall of Braman, which, as Christ made clean, is somehow right here, it is right here because Brahman is right here - + not only outside us but in us as well - this certainly is close. 5-T, without knowing it has built his world + his people out of the universal divine stuff which is Brahman, + of course h had to: that stuff is all there is, really (2 Brahman, in breaking through (or breaking out in Jut's world is exactly like Runciter + Ubik break through (or breaking out in) toe chip, entropic coding, decaying, dying, aging world in Ubik. the relation between Runciter/Ubik to goes world is identical to the relating between Brahman + this world. If we wont to know where to look for Brahman, who is ubiquitous, search in the immediate + mundane places when in Ubik Runciter (+ Ubik, as in the commercials) manifests himself in hierophany. Yes, the manifestations of Runciter are theophanies or better yo epiphanies - of a man, their leader, who was murdered + who is returning to them cosmically: i.e. manifesting himself not in one loct, as a man would, but here, there, at all places + in all ways. Runciter, like Ubik, is everywhere. This is how the clure emission of God, who is wisdom as well as savior (R. knows all the answers, too), returns after been murdered here, as a man. then could St. Sophia bery born again refer to a "now here, now there, now everywhere" Rmoky through (into) as depicted in Ubik" Amid the trivia + trash? up from the ground (rood) + down to sidereal space (star)! Then are they (we) waking upon is it not rather it who wakes: steeper singular: awake! is this what I experiend in 3-74? It didn't just wake wor me; it was adventitiously made to awake - e.g. B, the Gold Fish ivecklace, it al. Yes. Brahman itself awake Atman in one the great conscious Brahman deliberately awake one small oncen scious pour; this explains the dream + experiences I remembered from my early childhood. Brahman has been moving me deliberate toward enlightential (liberation) since my birth!! I guess this has been the main purpose at work in my life - not me at work but it - in me + outside me working in conjunction - 11 I may have waked my way toward + to this point through may than this one lifetime. + this whole awakening is intimated tied up with remembering (who I am, where I care from, what I dout do). Remembering that I am Brahman, since originally I was. An interesting conclusion from this is that James-James. creation comes out to be a sort of false, irreal or illusary universe superimposed onto Brahman's manifestations with Brahman like in Ubik breaking through from underneath or behind; perhaps J-J's world is idential to the "wizardng" world of Maya, + perhaps the Roman world c. AD 70 which was revealed is ➀ either what 5-t's world really looks like; or (2) the Roman world is Brahman + its real world; or (3) the Roman world is J-81 actual world, what he has actually constructed + then tried to make Palatable, with the "Palm tree" world the authentic world of Brahman I did have that impression (3, that the black iron Prison world is how this world actually is, in all its evil, but 5-5's keeps it disguised... + I fell the palm tree world to be the Kingdom of God (in this theory, Brahman's world). wizardry-maya. In my dream of 5-I, as I've said to people, he resembled a genius magician doing astonishing I rich, to bedazzle + impress a huge audience In Ubik, as Claudia pointed out, both worlds (32 + 2) are illusory: only runciter + Ubik (+ the characters) are real, + he characters don't know their own actual condition; that they are mutually dreaming the (decaying] world they're in, to be mutually asleep + dream an illuson world: that is ourselves lost in Maya - R. + Ubik are Brahman + its authenti living non-decaying reality breaking through to them th their benefit: as rescuer 12 The characters in Ubik (+ in maze. Death, + sometimes in Stigmata) are not really here, in this world which itself is an illusion; they are elsewhere + dreaming (or hallucinating) what does this tell us about us? We are "not here really; but "are" really in the pleroma (or anyhow entered this 3-3's (maya) illusory world from there, which we haw forgotter, + our real identity forgotten with it. An exegesis from Ubik (Ubik as model says that not only is the world we see here around us not real but that in sure true sense we ourselves arent here, + the illusory world hides our actual landscape which is "elsewhere. Meaning unsuspected, different Am I really in Rome C. AD 70? As I saw? At the time of the first Advents of the "wizardry" factor rolled back we'd see black iron doors + walls: a prison. We the prisoner, are dreaming (i.e. being dient, presented with) a better - appearing "Nice" world, which it actually is not (the real worlds for the people in Ubik stigmata + mare were all uniformly awful hence the people were motivated to collectively escape into a dream world - if world we're good (1) we wouldn't be motivated to escape into a collective dream, or (2) James-James wouldn't be motivated to conceal it maybe our collective amnesia is self-generated so that such as I saw. we can escaped from an intelerabler bad world, an Iron Prison the intrusions by R.+ Ubik + the Gnosis given me, are information (wisdom) from the savior deity apprising us of our true situation: "Jump in the urinal + stand on yout head) I am alive, you're all dead." The actual bad, prison world can't be abolished unless we awake to its existence - stop dreaming, ascying of into illusions be awakened (by the Good deity) + fight it, rather than just There is no motive - reason - for anyone to run away from a good world, the palm tree world is the real + good world we will be in after the Iron Prison world is destroyed. "To arms? the tutulary spirit was saying - for me to act against this actual black Iron Prison world to over throw it as part of the historic event of grand overthrow: water gate, as predicted by Daniel - the stone uncent. Brahman's real world is the civital see of Augustine, + the intelerable black Iron Prison world is the civity, munde If the Black iron world cant be destroyed, or as long as it still isn't destroyed, our only real refuge is in the Palm tree civitas dee not here: beholder Maya he ➀ reality (bad) ➀ ana oterial patt reality (good) ➀ ther tha or: pate the world here (events) Rising - what we see, mixed sinking /which is mired phenomenal - world we see black iron world) hell (punishment?) e our transmigration through the lives is attempted ascent from the black Iron world; had we been punished + incarcerated? I can assume the black iron realm is real + we are in it; if that wasn't so, thered be nothing for Christ to rescue us from. Intervention by a redeemed wouldn't be needed between us + the Kingdom stones the realm of eve the black Iron prison world. Against its walls knocks the savior from the other side. the existence of the Black Iron Prison is a revelation, [not?] visible to the unaided eyes ; But greater than that is the revelation that lying behind a [beymed?] if, Breaking into it. Breaching [it?], lie, God; Kingdom or Brahman, at the deepest level of ([ontological?]) reality. But we do not need to enter the Black Iron Prison to [?] God's Kingdom, we are in it now, & God (Brahman) is nearly reaching to us here in that prism from outside it. We must get out of the prism & enter his Kingdom, But what is first [required?] is to recognize the existence of the Black Inn Kingdom all around us. Evidently this is difficult for people to do. they would rather collute with J-J in the delusional [vil?] of Maya - "this play [was?] nice & I belong here." were we captured & brought here? or did we [rans ness?] & were sent here? I have no knowledge or insight about that. All I do know is that I wasn't always here; originally I lived with my heavenly father, in his mansion, "out there." Maybe, as the [Essones?] teach, we were divine souls who got tangled up with matter (if neoplatmism) & souls down into it, unconscious & forgetful. the solution seems to lie in the act of remembering ; this by itself has high - if not determining - [salvific?] properties. Id say, & we [illegible text?] captured, mere remembering wouldn't free us. But we could have transgressed &