into the world of Acts. Here ends 4 years + 6 months of analysis + research. Time is unmasked as irreal; 1900 years are disclosed as aspects of one underlying Matrix; "Tears" + its Acts material is explained; my 27 years of writing the same themes over + over again fits into place; 2/74 + 3/74 is comprehensible, as is the overthrow of Nixon; the transtemporal constants have been explicated. When I got onto the "volvox" model + the push-pull system I was pretty close: the slowly revolving Matrix structure, sphere, + the way it enhances what we project. The negentropic total system with its stations + connecting links, forming a vast brain - what a Grand vision - how beautiful. The Brain Cannibalizing its earlier Law-bound Self to achieve total homeostasis + wakefulness for all its parts, so that all is Brain, not sub-Brain, interface for mind, all Lives, all Knows, all Participates. But I'm under the stricture of silence, because to publish all this I'd have to tell about the immortal authentic apostolic Xtians operating covertly in us. Perhaps I should destroy the Exegesis. It's a Journey which reached its Goal. folder 02 - 002 folder 02 - 002 There really has been a block in my logic in thinking about my relationship to Thomas. Obviously he is here, not in the past - he speaks to me. "He is here", in my head, partially partitioned off. Yet he is still locked into Rome CAD 45. So Rome CAD 45 is not in the past, although it is "another century". The contradictions can only be laid to rest by treating Rome CAD 45, the world of Acts, as not being in the past, since Thomas is there now + Thomas is "someone else inside my head", i.e. now, + able to apprehend me + talk to me. Our world is either in the past, or the past is now, neither proposition making any semantic sense. We must be blinded to the immanent world of Acts, immanent in the here + now. It is not gone + Thomas, an inhabitant of it, is not gone; Acts is immanent externally in our world, + Thomas is immanent internally in me. Each generates the other in the push-pull Pong-like system of world as aspect of Acts that I comprehend. Thomas can't be severed from his world. World is connected - locked into - its observer. It is a two-mirror system (Magdeberg hemispheres, which can't be pried apart). I did not remember Rome; I saw Rome, + at the time I saw it I was Thomas, an inhabitant of it who recognized it because it is his world. Yet, he is + has always been perfectly aware of me + my problems, so he knows he is in USA 1974 (or 1947). folder 02 - 003 folder 02 - 003 So although Rome was a surprise + a puzzle to me (+ so was he) USA 1974 + I were not reciprocally surprises + puzzles to him. This is a big tip off. Although he is locked into Rome CAD 45 - his time + place - he knows he is here. But what does "here" mean? Rome CAD 45 is here, but immanent - to us, not to him. (Well, he, too is immanent). Obviously "transtemporal" + "constant" mean just what they seem to mean. In 3-74 he was better able to function than I was. He had to take over; I could not handle the situation at all. This is why I say, "He + his world came here; I didn't go there - nor had I once been there long ago", i.e. 1900 years ago. Is this the distant past, via a person from that past, invading the present? No, because the two superimpositions could syntonically blend. This is crucial. They did not compete, as I said supra, I saw people as simultaneously romans + americans, inhabitants of CAD 45 + AD 1974. This proves that either both are aspects (ways of perceiving) the same reality, or one (i.e. Acts) is absolute + all other ways are aspects (ways of perceiving). I am convinced [Note] the latter is true, due to [Note] But not so later on - v. sub folder 02 - 004 folder 02 - 004 the Acts material in "Tears"+ due to Thomas being not merely a co-inhabiting personality in my head but the master personality. Regarding "Tears", it is not that in it, in the [future] world depicted, Acts material has been inserted. No - on the contrary: that future, fictional world, on closer, informed scrutiny, turns out to be the world of Acts. To know this you must of course be familiar with Acts, which I was not when I (sic) wrote it + reread it. This is the paradigm. This shows how it can be done - by "it" I mean a modern society that nonetheless is really, latently a time + place from the distant past. Or do I mean "resembles" rather than "is"? No, I mean is, this is the miracle + mystery. "Resembles" poses no problem. What I saw in 3-74 was Acts; what I flashed on as so in 2-74 was Acts. "This is what is", I realized in 2-74, + this is what I saw in 3-74, + later was shown in "Tears" by Father Rasch. This is what broke through (see p.6): first in my writing in 1970, then realized as so in 2-74 upon seeing the Golden Fish, + then seen externally in 3-74 with Thomas internally surfacing as a personality analog. The writing in '70 + the world in 3-74 broke through because of Thomas in me. folder 02 - 005 folder 02 - 005 Thomas is not the product of it but the source. I wrote about it, realized it as so + finally saw it because of him in me, so the real issue is Thomas. Who + what is Thomas? I now feel sure I know. If he is absolute + I relative, then his world Rome AD 45 is absolute, + my world USA 1974 relative. Two distinct orders of reality are in contrast, here: the nomenal vs the phenomemal (Fuck the spelling - the Dinge an Sich vs the phenomenal, latent vs obvious, real vs Maya/Dokos) it is the Actual vs the Seeming. Starting from my own head, I say, Thomas is actual + I seeming, since he is the all-knowing Master self; that makes his world an analogous master world. If my self (ego) disintegrates Thomas is unveiled - likewise his world for reasons I've given. In fact, the fact that when my ego collapses under stress + thereby he is unveiled, the fact that his world simultaneously appears externally (to me) too, shows the situation. He is not a fossil remnant. Something like the form axis in "Ubik" is involved, but not quite, since negentropy, not entropy, is happening. The power, knowledge + authority are in him - the ability + strength, + it's always been this way. Thomas-in-my-head, not I, wrote, + acted in history. I am a mask + USA 1974 is a mask, likewise. In my dream in Canada, Kathy said, "one day the masks will come off, + you will understand all". It came to pass - I was one of the masks, much to my surprise - + my whole world as well. folder 02 - 006 Note from p.4: "this is what broke through". This is the key phrase: broke through. Is this not what is meant when xtians talk about a time coming when God will irrupt - i.e. break through into human history? Thomas, a true xtian from the time of Christ's first Advent, when Christ was last reported here, he + that world broke through. + Look how this breaking through is depicted in "Tears" where Acts is described: I mean the dream. This is how Daniel + John of Patmos visualized (in actual visions), saw God at the moment of his inbreaking - either God or the returned Christ. "I was dead but now I am alive again for ever + ever". This is the Apocalypsis. Then I have written about (1970), realized (2-1974) + seen (3-74) + had Thomas resurrected in me - + there is the "St. Sophia" prophecy followed by the "Buddha is in the park" revelation. Beyond any doubt I experienced a theophany, + very likely recaptured the lost oral Gnosis of apostolic times. I was in apostolic times! + it in me. The irruption of Acts + Thomas is a subjective apocalypsis for me - but, as Will McNally points out in his article on "MITHC", in my view reality is subjective - in the mind - only. I avoid solipscism by my "volvox push pull" system, but I say, yes, I am a witness to the end-time things - specifically the irruption of God or Christ into human history, with titanic effect on that history - exactly as prophecized; this overthrow of the Nixon tyranny is not a subjective event but objectively true. The only "subjective" part is the supernatural mechanics generally not witnessed. But I know that the immortal transtemporal xtians in secret did it - + I'm not supposed to talk about it. Which is why it was not seen. I saw it because I am a mask for me [...] folder 02 - 007 folder 02 - 007 1) I can explain what I saw: irruption of God or Christ into history, using secret immortal apostolic xtians latent in some of us. 2) I can explain why I saw it: one of these true xtians is latent in me, + went into action 3) I can explain why other people didn't see these supernatural (i.e. divine) causes of Nixon's overthrow: they didn't have secret apostolic immortal xtians latent in them, here in our space-time aspect, working through them. It was a sort of raid on USA 1974 by Christ/God via these apostolic secret immortal xtians latent in some of us - + becoming active, seizing control of their host humans, at the crucial historical moment. Because these true xtians emanated from the world of Acts, that world so to speak took over our world + voided it or anyhow melded - synchronized - with it, which was not visible to the unenhanced eye. Only the apostolic xtians could see it, those foes of the BIP, pulling off an enormous + enormously successful attack on it. Through Thomas' eyes I witnessed all this, but it is a secret so I can't go public. Somehow my novel "Tears" was involved - perhaps it contained an encoded message or signal, or an actual living bit of what I call "the Brain" or "the phagocyte". This is the mystical corpus Christi which is replacing the universe of blind determinism + chance. Negentropy for [...] folder 02 - 008 folder 02 - 008 All my elaborate analysis of Thomas, the world of Acts, the push-pull system, the volvox or phagocyte - all must be placed in relationship to a deliberate irruption by God through his agents into human history in USA 1974. Had this irruption not been planned, Thomas would not have been installed in me in the first place, "Tears" et al. would never have been written + I would know nothing. My involvement is due to Thomas' presence in me + that is due to the irruption planned for 1974 in which Thomas (in me, working first latently + then overtly in me) played a role. The irruption was a vast attack by the forces of God (the "phagocyte") on the BIP or "pathenogen" (Satan). I was lifted from this lower realm (form II) into the upper, divine realm (form I) + hence saw the divine celestial machinery - the deity himself, + the agents here - at work, in glorious war. In victorious battle. The upper realm is the Dinge-in-sich, the