documents looked like, simultaneously. 2 How was I to give an unambiguous response ➀ "It is too CP (A) but I don't know what CP documents look like (B). If I know what I they look like, then I have seen them. Okay, have never seen any. Then how can I claim (A) I have to claim knowledge (A) + lack of know ledge (B). Okay, it is a perfect trap; there is no way out, like when gromekyo was handed the Gulag map in public at the uin. What I had to do was D) link it with the Roogna letter, + then (2) later on prove the Roogna letter innocent; whereas at the time 3) I didn't know if it was innocent, + 4) couldn't prove it anyhow, I had to spot the Xerox missive as a ringer but the right kind of ringer! as too CP rather than not CP. Again, time was the crucial factor someone ignorant of CP documents would instantly react - no - he wouldn't! How would he know folder 22 - 098 folder 22 - 098 Qu It was (P at all? "The daily world" - how would he know that's a CP Rag? I had to cop to a quasi-CP past to a certain amount of knowledge. only a theory of mutuality with the God - as with Ikhnaton's vitalism: the chick + the eggshell - could rationally. explain the help I got an acting in concert, which means some kind of common identity, at least an informing or infusing a by the deity of the creature. This tells me very great deal about God, over + above that he is wise, powerful + good. It also t tells me that my interests are his interests. only Ikhnaton's vitalistic hymn expresses this (as a natural or culminative - not overrid. in- event - i.e. 3-74). Schematically it goes thus: God override not God s creature t creature The highest possible affinity between the natural + God is expressed (as Spinoza saw) Thus out of this should logically come a t total trust of God by the creature, an aware ness that is not even an extrapolation but pure awareness - knowledge - as such. One now literally knows his God, has experienced him inwardly I outwardly. folder 22 - 099 folder 22 - 099 95 what I feel is that 2-3/74 indicates that the creature is an expression of the deity. There is a deeper link than even theology recognizes; only a vitalistic biolog y can express it (Spinoza, bergson, Xenophanes). Hylozoism + Panentheism.) Somehow, if God is Christ, in the very same - exact - way, Christ is the creatures: viz: God: Christ :: Christ: all creatures large + small. This is not a dimin ishing sequence but is as trinitarian doctrine stipulates multipersons but one substance. God is not above or outside creatures, although he is (paradoxically). He is not just in them (panpsychism) either. Maybe it is Brahman atman. We have no concept to express it, except perhaps as an explication of the Her metic "what is above (macro) is what is below (micro)," a complex notion having to do with inner space, mirror by the micro mind, all micro minds, of the macro totality (the divine + magic memory: i.e. the micro creature "remem bers" (whatever that may mean- come to its senses about itself?) that it is God. Some how God has descended throughout all creation + ha is forgotten. We - all creatures- are the immortal man, +, as I put forth in the tractate, that "immortal man" is not a man at all but living information. my God - do. We even [falsely] hypo statize ourselves? This would fit with 2-3/74 when I was not (1) when I thought I was, (2) where I thought I was or (3) who I thought I was, or 4) knew + did not know folder 22 - 100 folder 22 - 100 96 what I knew + did not know voice "to save his life he'd have to show he knows (knew?], too, a man ascending ia" stairs which are collapsing. (knew how to solve such a puzzle 3 though "he knows" that the stairs are collapsing, but esp: that he knows how to get to the landing above + off the collapsing stairs: i.e. shows he knows more than he'd admit + the Xerox missive did con the saving Gnosis. Sist of a threat to my life itself. paranormal events lead to the disclosure of paranormal power s. it is more important to be safe [represented by the collapsing stairs) than to still keep the powers hidden The powers or knowledge which would save you." There was reason to keep the paranormal powers hidden. But to "save his life" he'd forfeit the value - need - of hiding them; but only because of such dire need. "He knows too." I.e. He, too is one of those who knows - i.e. has the saving power or knowledge; he is one of them (who has it); he is of their number. The word "too" apparently only cryptic, is important: "too" refers to the others who know, who have the power; he reveals himself as one of them, but only when his actual life b threatened. His true nature under these circumstances comes out. "Too" reveals what is meant. Thus folder 22 - 101 99 too" adds a whole dimension; viz: the differen between "He secretly knows" + 2) "He, too, is one of those who secretly knows" It can be inferred that this is true of all of their number: only in the face of threat to their very lives do they show they know; i.e. possess. paranormal powers. So not everyone does; not everyone belongs to this group. What these para normal powers are is somewhat revealed: they are such as to save the possessor's life the voice has corrected my "all creatures formulation. It is saying "no, only some have These powers, + these powers lie in them - do not come from [the deity] outside, adventitiously: I think at once of my tractate, in which I say that the 3-eyed people exist invisibly among us. The voice has said I am one of these, which not only fits the 2-3/74 experience, but the "little boy Philip on the raft vs Scotland Yard" dream: the cuckoo's egg; the person born here + rising level by level, at last revealing itself to the dismay of the human teacher, I those who thought they had taught it (molded its loyalties). A "they" in our midst exists. + I am one of them. Only a paranormal situation dis closes this. As hard as it is for me to face this, I solved the 3-20-74 puzzle (apparently unsolvable) because of what I am. My real nature came out. another personality at another time + place. + the ajna eye of discernments e folder 22 - 102 folder 22 - 102 98 a wholly different (higher) form of reasoning which is a discernment (supratemporal for one thing). Godly powers to draw on when needed I This is why I'm to keep secret the fact that "I'm an early Xtian." We are a they as to 2-3/74 I have never faced the implica tions vis-a-vis my own ontology. I have alway favored the "Rabbit in the trap" model - but the voice corrects me. The abolities (powers) which saved me were mine, my own These stairs appeared in the previous dream about me + Doris climbing (ascending) the stairs: "the way." The landing or top - getting up + off the stairs - is the goal; evolution of spiritual growth or ascention. The upper realm? in this new vision, collapsing stairs repre sents death (destruction), obviously along the ascent - which is transcended (by my powers, until then kept hidden) + a successful reaching of the top. in the tractate I talk about two separate things. 1) interspecies symbiosis (cross bonding) between a human + the plasmate (Holy Spirit). + 2) The 3-eyed race who are secretly here. I claimed to be (1), but this new hypna gogic vision implies (2)! note: the paranormal powers of the 3-eyed race are ones of knowing. (borne out bytes by what if (1) + (2) are the same? Cross bonding creates a 3-eyed person; the plasmate lodges in the pineal body or 3rd ajna eye, + grows folder 22 - 103 folder 22 - 103 99 t then the 3-eyed race among us secretly is not morphologically different but consists of the crossbonded people: the hosts to the other species (ETI or UTI whow here). + hence possess the plasmate store of knowledge; then the purpose of the 2-74 Golder Fish disinhibition did not have so much to do with the Xerox missive (i.e. for defensive purposes) but because the historical moment had come which was our real purpose; so we had to "come to ourselves" + "wake up." the Xerox missive goes back to "Tears," the cypher in "Tears," + that has to do with our (sic!) historical purpose: tractate; "We covertly direct human history. 2-3-74 did not tell me about deity so much as it told me about my other, hidden self, my non-human (superior) self. jection of "Zebra" which is here camouflaged, which is an intro outside us - + (e.g. me) inside us) i.e. us, Voice: "Plenary. But still retaining power." The 3rd or ajna eye identifies + define a multipersonal organism which is here Supra (actually, in the tractate): "the 3-eyed people secretly here covertly direct human history toward fruit I ends." I very slightly participated in this via "Tears" from this one might suppose I am one of these 3-eyed peopler which 3-74 points to. Our companion psychoi are the unitary entity which I call Zebra. Zebra is in all of is -eyed people + directs -in forms - us. folder 22 - 104 folder 22 - 104 06 No reasoning - no human faculty - could have solved the Xerox puzzle. A form of not-digital cerbration was necessary, a kind of exalted instinct: an awareness, not a logic, even a higher logic, in fact the solution required nul logic or even anti-logic. Whatever I used was right brain - + that personality had already it come forth (which is of a piece with the way approached the Xerox puzzle per se: knowing the answer in advance: knowing the problem in ad vance - the key is preknowledge). Some kind of as supratemporal faculty came into use, as early 2-74, a faculty already there was put to use, + to that faculty, to be successful, had to begin no operate even before the problem showed up. human can do this, no human has this faculty; it's connected with the ajna eye (chokra), + hence with three-eyed-ness. It is a discernment of what is what, an apperception of what is, + what will be. The AI voice said it was a forgery. The source of the AI voice knew (45 years later) it was a forgery, + said so. Probably it knew this even before the Xerox missive arrived. It was anticipat ing it, + all the actual arrival did was confirm its insight; the arrival merely told it it was right in its overview. There was an enemy, + this thing came from that enemy. Now contact had at last been made directly with the enemy. This was good. The right (proper) response would be of unique value, here was the opportunity sought for: direct contact, at last: name + address The proper response was to select the course of action which would do the enemy the greatest arm. turning the missive over to the puream would accomplish that, + so I did its folder 22 - 105 folder 22 - 105 101 So the ratiocination was: 1) Enemy. 2) do it the greatest harm. 3) sending the missive