was the Fall of the Temple (at Massada); thereupon God slew hyperuniverse II, + it has transmitted the same image to our holoverse ever since, with the only alterations being in the hysteresis toward greater decay, disorder, madness + death - which is still preferable to this soma + psyche (now turned to sarx) living in + evolving toward greater + greater malignancy. Before the Fall (supra) we could distinguish the 2 image sources (signals or image) which mix together to form our hologram universe. Therefore we could walk + talk with God (ZEBRA) because his form would be set vs ground. But after the Fall we ceased to be able to distinguish, + although ZEBRA remained here, for us he receded back into the landscape. II's journey into rabid disorder dragged us down with it. + we've never recovered. Antithetical The deterministic matrix ("astral" or "planetary" or "DNA engramming" or "script" or "instinct") which Christ (ZEBRA) frees you from - does this programming emanate from the image (signal) projected into our holoverse by hyperuniverse II? Is there a conflict between the 2 signal forces (of Empedocles), with II striving to enslave (as witness its BIP gestalt) + I (ZEBRA) to free. This objection to equating ZEBRA with the Paraclete (Holy Spirit) is that the Holy Spirit is indwelling, + although it entered me, I also saw it operating externally in the empirical world, as set to ground. I am led back to the McKennas' 2-signal-source hologram model. It is possible to equate ZEBRA with Christ but not with the Holy Spirit - although a better comparison would be to regard ZEBRA as a sort of fusion between the indwelling Holy Spirit + the external Christ. But in the gospels it is specifically made clear that the physical external Christ is leaving - to be replaced by an indwelling (only) spirit. Either ZEBRA is not + cannot be any of the Christian Trinity or it is all 3 together, in which case to speak of a trinity at all is senseless; ZEBRA was a unitary organism which treated me + objects as a single continuum which it could not merely imitate but replace, as if molecule by molecule + hence influence, doesn't seem to me that 1) either we are dealing with the Xtians trinity or else 2) the Xtian trinity is not as we have long supposed. Only the McKenna 2-signal model seems to work. as defined in my "Diploid twins" adaptation. What we're getting into here doesn't make a whole lot of sense in traditional Xtian or any other terms - I saw the universe divide into set - ground, + the set was all that divinity is said to be, + ground was palpably enslaving + evil; yet together they formed the universe, although clearly at odds. We do indeed seem to have a merger of two "cities" - actually + not metaphorically + deity is here, not (just) in heaven: its will was being done here, despite opposition: modulating the ground. The main quality of the BIP ground seemed to be a being stuck, in time, back at AD 70 - whereas, to the total contrary, ZEBRA could shoot back from + forth + sideways through time at will. The fusion at the two (quite opposite relationships or abilites (over created our linear time, a sort of compromise between being stuck vs leaping about at will many + all directions at any + all rates. If time is truly the recepticle of being, then hyperuniverse II is dead, + I is very very alive Our norm lies directly between. Again: II has a repetitious android, mechanical cycle + recycle quality - + I the free human, it is the factory (+ the products of a factory) vs the butterfly (+ the color + flight of the butterfly). It is stasis vs metamorphosis; the congealed vs the flowing. Could my cosmogony / cosmology be literally correct - 2 spinning entelechies one of which died + hence ceased to grow? Have I (in my "diploid sac" model) been informed by revelation? Something went wrong (obviously) at a very early stage; the entelecy II came out defective + had to be slain. This is more that a cosmogony / cosmology (such as "Timaeus"); this is a new religion (for this reason: the divine entity seems neither transcendent nor immanent, but consists of onehalf (precisely) of the universe - the half that evolves, + is alive. This is not pantheism this is not dualism although there is a good vs bad + a dialectic interaction. It is simply a 2 - signal source hologram, + 1 of the sources has died + "seeks" to enslave us to its repetitious, frozen prison - state, its corpse - state. Our universe is neither animate not inanimate (vs the pre-socratics + "Timaeus") half is alive + half is dead, + the alive half is trying to rescue us from enslavement to the dead part. Perhaps I is gaining ground, + it won't stay half + half; a final resolution in form of the living part will be the final outcome. Then traditional Xtian concepts are weak metaphors, only vaguely approximate! My "2 source cosmogony / cosmology" which I just sort of dashed off wasn't based on logic or observation (in the usual sense, as with philosophical systems) but stemmed from revelation by way of theophany + theolepsy. In which case it may never be possible to define my 3-74 to 2-74 experience in any traditional terms, even christian. I have but one name given me: Hagia Sophia. It seems to be female. In my "2 source" system I define it as the psyché of the healthy, clockwise - spinning twin. This is not Xtianity. This is not any known system. For instance, if Sophia is equated with christ, then the slain, deranged twin (II) evil psyche is the brother / sister of christ: i.e. satan + christ are identical or fraternal twins! No one has ever proposed this before - unless this is the true, hidden gnosis never revealed in all history openly. It's like Seth + Horace. Vishnu + Shiva. No it's not. It's new. It's either new, or has been a well-kept secret. + what if I'm right that the one (the real creator) slew the deranged psyche of II's. This can't be equated with Taoism - although in some respects it borders on it. In some respects it's totally opposite from Gnosticism. The deity is here, + the world is half good. So much for Gnosticism + Mani. I have a secret conviction that Zebra is Christ, invisibly returned, + not what we've been told about him (her - Hagia Sophia). Aphodite has returned, regaining her rightful power (of love) over the male war gods. It is the "darling creature, the First Created + Most Loved by God" of Prov 8 + "Wisdom of Solomon." Jesus was a disguise he took now she is everywhere. Being a projected hologram - she can take any form she wishes, inc. an animal, + she dies with us, for us, as us - this above all: she as a sacrifice for us at the dread hour (as in 3-74). One thing I should never forget, though: Parmenides said that despite all opinion (seeming knowledge?) to the contrary, Form II does not exist. In some sense it is Dokos. Because it is dead? Which means that its signal is somehow counterfeit - an analog to, "this has been a recording" (i.e. you are not talking to a person but to a simulation of a person. This fits my "Android" insight. There is something spurious about II + its signal. Should we wake up + thereby free ourselves from its spell? "Dead" may somehow = irreal. In which case, despite what we see, we are actually already assimilated to (+ by) I - + don't realize (i.e. see) it (yet). The image, Form II, lingers on. But the source is dead! + if the source of the signal is dead, the signal is a fake. A time lapse is involved as with light from a distant star. This is what ZEBRA frees us from: II is not just imprisoning (enslaving); it is delusional. The only real part of the holoverse is ZEBRA. We are semi blind - occluded (my "noise"). Parmenides' conviction that despite its palpability Form II is not actually real bolsters my conviction that a long time ago it died or was slain. The death of II would account for 1) it seeming to exist (it is now sarx) + 2) it not really existing (its psyche is dead). It is not an "animal" like I; it is a carcass. Parmedides came close to solving it. The illusion is not precisely one of reality but one of being alive. ---------- But the really important thrust is not that half of our universe is dead, but that half is alive; + we must discriminate that half. We are - have been - living within a living organism, imagining it to be inanimate; but now it is choosing to disclose its true, animate nature to us, to enlist us in its attack on the dead part (II). In which case we will be "stations" within a suprapersonal thinking entity, a corporate mind with it as the "head." It will direct us (being so much wiser that we are). + it is not breaking through into our world; it is our world. (or half of it) Also, its teaching machine function will be something we are are of at a conscious level. Its moving us toward isomorphism with the One. It will expect us eventually to exceed it; i.e. it won't remain the master + us as servant, but will move us toward the master position, meanwhile acting (it acting) as "broken" between us + the One (urgrund). It is essentially an instrument of the One, whom we resemble more that we resemble it. But it will be a long time before we will be able to withstand the shock of encountering the One directly. However, we are already beginning to manifest (erratically + episodically) qualities + powers analogous to the One's, which are already superior to what ZEBRA possesses. We will exhibit brief flashes of godness which will puzzle + dazzle us; we [..] each of us confront himself as an enigma, as ZEBRA disinhibits these metasystems latent within us, which link us to the One. Since the One's main trait is its creativity, we will manifest that trait, not merely "psi" powers or intelligence (problem solving). We will "cause to be" this + that. Also, we will learn that for 1000s of years ZEBRA has been teaching us - but now the point has come at which it will cease to mimic + will separate itself from the ground via theolepsy + therefore theophany. Implicit in all this is the gradual phasing out or retirement of our holoverse + a return to the one, our true home. It is an evolutionary step, then, this point in a human's life when he is ready for 1) ZEBRA to disclose itself to him + 2) when ZEBRA can first introduce the human to the One. The road to this is through human creativity, not human thinking (artificer rather than noös), in essence, the causing of something new to arise within the universe. The one is more an artificer that a mind. ZEBRA is a mind; the one creates (makes). But on an "is-ness" (essence) level the human being discovers that he is higher on the scale that his teacher, ZEBRA, The servant will again become the servant + the master (man) the master (God). [Diagram] (A) man unaware of ZEBRA + human its servant (B) man aware of ZEBRA + its friend or equal (C) man nearing his isomorphism to the one + hence superior to his teacher ZEBRA [/Diagram] In state (A) man is unaware