September 12, 1976 Dear Dorothy, Thank you so much for the loan of the $200. I understand now that my Bantam money ($4,000) will arrive this month, so there should be no problem. However, the Douoleuay monies failed to appear, since Ballantine, the subsidiary publisher, failed to pay in on time; therefore I had to cash the check yesterday. Doubleday is attempting to get the money for me anyhow, since we are on such good terms* What I am mainly writing you about is to share an experience I had, back in March of 1974, which forms the topic of the new novel I sold to Bantam. It was, technically, a religious conversion — at least that is what my priest calls it. I have done 30 months of re¬ search on it (which form the basis of the novel) and have learned a great deal about the powers & entities which approached me, and I have some idea as to why they approached me —of all people— although that part is speculation. I wish to share it with you because, it being an authentic experience, it demonstrates the reality of a superior thanking entity of vast power which people normally call God, and this term is one I am willing to use, although it did not identify itself as such It came to me at the time of the vernal equinox, which is the actual birthdate of Christ, as I have learned. It came at a time when I was in great fear and distress and had lost all hope — which fits the pattern described by William James in his VARIETIES OF RELIGIOUS EXPERIENCE. What this enormously wise and powerful entity did was to temporarily displace my ego and take over the problems which faced me, solving them, and, in addition, showering other gifts on me and on Christopher as well. When the novel comes cut you can read about it in detail. For exactly one year this entity communicated with me, although the theolepsy was only s few days in duration; still, during those days, I possessed its wisdom and some of its power, and saw the universe quite differently, and my own purpose and reason for being here; in fact, for having been born. The entity, which in the novel I call Valis (for Vast Active Living Intelligence System) informed me of a dreadful conspiracy of evil men who haa killed she Kennedy brother Dr. King, J is. hike and others, and told me that it —the entity— had seen all this and would soon destroy them. Later I understood that the Watergate conspirators were meant. I was to contribute a small part in bringing them down; since I lived in Fullerton, where Congress¬ man Charles Wiggens comes from, I was to begin writing him letters which the entity would dictate, concerning constitutional issues, issues which Nixon had violated, and, above oil, I was to make public by writing to the Wall Street Journal, the news that the Nixon transc¬ ripts were forgeries and self-serving. I did all this, and received personal responses from Congressman Wiggens; the letter to the Wall Street Journal, too, was published. The entity made it clear that it represented the spiratus veritas, the spirit of truth spoken of by Christ as the Helper who would assist man after His own death. I worked very hard on tne task assigned me, glad to do it, since the entity had extricated me from a thrall of such magnitude that in all candor I still can't speak of it; needless to say, had it not, I would now be in prison — it had to do with civil disobidience on my part during the Viet Nam War, which would have meant, if arrested and con¬ victed, some fifteen years in prison for me. The entity, during the brief period of theolepsy, dealt with the authorities and was so able in its eloquence and wisdom that it earned from the Federal Bureau of Investigation a letter of commendation signed by the assistant director, William Sullivan. Thus, the entity not only extricated me from a seemingly hopeless trap, but put me to worm (in my small way) bringing to light the truth which eventually deposed the tyrant and all his henchmen. This took from March 1974 to August 1974. The entity transported me from what is called secular time to sacred time (or eternity) and showed me the underlying structure of the universe, in particular the activity of the logos as it weaves the universe anew constantly. The entity restored my lost memories (a process called anamnesis! so that I could remember back over a timespan of two to three thousand years. It spoke to me in Koine Greek, but soon abandoned that, since I did not understand it; however, that was its natural language when addressing humans. You can see from this, and from the fact that it healed my and Christopher physically of all our ailments, that I was in the hands of what is generally callow the holy spirit, and I will accept that name, although it does not tell enough, since Christ Himself, the cosmic Christ, was equally present. I was shown name inscribed in the book of life, and I was shown the next world where humans go, to rejoin their Creator; I heard the singing of angels and saw the beatific vision spoken of by the Medieval saints. Possessing a memory going back thousands of years, and having seen the world to come, I understood that I had been placed here for only a brief part of my total life, that I had come from starry heaven and would return. Lastly, the entity informed me that the Savior would return, be incarnated again, although no date was given; but I was shown tha_ we should prepare for that event as if it might happen at any moment, and we should be constantly in a mood of joyful anticipa¬ tion. l was, at one point, taken back to the first incarnation, and saw the v.st Iron prison which was ——and still is— Rome, the physical presence of the evil spirit, the Prince of This 'World. It was shown to me that tina prophecies of the Bible are all true and are systemati¬ cally being fulfilled. The Parousia evidently is not far ahead of us. I have wanted to write you about all this for some time; for one thing I was shown old friends, now departed, such as Nick and Tony Boucher and Jim Pike, still living on, but not separately — they had become aspects of God. Again and again I have wondered why I was picked for these revelations, but can find no answer; a Catholic priest with whom I spoke said that the Holy Spirit favors writers, but that hardly explains it; there are many writers, perhaps the severity of my situation is more an explanation; let me tell you now, probably for the first time, that I was a tax protester during the Viet Nam War; I signed the Ramparts War Tax Protest Manifesto, and did not pay any taxes until the war ended, My objection being moral and derived from my Quaker background. I had not known that Christ promises in several of the gospels that if you are brought before the magistrate on His behalf, he will speak for you, lending you a supernatural wisdom and eloquence. Even though I did'nt know of that promise, I think in my it was kept - perhaps in all cases it is kept. I had not anticipated the Holy Spirit (who is also Christ) supplanting my human ego to speak for me, but he did, and I have never known a moment of fear since, only a sense of having participated knowingly in God's attack on the fearsome tyranny of the Nixon gang which pressed down the people of this country and proposed to destroy the very Structure of our republic. That l was given a role in the attack on this tyranny is the happiest thing in my life; that, and the memory of one year of dialog with the Holy Spirit, whos "still, small, voice" has a beauty which no man can imagine who has not heard it. I've told a few friends of my experience, but this is, after all, a secular world, and these friends thought I was either making it up or had gone crazy. My priest accepts it, and the experience contains hallmarks of authentic charismatic contact. That there is a supernatural realm I do not doubt now, having had it impinge on me, even enter me to do battle for me at the time of greatest thralldom in my life. I would not be here now had the Spirit not intervened. It shows the love of God for his children — and I was made to understand this, too, that we literally came from above the stars to this place, from God the Father to this world... a world which has fallen into ruin and sorrow and must be --will be-- saved Hy God's intervention. That intervention has already begun; in Portugal, Greece and the U.S.A. dreadful tyrannys fell, all at same time, as God acted; but what is more im¬ portant was the promise l heard, late one night as I was listened to the voice of the Spirit, when it informed me that "St. Sophia will be born again; she was not acceptable before," when I looked in my reference books to see who St. Sophia was, I discovered that she is the logos or the Cosmic Christ, or Holy Wisdom, the first emanation from God, and that she or he or it was the creator of the universe, its lord, and will one of these days be its judge. All this should inspire joy in anyone who hears it; it is the godspell, the good news: Christ has risen and will return, but this time not to be judged but to judge, and to free men for all time to come. The rightful king is approaching, and the iron walls of the prison in which we live will fall at the sound of his horn, and the sight of his sword, the sword of battle and judgment. P.S. By the way — my bloodpressure is now normal for the first time in my adult life: 130 over 90. I had it taken this week. - 4- p.P.S. The novel I'm sending you, DEUS IRAE, is not the new one which contains an account of my religious experience (that will he published by Bantam), but it does contain a few fragments which I worked in when l did the final revision. The mystical experience of Pete Sands which begins on page 30 is based on my own, as is the scene with Dr, Abernathy which begins on page 177, During my own experiences I was shown two worlds of unchange lying hidden beneath the veil ("Dokos" in Greek) that obscures reality; one of the visions was cf the iron Empire which is Rome, mentioned in the book of Daniel and in Revelation, and the other was the Holy Land or Garden of palm trees which Dr. Abernathy sees. At the time I saw them I was almost totally unfamiliar with the Bible, and did not recognize the Iron Empire as that which the two Biblical prophets saw. However, I did recognize the pastoral kingdom of the palm trees for what it was; it was the last thing shown me, and I walked about in it for several hours, enjoying it exactly as Dr. Abernathy does in DEUS IRAE. Evidently what I had been shown was, first, a vision of the obscure oppression dominating us, which God is relieving us of through the intervention of Christ, and then, second, the world which is to come when that obscure domination of evil is removed. The similarity to the Garden of Eden