bait that is forever. For instance, a missed opportunity could stem from ignorance + inattention; rising to the bait denotes nothing less than evil. the oppor tunifies are a form of teaching. All that rising to the bait teaches one is that he has made a dreadful error. This implies two distinct species here on this o 83 the bait planet: 1) those who are to be detected b ignorance (+ once identifies destroyed) + 2) those in who are to be assisted upward at every possible occasion. The latter group may lack good qualities But they can change. The forms are what the are + only detection is pursued. They must be weeded out. A very fine "Razor's edge" is involved in the bait vs opportunite: though they may resemble each other as tests they are in fact totally different in nature + purposes two totally different scales are involved. the bait is an either - or, the opportunities discern levels of goodness along a broad scale, perhaps preying on the weak, victimizing the helpless one, beard near infinited broad no resemblance to an inadequate good. By inadequate good all men are doomed of that is the criterion. But the inadequately good person can be taught, in contrast to the other category. (This would seem to make a case for predestination.) The bottom line of all my exegesis is not just (sic) that there is a God, but that he has plans for us, which he unfolds through teaching + guidance as our lifetime progresses. This induitable knowledge of 1) a plan; 2) by whom; 3) + then a sense of the contour of the plan, provides an absolute over all consciousness of meaning in one life this is not a meaning carved out, so to speak as a choice. it is not dedication of persistence. It is a fitting in place with - not a master plan - but the total plan in which all life is involved. The Parameters are murry, + deliferately so over the decades from no shape it takes a shaped then, layer by laber it is disclosed, one realized that only at the end will it be understood that 34 imparts a mysterious beauty to it - that + its enormous extensirness + space + time, + its fitting in with the overall plan. It stretches out into an infinity of time, space individuals, nations, + hence meaning. Its reaches are so vast that there is no possibility of comprehending it. The extra‐ ordinary interweaving, the production of this vast tapestry a smart boy hears a cow boy tune which fascinates him + rivets his attention, the tune becomes a permanent part of his memory; it is filed away, slumbering (latent) becames later he hears the fund again by his favorite singer. He has already had a dream in which she is driving him in a ehcle + singing to him. Somehow another world is alluded to. But what does hearing the song again after over yo years do? He does not know, but he figures out that in some way hearing this song again accomplishes somthing, ome part of the plan, which was deliverately set up at the time he was a child, it - the planner - knew then, in 1933 that the song would be heard again in 1978. But (as I say) the contours cannot be made out. Not yet. All that can be discerned is that some calculated + vast plan is stage stage turning from intention to actualization. by This is what it is: actualization emerging out of intentions an endless silent (!) dialog which never ceases takes place between the individual + God. Over + over again he - the individud-senses that something expected of him, that it is important + that he can do it. He would not have been chosen otherwise; God would ever, + this is somewhere between unlikely + impossible. to magine this would be to make an error so fundamental as to have missed the underlying point of it all. The prison the task or role can not be separated. To comprehend this + absolute indivisibility is to begin to grasp which it is aut about. The person is the note + the role is the person. note the "esse" verb. This is not a copolo in the scan of a predidicate adjective. (E.g. "the man is At") stating R + R=m reveals the astounding truth + i the nature of reality itself it is not a question of God's selecting a good or even best person for the fair or note. The person was created as the embodiment 74 is 185 the incarnation of the task; it is the task come to life like the Logos being the word come to life, the person is realing the animated embodiment of structure + purpose This - not that he has been selected as existing being the tak he cannot fail because through a mediating eitity (Christ, the Holy Spirit, St. Sophia) he is unerringly led through an elaborate series of actions, with himpart of it + it part of So a man utilized by God unfolds, himself, of the him task level of essence, as his task - + realization of his unfolds. He understands himself with the understanding of the plain + vice versa: i.e. to understand himself is to under stand the plan, + to understand the plan is to understand This is a form of self knowledge which cannot be grasped unless lived - when experienced one enters a huge himself. cave of quetness, at the other end of which stands the blurred figure of the evilser, as if, in a sense, a mirror-image reflection of the peron: he sees himself at the far end, far its, but his own self. The final mystery unfolds: it is he who informs + guides himself: he is himself his psychopomp, This is the last unveiling, the last secret. The impact of understanding must be beyond compare." You," he says. It is you + it was you back at the start - completed the task done - the guiding. The lessons - the veiled figure - is it a man or a woman - is it human ordivure, or a misture? I touched on this in "world of talent." Everything hinges on this recognition of being (esse the plan, rather their doing (or fulfilling) part of the part of In this respect it can truly be said that we are plan. "pobots acting on programmed instructions which ema nate from outside us," + it can be said that at the lower level there is blind causal determinism, but that blind determinism is subject to being overruled. This implies that ananke as chance not determinism. does play a part of the system, requiring correctents from a higher level. Perhaps the total system 13 86 ien amalgum between chance, determinism + sentient overrule, with the last of the true having the final say. That such sentience - derived correc s tions (meltings") occur is further - + highly convince + important evidence that there is indeed a plan. the final court of appeal knows, thinks, judges, + has power (although not necessary unlimited power: This limitation is perhaps, but not necessarily, implied by the corrections of sentience now + then Whether everyone is utilized as parts of the plan t have no way to tell. I can speak only for my I self, + it wasn't until 1971 that I first sensed mysterious + supernatural entities, persons + powers at work protecting + guiding me... in point of fact leading me step by step toward a predetermined fixed (necessary) goal. the 3-74 (more properly 2-74) experience, inc. the Xerox missive, cannot be understood unless the publication of "Tears" at last, is factored in I described a specific evil (prison) world + I showed, through Buckman, how the rigid iron framework of the world would have to be broken if it were broken, which was not likely unless outside help was brought to bear, which it was. (In the novel + in our world.) But the real truth of unequalled importance (+ secretness) revealed in the novel - which I did not know 1) that I had disclosed it; or 2) that it was true (I only found out after the novel was releaged, + almost preisely up on its release) was that it yielded up the following information not nomally discernable: that the true bedrock of reality beneath the spurious layers is that we live in apartolic times, specifically during the time of Paul + lure 87 This is quite a secret, + quite something to reveal: the actual time 70 AD the prob tem, Rome, + the solution, agapÄ“. As well as this which First was specifically absent during (at) the for the Advent but is on the contrary reserves second: Christ as King + the hosts breaking things. 11 through + killing the world (old) order of So "Tears" does more than depict the actual time + place (Rome CAD 70) + the new church. in addition it includes the King's appearance, + that is reserved for the second Advent. Well, then, does "Tears" depict the First Advent? or does it not more accurately depict the second blended somehow with the first, so that the two are one? The 2nd is the 1st one again with the addition of the overthrow of the world system - by the in-breaking of God as King. that someone decyphered the material in "Tears" is not surprising. That someone evil (perhaps because of the cinaterial + decyphering it) sent the Xerox missive is not so surprising. The truth, however, + its public disclosure, is certainly more important than a "backlash hit although that was grave enough for the divine to openly come to my aid + reveal its cil - but the truth - ex "Tears" - was coming out anyhow. What could I as add to the info in "Tears" that equalled it but it should be noted that my whate 2-74, 3-74 experience totally confirmed the truth of the revelation is "Tears" vice versa; they are of one piece. What I remembered 2-74 when I belield the Golden Fish is precisely what the stegenographic material in "Tears" states it the authentic reality (which, after all, is what I was faithfully trying to set down on paper 8 Se the 2-74 3-74 experience allowed me to 1) see what I'd put forth in "Tears" as the case + 2) it confirmed it. If I doubt what is in "Tears" or if it is so, I need only turn to 2-74, 3-74 on. If I doubt 2-74, 3-74 (which I will never do) I need only look to "Tears. The novels + their "Tears" is organically related to tend + stories which came before it, but they more more to ask, not answer. I think, though, there are answers in "Ubik," "Maze "Stigmata" etc than readily t appear. It is just that the essential pieces of the answer don't come until "Tears." The best approach is to take 5 or 6 of the novels prior to "Tears" + read them as a unit which concludes with "Tears." This seenes must But include "MITHC" + of course "Eye" + "Joint" only perhaps time slip." No real answer can be discerned before "Tears" - only hints + clues. This is why it was so vital to get "Tears" published. + with it ended the entire 27 year sequence of questioning + answer. The great dialectic is resolved in a ruthless. pitiless way, a way of total truth without mercy: we are living in "Rome" (meant here as elong-term Platonic archetype) + the authentic Xtians have been persecuted + driven into hiding by the police estab‐ lishment, but God is intervening now, + the old tyrannical system is to be thrown down this time, as it was not