didn't concern "Tears" as a novel, as a whole, but the encoded material in the dream scene? What of the cryptic message + the Xerox missive are linked. In the dream section, someone must die at the hands of a mounted posse of Knights in varicdored rebes. Is this a command message? If so, it is pretty heavy. 82 8 As in Plato's "timeou" the "steersman" (Artificer) intervenes to correct diift - a drift toward anomie perhaps, periodically exertinr pressure on the develepn artifact. This is the adventitious overruling from time to time that involved me in 2/3-74. It is exactly analogous to the occasional firing of sets in a space craft to minutely correct its trejectory, only this "ship" is moving through time, not space But the artifact does not quite exist, as does the artificer, since it is in constant flux. it is never really there. t Hylozoism: the breathing animal the artificer affects it by thinkin about ot He invisibly permeates it everywhere (he does not move) The artifact is not truly there, because the artifice to it is not psyche to soma, but is rather Noos. i Thus the artifact is a form which Noös (artifucer) takes, but it is not his real form because he has no real There ot no real soma. form. problem: can we penetrate his disguise? First we must deduce or infer it (artifact) is a distuise within space + time this "soma" exists, but This is unreal. Space + time are arbitray calegones which thenselves are illision. We are seeing his thoughts The Q: "How does the ory became the manys te can be answered by saying" it doesn't 83 I have reached a dead-end in my exegesis - which by its very nature will not + cannot be surmounted It has to do with the fall, + resulting loss of Memory (+ complete loss of some faculties + a degrading of others (cf calvin]]. The cause of this fall is occluded off by its very nature. It is as if crucial memory tapes (as in "Maze") got erased; once erased, by the defi‐ notion of the problem, their contents can neither be retrieved Nou reconstructed. during my period of anamnesis I remembered back thousands of years - I even remembered coming here to This planet from the stars. But I don't know what caused the Fall - the amnesia + blighting of the pristine nature. I have no insight, no understanding, no clue te All right; we humans are fragments of the very God head that we seek to rejoin. (Salvidor Salvendus.) Did we blight ourselves intentionally? Or is it a punish‐ or a cruetly inflicted on vs ment, as genesis says? to (i.e. on the Godhead, by an adversary)? Did we want come here, or were we exiled here? the The vine (Christ) which was pruned (by God) + severed cuttings placed in a world where God is the Deus absconditus - to judge each of vs individually, to see which of us find a world lacking God to be suffin clent - + which of us, without intellectual ideation, Grieve the for that loss + miss our father + home, + yearn with greatest pain possible to return This is all I know; as KW. says the trail doesn't just peter out; it ends at a brick wall. The elegesis is a failure in terms of answering questions; foreach ansuer derived an even greater mystery is exposed. 83 We fell; we lost our memories; we are cut off from God - those faculties by which we apprehend him are destroyed or not functioning - plock, plock - weep for This separation... + not to know why it happened. We can never find God; he must find (as that litte paperback I picked up at the oakland airport says.) Oh God - hilfe. Ich bin so einsam. Wene Kommst du mem Heil? the work has failed. I neither understand nor remem‐ ben, + the Eloshim - gone from my sight, + silent I can't find him. Only when we rejoin + i are together will I know what the "erosed tape (concerning the fall) had on it. He will find me + at last I will understand I know no more than Xenophanes, + he was just about the first philosopher. + he said, "we can never of." know for sure, + even if we were right we wouldn't know Xenophanes: One God there is, in no way like mortal creatures either in bodily form or in the thought of his mind (Fr23) "the whole of him sees, the whole of him thinks, the whole of him hears (Fr 24) He stays always motionless in the same place; it is not fitting that he should move about now this way, now that (FP26) But, effortlessly, he wields all things by the thought of his mind (Fr2s) This is what I saw - Zebra or VALIS; but it was not I who saw - it was God within me seeing God outside Brahman + Atmen, I suppose. Only God can see God He wielded me, from inside me, effortlessly. 373 843-83 992-0937 guaid The above prayer was answed by my mistakenly reading the entry in the E of P on JocOR Boehme t Scanner: 1s to forge out of torment the rough-hewn shape" This is probably the happiest moment of my life t the I can say to this moment, "stay." Here is fallen black cat on my lap; I am listening to Stevie nicks on my stax phones - the Gollancz edition of "Scanner" arrived today.. They say it is a humane document - yes, their flap blurb word is document. "One of the most human documents they have ever read." Not the most sensational, but most human. "Its concern for people." It is a is beautiful book qua book. Jim westaway? Words on the back dust jacket. + what K.W saw - the link between my intro to "roog; what I did in my first sold story 27 years ago + in "Scan ner": voice for those without voices. The pain has left me. Even if it's just for a limited time I appreciate it What best can I do? Exactly what I've done. My voice for the voiceless. + - too - God answered my prayers re the exegesis. by leading me to Jacob Boehme. Somewhere between the truths revealed to Boehme + to me the correct model lies. The blitz as the urgrund encounters the lowest 3rd of the secondary (material) triad the divine agony at opposition between the urgrind 80 + physical nature, + the process - not of abolish physical nature but transmuting it. This is what I saw Zebra doing (which I termed transub‐ stantiation by a sentient plasmatic entity). Out of This transmutation of the empirical universe by triad the divine comes harmony between the upper (spiritual) + the lower (empirical) A German cobbler in 1616 + me - for him me the sunlight reflected from a pewter dish-for the Golden Fish ecklace, + in the light cast by Spirit the incarnation of the son (God as heart) its disclosed + the Kingdom (reconciliation between The two triads) achieved After reading about Boehme I can see why I was getting nowhere. My schema was naive - far too simple. specifically, material nature - its things + processes - progressively become more + more subject to God's will (which I perceived as a sentient modulation of causal chains to determine their outcome as part of a plan or Logos). I know from what I saw that this exercise of divine will acting on the material world is well-advanced. this is what Jesus referred to in the prayer" - thy will be done on Earth as it is in heaven." I witnessed it done on Earth; I am God's human witnessed. aised by him from the dead. I had to spiri tually (mentally) die first 3 8 The divine motive power - + wisdom - they are functional here [now]. In 1974 that wisdom (which is/was total) was exercised as partial power meeting the opposition of the entire mater‐ ial oscillation (Palintropos) cosmos, but that evidently. divine will prevailed, although only by a slight marain. I believe that the unique, crucial turningpoint came at that time (1974). As pragafically important as that transmutation or victory was (in it human history) more important was what revealed or illustrated: the slight but sufficient overvalence of the sentient divine will. What must be bravely faced is that the entire world or cosmos is not [yet] subjegated to the divine will - it stands so to speak at a 51/49 ratio between divine modulation + mere efficient determinism. Evil (death, loss disappointment + are suffering + illners) are not abolished (et] but very slighly tamed over + above their non divine "James-James" nature. It's like the trade balance of a coontry. Well, in the universe, in 1974, we passed over to a slightly greater export than import ratio - this is hard to accept, nature fights God, the design (e.g. DNA,etc) are not designs of the divine (the "natural theology" argument to the contrary). These designs are efficient-cause design (cf Darwin) + not teleological; they have no wisdom or real end-qual purpose - they are blind. We must al‐ ways keep in mind reality as process (cf A.n. Whitehead). It is one of progressively greater subjegation to divine purpose + arthority, which for us means rescue (salvation of the whole unto 88 - the urgrund is the abyss, or"+ when it Nothing collides with the byss (something) - it must transmute the something, not abolish it. The Trinity + higher + lower triads of Boehme may be extraneous (when Occham's Kazor is applied as principle), but there or not, what we have is the divine abyss transmuting material reality as a process in linear time. Where does the divine agony enter? Why? Before the incarnation? Isn't the incarnation The intrusion - the initial intrusion- of the divine aby ss into the mundane something? Christ said, "I have conquered the world. It was like an impregnation of matter (yin) by the creative divine (yang). But the divine will is thwarted; it encounters opposition (Boehme pointed this out). Matter has hysteresis (or inertia). Its entropic direction must be transmuted into negentropism - a titanic task possible only in a protracted process or series of sequential steps. The intruding light is rejected our problem may be that we have no comprehension of the inner necessity of sequence in this transmutation could our agony be microcosmic replications of the macrocosmic divine, with which we are (isomorphic; + 2 Actual fragments of, like bits of a hologram: intact Gestalts but dimmer" or less defined. The urgraund sought self-intuition. We as diminer bits have not yet achieved that self-intuition; hence, when we suffer, we do not know why. Up the hierarchical scale there is still suffering - even perhaps an increasing level of suffering at each hierarchical stage - but also at each ascending stage there is a quantum leap in a selfintuition which bestows (permits) greater understanding of why there is this suffering. At the top, the incarnated son (heart, Logos, etc, St. Sophia) knows himself totally knows totally why he suffers. It is due to the blity + The flash of the encounter between the divine abyss the something - which must be "overcome" (transmuted this is why Paul can speak of the whole universe 89 being in birth pangs." Here enters the cosmic aspect salvation presented in collosians. of There is one thing that indicates that Boehme's "upper + lower triads" must be retained as part of the model: it would explain why ➀ prior to 3/74 I saw no divine entity at work (Zebra); then did see it; the (3) didn't again. We can see only the lower triad (v. Boehme's system). By the light of The Holy Spirit