ourselves) recall what Paul williams wrote: "His multiplex view may (someday) be essential for survival. Look at the many theories t cane up with to explain now it loil at the even greater number of theories I've come up with the explain 3-74 (almost as if any one of them would do as well as any other, + all are regarded as equally true, although intrinsically very often mutually exclusive). ("A thing can be both A + to as the same time, depending on Either the context or the V.P.) (E.g.: the world is real/the world is not real, "change is real/it is not real" etc.) An interesting thought comes if one starts with the Hegelian view of God, history, human freedom + evolution + 83 Then believing all that to be true, goes from there to my 3-74 experience + not the other way. Immediately we as a find what seems to be a confirmation of Hegel's view literally true: we have an epiphany (theophany) occurric to someone (me) who represents the new but lives in oppression by the entrenched old. The theophany occurs, in which the oppressed van, and of the new is fold in so man words that the tables have been turned + that his time has come o not his time for defeat but for victory. All at once metaphor (if it was there) is gone, literal God replaces it. Religion + history are cojoined, as Hegel believed; if God can be found at all, here is where he will be found - + in my case, so it turns out to be. Imagine the excitement at discovering that your historic tire is being thrust forward into victory within the historic process by deity itself. It probably was not necessary in order for me to to my Job" (political acts) to have revealed to me the entire (llegelian) picture; this revelation was a gracious gift, showing how great his love + kindness to us are. How real it was to me: that panramic sweep of history + the "small gray-robed true church" toppling the grim iron walls to liberate imprisoned mankind - what an impression that made on me, that "big picture" for which I am so grateful. Both emotionally + intellectually I was thrilled to the core. What a confirmation for Hegel my experience would have been. Probably beyond any thing he could have hoped for or e jected I just realized: my "vision" was in fact the Dikos or veil or maya leaving, + me seeing the world in historical context the way it really is, as a process: a black Iron prison, + the history of our efforts is toward greater + greater freedom from this prison, aided by the "true secret church" i.e. Christ underground as historic agent. A terrible + long tem war was being waged between the oppressing + enslaving powers + the true Xtians. + then too I saw the artificer (Zebra, Logos. God) continually modulating processes to construct the future (world) out of the not-as-good past. 36 in a sense I saw that the only actions which mattered were historical actions: i.e. actions affecting this process. The purpose of it all was the unchaining of the man God (as he stames now he is only a fragment of what he can + will be eventually). We do not know how much we are held back (chained) because we have no conception or model of what we could be - will be. The incarnated St. Sophia is such a model. He/she is leader + model both, but us (not as we are but as we can/shill be) fulfilled as we advance up the manifold. Acc human history is God progressively becoming also man becoming. Is their confluence in this? Was not 3-74 state a God like state, at least compared to my/our normal one? The God within. We are imprisoned here + have forgotten who we are: Brahman descended & asleep. Is not the final emancipation one of regaining memory + original condition inc senses + powers. The God who is progressively becoming is us as collective us: each individual is only a "station (cell) in this vast sentient organism which is anaking + remembering (Brahman is waking up?). + no powers com hold him/us back, because outside of time he already completely is. He must have chosen to descend into his creation + forget; it must have been voluntary: as bhodasctra, to occupy no better place than the little coving. greatures, to share then fate, without even memory on his part of being different (so Christ says, "when I was hungry, naked, in prison, you did not." + they say, "But Lord, we did not know it was you." Neither did he, at that time) the process of him dwelling in his creation in forgetfulness is alo a process by which from inside he evolves - improves - this greation The deity I experienced was in process of becoming (i.e. changing - perfecting himself), had infinite goodness but perhaps limited power, although unlimited knowledge what we call history was the dimension (world) in which this fulfill ment takes place; man, by participating in history joins - it not at the very least on God's side - ther perhaps even meld. with God himself + is a subform or section of God. y 3 God is immanent; the universe (world) is his body. but he is greater than the world (Panentheism ) what is not God is not wholly real (acosmic Panentheism). Only God is wholly real but he is surrounded by a veil (dokos) of appearance, like - similar to colored lights given off as if he is an incredibly multifaceted perfect sphere revolving. all time (inc past + future) is present to God as a landscape of the now. He is very close to man hidden only by the veil. He is deus absconditus; the phenomenal world we see is projected by him, as it emitted However, he is capable of infusing (transsubstantiating). because of this a hylozoistic universe exists; it is it. an organism with noss governing it men can be made use of by God to achieve results within the historical process. In terms of human life the evolution of history is, as designed by God, toward greater freedom; this is how humans should view it but a switch in view point can occur during which men cease to view themselves as individual men at all + view themselves as micro - forms of God, in which case the goal is not human freedom, but recellection that they are incarnations of God, +, having remembered, can rejoin - regain their identity as - God the macrocosm, God has entered his own cosmos so that it is not only his body but a body enclosing him, in a 2 part process of emanation sustaining + final reabsorption, the last part begins with the restoration of memory that one is God or part of God; at this point the banishment is al ready ending or ended to thus remember is to have passed entirely through emanation, sustainment as distinct from God, + to have started back; all that remains is to get back - + this is the sole line of movement left ahead once memory returns; it is the final phase of a very long journey down ward + then "horizontally" + now "vertically" back up. on 3 what is accomplished by this is the penetration by God's mind (divine Noos or St Sophic) to the deepest (furthest) levels of his body-organism so, because of this he pervades it everywhere at every level, + it cannot be said of any level or place, "He is not here, + I have seen God penetrate mere objects (immanently); therefore see no problem in him transsubstantiating living I creatures as well, to pervade his physical extensiven ubiquitously. sponce I 4000! "so? EB: Anaxagoras" noos arranges overything for the best." This is precisely what I saw Zebra doing. EB. Russel at one stage in his career spoke of the world as consisting of events - whitehead made the notion of process central in his metaphysics." So I saw (3-74) EB: "It is wrong to conclude the existence of a greator rather than an architect... furthermore it infers that the being in question has unlimited powers, when all that the evidence seems to warent is that its powers are very great. I just saw it arrange, not create, but certainly in the best possible way EB definition of parentheism: "The description of a God who has an unchanging essence but who completes himself in an advancing experience." EB: "It has been said that the Greeks thought of the world as a vast animal" 3-74 certainly was a Greek (view] experience! (starting with Descartes it has been viewed as a vast machine) Kant said, "men have insight only into what they produce + what they can moduce are machines not organisms. His emphasison the uniqueness of the concept (of an organism, which he says is only imperfects explicated in the language of end, + purpose is particularly valuable" s 29) Hegel: "that which exists is not so much pure mind as mind writ large; i.e. the universe is penetrated by mind + exists for the sake of mind, + it cannot be understood unless this fit is grasped. Hegel didn't ding there was an independent world of nature but nature was there for mind to master it, + in So doing to discover itself. The "I-thou" situation: I & not-I. very good - to refute Berkeley + Leibnity "Human affairs can be understood as it were, from within (as collective (human) mind at work. But not the universe qua universe Hegel says, however: No, but human affairs + the universe can be thus understood. "The world of nature for Hegel is in one way independent of mind: it's being is certainly not its being perceived. Nevertheless, it is relevent to mind in all sorts of important ways: in providing a setting in which mind can act in constituting an obstacle that mind can overcome in presention mind with something seemingly alien in which it can nevertheless find itself insofar as it discovers nature to be intelligible... By transforming the natural scene men make it their own [like the world of human affairs] they cone to know what they can do, + Thus what they are. "Reality is a single self-differentiating system, all the parts of which are intimited connected; it is spirit expressing itself in the natural + human worlds + coming to consciousness of itself in so doing "EB: "The extra t ordinary fascination of this strange but remarkable type of philosophy" t the frequently experienced sense of the unreality of familiar things + the presence behind them of another order entirely" (Platonism) Hegel: "It is not maintained that mind alone exists (as in Berkeley + all thorough Idealis) a universe most be astrated material things are, in me way, taken to be as real as minds. The thesis advanced is rather that the by it. universe must be seen as penetrated by mind, indeed as constituted Spirit is the fundamental reality + everything that exists must be understood reference not lither as directs explicine in spiritual terms or as prefiguring or pointing forward to spirit Hegel had little or nothing to say about epistomology. ( + was not concernal to put forward an ontology. What he wanted to urge was a doctrine of first principles a thesis about the terms in which to understand the world, The Hegelian "reduction" of matter to mind was thus reduction in a somewhat attenuated sense, it is impor - tant to get this point clears"! ED: "Whitehead thought of "the primordial nature of God! as a general ordering of the process of the world the ulti mate basis of all induction + assertion of can, a "conceptual prehension: that functions in the selection