ider that this world is fake, a mass delusion, a stage set. Stage set outside, fake memories inside: actually the same idea. In his world Christianity existed but it was only underground, small + illegal. They were killed on discovery. Lurther clue is the world depicted in tears. the original track - black iron one. Was similar if not identical to it This clue indicates it was contemporary, all right But look: suppose some other people had retained or recovered memories of the black Iron world. They read Tears + recognize the world depicted, they think I know (but consciously I don't) So, cautiously, they contact me. These are people I never had any contact with before. I receive then cryptic letter. PKD of this "improved" time track has no understanding of what this cryptic letter means, but - the personality formed in the Black iron world knows (he masterminded tears + knows what's in it - he knew all the time + was terrified it would be deliberately destroyed because of its contents. He knew "the right people" here + There would know what it meant, esp. The dream: that that version of our world was "killed" (destroyed) by God. N For hing tears was a message about the original world by one who remembered to others who remembered, which is to say, knew the truth - the incredible truth not just that we originaly live in a worse world but - most impotat of all - God is reweaving the historical past to improve our lot, + is still active doing it (which should give the present authorities something to think about - i.e Nixon). That is why the dream section is absoluter vital to the message - in fact it (esp. "Felix" - be prosperous + multiply: his command which underlies the reweaving). But suppose, as K.W. pointed out, what about those - in authority here + in Russia who were in power in the black Iron verse + who not only yearn to see it back but deliberated model then regimes on those lines? I think the Xerox letter came from them, + I dident understand, but my not-I self - he knew, because He knew the significance of tears in the first place + feared this exactly as he feard the Romans there were intriguing hints which he had put in "Stigmata, Ubik, Maze faith? etc) to which the soviets, via Lem, had already reacted with interest, This too is the Gnostic revelation. The black Iron world is the creator's (J-5's) original creation - a dreadful hell, like nazi Germany (Hitter evidently knew this + deliberately tried to restore original black Iron" conditions here). Another better God, the real God, intervened - this was the divine christ intervening for us (I got a glimpse of what it would be like - is or was, whatever, like - without him the stance of the secret Christian, in the black iron world showes then ferocious entity towne 5-3's world, moligated in this, partially saved world - but over there it is absolute + undying mutual opposition. So the other God, the good one, has been steadily reweaving 3 3: universe - as I saw noeti cally: the 2 forces interacting dialectically. What a secret hinted at in books + stories of mind. 2 The Gnostics knew that this world (of lacking interven tion, which is true of the original "track") is absolutes evil + without merit. What merit there is was laid onto the original track perhaps successive layers of reweaving An example is the removal of Nixon, which, as always, goes without recognition. Constant tinkering is necessary; I guess without that it reverts back toward the original track. The Hindus saw the original track but formulated their theo logy before - + in ignorance of - the salvific (for this world) reweaving. It will not be just the final end of creation which will be omega, the Kingdom, but throughout its entire linear-time track length, from start to end. to sum up: God through Christ the Logos (wisdom) is continually improving what was initally a bad world, + we don't really it because as soon as a section is improve our memories conform to the improved versing + via lethe we forget it was any other way. It is a dialectic between him as savior God + the original greator demiurge whose attempt was awful. However, he occasionally permits or causes some people to remember previous, bad conditions + to see reweaving (interventive changes) being made, perhaps in order that the truth not be suppressed aling with the evil. This, the true God, is love + kindness, a gentle gracious deity from whom no death, disease or evil ever comes. Thus our world is (as Augustice saw) a dual composit mixture of what he called "the city of the world," which is 855 original world, + "the city of God, "which are successive layers of his reweaving. Gradually this salvific reweaving dlong the entire linear track is augmenting the good in relation to the evil: the ratio always changes toward great good - at ever time period. This is what I saw (but dis not cinderstand) when I saw the (re) weaver using the huse pile of dissaw puzzle - like pieces where are this world as is to build a structure of his own - a for better, ever perfect one I saw this furiously fast reweaving - + I saw the luminous God-stuff penetrating everything (immanent in it: Brahman); he reweaves J-3's construct from within invisible to us. He is here. He will never desert us or be far off; he has penetrated into the core + heart of J-is creation, +, as Jeramialy says, "it fashioning a new heavers + a new Earth, + the memory of the old things will not enter the mind nor come up into the heart." It is all said in that He contually effaces the pain + grief + troubles, wipes away our tears + It is true that in my case God lifted the veil + showed me 1) The previous, worse track we are already extricate from (+ how buried memorie of it have shaped me + my writing) 2) More intervention at this time to improve this track. 3) The Logos (God) reweaving constantly. 4) The first Advent: the primary intervention, its importance 5) prophecy of the 2nd Advent. 6) visor of the Garden which is the goal of his work 7) vision of the blind genous demiurge who greated the first trank 8) immanent God himself within all creation 10) The dialectic strife between him + the original blind greator 11) The beatific vision: final reunion with him 12) Memory of my coming from him originally 13) restitution of my other personality who lived in the previous track. 84) the voice of St. Sophia, my hearts delight. by showing me the Palm tree world he showed me that the last reweaving is yet to come; we are only part way there at this point. I saw what had been (worse) + what would be (perfect + I witnessed the current reweaving re Nixon, which is not our past but probably is somebody's past (the future from that junction point in time on). why was all this shown to me? Well, the handle is of course my alter ego left over from the previous track, + I know now that he master minded my writing, so had he been effaced there would be no writing, it must (as Father Adams said) be for the writing i So evidently the whole revelation was latent in me from the beginning of my life. Once tears had been published there was no other possibility than that the other persona lity advance to the surface, to handle the reaction to the material in the book which he knew was to come (+ which I could not anticipate, understand or cope with) considering the terrible world he had had to cope with. my other self had no difficulty coping here, although he seemed a bit over zealous + Ruthless, but certainly effective: in comparison to me he could handle everything. During his life in the previous track he must have handled difficultic, I can't imagine. (Look they even caught him + caged him underground, + he still snarled at them) this was a beautiful world to him, but many tasks remained for him to do (e.g. against the CP Soviet, + letters to wiggens gloom + hopelessness is a state persevering from the previous track; gladness an anticipation of the next. -I've read up, + Augustines division into two cities is not cosmological; it divides people into two groups, + is a symbolic divism into the elect + the damned. So out goes that theory. Or I can keep the then, + claim it as my own. The dea of two superimposed realities which we can't separate perceptually + yet that seems to be what I saw (the set ground discrimination: God or of -God elements embedded as information withing the data, distinguished by the red - Gold thread - like luminosity. Maybe I misunderstood correctly. i.e. I altered his theory to fit my facts. 3 If my other personality - the "Rome" one - master minded My writing - inc. "Impostor." "Stigmata," esp. "Ubik" (probably also "tears" - it doesn't seem, except for Tears" to be in any kind of Rome, ancient or modern, but to be related, as some seve divine entity to the world, sub specia aeterni tatic: i.e. trans-mundane. Oh yes: "time out of Jaint; that's the me. A fake reality; + he has body reflexes connected with the real world (similar to the "dogs he + cats she" + the car's ar vent). Written in the fifties! A big clue is the fact that me t acid both times. I abreacted / broke through to using - speaking/or writing latin - which enormously validates the "Rome" abreaction" time break thro in 3-74 - lative always, no other place-teffe - languade by the way: in the "colosscum cage drea." I didn't necessaril die; all I really know is that I was imprisoned. The lateral fulfilling axis of Christianity, not linear (in our linear time), but intensifying laterally along an axis we can't fathom (i.e. the layer of intervention howing orthoimally, greater + greater like a light of the world blazing up more + more. (F Boe thus: "For God all - our past, present + future - is a present now dh, a clue - Ubik" contains ancient world knowledge (i.e. pre socratic cosmology) but if Greco-Roman culture contined un broke in a "paralled" (orth this could also be contemporary world. view. If I turn to my writing to learn the answer I should turn to "time out of joint," + the message there is: he had just come from the actual reality, + the apparent one is not really real (rather than both being real; it is the one his body remembers that is the true one. His body learned responses are the cle ness. to this, leading him at last from the "dream" to "wakeful 8 Thus in "Joint" I begin to view the apparent world, this world, as dream (maya). Howear, "Joint" also says. He lives at a different time than the apparent time of the pseudo, fake construct world (i.e. I didn't once live in Rome C AD 70; I have been there really all this time; it is really c AD 70 [Kighs now). A conclusion I'm not prepared to accept. Just slightly after the first Advent, + awaition the seconds what if I abandon the concept of linear time entirely (deducting for my "Rome" experient that there is no such thing as linear time) + view this in terms of ontology - of varyin degrees of reality. Instead of saying that Roman (in more accurately apostolic time is more