the toilet cleaning. 7 So the federal "neural Ophasia" clinics, it is implies are ( worse; + ➁ they put you to work there. Arctor is a loser but it is the federal authorities (via Donna + mike westaway) who put him there. Donna supplied him + others (e.g. Freck) the 5D As I realized about the cover of the paperback of "Scanner" it really shows the dealer + law officer as the two halves of one person, with no hint of "warring" personalities: visually, they Gestalt into a syzygy, two sides of the same coin. Your dealer is a cop. Your cop is a dealer. I feel as if the scales have fallen from my eyes, + Jam seeing lucidly. From "Frolix 8" to "Tears" to "Scanner": a logically progression of an indepth study of Jail, tyranny, dope, slave labor camps, + irreality related to lies (this last point mostly in "Scanner"). Something of this seems hinted at in "Faith. of our Fathers," too: lies, delusions (induced by drugs), tyranny. What is shown in "Scanner" as the lies - enslaving- tyranny axis is not simplystically identified as "the Government" as it is in "Tears" + "Frolix I" - in "Scanner" it becomes paradoxical + elusive, with the Gov. Perhaps or evidently producing the drug, + The clinics + rehab centers perhaps or evidently being deliberate slave labor camps. The drug is there; the work camps are There; the feds are alluded to, but - the reader must unravel The puzzle for himself. If it isn't the Gov, who is it is not the definition of gov "that which is actually in con trol"? + the makers of 5D, which turn out to be the slave labor camp owners, are one + the same; it is a de facto govern ment - like the mafia, + look: why are scramble suits necessary? crime (the mafia? Identified as dope elements) have penetrated the authorities deeply. As is said again + again in the novel. "all is murked over." Things are not as they seem (as is t 78. always the case in my writing. Arctor is not what he appears to be. Nor is Donna. Nor barris. Nor more westa way. Nor new-path. The sides cannot be clearly drawn as "Good-bad" or "us- them," or even "pro-dope - anti-dope." one further point: the author's note begins with a bold, clear, flat out unequirical statement that. This has been a novel about some people who were punished entirely too much for what they did" - which comes as an abrupt shock because then it jells in your head that, at the new Pyth farm, "which he can never leave" Bob/fred/ Bruce is really in Jail, is being punished (that is what jail is: a punishment for wrong-doing). Jail is always something which the authorities (i.e. government) has as its weapon, as its disposal, + only government - there are no private Vails. in fact, government can be defined as that social entity which judges + deals out punishment for wrong doing. New path is the FLC of "Tears" +, in "Scanner" as in "Tears; we have the girlfriend figure posing as a doper or criminal or street person but who actually works for the authorities undercover - + has a direct relationship to the Ele Also, in both books the police (authorities) seem to be or are the Megrs + source of [the] drugls). when I wrote the author's note to "Scanner" I meant, by that opening sentence about - being punished too much" to refer to the effects of the drug - but, when read at the end, there, it more seems to refer to the lifetime incarceration at the new path work camp. One big clue is that Bob/fred expected a Bonus (in pay) for what had happened to him, but instead his superior, Hank. Fined (i.e. punished instead of rewarded) him, saying, in effect, "you did wrong." This is how the man views things. Bob/fred as wrong-dooes, not as fallen casualty or hero. 70 The issue of freedom vs enslavement, although clear as the issue, has a mysterious element in regard to (1) that which enslaves; + (2) how it does it; + (2) in what way; + (4) why. that a dialectic antagonistic bipolarity exists is evident. That the bipolarities were involved in me in 3-74 + that freedom won, + that this decisive victory was the salvific work (action) of God or Christ - that is evident - but victory over precisely + specifically what? I had the distinct impression of a sort of "punched" computer tape within - intrinsic - to me, which functioning in tandem, synchronized (as Leibnitz discusses) with outer events. This total system by virtue of the (a-causal inner-outer synchronization gave the appearance - illusion - of a cause + effect relationship between me + my environment. that things happened + I decided how to react, but that in fact I was in some mysterious sense reacting in a vacuum that is, what took place externally was not the actual cause of my response, but that my inner tape was the true cause of my reactions or rather actions. If all this be so, then the entere outer reality is relegated to the merely spurious insofar as we anyhow, are concearned - however intrinsically real it might be for us it is causually fraudulent - as in "the Electric Ant" in which he finds he's an automaton self-programming himself via an inner tape - but he did not punch the instructions on the tape + thus, despite all appearances to the contrary, is enslaved by it. to solve this mystery I turn to two areas ) Animal instinct-systems, which are known to involve DNA programming (e.g. what salmon do - there even being a strip of "tape" being a "now die" instruction code) - + the 2) the view of the human as a giant robot (construct, artifact means) which the genepool (DNA) creates in order to perpetuate itself, not the "giant robot" which does exactly what his DNA programming compels him to do, without him ever being aware that these command do not constitute his volition but are adventitious to him, despite all subjective impressions to the contrary: i.e. that 0 "wants" to act out this or that; + 2) These instructions - commands - function, not to protect him qua him but to serve the gene pool DNA whose slave he is... ultimately this programming will in fact order him to execute himself (cf berne's script analysis theory). It has been proposed (e.g. leary) that the current evolutionary quantum leap for man is for him to gain self] control over this DNA command-programming + hence become free or anyhow freer. but in 3-74 I felt totally displaced as the volitional guidance center. I felt control ursurped, reducing me to an automaton of its wishes; +, initiating this eerie experience, I evidently had been signalled from without (the Golden Fish) + previously inhibited neural circuits had begun radically + massively to fire for the first time via the induced drastic drop of the circuit inhibiting GABA fluid (i.e. what I saw as phosphene activity). Q: Were my 3-74 Acts, then, those of a hightened freedom? A: obviously no; quite the opposite. Evidently that which customarily operated subliminally (outside of conscious awareness) radically peaked + entered awareness. The difference was not in what was happening but that due to the extraordinarily up-amped magnitude, intensity + importance of it, I became aware of it. Is that an increase of freedom? Also, it was working to save me; it was acting on my behalf (although it may have had other additional even more important goals in mind). Or was it a volitional override by someone - not me, of the DNA coding? After almost 4 years of pondering I say, two progammings were at work: 1) The DNA which is blind striving to persist + which uses us as mere means - vehicles for its perpetuation without regard for our interests as living individuals; + (2) a conscious salvits entity desiring to save me as an individual, quite the oppose from the goals - + means - of the DNA. But this view falls apart when I note the GABA drop systems disinhibite within my brain acting to extricate me. 8 the over-ride arose from within me - from previously dormant (latent) circuits. How is this to be explained? surely not in the above dualistic dialectic bipolarity dualistic terms. What I can absolutely clearly see at work is the good, the wise, the salvific. As to that, there is no veil for me from 2-74 on, + no confusion. But as to the enslaving adversary: it's unclear (to me, anyhow). I see God, but not that which he triumphs over, except that ine my case - in 3-74, it looks to have been physical death itself. Maybe the normal DNA programming system merel proved to be inadequate for such an exceptional situation - as when Harvey went over the rail. Higher systems than the usual were required if he was to survive + make it back. But the victory was not over evil, just noos over ananke. we are pawns of God, but an infinitely loving God, who will not stand by idly (cf my scott Apel interview re pat conley + the stairs) "to see what deeds men are doomed to do. I have presented with clear - cut salvific deity, but am bewildered by its opposite (the world) which seems both unreal + imprisoning + perhaps formless. Is it plan (cosmos as structured by Logos) us - what? The Gnostics believed that when the divine sparks have all left here + returned to the Godhead. This world will cease to exist. Am I seeing an element of non-existence in it already? of course, to clearly know the divine is preferable to knowing the nature of its opponent. Perhaps my Taoist application (one true God equated with the Tao - two dialec tically contending yin + yang subentities, etc) - maybe ther is a good reason why I can't discern + equal + opposite principle to God: there is none. Strife + love, as Empedocles saw them are subsumed by the One (the secret partnership with which Joseph Campbell mentions.) t 6 Thus Gnosticism is right in their view of God totally not found in nature (creation); only the 2 contenders can be found here. But God can directly intervene, as he did in 3-74 historically + specifically in my case. That is a direct God - man two element equation in which world is eliminated - I the world is thought of as an artifactual closed system, nothing truly can happen within it that is anything more than the sum of all its efficient causes. But this is not the case, as I discovered in 3-74. The sum of all the efficient caused in my life had led me to doom; thereupon God introjected - from outside the world a sua generis phenomenon; this view is one in which "Thomas" is viewed as literally created, rather than his presence being a transferred one to me from elsewhere. There was no history (prior processes) which could have given rise to or could account for Thomas, which accounts for the miraculous quality I felt about him at the time. Taking this as an example of the continuous creation which goes on, I can see how God Acts to modulate history. Arranging (joining pieces together in new combinations - Gestalts) accounts for general emergences; these new emergencies, however surprising to us, are nothing more than the total sum of their efficient causes, their histories, + are the work of The 2 dialectic contending demiurges. But if this were the whole story, the universe would cease to grow, + entropy would inevi tably win out, as our laws of thermodynamics show. However God's introjections of the historyless