we are programmed to experience that world qua world! Perhaps this is why this inner-outer "tape" can be perfectly synchronized: the particular world isn't even really there. The "world" is just really a bundle of info-rich signals fired at us, like colored lights. Well, this just bears out Parmenides' contention that form II (what I call realm II) is not real. The collapse of my inner identity may have led to the reciprocal collapse of the analagous outer world. Another identity came from somewhere - but where? 2000 years ago, Rome - but strangely, the world I wrote stegenographically in "Tears". There is another world but - it's like plugging in replacement modules. The absolute link between inner identity + world must be understood; the two can't be pried apart. Then if I tamper with my identity I can switch worlds - we are yoked to world, not the world, but whatever the analog world is. Then Zebra can generate a world by generating the identity, + identity -if we start talking about the soul- is considered a fragment of God. Theology supports this "soul-identity" concept. What must be ascertained is whether Acts is a world (among worlds) or the world. The the world theory would be easy to handle - the a world theory would less easily explain "Tears," although with effort it could be worked in. The a world theory leads to chaos, to nowhere. I sense that this is a matter of divine discretion; it chooses to supply the world of Acts for reasons but is not limited to it, as if world binds God. What we have is pattern recognition based on memory. You cannot identify Rome if you cannot remember it. Two things are required: 1) internal enhanced memory (anamnesis) 2) the outer Gestalt. (to be recognized). It is evident from this that either (1) or (2) alone would produce no results. Rome could be staring you in the face, + without enhanced memory it might as well not be there. Suppose, then, it has been there all this time but memory was lacking. If, then, memory were suddenly augmented, Rome would seem to appear (ie the Gestalt would be recognized), as if it had just now come into being. Thus, the most economical theory to explain my seeing Rome CAD 70 in 3-74 is to say, "it was there all the time but I lacked the long-term memory by which to recognize it." Thus the tinkering could be limited to the inner me, + world left unchanged. But world is stigmatized as having really secretly been Rome all along concealed by our ignorance. The Rome -world of Acts- is the -not a- world. Anamnesis is the crucial change. I now state: whatever + whenever the world of "Tears" is, that is the true world. If it can be shown to be the Rome of the time of Acts, then Rome at the time of Acts is the genuine (but normally unrecognized) reality. (turn to p 73 Scrupulous study of "Tears" convinces me that it is covertly Acts, but, in the novel, glossed over by a modern overlay - exactly as it is as our reality. The form-axis "reversion" of "Ubik" (the onion model) must be looked to. "Tears" is a special (particular) case of the devolution of "Ubik." {illustration: a box "World of Acts" (Realm I real timeless) is connected to the boxes "Tears" and "Our World" (Realm II irreal temporal) which two are also connected to each other} Rome is often stigmatized as the personification of the Satanic power. So if Rome is really there, then Q.E.D. the Satanic power is there (behind it). This explains why I saw also the illegal apostolic Xtians undermining it. By my figuring, I could not have failed to see them, too. "Tears" is more important than 3-74 although for me 3-74 was more important subjectively. "Tears" is the vital information. My experience (as I've said before) is what an awareness of that knowledge can produce. I am an example of the "product" of my own book properly used. But the Golden Fish sign was also necessary. Here enters the true secret church, + the "Charfreitagzauber." The crypte basis of the world of "Tears" is Acts. The crypte basis of our world is Acts. Following the reasoning of Parmenides I deny reality to our world, to "Tears," + affirm it for Acts-as-world. In this respect our world = "Tears" but only via Acts. What "Tears" shows is that Acts can take a plurality of modern day forms + yet remain what it really is unchanged (ie by contrasting + collating our world with "Tears" we can see the constant: Acts as substratum). I did not see (in 3-74) or write about in "Tears" or remember in 2-74 a modern, contemporary extension of time of Rome, but rather Rome of the time of Acts ie the distant past as true + real + secretly here. I saw the "early Xtian" first, + remembered. Then we are indeed asleep, + our reality falsified. We have been made to forget; the Golden Fish reminded me - did not just enhance but restored my memory. + just how long-term was it really? Two thousand years? Or - I think we have an irreal "spinning" time involved here, a duplicity. Rome CAD 70 is directly accessible to the senses upon restoration of true memory. The entire power (presence) of world over us is broken by Christ via the Holy Spirit + Holy Wisdom. We suddenly see things as they are. It is a correct aspect vs a false one. My false identity was not stoutly enough made. It crumbled in the face of truth; the dream ended + I woke up. But they awakened me deliberately in synch with the release of "Tears". Then "Tears" is important. Are we talking about long-term memory or rather correct memory? Long term is correct. Yes, I recall the anamnesis as being long term. Long enough, for the pattern-recognition to take place; but this brought about a recognition not of the past but the present (ie Acts is now). (I did not remember Acts; I saw Acts). I identified it correctly, both in my world (in 1974) + later in "Tears." People + events. I did not just "remember" the secret illegal Xtians fighting Rome; I remembered, "I am one of them." It was an "us." We did not profess (witness) openly; we had secret sacraments, + secret signs to recognize one another. That is very early. As the girl said: early. We still used the fish sign, not the cross. "Our reality is falsified." 1) Some spurious data are fed to us. 2) Some vital genuine data are denied to us. The result: we can't see what is there, but instead see something else. So two changes must occur: 1) cessation -ejection back to ground- of spurious data. 2) Augmentation of the "stripped" (purified) Gestalt by the missing + essential data. Result: Rome CAD 70 appears. These two processes are achieved in the individual viewer, not in world. So no one else sees any change, although they are aware that unique + enormously important historical changes are taking place. I forgot this: the historical "modulating." Of USA 1974. Apocalypsis. Release of "Tears" synchronized. Heavy + exciting. The tyranny in "Tears" fell, + so did ours. Through the conversion of Buckman - Paul. Victory over Rome, not in linear time (realm II) but in the real time of realm I. We have to assume an enslaving power who deludes (falsifies world). (Supra p. 14.) "Tears" is one such world, but the outline of the real landscape shows through. __ I just realized: the substantial core of Acts material in "Tears" -without which there wouldn't be enough to speak of Acts material in "Tears"- came as a result of the dream: ie Paul's conversion + the conversion of the black man by Philip. Without that, 15-16 we are really left with a police official named Felix, and a character named Jason. Not enough. And the dream, the conversion (melding of Paul's and the black's) were manifestly revealed to me: both dream and what Buckman did as a result. In 1970 I knew that was no ordinary dream: and it had to go into "Tears" plus the scene at the gas station. Beyond any doubt, the divine power was acting on me. Getting that material into "Tears" - for openers, to create the Acts stratum, plus the code word "Felix" juxtiposed with "King." (the dream.) 1) So I need not keep asking how the Acts material got into "Tears", and 2) it is evident that the divine power wanted that material in the book - which dovetails with 2/3-74 etc: almost certainly as a covert communication to persons unknown to me who would know what it meant. Felix (Happy) King is here (who appears as the ancient of days, and Christ in revelation are pictured) - who is this Happy King? The outward serious form give some clues; but "Felix" must be crucial. I guess Zagreus/Christ, but whatever King he is, the message is, He is here. Broke into our time and world. Felix culpa? (Christ) to Felix Rex ------------- 1) The Happy King is here. 2) My novel "Tears" was used as a vehicle to announce it covertly 3) A month after "Tears" was released I saw him: Zebra. + doing what the awaited King is supposed to do: pull down "Rome," the tyranny. (etc) So the message in "Tears" ratifies my 3-74 experience with Zebra. ___ Could we suppose the false, limited memory to be specifically edited so as to exclude the template "Rome"? Or is the template merely added (ie it was never excised, just lacking)? In any case it is added. The object which the template fits is out there, + without the template we can't recognize it. The giving the template is a crucial gift, nobly salvific; with it, all falls into place. But, to stress this once more, it is Rome CAD 45. Staggering. As I say, it's like in "Tears" - the ancient is gilded over with a modern facade. "Tears" is a textbook showing how this can be done. Is done. ____ It's been a long time since I've written about the set-ground discrimination I experienced in 3-74. The template would draw Rome CAD 45 forward as set - a discrimination impossible without it; all would remain as ground. This in effect is what I did later with "Tears" re the Acts material. One could speak of a signal unscrambler. Then one could speak of a scrambler in the first place, a signal scrambler. (Eg the word "Felix" came forward as set, when I was de-occluded.) I should not say merely, "I saw Rome CAD 45" but rather, "I saw the antithetical confrontation between Rome CAD 45 + the early secret Xtians." It was an activity, as well as a thing (Rome as thing). That this activity exists could explain why we don't see it: the thing uses a tactic of concealment to preserve itself. This fits the "replicating virus" theory of Burroughs - I would say as Gestalt, as shaping (+ certainly as functioning). It has a life cycle of sorts. It is an organism. But, again, is time spurious? The temporal accretions are somehow not quite there. Yet Rome is there, all right. Ah! It penetrates (pervades) the accretional layers, like electricity through iron. Now, I saw Zebra penetrating matter. Rome, too, penetrates matter. I call upon Berkeley + say, it (matter) is not truly substantial but a so-to-speak medium, through which the 2 antithetical realities (!) contend. Then both Rome + Zebra (my God!) are trans- or supratemporal; ie of a higher reality. Zoroastrianism. Qumrān. They are both transtemporal constants. Then the temporal accretions are simply "onion rings" penetrated by the constants locked in blow + counterblow. To neither of them is time experienced as linear. Then