life if I could become honestly tame (meek); my soul is at stake. I want + need God's help to learn how _not to resent_. God speaks to me c. 3:00 am "because of the ***** layer." This, then is technology; I am transducing a - or something _like_ a - RF signal. So again we have signal + info - technology dealing with info processing. + he is the creator, but the folder 22 - 012 folder 22 - 012 12. really real; it's he who impinges on us, not world. I have isolated + defined at last the death-dealing streak in me: it is rebellion. I am wild, + would be tame. (Meek.) I recapitulated our original sin: rebellion, which is nothing more lofty than resentment I okay God to break me, sincerely. I have cut through all the layers + am down to the primordial core: strifes, nor love; thanatos, nor eros. One can go no further. It is killing me, this primordial evil in me. God help me. Erbarme mich, mein Gott! Oder ich bin verloren. ___ Zebra is superior to world, capable of "melting" it; this either reduces world to something like mere illusion, or elevates Zebra to the level of lord. I had drawn the former conclusion, but now I see + draw the latter, instead. However, to recognize world as illusion or "hologram" is an indirect way of recognizing the absolute reality - supremacy - of Zebra, whose absolute existence I never doubted. This should have told me from the start who Zebra is: "I am he who causes to be." That he weaves the hologram was evident to me from the start. Still, I see a technology involved. But before that I saw immanent deity. I think I was right. What about Zebra as invader? God, maybe transcendent in-breaking into his own creation! For the historic events of 1974, as stipulated in folder 22 - 013 folder 22 - 013 the dream in "Tears": Thought (Satori): Dedalus + the maze he built + got into + couldn't get out of again - at Crete. Myth of our world, its creation, + us? My dream about the elevator, the poem reciter, the plate of spaghetti + the trident - Palace of Miros + the _maze_: clue to our situation? Well, then in my writing I figured it out: It was an intellectual, not moral error. This would explain the technology! (ie Heaviside layer. Pink beam of light, etc. The meeting) My books (+ stories) are intellectual (conceptual) mazes. + I am in an intellectual maze in trying to figure out our situation (who we are + how we got into this world, + world as illusion, etc.) Because the situation is a maze, leading back to itself, + false clues show up, such is our "rebellion." There is something circular about our situation. Esp. involving our occlusion! By our efforts we can't think our way out (i.e. get out - reverse the original intellectual error; paradox is involved now). This is the clue! The occlusion would then be a function of the maze; its internalization. Perhaps we created the maze, occluded ourselves + entered it to pose ourselves a problem, like working out a chess problem. But what is Zebra? (1) A mind outside the maze helping us. (2) A device we built ourselves to assist us folder 22 - 014 folder 22 - 014 if we got hopelessly trapped. (3) The Mind of maze itself; the maze is alive. In (1) + (2) Zebra is an invader in World (i.e. in the maze). So no true time passes. World is an artifact. Because of the occlusion (inc amnesia) there is no way we can figure out our situation. If we were not occluded we'd remember where we are & the trapped-ness would end; but - I, they, we voluntarily accepted this condition or fell victim to it. Zebra gives us accurate answers. But only if we ask the right questions & have figured out the basic situation. Outside the maze, time & space do not exist; we are our own Savior (but another way, he is us). The master became the servant, & the servant the master. The Horse's head is God, a failsafe info processing device which would remind us of the true state of affairs if we fell victim to our own servant - & we did, & it ("God") cryptically reminds us. Like "Eye" where there's a mishap & they fall into the Bevatron Beam, & fake worlds are created which exert compelling power over them, of delusion. "Falling into the Bevatron Beam" equals our fall into the power of our own maze (artifact or computer). Satori: we wanted to see if we could create a convincing world ("ape of God"!), but we had to be sure we could get back out if it seemed convincing. So it was a revolt, & the "horse's head" may be the true God, & not our construct - or it may be a construct by us, I'm not sure. folder 22 - 015 folder 22 - 015 The irony is that if we were successful, if our world were convincing, we would be trapped (by it). Then we must have hoped it would be convincing + we would therefore find it real + hence be trapped. But we could not take the risk of this situation being endless; we had to build in the "reminding" voice which we now regard as God (+ rightly so, since it is transcendent to world). (God is the sole true reality -in contrast to our irreal world, + the sole think breaking in from outside. Like in "UBIK.") (Everything else we experience is part of the irreality of this delusional world.) (This is why it is a "low, murmuring" noise, + not close and loud.) The technology of Zebra is the technology of a superior construct-entity firing help + info at us in an effort - successful - to extricate us from our own trap; we may well have originally equipped it with this technology, put this technology at its disposal. Herein, our highest efforts, skills + knowledge were put - + for a good reason. After all, if this construct-entity failed, we faced being stuck here forever - in terms of the unreal time unrolling seemingly here, to which we are subjugates[sic]. The above system fully accounts for 1) My anamnesis; + 2) Zebra; + 3) the acosmism expressed in my writing, in particular, the awareness of self as a God, felt in anamnesis. The postmortem experience assumes a new meaning in this system. It is escape from the maze, folder 22 - 016 our real goal. I "remembered" (ahead) getting out of the maze - this world- finally - i.e. after time present lifetime. Which is a return to my pre-maze condition in the pleroma or upper realm: The sole link with which is Zebra. Zebra is God; the abyss is the Godhead or true ground of being or ultimate Noos. There seems to be a difference. Zebra is God as Being, but the abyss is non-Being, The Void. My personal escape may be due to intellectual reasons, since our fall was originally an intellectual error, so to speak, a test we were running to see if our world was convincing. We were playing with fire, as the saying goes - seeing if we could construct an ideal world (counterfeit) which would fool even its fabricators: The supreme test. Our nemesis was to be successful + hence, by definition, fall victim to it. This shows up in "Stigmata" in the taking of Eldritch's drug, + in "Maze in plugging voluntarily into the polyencephalic fusion. (But the "Persus 9" on their arms served to remind them.) In "Maze" they ask the tench what the words "Persus 9" mean, + the tench blows up, revealing itself to be - not an organism, but an electronic computer - + then the whole landscape comes apart. This was their pre-arranged bailout route. Eventually they were bound to hit on it. + finally the building itself (Walhalla) disintegrates, + they all grow old - i.e. the Gods grow old ! They are Gods! folder 22 - 017 folder 22 - 017 A careful deconstruction (comparison with Wagner's "King") shows that 1) they built the building - which is to say everything; +2) they are the Gods themselves. Only the intercessor comes in "from outside" - even into their ship the Persus 9 ("But we made you up!" Wrong; He really exists adventitious to their spurious - i.e self-generated - world which they entered + which foils them. Then in essence 1) I became aware of world as irreal (i.e. a maze) + 2) through God's help, found my way out of the maze; + 3) realized what I had done. I am now free at last: "One by one he is drawing us out of this world." The only thing which is real is that which comes from outside - i.e. God (or Zebra + the AI voice) - not part of this irreal world: This is why it sounds so far off. [afterthought on the righthand side:] Martians Come in Clouds The Eyes Have It Beyond the Door Withered Apples Not By Its Cover Since the totality is a hologram, each micro-bit contains the plan or form of the macro. This plan or form is what is meant by "the Logos." Zebra is not part of the maze but an invader into the maze (v p. 13/14); like its AI voice it is from outside + not subject to time or space. It camouflages itself with the maze. It can melt the maze (overpower it locally). To link up with it is, for us, to encompass the meaning + magnitude of Zebra - who is more than all the world (i.e. the maze). We have in it a friend, a helper of Godly stature! It transcends the entire world (maze), is real, not irreal - folder 22 - 018 folder 22 - 018 The novel "Maze" gives clues to what Zebra is: The computer T.E.N.C.H., aboard the Persus 9. Zebra is this very "computer," actually lying outside the "polyencephalic fusion" world, speaking from far off to us in here. But it is here, in camouflaged form. Yet, there really is no "here"; we are stationary "back there" as in "Ubik" etc. Zebra interrupts the "dream" with its low, murmuring voice: A voice not in the dream, a voice from the "awake" world. The "melting" of the hologram is in a sense an illusion because nothing [real] is melted because nothing real is there in the first place (which is why Zebra can melt it). I resort to my "two source" hologram cosmogony. Perhaps the macro brain which I saw is the real world outside the maze (hologram-world). Or: It is the cause of the hologram-world, the "lasers," which are in fact pure info. Macro Brain then equals Persus 9, or the floor of the Bevatron - or esp.the info breaking through in "Ubik" - this info is not just from the real world but is the real world. There is an actual basis for our irreal world, + that actual basis is information (which we are caused to hypostatize); the info is the traffic of a computer like (cf the Tench!) entity. But it so to speak lies outside our world. However, Zebra has invaded our world in its camouflaged form, to assist us. Through Zebra we are linked back up with the macro brain; it's as if Zebra is a mobile extension of the macro brain within the hologram created by the macro brain. The melting, then, is a sort of dissolving of the hologram by a form of its own source. Thus in an ultimate sense Zebra does not override but just [accelerate, accentuate], or, so to folder 22 - 019 folder 22 - 019 19.