is: did, during the colliding + overlapping, the superimposition - did St. Sophia re-enter our world? She could be here as discarnate spirit (plasmatic energy), to be born again. Seeking - so to speak - a suitable physical body. (Or bodies, plural - in which case wouldn't our temporal world be suddenly annexed to the supratemporal? The will of Ho on injected into us? We, turned into paradigms of the Lord, acting out roles in a timeless sacred drama? A drama of the arrival (breaking through) of the king, his judgement (negative on the world: it must die), + out of its death through the alchemy of grief, love, (agapē) is born + victory acheived. Then the verdict of the 1st Advent is overturned. He who was unfairly judged now is himself judge + destroys the world qua world, revealing it as a simulation: its power - the BIP - over man is broken. (i.e. the deterministic matrix is shattered + man liberated - raised to "discretionary" level. Man then outranks the angels, who are part of the yin system. The coercive power of the world is shown to be illusion. It can no longer compel our assent to its existence. Another, timeless world breaks through, dispelling the grim reality of the prison - a garden replaces it. He who sees the garden replace the prison is freed of his karmic burden; he can rest. Thrall has ended. The layers of successive reality have peeled off - delaminated - one by one, paralleling the other process of lamination: 2nd Advent over the first. A one order of reality is dismantled another is laid down, replacing it. That Ho on could dissolve our world + generate another in full detail in place of it would seem impossible to people. First, they would have to come to terms with a radical epistomology in which world is mere brain - simulation + programming, an inner-outer agreement which gains our assent + hence power over us; that that power could be said "no" to would make no sense to them. Proof of its mere simulatedness arrives as another world replaces it, abolishing naive faith in the substantiality of world - any world. But what is gained as faith in world is lost is awe + respect for "He who causes to be" who is appropriate can be effortlessly generated in complete detail, much to everyone's surprise. In the process Ho on can be apprehended, at last (cf my ham sandwich model). The I-it relationship changes to an I-you relationship between two minds: the lesser one of man's, the infinite (?) one of God. The lesser mind is raptuously taken up into the greater mind; it has found its dear long lost friend again at last, + recognizes it. All which was lost has been restored. The lesser mind remembers searching for thousands of years. It recognizes that its perpetual sense of the "Fremd" is due to this separation. This is why nothing ever satisfied it, why it was always a restless wanderer with no "fixed abode." Rome c AD45 is no more real than USA 1974, but it is the appropriate world in which to transact the essential remaining business of the Christ drama. Acts is where it left off + Acts is where it resumes interrupted. There can be no ellipses in the story. If there is - if the last part is deferred, for instance 1,900 years - prophecy + promise are not fulfilled. Christ is the nexus, the mediator, between the 2 realms; in him they meet + intermingle. They met + intermingled in 1974. Then Christ must have been there. VALIS is therefore Christ, who extends equally into both worlds. He is deity poured into our world, + man crossing into the next during this lifetime. That should answer the question as to the identity of Zebra. It is the Cosmic Christ, now vastly extensive, in time + space - no way for me to tell). My remembering was connected with his remembering. He is the Cephalos of the supratemporal entity which includes the living + deceased faithful. This is where they go upon death: into the Corpus Christi as functioning parts. + this is what we are being trained for (the balking or discretionary stage of evolution). The road is an Imitati Christi: a saying no to the BIP, the coercive power of world, so that that one is bipolarized to it + hence aligned with God. Unless a person separates off from world he remains a slave (what I call an android, merely obeying DNA signals). i.e. a reflex machine. Not yet fully alive. Yes, the term is machine. The early Xtians were well aware of this, + of the fact that it was through the Holy Spirit + only through it (because it was the Discorporate Christ) that they could be liberated. When the Holy Spirit infused one of them he could perceive his inner-outer programming + break it. Without being able to perceive it at work. There is no way to break it, I guess. It is the inner-outer programming which determines which space-time world you are going to experience - + keep on locked into all your life. Then the Holy Spirit, as it aids you in breaking your programming - you would be able to see your particular world fade out + another one fade in. This would be proof that the Holy Spirit had succeeded.➀ + this is exactly what happened to me: USA 1974 faded out, + Rome c. AD 45 fades in, in its place. I've known for a long time that the Holy Spirit broke the hold of "astral determinism" over you (inner - outer programming) but I had not realized that this "Astral determinism" goes so far as to even determine which spacetime continuum (world) you believe you're in, + see! World as a products of that inner-outer determinism programming. So my experiencing another space + time (world) is a crucial clue to the success of what happened to me - my extrication! (From the "tape".) So the Holy Spirit decisively breaks the power of world over you - in fact, the world you've known is temporalily abolished! (+ replaced by another.) After that the simulation - nature of world will forever be clear to you. What is revealed to you as real instead is the world - generating mind Ho on. [Diagram] is another sign for the Ajna Chokra i.e [Diagram] But the ajna also represents the double Helix - i.e. gene pool memory + hence control over (DNA) programming. ➀ + that your world was spurious - a simulation / interpolation. ---------- voice: "You (i.e. the surface PKD personality) + the alibi are both equally expendable." (does alibi = world?) (Yes, the false, simulated USA 1974 world.) I deduce from this, then, that the Rome c. AD45 world is real (which is why it appears in "Tears") + USA 1974 is an "alibi" to conceal it. The alibi [kw] + are are looking for is the very world we seem to be in, + the true story is Acts. ---------- Voice: "I go to AD 45 Rome when I die" (meaning me) then Rome AD45 (Acts) is not a past life but a future life. + why am I going there? Because it is real. These worlds have to be regarded as stories, narratives. USA 1974 is a spurious one to cover up the real one. This view revives the interpolation theory. My going to go back to Rome AD45 later fits the vision I had of Zebra moving retrograde in time then in 3-74 the personality charge that overtook me was my next - not former - self. In a sense I moved forward in time (along my axis, not the linear time axis). This is why I had those post mortem experiences. So in 3-74 I mentally died. This bolsters my belief that without the intervention I would have physically died - I must have occupied two world tracks at once: the one in which I lived + the one where I died. So I was indeed "on the other side" - it did star with the Bardo Thodol journey, + then I saw t (while awake + in dreams -) + heard his voice. But po I had to return to this life (world). I was getting double, superimposed image. The Golden Fish led me o of this "alibi" world + into a -or the - real one. M hea while the spirit took action, through me, to insure my s o vival here. So finally the vision of God, heaven, + my o incarnation faded, along with the Thomas (next) personali Eventually for me USA 1974 will have been nothing more than a dream. the next life must be already stored, like a future sea of the programming tape. My tape ran faster + faster, t passing into the post morter segment + the next life. ba my death was aborted, back at the time I saw the t My inner tape was running ahead of (before) the outer wor (which is why I reacted to the Bradbury stimulus in vance); the inner + outer were out of synch. I just kept t ning faster + faster - as witness the accelleration of my thou processes, at the time, at night, prior to the Xerox missive, w he recited the mantra. The inner governer got screwed up. ta by the was, vitamins + lithium. The phosphene activity signalled the moment of passage over. Then I died. Thomas replaced me. Zebra tinkered w the situation + restored synchronization (so it was in a real sense a malfunction which had to be repaired") Zebr o through me + around me altered the situation so that I didn't die. But it was close. There were alternate worlds being set up anyhow. In track A I did. Zebra repla it with track B - in which I lived on. This would constitute a malfunction - my tr running fast + me seeing (experiencing) my next life as I say, I'm moving backward in time t i 9 o t The Holy Spirit breaks the "Astral determinism" (inner outer feedback programming) + USA 1974 dissolves so as to reveal the world of Acts. Then USA 1974 is merely a simulated world (called by the voice "alibi world"), + the true world is that of Acts. Why Acts? The last period of the scriptures, the time of the paraclete. I am there + have fallen asleep. This is diabolic sleep now, a fraudulent interpolation. (cf the magician + the sheep.) When I saw the Golden Fish sign I remembered. I awoke. So, having broken the "Astral determinism" that help one in thrall, the Holy Spirit has brought about the "2nd birth" the spirit birth, in me; it has freed me, + upon death, I during this lifetime I could only glimpse, + temporarily. I am freed from spurious time. + this world occupying spurious time. The whole experience starting with seeing, the Golden Fish + remembering has to be regarded as a waking up, actually a being awakened (by the Holy Spirit as it broke the sublunar yin power + thus dissolved spurious world). As a matter of fact, if "Astral determinism" can be defined as coercive world power over you, the ultimate power would be to compel you to believe in its reality, + the ultimate breaking of astral power would be to abolish the world utterly. This is just a logical extension of insights + knowledge I've had before the ultimate coertion is one of perceptual + cognitive assent. The extent of coertion is entire; remove the coertion + the world itself dissolves, much to the liberated person's surprise. But something has to replace it, or the brain would starve due to sense deprivation. The true narrative is picked up where it left off. No - I