did I get the 2-74/3-74 experience?" Back to "Tears" - but a partial, rational answer is evident (which was not before): "they" wanted the good news published, + I got picked as an instrument - i.e. the full source for 2-74/3-74 can (I see now) be found in the total content of "Tears" - + perhaps back to "Ubik" as well, if not other [cpi]. Perhaps my whole "grand theme" preoccupation is validated hereby. I just realized: my above reasoning about why +when I had the 2-74/3-74 experience proves (I am too tired to explicate it) by reason of the external disinhibiting it) by reason of the external disinhibiting stimulus (Golden Fish) proves, I say, that a deliverate active mystic hidden Xtian group or church exists - + if this is so, + it is, then I know my book has an informed - by it - audience, + what it tells them (what in 2-74 was told - here "told" equals "reminded") but for then it was indeed the signal I knew it to be. (i.e. die Zeit ist da.) So (6) + (4) dovetail, + (3), the "St Sophia" prophecy, ratifies both - we have triangulation. The novel, the experience, the prophecy. + in using the term "experience" re 2-74/3-74 I am not stressing the vision of Zebra, even! Just the Rome - anamnesis. What we have here is validation - not just of the reality of Christ - but the proximity. These - this - are the perturbatinos in the reality field referred to. + I must never forget, as long as I love seeing the keyword "Felix" (+ it did turned out to be the key to the ur-narrative) outlined in gold, even before I knew what it intrinsically meant as a word, not a name, let alone the whole message - i.e. the good news. ---------- It's interesting: the elements found in both (4) + (6) are complex + in many ways contradictory: A) There is the evil huge looming prison (Rome) B) The anticipatory joy So in both the book (when fully explicated) + in the 3-74 anamnesis we have a virtual festival of celebration in the very presence of the huge iron prison. There is the sense of bubbling good news - but observe the landscape! It is totally ominous. Like a spring rite in from of a Kz. Yet in both (4) + (6) it's so. Dread + joy intermingled - a strange combination. Dread at what is, but joy at what is happening (coming). Clearly these are antiphonal themes. The prison has been "blown up" - dealt a death blow - we are running from the scene in glee. We are saboteurs, in some way. Frequently the last scene of "Fidelio" occurred to me: the sound of the trumpet at the prison gates, in "Tears" the theme of "Felix" enters (is disclosed) at the height of "Pentheus_ - the grief + tears, just as it's transmuted into love. Clearly, Xtian magic➀ (transformation, the essence of agape) is involved - + then the "mysterious backfiring" of the framed trial, the exculpation. [Diagram] Buried "past life" memories → produce "Tears" in 1970 Buried "past life" memories → produce anamnesis in 1974 [/Diagram] But: the 1974 anamnesis was set off by a specific external disinhibiting stimulus over which I had no control - the same month "Tears" was published! ➀ of course - chai freitag zauber: Tears to joy v. page 101 Negative hallucination, which I lost temporarily in 3-74 but regained (inc analog memories). The truth identical to the coded message - news - in "Tears." Christ returned + we can't see him. But what the hell is the BIP? The source of the negative hallucination? (+ more - the whole evil power or being or entity. It's a prison. Are we in it, or just near it? K.W. talks about the gravity of a black hole which warps all to it. It's a construct made out of metal. Rome epitomized. But not just secular Rome - Rome, rather, as the expression of the dark power, which took over the Xtian church in that juridical structure (v. E.B.). The whole penance, sins ledger, which the E.B. says became the basic relationship between man + God in the western church (cf Paul's "Romans" letter - barf). The lie that man is sinful (culpa). Aha - again the exculpatory news, here involving man: "he was found innocent because in fact no crime had been committed." Mankind in toto exonerated, which perhaps implies the great assize. Yes - did the old king judge, + exculpate us all? So in truth we are freed but can't see it. The whole motif is one of emancipation. i.e. successful salvation. Q: Why should the good news have to be encoded? It must not only from the ostensible message of "Tears" but from what we are told generally - i.e. the exoteric theological narrative of our civilization. What immediately occurs to me is the BIP motif, + the need for secrecy of the true church. The BIP, its enemy, holds power, + the secret church is committed to demolishing it. There is a dialectic bipolarization between them. What is the BIP in term of what we see? And of what we see - or is it totally camouflaged? There is no exoteric verbak interger which represents it, nor any knowledge of it in our experience. We do not know it exists if we do not know of the good news as its defeat. Something warping + evil we don't know of has been defeated by a group secret to us, with the result (unknown to us - hidden from us) that Christ has or will return. All 3 elements - the whole narrative - is occluded all from us okay. 1) The BIP is imperial (ancient) Rome. 2) When I was de-occluded (verifed by "Tears" I saw it here now (+ the secret early Xtians overthrowing it - the secret message being that they had + Christ is or will be back). 3) Therefore - ?? A) its actually cAD70, B) Rome won out over exoteric above ground Xtianity, but a secret underground true church, unsuspected, still collapsed. D) Negative hallucination - Christ returned + accompanying this event the Xtians won. (Note: D + B are mutually exclusive). E) It's a fight between (B) + (D), + our world is the arena. aw fuck it. I offer again the 3 layer or "two secret truths" theory. B + D are both true. But D is more true than B. As I a long time ago said, we are going to have to deal with propositions that are both true + not true simultaneously. Along these lines, (B) lost (D). Down with Aristotle's logic. Tied in with the defeat (sic) of the cross is the defeat of authentic xtianity vis-a-vis Rome which is a success. Defeat = victory. That's the only answer - lass mich ruhen Christ won by being defeated. Because in Realm II (lower) everything is a mirror opposite of (actual) reality (i.e the upper realm). We have to remember that Realm II isn't real: it's a reversed reflection. So to lose here is really (Form I) to win. So if you know this, + you're operating in Realm II, you, ahem, seek to lose (here). The authentic Xtians have solved the logical paradoxes of Realm II + know what strategy to employ. Viewed this way Golgotha can be understood (by me, at last) as a victory - + why it s a victory (mirror opposite of Form I). "Tears" represents this true story about an awful prison world - in which Christ has won + coming back. B by its very nature "converst" to its opposite D. D is the true story of "Tears". Didn't Pat Warrich say in my logic y = ȳ? This fits Joe Campbell's "secret partnership" of Seth + Horus in the supratemporal Realm (I) Q: If Rome + Christ are antithetical, pitted against each other, is "Tears" an account of Rome's victory or Christ's? A: Yes. Q: Is a dreadful secret disclosure or a sublime one? A: Yes. Q: Is a dreadful secret disclosed or a sublime one? A: Yes. Q: Is the news good or bad? A: Yes. The early Xtians, taught by Christ (the logos or world reason) were the first group to solve this 2 or 3 level problem + act accordingly game plan wise. Neither this (B) total victory by Rome or (D) total victory by Christ against Rome is known to us. While both of the above are true, what we see is not. (A sort of co-existence). This makes sense, because it is not reasonable that God would settle for the middle- of- the-road vitiation which we see; it is absolutely that contend, + absolute solution (resolution) called for. This clears up the problem I saw at the 2000 years of the church gone mostly wrong - e.g. with wars of mutual extermination + persecution + ignorance, etc. Christ would anticipate all this except it isn't so. Let's start out afresh. 1) When I wrote "Tears" I did not knowingly include any elements pertaining to 1st century AD Romes. It was a totally imaginary future world. 2) The month that "Tears" was released, I saw a Golden Fish sign + asked what it was. I was told it was a sign "used by the early Christians." At once I remembered that the time was the first century AD in Rome, not the 20th century in the USA. 3) One month later amid various unusual subjective sensations, I experienced 1st century AD Rome as present + believed myself to be an illegal secret christian, with code signs + sacraments such as I later learned were used at the time, I also dreamed foreign worlds all of which turned out to be the koine Greek used at that place + time although I did not know this. I believed that Christ had just died + would soon return. I felt great elation. I was shown the word "Felix" in "Tears" + understood it was it was not a name but a key code. I did not know what it meant. However, I looked it up + it means "happy" or "prosperous." 4) When I described "Tears" to my priest he said that a scene was very like a scene in Acts, which I had never read. I then read Acts + found many elements common to "Tears." After 4 years of studying "Tears" I felt I had fully extracted a stegenographic message from it. "Tears" was in fact set in 1st century AD Rome. I can prove it re the Acts material. The message, deeply buried, is that Christ has returned + we can't see it. Instead we see a fake, delusional, other world in which 2000 years have passed or appear to have passed. I did not put this message in "Tears" or know it was there. The Roman world I saw the month "Tears" was released is the actual world in "Tears." Unexplained are: If I did not recognize the Acts (biblical) elements in "Tears" when I wrote it, how come I properly identified them the month "Tears" was release + I found myself in that very same world? Why didn't I identify that world as the one I had written about? These questions bypass more obvious questions which more naturally arise (such as, How come I found or believed myself in 1st century Rome? etc) The questions in para one are more astute than first appears. The questions - one question actually - is formally phrased as: "If you can identify y, why can't you identify y?" (The world of "Tears" is - cupola for equals - 1st century AD Rome. When I saw 1st century AD Rome I recognize it. Call it y. I could upon seeing y recognize + identity it. Y is the