St. Paul; seeing by reflection; why, the title itself, and how it is expressed in the final version, in the text itself! Even COUNTER-CLOCK WORLD could be included...a continual stream of messages, all to point out the approach of the Parousia, which evidently I see more and more clearly. And have seen, in book after book. - 2 - Now, take what Eric was saying about the American Founding Fathers and their belief that history exactly repeats itself, and their study of it, esp. of Greece and Rome. Suppose a great 2,000 year cycle has turned so that we are superimposed over the First Century A.D., as I saw (following this idea, Vico-like, about history). Again we are back there, but it is now, too. Rome One and Rome Two superimposed, as in a film montage; but also, the First Advent and the Second, with this time the Christians unseating the Prince of This World (the anti-Christ). So to speak, they, the Christians, learned from history not to repeat their mistake that lead to the cross. The Second Advent could not occur until the great cycle rolled round to a reprise of the First Century A.D., and that wasn't until the Nixon Administration, with RMN as 666. The Christians literally couldn't try again until now; there had to be the superimposition, Rome Two. Conditions had to be topologically superimpose-able. They could not defeat the "Great Harlot" (Rome) until Rome literally was restored by the cycle of history. The first time God (Christ) entered history (to use Harnack's phrase) he did nothing to change history or the world system; he just demonstrated His reality, his presence & existence. Then, murdered, he went underground. This second time, He has come as King and has changed history; defeated the anti-Christ who sat in the citadel of power. The key word for what I saw in 3 74 when I literally saw Rome around me was transparencies. One over the other, as they congrued. There is just no way to cut it otherwise; at his first advent, Christ did nothing to change man's lot, or history, the course of empires, their strength, their hold. He was a spectator, powerless. But this time: vide THE BACCHAE. Also vide HAMLET and the strange dallying to seize power, to make his move. Well, the key answer is, The time has to be exactly right. "Remember, Hamlet says, "The times are out of joint." I.e. not right for him to make his move and seize power.) I think for us in 1974 the times ceased to be out of joint and became right, and it happened. Every minority revolutionary knows that, about the exact moment. Eisenheur knew that about D Day. We may be talking about a relatively weak force 1 The holy wisdom side or entity has never had much mekkis type power; this made timing super critical. This world is or rather was in the grip of the adversary; it held power. Evil had to centralize and concentrate in a citadel, to be overthrown, at least by such a mild (meek???) force. These are holy men (restored men) with holy powers; they aren’t going to take over with tanks and canno and armies in the physical sense. I could tell back when I knew Kathy . and Stephanie that something —a battle— was shaping up. Vide my "masks off" dream in Vancouver, and also what I wrote in my Vancouver speech. The battle was going on then, in 71. * * * The manipulation of a single ontological category —time— would make possible all the events of the Parousia, and man himself (i.e. Dr. NK) is experimenting with this. Superimpositions, loops, cycles, meldings, montages, etc. Thus the dead return, all is restored, and, of great importance, the battle between the two opposing forces (good and evil or love and hate, whatever) are at last ended, and the oppo¬ sites reconciled (lion and lamb, etc). The dialectic strife is resolved. This per se would probably abolish time as we comprehend & experience it. For it is this dialectic (cf Empedocles) which probably produces linear time. in Taoism the contending forces (yang and yin) produce all change. theY wfii^e to reconcile, or as in Christianity, there is a victory by -3- one ever the other (roughly, yang or life or love or attraction over yin or death or coldness or decay). Form One of Parmenides: the dry or fiery principle. What kind of world would we have, then? Quite different. I saw (3 74) the two contending forces. I think a victory was scored by Form One (Christ), but was it the victory, or only one along a developing (evolving) process? (See intro to Slavanic "Secrets of Enoch.") Balance of contending moral forces struck for one day (or 1000 years, after which (sic) time is abolished). Note: balance, not victory by either side: balance. Or: palintonos harmonie. That there is another (eternal, i.e. outside of time, unchanging) universe (Plato’s real world) I am certain, by experience, but whether its "will" or nature will superimpose on this world eventually, literally enfolding it, I can’t figure out (Augustine versus the literal millenialists). I ask: do we go there (as Augustine figured, to the City of God) or does it finally come here? ••• The obvious has eluded me. The left hemisphere, processessing and experiencing (perceiving) digitally, experiences linear time. The right hemisphere, working on an analog or pattern basis, experiences either another kind of (non-linear) time or else timelessness itself. I somehow (3 74) extinguished the left-hemisphere self-system (ego), and obtained, not bi-lateral hemispheric parity, but first the annihilation of the left-hemisphere self system, but then the coming into full firing (via the w.s. vitamins?) of the right, which many men have sought but few have found (the Mantra must have helped). And thereupon the universe was seen inside out, and time flowed backward! Viewed inside out specially, and flowing backward temporally, entirely new gestalts (patterns or entities or forces) were visible to me, as if one had suspended trying to read Hebrew from left to right and abruptly read it (properly) from right to left, etc. Since left-h. linear time, as is scientifically known, leads toward entropy, then I saw movement toward the formation of growth, or entelechies. Of the assembling of chaotic parts into wholes. Not only that, I saw saw the assembling force (the Logos) and the counter-force as well (unnamed), these two forming, I think, a dialectic of strife as Empedocles expressed; perhaps the Logos was above both (which twe then could be viewed as yang and yin, etc) and made use of their interaction and contention to build with and on and by means of. But this only visible from right-h. apperception of time flowing backward, and the special properties reversed as well. Left-h time apperception sees flow and change, evolution and process, but not the constructs of the process, since the process (which is real) is viewed in the wrong direction, as a decomposing one (like a tape or film run habitually backward). To the left-h, things pop into being in time and then pop out of being, meaninglessly, going nowhere; but to the right-h sense of the process (reversed), assembling, and toward a goal, is clearly visible. The goal is total assembly of everything into a single entity, probably a totally stable (palintonos harmonie) gestalt or kosmos. But the con¬ structs or gestalts being formed — although the entity at work operated in reverse time, those gestalts lay in our linear future. it was "writ¬ ing backward" to arrive at cur terminal end. 5 26 3345 hellane E.B. "Brahman is the creator, ..., or transformation of recursion of everything. Brahman carries the ....of all Beings to emanate from itself, transforms itself into the universe, and assumes its ... "God is the sole cause of his own modification; the emanation, existences, and assumption of the universe." "The universe is considered a real transformation of Brahman, whose 'body,' consists of the conscious souls and everything unconscious in this ... state" "The Lord, having determined Good and Bad deeds, provided all individual souls with a Body in which they perform deeds, revealed to them the scriptions from which they may learn the duties of life, and ....... them as this internal regulation. The individual acts at his own discretion but meets the Lord's ascent. " ..... 2 nowhere, except in Brahmanism, do I fires a descrip tit of the immanent all prevading disure stuff which I saw as the living force of causality, shining on the faces of the animals in the trash of the gutter in the stars - always in + behind, + subjectively experienced internally inside myself as an instructing tutular voice of that which was aware + seeing the divine without which (ay behind the phenomenological world; viz: "Brahman transforms itself into the universe or assumes its appearance?" Because of maya we are fooled into seen the phenomenological world as real, but, as I saw in 3-74, there is nothing there but Brahman "who assumes (the various) appearances. Here + here only do I find an explanation for what I saw: in 3-74 I stopped hypostatizing, + there lay the divine stuff in place of why thing. The they were gone; the it shone throughs from what had been high, low, me, not me small carge, important trivial. Liberation, not theoretical but actual. This is the universe organism which I perceived to be the macrocosm alive + unitary. Also it is belicued in Hinduism that all this is personified - by vishws. If by he who is called Vishnu then we com call this Christ - the personification to the western world, in terms of our linear-time cultural oneels + v.P. All I can say at this point is that I saw this because the Atman in me is identical with the external world: the (my) projection machiner turned off dering my descent + integration - it (maya) was involved in the mainterance of the phenomenological world, so that departes, briefly, but for long enough. So I encountered: 1) The Atman (inner divine possessing personality + guiding voice) 2) Maya - I knew it when it left 3) Brahman - which the Atman saw ubiquitously outside 4) + my Roman life memories point to transmigration + 5) my deed vis-a-vis the Xerox letter points to Karma. All the major elements of Brahmanism! I 1494-21 Logos deprint My new religion turns out to be the oldest known. "The Buddha is in the park" may not have pointer to brahaminism specifically, but it did point to a trans‐ supra- Christion divinity. B: "the veil of Maya prevents a man from remembering his true origin + purpose." Wow - then indeed the veil of Maya was forn away for me in 3-74, + not just in regard to the presot phenomenal world, but as to my true origin + purpose. EB: "Maya means wizardy (as well as illusion"). It goes away when the empirical (?) ego goes away - which, as I have long realized, is exactly what 1) happened to me in 3-74; my ego died (was annihilated, abolished This was a tereying + painful experience - I hung onto it - but look what came as a result! Inner transformation + Gnosis (inc. anamnesis), outer awareness of Brahman I may have lost my family + my gieffrent but I I have seen Brahman, + linked up with it. As I realize 8 on my last acid trip "sum Atman Dei" - for dues" real "Brahman" - partial anamnesis may have occured - did occur then: even a correct word. Therefore I am liberated (in the Hindu serse): Brahmanism teaches that such knowledge (enlightenment) determines that, upon death, one will not be reborn - on the wheel - but will go to Brahman - i.e. be reabsorbed; this is the part I dreamed of the adorable void my God + home. I got a