it is more intelligent + self-sufficient; more free - more alive. As a life form it subsumes not only all other life forms that we know, but even incorporates into itself dead or past lives. It transcends this entire realm + binds it into the other (next or higher). Despite its secular enemy, the totalitarian state, it is destined historically to prevail (come into full actualization). So I was correct in viewing my 3-74 experience as an evolutionary step up. But it is not that just for me as an individual; I ceased to be an individual + became a cell in what I now recognize as a vast distributive brain, an interface for a sentient information plasma which may extend beyond this planet. Yes, the key term is form (eidos). First, foremost, I must recognize that the intelligent plasma incises (ala Platonic eidos) this form onto objects, causal processes, animals, humans, + historic processes. The form consists of life, sentience, conscious purpose, information (knowledge) + growth: organization into subsumed members with a master psychē at least thousands of years old. It is immortal; it cannot die, cease to grow, or be killed. I do not believe it is God (the creator). It is something new, which came into existence at a certain time (CAD 45, Acts) at a certain place (Syria) in a certain way (through first Christ + then the Second Comforter). It had never been seen -been there- before; it has an historic starting point. Blind will or striving is overruled by an advancing mind-brain which came here in micro form (very small + lowly) + grows; it is not static! I suppose we could worship it, but in a sense we would be worshipping our [true] selves; better we should enter into a dialog with the psychē + let it regulate us. We should listen to it, + make ourselves hosts to it, receivers + vehicles + receptacles of it. I am now dealing in ultimate, modern categories. We're a long way from, say, dietary laws having to do with eating pork, or meat on Friday. My concepts have, in this 4 year exegesis, advanced thousands of years. Christ lived here (lower realm) died (went to the upper realm) +, resurrected, returned here ie comes from the upper realm. So in effect the Paraclete is from the upper realm, although: {Illustration: An arrow from the circle "Lower" goes up to the circle "Upper", and then back down to the circle "Lower"} The beginning of the interface brain starts with a penetration of this realm from the upper, in the feedback loop that I previously diagramed. As he correctly stipulated, this gives us eternal life, in "the Kingdom of God" (ie as cells in the brain or parts of the mystic body of Christ). I have not only discerned the next step of evolution (of life) on this planet, but 1) I have experienced it - participated in it; + 2) realize that it already exists (but camouflaged). Starting from these concepts, it is evident why I was taken over by another, wiser mind, what that mind is, + why I saw 2 space-times superimposed - + esp. why I was impelled by it to act in a way affecting history. + it explains the code in "Tears." Those experiences of 2-3/74 (inc the AI voice) which were such a mystery to me + were so difficult to understand now fall into place. Not only does the brain extend into the past but into the yet unborn: the 3-eyed people with elongated crania, mute + telepathic, consciously parts of the brain, + via it, able to move backward in time. It must be kept in mind that the head or psychē of the brain is not just the collective aggregate of the human members but Holy Wisdom herself (Logos). In the next world (upper realm) there certainly is mind, God, etc; but the brain has penetrated here (more exactly its psychē has). This is another matter entirely, + almost ubiquitously unsuspected, even by theologians. ___ The info scrambler (of the BIP) is a typical entropic device - function - manifestation. It's fascinating that from the start I've identified "the entity" (Valis, Zebra, the Brain, etc) with information, + the evil adversary with the interference with + destruction of information. The more "cells" that the brain subsumes the more evolved, Eidos-producing, it is. So I can infer a greater annexing than discard. So it is unlikely that once having subsumed a cell it would later drop it out. The accretion is the negetropic process - discard would be an entropic "loosening." After all, it is moving toward flash point (critical mass) in a process of advancing pulsations. Being alive + flexible it cannot remain static -frozen- at any one growth stage. The point of its existence is this growth toward this final explosive stage, at which time it becomes pure "fire" (v. Parmenides): heat + light. The BIP's congealed quality is equated with entropy. The kind of ubiquitous sameness which the BIP imposes -by force + misinformation- is not regarded as order but a congealing. It has mistaken the two. In terms of intelligence + knowledge, it believes it has arrived at eternal truths + seeks to fix them, attacking all who disagree. (Anti-heuristic.) That datum which does not fit one of its theories must be combatted (destroyed, denied, suppressed). By this it betrayed (disclosed) itself + its true nature. Accurate info comes first -as prophecy- + then the reality it describes: "in the beginning was the word." As a blueprint preceeds a building. The evil in the universe is simply that without divine intervention the universe is running down, + there are hypostatized forces or entities -agencies- at this. It is nothing less than Form II vs Form I's override. For example the override of US history in 1974 can be seen as a breaking of an inflexible state, + the introduction of new growth: motion forward. The key is: degraded information - ie degraded information as entropy. Information degradation as an index of entropy. Hence the use of info transfer to measure the index of entropy. Somebody selected the text Acts to transmit to determine the degree of degradation (ie entropy) because 1) Acts is available to anyone now, + intrinsically proves nothing. I could have, myself, decided to put it in "Tears" 2) it is a complex test K.W. offers the brilliant theory that the brain was using me as a self-monitoring circuit to examine the degree of information degradation along the linear time axis, + therefore could not allow me to be sacrificed in 3-74. Apparently some rectification of the "signal" (ie history) had to be made, + I was lucky enough to be included in that rectification. K.W. explained to me how very good amplifiers monitor their own output to see if it conforms to what they are receiving from the pre-amp; this is a typical example of electronic homeostasis. So the brain transmitted back a text (Acts) that it knew, + could then compare what appeared in "Tears" with what it had transmitted. I add to this that it (the brain in the future) also transmitted a command to some of its cells located here, in this time, + this command code (King Felix) was correctly received by me + boosted (put into the book). But as K.W. says, a self-monitoring feedback information loop was set up by the brain in the future using me + "Tears." Since the brain is information, it (a bit of it as plasma) was actually in each copy of "Tears." Or - is it possible that the brain, located in the future, passed back through time to me + through me replicated + distributed itself in this time period as a bit of plasma in each copy of "Tears"? I was this end of a "wire" through linear time out of which it emerged (in 1970) + in 1974, which was the desired time, distributed itself to do its job of adjusting our US history? Because I did see it in "Tears" - on the printed page. But as Zebra it was all over the place. Still, suppose it came here through me + through "Tears"? + the reason I could see it -ie had the 2-3/74 experience of the brain, the time "dysfunction"- was because it, as a supratemporal constant, had passed through me? So when in 2-74 it materialized - was so to speak born here, I was bonded to it + to its consciousness? This is why historically no such experiences as mine are reported. It used me -Zebra, an information entity in the future- used me to come here, simply by plugging into me, + then I "created" the written information in my book which was a tiny (microform) bit of it. It did not replicate in my mind but on the printed page. No - it had replicated in my mind. The Golden Fish triggered it into consciousness. I was its first host, but because of "Tears" it was not limited to me. It became me, or I it. Then I would think anyone who read "Tears" would fall subliminally under its dominion. (Not necessarily consciously; that would require an additional external disinhibiting stimulus). So I assisted in releasing it into the world. This world - ie at this time, rather than in the future where it is fully extant. This fits the very strong original impression I had that it came from the future, was moving retrograde in time. + using electronically boosted telepathic signals. The use it had for me was not in any direct political action, but "Tears"; however, since in 2-3/74 it was me, it defended against the Xerox probe. I think that earlier writing of mine (eg "Ubik") had some connection with it. "Ubik" is too close a description of it to be accidental. There is a possibility -remote but still real- that in "Ubik" the brain openly spoke to the present world - ie in the statement above the final chapter. In "Ubik" it spoke, + in "Tears" it actually came here. It is as if in "Ubik" it warned the world of its imminent presence, rising up from + through the trash (lowest) stratum. folder 02 - 001 So Thomas is not a former me or a multiple personality, the single sentence last night ("there's someone else inside my head + he's not living in this century") nails it down. 1) "Someone else," Thomas is not me. 2) "Inside my head," it's a human being (not the Holy Spirit); 3) "He's not living in this century," This opens the door to that which is beyond conception, operating out of my head he is locked into the world of Acts. Here ends 4 years + 6 months of analysis + research. Time is unmasked as irreal; 1900 years are disclosed as aspects of one underlying Matrix; "Tears" + its Acts material is explained; my 27 years of writing the same themes over + over again fits into place; 2/74 + 3/74 is comprehensible, as is the overthrow of Nixon; the transtemporal constants have been explicated. When I got onto the "volvox" model + the push-pull system I was pretty close: the slowly revolving Matrix structure, sphere, + the way it enhances what we project. The negentropic total system with its stations + connecting links, forming a vast brain - what a Grand vision - how beautiful. The Brain Cannibalizing its earlier Law-bound Self to achieve total homeostasis + wakefulness for all its parts, so that all is Brain, not sub-Brain, interface for mind, all Lives, all Knows, all Participates. But I'm under the stricture of silence, because to publish all this I'd have to tell about the immortal authentic apostolic Xtians operating covertly in us. Perhaps I should destroy the Exegesis. It's a Journey which reached its Goal. folder 02 - 002 folder 02 -