experience of 3-74 the more amazed I am. There are not even claims of experiences such as mine, when one realizes what I found myself able to see + understand. Jesus himself said But I saw the "process that "no man has seen God." deity of history, modulating processes + inhabiting things how could this have been? what occurs to me now is that I know as certainly as I know anything -can know anything inferentially - that the objects + events around me are being arranged by him into new unities, that although I can no longer consciously read it, his language (word) fill, the universe: the vast single organism with all its subcolonies of monads sig nalling with colored lights back + forth into total harmony I could say why me? or I could say why no one else! I guess This revelation is not new - if Hegel + Leibnitz + whitehead + Spinoza + Plato are superimposed; it all can be found in the montage. I don't know how much they saw + how much they inferred. What I saw came by way of revelation which is to say, unaided, by my own effort. I could have seen + known none of it (as it is with me now). It is interesting that, as we were saying the other night, Moses wondered, why me? He was halting of speech, he said. I am unable to do anything, except what little I have put in my writing, + how much is that? What does that accomplish? But viewed as a source of comfort solace + purpose to my life it is for me, intrinsically, everything. I have nothing else that I care about but what might I do, possibly? No one would believe me Even if I could express it, which I can't. No verbal report could convey it. It has never been done yet - it is ineffible s what I experienced. I can say even to a priest, "I have seen God + He is like this," + explain about the arranging + the mimicry - I can report that what we see all around us (the phenomenal world) is only real because he trans substantiates it beneath the "accidents" + directs it all in the dialectic process which Hegel inderstood so well. I can testify for immanence + parenthere + evolutionary process carried one from nature to human history. ( Even in my sleep three times I called out "Vatter!" + Hilfe! + Oh weh! If indeed I have destroyed my life here I know a dear father lives above the band of stars - from schubert earned a total of #1.500 during his entire life, was he a failure? I can't hold any woman am I a failure? I just want to find - but it is here. I can't see atoms either, but I know they are here. Vatter! Hilfe! Oh weh But I know: I am preparing for the next world; I am beginning to let go of this one + not grieve or suffer - I know it is all lost, + what I still love, such as music, points me toward that other world. Music religion + philosophy - for me now they are not experienced as merely the best products of this world but (as in the singing I heard in my dreams) the link with the next. they carry one along + are more beautiful all the time, each + every time more + more part of the next world - I feel it. I first felt it in '64 when I first heard die wintenesse. It comes, it comes, nearer, + more beautiful all the time. In this letting go of this world + reaching out to the next I am feeling more + more peace + joy I am not losing life + that which is beautiful, but moving nearer it every day. What I really love grows stronger I saw how God could accomplish any ends he wished by the arranging of object-processes; I deduce from this that the world is far better than it appears to us: just as we can't see him nor his arranging it follows that we must lack accurate perception of the great beauty + good which he perpetually produces. Why is this not possible - that of 8 t if is not a fact proven to me that 1) He is here + we can't see him; + (2) His arranging takes place all around us + we can't see that - why there follows (3): we are blind to that beautiful + good produced by him continually through these unfolding arrangements for this is the invisible outgrowth of what I know to be invisible. As the Sufis say, we are asleep. Or as I say, we are virtually blind + deal - look how back or beethoven sound to most of us. Beauty is not in the eye of the beholder - it is in reality + must be searched for found out - + so too maybe is the good. Can it be that the good results which he achieves are as concealed from us as beauty is in formal art? The artist does not try to obscure the beauty of what he does. We have to achieve a perception If I know he is here, + if I know he is good, + if I know he controls becomings" for good ends - + I see none of this not him, not the arranging - not even the ends factually - what they consist of, - how them could it be logically possible that I could see the good in those ends? For one thing, he knows what all the potential alternatives would have consisted of (+ led to) + if I have no perception of that, how under all these circumstances could I possibly perceive the good in what comes about? I can't even see what comes about, since each end (synthesis) is the new thesis against which a further antithesis appears. The becoming never ceases there are syntheseses but never a true end. + yet I have been shown what Hegel saw: the purpose. for us, in all this once-biological + now - historical process? self greater human freedom (to produce greater actualization on individuation). The monads progressively more + more accurately absorb + reflect back (encompass or understand) the organism as a whole.. 42 3 suppose I conceive of the monads as "receivers" + "re corders" which to a greater or lesser degree accurately receive + record an impression which is a memory of the image of the all, thus containing thereupon + thereby a micro (cosm) image from which can be retrieved + restored the all, the way a hologram "contains a more or less accurate image. The total organism is the only object which is fully real, + by the - to the- degree that the individual monad or cell "remembers" (which in volves receiving + recording for later playback, the total organism can be restored (if somehow lost, whatever "Lost" means in this case). Supposing. that the total organism is changing continually (say at the flash-cut rate - velocity - of the phosphene "graphics") how is each of the virtually infinitude of stages to be (each one) made permanent? We know in what way a sequence of stop action photographs can make permanent each stage of a growing entelechy which it captures. The organism goes on, but the many separate steps are retained. are the colonies of micro monads supposed to see (receive) + remember (record) for later retrieval of each + every growth stage? by means of my 3-74 vision (or, compared with my normal perceptions, superior - more accurate + complete - vision) I can at any future time - in theory - print out everything which at that time I registered both in terms of perception + cognition (mentation). are we reels of recording "tape"? Memory units reflecting back Zebra the total organism? Are we sophisticated percept- + record systems that (barring malfunction) can serve later on to re-establish what has now passed on to further stages? In that case my 3-74 experience was the end in itself insofar as I as subsystem am concered; it is up to some other assembly to, if desired, retrieve back out of me what due to 3-74 I contain. 53 w it is not the responsibility of the memory spool to "play back" - another component, when it is descrees is to do that. Ah! How suddenly I see how this fits in with the anamnesis I experienced as a part of the over-all 3-74 experience very old (early, prior, antecedent) hither to not retrieved (played back) but nonetheless there mem ories all at once got "played back" - i.e. retrieved, by the Golden Fish necklace qua signal to do so: well, the process of playback (of what evidently were na coded memories) had the effect of retrieving (restoring) The personality (entity) who had had the experiences which aid down the memories. For how could anyone but that person "have" those memories? They by def inition couldn't have been those of the person (PKD) bom in AD 1928. to remember seems to entail (or produce) something more than we tend to realize, e.g. When an LP record "remembers" the performance of a schuman song cycle sung by the late fritz wunderlich in a certain very real (true) sense it doesn't just remember that wunderlich sang that songcycle but in point of fact restores (to perfection as limit) that voice + that music. perhaps, in contemplating the phenomenon of anamnesis we fail to grasp the full significance; if indeed I am a perceiving -remembering - + -playback "spood." + "on me (i.e. in me) is long terme memory of the first Advent + due to an external cue (signal) I do play that section back - what do we have? Not just a transcript in another cesser dimension, liked a typed transcript (i.e. the words only) say of a famous speech - but so to speak the speech given I the person giving it: an event, not a dead object (fossil impression) After all, the disinhibited long term DNA memorier - their re-activation - was one of the most astonishing parts of 3-74 - it alone is staggering in importance. The accurate observer contains the event he observed; we call this memory. Through him. its actual - not feigned - restoration is possible. 493 3-648 4100 fo. e the two theorize that the resurrection of the dead is accomplished through God's memory (of them); suppose, via our corgterm DNA coded memory we ourselves are units of God's (the total organisms) memory system? suppose, for some of us at least, that (called, I think, witnessing is our prime purpose? We are (pts of) His memory? that's just a part of what I alone remember. The + whole gene pool remembers everything the human race ever did. + Jesus was half human, on his mother's side. So, via this DNA mechanism, it would appear that St. Sophia - by this means alone - is immortal + can be restored as I sensed early on about Thomas, any + all of them can be, as Thomas was in me. Even if it so far was just one of then, + just for a few weeks what I must realize is that it is a bourgeoise prejudice to suppose that for something to have worth, there must be a practical application. The ancient Greeks knew that pure (philosophical understanding for its own sake was, even just in terms of the quest the highest value a activity of a man: homo sapiens: man who knows However, look what this 3 year on going Quest to under stand, learn + know has done for me: joy, awe, Peace. trantevilot, a sense of purpose. Of personal worth