the purpose of 43 philosophy to explain + reconcile man to his fate; but God has the power to change (deflect) that fate. God is a higher power, not just a wiser one. What does Durant think the colloquey of prayer is for? Merely for understanding + accepting? the most ignorant Mexican Catholic better under‐ stands the purpose of religion (+ God vis-a-vis man) than Durant does. This is not an intellectual matter. although understanding is a legitimate part of it clearly, durant doesn't even take into account the possibility that Gods or God exists + can intervene in a person's life. But this is precisely what was done for me in 3-74. Durant should consider Hegels (+ the Jewish notion of God acting upon human history as his material, shaping + directing it according to his plan. Without these realizations all that remains is theology, not a living God with vast knowledge, personality + power What may be the case is that some or most religions explain undeserved suffering, + offer spiritual comfort - but the purpose of the mystery . who religions was to put man in touch with a God could + would intervene + change the person's life so that the fate-decreed suffering (in particular what I would call nemesis or the cardinal crisis + defeat) was averted. Xtianity, I contend, was one of these religions But I believe that it had this advantage over all the others: Christ could enter a syzygy with the person + absorb the blow vicariously, + so in this way spare him the suffering, as well as the method of deflecting of the life-path. In both types of help deflection of the evil moment is involved: the victim is taken out temporarily?] + Christ joint with him or replaces him 415 So here are at least 2 ways of warding off the crisis blow, + Xtianity had the ability to do both only in this sense does the "vicarious atonement," the ransom, make sense: it was the substrate of the system to liberate the person - from the tem‐ plate, an envisible evil enslaving power of which we are unaware. salvation means exactly what it implies: a saving the person from the power of evil. The initial error in secular thought is to be occluded to the presence + mastery of this evil power, this "obscure dominion "which involves an occlusion of the very facultics by which it could be discerned is this, then, the purpose of the occlusion of our percept system? +, equally, we would be unaware of the salvific force + its activities. Our occlusion isn't a punishment. Its a deliberate impairment by an evil "virus" which cuts us off from God, + also causes us not to see that we are enslaved - the impairment didn't emanate from God but from the evil enslaving force - who looks more than ever to be the God of the ot If St Sophia is the soul of the universe, its physical existence being soma to psyche, then we have more than Deus Absconditus; we have the universe (1) either concealing its sentience; or (2) a vitiation of our reason (faculties) to such a debased + deformed state that we cannot detect its animation or sentience, inc. evolution + purpose as entelechy unfolding. We are disenfranchised as knowing parts (cells) of the whole. what I suspect is that Zebra is imparting all these to what was originally disordered + inanimate, as a divine intruder, which points to our world as a satanic spurious creation mimicking the real (cf "Stigmata"). Does Zebra not abolish the counterfeit interpolations but rather transmute them? on the other hand in 3-74 I had the distinct impression 49 that certain evil forms (the Black Iron Prison) had just now been there, but suddenly were gone. + no one remembered was an interpolation abolished? included in the sentience of the universe is its verbal co mrenication with us, which may not be communications with us at all. But physical manifestations of its thoughts - in which case it is Noos, not psyche + soma. The "Soma" expresses audibly + visually the organism's thought processes because the "Soma" is its thought processes, perhaps materializing everywhere + at every level, of complexity + size or - Zebra is a verbal organism, the living Logos. which pervades the previously inert structure with thinking those thoughts being physical or impressed on (in/as arrange. pents of) the physical - i.e. the physical used as a redium or carrier. Thought (v Xenophanes) pervades the totality of the universe; it is ubiquitous. (cf "Ubik"). So it is not something above the universe (transcendent) nor a part of it (e.g. etis) but it itself; + the soul is feminine. Perhaps It was created by God + is an essentially female organism (which accords with my impression of the tambre of its voice). This would be the first cherished emanation or offspring the holy Wisdom of prov. 8, but if St Sophia participated in the creation of the cosmos, + preceeded it, then she as world soul is essentially incarnated (born?) in the coming-into-being of the universe. This is not pantheism or pan entheism, since God is not in any sense the universe or it him. but a panpsychism is involved (Hylozoism). The world soul would stand as mediatress between us + God. the assumption that the world soul (psyche) strelived from skin to center" of the universe - obviously based on Xerrophanes + Parmenides - may not be an eternal static state but a dynamic "persuasion" or "subduiny" of chaos. In any case than world soul (St. Sophia) is here nou +, as far as we're concerned, ubiquitous. That it has 50, not been able to subdue everything is obvious, but as cornford believes, the disorder is a constant. Again, to draw from cornford, there is a streak or element of the irrational in the world soul. Noos descends into These obscure irrational regions to arrange them into harmony. The universe is fighting for its sanity. It has not been entirely successful (just as in any given human mind there are irrational tendencels or areas). Perhaps the world soul has an unconscious, + we are part of it. What it - she - is trying to do is raise us to the level of consciousness, which would mean consciousness of her. Thus communication would be re-established. + thus we are said to be asleep. Is it true that once we were not asleep, + fell (asleep)? For a long time I oscillated between thinking it was God who spoke to me or else it was ETIs. Evidentally it was mneither, but rather an intermediate entity between God + man If this entity is the Logos, the Trinitarian doctrine wrong, despite Johnil. There certainly can be no theoretical objection to this. If the universe is a sentient organism, + in addition there is a transcendent God who created it, they quite clearly its mind or soul would stand as mediatress between man + God, + if there is not God then we still would be in touch with The organism's mind. The question is, where is the insanin t If irrationality = insanity, + Plato + cornford are correct, it does not lie with the creator (cf Gnosticism) but with the created world soul. The Gnostics trace it to the creator (evil + undeserved suffering) but they are not taking into account the living organic entelechy - nature of creation which could involve contradictions within itself, not due to its creator. I would so to speak have free-will. Thus indeed all creation could fall with man's fall, as Paul maintains (otherwise, how could movi fall cause the cosmos to fall?) But does this mean that the world soul fell - + does this mean a fall into irration ality +/or unconsciousness. 51 suppose it is maintained (as with the Gnostics) that it was not man which fell but his "distant cousin from the pleroma, (Sophia), + this fall is what cornford discerns in Plato's world soul as irrational. Suppose such an event as St Sophia addressing me is not an instance of something which has always occured or at least always been possible. But that the world soul (like Brahman) is "waking up" - again becoming conscious + able to think - + speak - rationally who ever before has reported St. Sophia speaking to them? Only in Biblical times. What it/she said to me seems to parallel what the shepherds were told at the time Christ was born; i.e. an unprecedented event in human history was about to - beginning to - take shape. Then "St Sophia will be born again..." etc. refers to a total rebirth of the cosmos into sentience - lucidity - an exact parallel to "Brahman sleeps, the Brahman dances, with the notion that the universe is a form which Brahman takes, assumes, is, or poses as I have a very strong intuition at this point that the above reasoning points to me (dare I say it?) as a Kingping ruman in a cosmological drama of reawakening. The macro-entity awakens (to lucidity?) + then on our world in micro form - + perhaps on many other worlds - it prepares to one again incarnate. Then its announcement to me carries the weight + force of revelations described in the Bible, esp. the N.T. is it connected with the insertions in Deus iral? The novel is selling in an awfied lot of countries to an awful lot of reople. At that time (N.T.) it was the role of John the Baptist to nnounce the coming of the Messiah - he thus was Elijah. hich for a long time I believed Thomas to be after all, he baptized Christopher But the concept of the universe as an animal with a soul (psyche), + that psyche spoke to me - this agrees with the Hylozoism (Zebra) that I saw the purposeful override of "low level decisions, expressed in the interruption of causal chains in order to preserve me in safety. The reweaving of empirical reality that I saw - such activity must emanate from a very high level, perhaps the highest levels possible. Inasmuch an a historical reweaving was afoot there is no way by which I can estimate the extent of this reweaving (or how often it happens). The sense of Zebra as invading + mimicking may stem from its higher nature - higher than blind determinism. It may even have been bipolarized with causal chains, offering a dialectical interaction. What I am sure of is that it brought something new (sui generis) into history at variance with the efficient cause direction. Was it just an override? Or a true invader? How real are the normal causal chains? They seemed to melt + bed in Zebra's grip (field). This all is a description of a miracle, correctly interpreted as most meaningful in its pointing to an overruling power, which by definition had to be intelligent, powerful, + benign beyond the degree we humans embody. At the very least it pointed to (or was) "another + higher life form or intelligence in the uni nerse besides ourselves" - + one either depending on our occlusion to escape detection, or, even more, occluding us itself, to remain unseen. In this connection, it would be vital to know if the occlusion is only a failure to perceive or if some kind of barrier or deprivation (sickness, deformity) involved. But, as I continually realize, the very nature of i the occlusion rules out an answer to this question 1 83 is If a higher life form lives in our vicinity undetected There is no immediate answer as to its origin, let alone its nature. My perception of it is that by the way in which it "melted" or "bent" empirical reality it disclosed the merely - projected quality of that reality. Had that reality been intrinsically