rewoven orthogonally. Maybe not in the linear past prior to it but sue generis (out of no antecedents) reworked at that time (3-74). ex nihil 24 So there is no doubt that 3-74 to 8-74 was breached + orthogonally rewoven (repeated differently). + I maintain that the 2 advents become: by annihilating spurious linear (separating) time. Advent is advent, give or take a few decades - it is spanned by a single human memory. as mine did Now I am nailing it down, the "falsework" which I saw disappear. In this the conspiratorial reign of term A: depicted in "Tears" was abolished. The reweaving which I experienced re the Xerox letter was just a slight brush with a huge historical reweaving (v. "Tears" for how it was). (Dig the German edition with mention of Nazis: did the translator guess the truth? Was the addition of that theme Zebra at work? If I had started out with theoretical considerations about orthogonal time I would have said to test it out look for such + such, + I would have found it - confirmation - in the Xerox experience. I see that so clearly, starting from the theo‐ retical, rather than starting from the experience + trying to construct a theoretical framework that would account for it. I did not fully grasp how the orthogonal process reworke a situation but does not lead - move - up the manifold how strong "we have lived through this before" realization is involved. How it must be involved. If there were no living through it again, all that would be involved would be a deflection of linear direction. Of course, that is there, too. The reweaving would probably set up a deflection, but not necessarily. This may be the crux of it. The vast lateral trunk may be capable of re-asserting itself, despite a temporary deflection. This may be the problem. the "stone cast into the water causing endless widening ripples may not work out in fact; determinism may be very powerful in terms of their hysteresis. (5 But I am - correctly - identifying orthogonal processes with a reweaving of what already is (cf the rich art patron metaphor) in which case we must have to relive that particular linear segment, as occured in 3-74 I was either held back from doing what I already had done, or caused to do what I did not (or both). This is a colossal victory over determinism - in fact it breaks the very back of the deterministic cause + effect strip world, by intruding from a right angle to it. There would be no history to the alteration's set up (for instance, there could be no answer to such as as, "where did Thomas come from? Where was he before he manifested himself?" etc.). The strongest argument for orthogonal intrusion is that he - + the whole process - had no linear antecedents. Their appearance constitutes the essence of the pre-planned blocking - move (forestalling) plays which I saw the divine programmer capable of, + engaged in. The blind counterplayer can see such moves when they occur, i.e. previous to their purpose, but cannot fathom what changed outcome they will produce. (This includes me; I couldn't/can't fathom what they achieved - which is how the divine programmer Zebra picks up tricks. Maybe, e.g. it led to Lem's ouster from stwa, which in terms of the big plan led to - etc. If I could discern it, so could the dark counterplayer. Why would turning over one document to the Bureau be so important? What would it set in motion? The secret work of salvation effected invisibly by the Holy Spirit... working backward from the far end of The Xerox letter situation is an example of one bit time. which fitted into the whole pattern but is not in itself at all intelligible. Then Zebra may not always be present, may not guide. inform, or be the normal deterministic linear strip. He may enter only when orthogonal reweaving occurs; he is not the perpetual weave (Brahman) but only the reweaven (Logos). He may not be normally present, but rather came here in 3-74 for the great breaching + historical reweaving task, 26) Zebra. Then, may act only intersessively - he is not Ho on but is the Intercessor. In that case he may not be The programmer - I may have erred; he may not be immanent deity + not normally here + he is not a reprogrammer but a guiding de programme: cf Gnosticism - the handshake, Christ come down here, the savior, to rescue. missing an important sequence: im ) remember the apostolic age - which means I have woken up to the true reality underlying the 1974 linear strip world. 2) I acquire the Thomas personality. 3) I see Zebra, et al (1) I see Zebra reweaving the 1974 dokos linear reality which I am still (now) lifted out of In other words I so to speak left the 1974 linear Dokos world + as I returned to it I found it being rewoven - I had lived through it once already. But this time there was the inter‐ vention of Thomas/Zebra. But before it was rewoven I was taken out of it + could see it like it was (stimuli + reflex - slavish or programmed cause - + - effect imprisoning - response). it was not so much the world (linear Dokos) being rewoven, but rather my response (to events in it). It was invaded + interfered with (v. the mystery religions, worship of Sarapis + Hermes Tristmogistos, etc. + Paul's view of God or Christ lifting us above the planetary - astral - powers). But what I hadn't realized (which is as important as it is hard to express) is that before the reweaving occured - re the Xerox letter - I had been given my memory + identity back, + was in the ancient orthogonal, apostolic matrix first. This is very significant. The assistance couldn't come for me, evidently, until I had rediscovered my "mystery religion" relationship with the savior. Remembrance of him had to come first, or rather be there first. That bond between me as worshiper + him as our leader - that had to be revealed or restored - whatever. 23 why is realizing this - why is this in itself - so important. because 2, not I thing, happened. First it was necessary to unhook - untangle - me from the power of the linear world by means of anamnesis + a renewal of the coument between me + Christ (God). That was the first step - I was plunged into the ancient real-world matrix + out of the linear time world. That freed me from the power of the spurious linear time world. Next, restored to it + subject to it was not me but Thomas, who dealt differently with the Xerox letter than I had what I can see now is the origin of Thomas as being not in the linear world + hence not subject to it - programmed by it. He came from the Urwelt of orthogonal, non linear time, the mysterious real world which had not advanced up the spurious linear manifold. It is virtually a war between two domains: the permanent orthogonal matrix of the first advent which is still there, + the immutable cause + effect linear world which involves us in total thrall (reduces w to "planetary" or "sublunar" slavery). The real urwelt, which never advanced up the manifold, is capable of intrusion into this world in the form of Zebra or the redeemer who can transsubstantiate objects + processes + hence modulate them. This is all in accord with the N.T., especially Pault cosmology the initial participation in the Urwelt recalled to me the dentity of my savior + my tasks + relationship to him, so during later phases of the process I could identify him with Valis or Zebra, the mimicking, extricating entity I saw at work. Before I saw Zebra, I had experienced anamnesis + recalled my Lord - + was again with him (back in the past) ( So I was taken out of the enslaving cause-+-effect spurious linear-strip world + restored to commity with my Lord at the orthogonal matrix I, then returned to the linear world changed, so that I was free of its stimulus - + - response engramming, at which time I could see the savior (Valis, Zebra) mimicking objects + processes of our world + so affecting Their outcome; meanwhile I was saved from the Xerox letter which had, did or should somehow have bound or enslaved me completely. (The Kaballa said it was from the party.) I was new born, like a child, as in wordsworth's "ode" I had reseen, rejoined + regained the eternal unchanging world + my Lord, but I had also seen the Black Iron Prison enslaving us (cf the "ode"). I saw that against which we struggled perpetually - + defeated; I witnessed its defeat. I stick by my speech: we were reliving this period in linear time supported by God so that this time we did not confront the impenetrable B. I prison tyranny which had originally enslaved us (v. "Tears"). The force of God acted directly on the tyranny. Although it made use of us somewhat. But my regained memory of blowing up the Black Iron citadel - cf "Star Wars" - that's what I remembered: the strike at The death Star ‐ The empire (+ "Palmer Eldritch: Vader The Black Iron Prison + we Christians = the rebels. Christ = the last of the Jedi Knights, Ben Kenobi. the moment, in anamnesis, which in "Star Wars" I specifically remember, is just after the successful attack on the death star which blew it up. But we were dressed - not like Luke - but as the Jedi Knights were: in brown or gray robes. So ben Kenobi had died just a while ago - yes, I remembered that, + we knew he would return. We were jubelent - of course we were: we had blown up the citadel of the Empire. Notice in the "Star Wars" prolog the obvious references to Nixon! I had not noted this before, but it is inescapable - + deliberate. Lukas deliberately connects the tale of the overthrow of the old, good republic by evil men to the overthrow of the american republic by the forces of empire. Any discerning ready will note this (in the book). 129) In a sense, in being taken to the Urwelt I was taken to what in "Star Wars" is depicted - accurately - as the secret, hidden rebel base. Gott! Suppose it's true, + I simply remembered who + what I am - + where I came from + what I had helped do. The Empire lived on after the rebel victory - here was I again, in linear time 1974. Once more pitted against it in a cyclic replay. We defeated it again. Thousands of years have passed in which this war has gone on (Babylon. Rome, Washington DC - +, before that, "in another galaxy" at a time + place too remote even to draw coordinates on. Albemuth. But I remembered it all, + recognized it in "Star Wars. aided + abetted by restless, power hungry individuals within the government, + the massive organs of commerce, the ambitious senator (sic!) palpative caused himself to be elected president (?) of the Republic." An ambitious senator who got himself elected president + then "shut himself awar from the people," etc. what has to be realized is that the Urwelt to which I was mentally taken (returned) isn't something which once was but rather always is, outside of linear time. The battles may take place within linear time. But the antagonists - both good + bad - are supra temporal (cf Zoroastrianism). Our linear world is a gameboard on which they