Russigus were involved. Maybe they are mixed up with an E.T I. Maybe they rule in the future, + Russian is spoken (Russian, not greet). Their technology could account for all the miracles in the world - likewise the people from the future. We have no idea what ETIis micht be like or our own future descendents. Anyhow whoever they were they were here to tinker with major social (historical) events + determine this out come (for the good). Our parents (the one man identified him. self as "Tames father")? From the stars, who watch over earth, as its theirs ("we belong to someone"). All I know for sure is 1) They were powerful (more so than we) 2) They came here from elsewhere (past, future or outer space 7) They are benign 4) They possess incredibly advanced technology 5) They have 3 eyes + super large cranin If I go on my subjective impresson, it was that they cane (backward thru time) from the future. One possibility, though, that is most intringing: anamnesis, with my own orisin bery on anotter planet. Did these people come from there) i.e. they (we) colonized this planet thousals of years age; we are deformed descendents: our socelf her fell into ruin + we ddegerated. This is the same place Christ later came from. STIs -our parent race, speakin sansfort 30 if this be so (a tutulary ETI race, our parents, + the lost home we long for in the stars) then if any one piece of writing got the authorite after my ass it was froux I. Anyhow this views combines these elements: 1) ETI 2) who are related to our past, our origins, + who sent Christ to us, + are tutulary 3) they have God-like natural powers - are quite evolved over us (our ancestors degenerater) 4) + super technology they are advanced futuristic versions of ourselves, + possess tech nology far advance over ours- thus they resemble future man. but since our ancestors came from thie, + we were then (before wee inbred here + degenerated) they're involved with our past - + since Christ was recents sent free there to help us with the truth they are involved with our religion. So the impresson they would give to any earthling they took over or contacted would be (to him) a confusing blend of material from the past, religion, space people, + the technologically ad vanced future, trying to decide which one is true is foolish since it is not a matter of either - a but rather both - + (all 3-and) so over language derives from theirs, + our Hindu religion! They are tore 3-eyed hind Gods riding sky cars. Then much later Christ is sent to us from there to teach + heal us. Not a ETI but our own dear race - we were like then, + this is why they can beam healing radiation to such as me + start up that "3rd eye" as it used to be with us; now it has fallen into disuse. "salvation" equals "restora fin" to what we were before the Fall, before they had to cut us on of the inter-gilactic communicatings wea. Thus it can be seen that they will one day restore us to that status - which explains the "St. Sophia" prophecy + the coming Kingdom, that although degerate now, we can be restored - as witness what they did with me. they are telepathic . So these 3 are roughly equal: ET1 cAlbemuth) ➀ ( our future our past (now) it may be just a forloon hope that we, upon death, return (or go) to heaven - i.e. the stars - i.e. our ancestral home, albemuth. it may be an atavistic memory only; the JWs may be correct: that it must be established - + will be - here, if we are even going to return to the condition, we had + lost as the Gnostics say, we don't belong here, + can retrieve memories of our lost home, but evidently we did come here + must make the best of it. This is a totally eclectic one taking elements from all 3 theories. Maybe it's so, maybe not. Most appealing to me is the tutulary, parental, protecting element. The whole thing just seems right. I more fully understand why they were here (I in better empathize their motives, intentions via this theory) + what they intended to do; it sure makes comprehensible what they intended to do (+ did do). Although nothing could exceed the element of God himsed, these added elements seem to bring it into greater conformity with the situation itself (i.e. with my experience). Nothing which I have worked out so far need be discarded - this is not a different theory but the same one with important addition. This theory fits in very well with the dreams in which we are looking down at a stagnant pond, or conversing with lower aquatic life forms, + the pond turns out to be our world, + the cover life forms ourselves. However, this amended theory casts a totally different idea over the material in my writing (probably limited to later books such as Ubik, mage, tears. Frolix). (Well, maybe earlier stuff too like Impistor. But certainly in later stuff) who, then, put in the material? For the most part I guess I put it in, but - there is the dream sequence in years. But -also or what am I? We are now dreaming with a new + rather different possibility about me, about the "theopany" in me, my entering an almost avatar-like state in 3-74, due to the magnitude + immediacy of the threat. Take my dream of the Little Boy Philip in the raft floating [secrets?] across the Bay toward London (San Francisco, + managing to infiltrate past "Scotland Yard" ie, the resident Police authority + riding up level by level, at last to reveal my true self, to the horror + dismay of "Diane Cleaver" (resident authority again, ones who expected something Quite else from me.). My avatar [underscored] anamnesis, my other personality + maybe my memories are coming from the stars wasn't thousands of years old! Maybe they just seemed that way (ie. my oldest, my totally [sub?] ... blocked - memories - + identity). The memories disclose that I originated on another planet (of "imposters"). Either I am thousands of years old, or, if I am not as extraordinary as the first is (thousands of years old), look what the second possibility implies!! 1) I came here - was sent here - to write what is in my writing + the material in it is from my real (unblocked) personality who knows the whole truth, which i don't. 2) under [?]... stress my true nature was disinhibited + came out, as it was supposed to when necessary. For one thing {possibly "in me + him"}, I consciously linked back up to the web. 3)Anamnesis + identity: Begins in the stars. Communicating with 3-eyed people. Communicating print out [?] 4) loss of 3+4. Forgetfulness when stress ended + 5 ended (below) 5) the historic intervention scene, arranged by them[underscored], in which I seem to have played a role. 6) Amnesia. 7) the [Razzia?] nov 17 '71. 8) Multiple personalities themy[?]: A superior science of the mind taught me + then set up the inhibition block so that i passed [fit?] all these years, knowing + guessing nothing, until the time came. Hence my growing fears in early '74. I knew the time was coming (for which I had been trained + prepared). 9) the disinhibition Gold Fish sign. 33 this is a most attractive theme but also the most disturbing. It certainly seems to fit. It fits everything. I'm a little sorry to say, most of all it certainly would explain Nov 17 '71 - + it certainly would explain 1[circled] such writing as UBIK + Tears + Frolix 8, + 2[circled] My theophany, or rather hierophany, Not theophany[underscored], at 3-74. I mean, if you start[underscored] with this theory, you sure can explain 3-74, Individual + historical. Any entities or group thereof capable of achieving what they did got me in 3-74 + historically would be able easily to dupe someone - a number of someones - IN from Birth on. this fits in with my recent realising that the basic themes in all [underscored] my writing from the start are the "B...[?] elsewhere + avatar in here" idea. Spence Olham came from alpha Centaurus, on a mission of destruction in a way [war?], but didn't remember it until it happened - his memories +[underscored] his identity were unknown to him. He was Disinhibited by a phrase he himself finally said. My true memories remember coming here from "Alpha Centaurus" +, like Olham, it was to half destroy a war effort here. The parallels are extraordinary. Stripped of all incidentals, they are the same story. For instance, if I wrote up my experience in fiction form, it would seem to be an expansion of "impostor". Here is a good way to account for all the knowledge + visions, recorded memories, vast identities + powers [realized?] in 3-74. Of course it is my "unconscious" personality which was formed as ALBEMOTH - not my conscious me, But what at this point am I sure of? Today I see how the BLACK IRON would + the Palm Tree would resemble totally opposite futures (actually opposite worlds, either present or future), the manifesting of the two to visibility suggests that in 3-74 there was a critical juncture in time at which the two Blanched off, + that efforts were being made to insure actualization for the Good one (ie Palm tree). 34 much of my writing contains themes from the Gnostic vision, which i hadn't realized. Thus i now say that, without knowing it, I have been unfolding the Gnostic vision for years. Evidently this can be explained by the presence of the Buried memories in me released by anamnesis in 3-74. The retrieved memories show that I came here originally "from the heavens." But I can't really say when. There is some reason to think that I lived a previous life during Greco-Roman times, but it is equally possible that my vision of that Black Iron prison world is actually a vision of this society, 1974 USA, seen from a more accurate view point. (is even sub specia aeternitatis), + there is, besides, the possibility that the vision is of one of two alternate futures. In other words, I do not know when the Black Iron Prison world existed, exists or will exist. More easily located is the other vision, the Palm Tree world. It is our home, the park or garden or pastoral Kingdom that for reasons unclear to me we left, + which we still yearn for. Evidently the is some possibility of our returning to it: this can happen through the savior, Jesus Christ, who came here from our homeland to help us - in particular to cause a restoration of our lost memories, hence our true Identity, +, with this, remembrance of our true purpose in being here; through this anamnesis we will be able eventually to get back home. Whatever, whenever + where ever the Black Iron world is, was, will be, it is bipolarized against the Palm Tree World, perhaps in Augustine's sense of the City of God vs the city of the world, which, he taught, have always been comingled as one, but at the end the two will separate + we can see to which we have given our allegiance. The changes in me in 3-74 seem to consist of a restoration to some superior primordial state or evolution to a superior later state or superimposition of a divine state such as may pertain before + after death: there seems to be some correlation between the Black Iron Prison + our normal