USA 1974) because Thomas is locked into it, + Thomas is my master self. If Thomas were locked into 16th century Italy, I would have seen the renaissance. (But I saw the authentic early Xtians as unique in being transtemporal constants, i.e. immortal. Yes, well this points to B, not A. Their world, Acts, is only real because they are real + are locked into it. It acquires a kind of absoluteness or durability because of them. This is kind of an Abalard middle position: Acts as world acquires transtemporal qualities which makes it unique because it is the world of the truly absolute entities, the authentic apostolic Xtians who lived/live (sic!) there. As long as they exist, it will exist - + they are eternal (put more strongly + perhaps more accurately. It was/is the world of the first advent. I.e. the space-time of this the temporal world into which the upper eternal realm originally + uniquely (so far) irrupted. Put this way, the breaking through into our world of Acts might be construed as Christ himself breaking through which fits with my impression of the divine intervention in US history in 1974. The world of Acts, then = Christ; this is reinforced -or achieved- in connection with or through the immortal authentic early Xtians, also locked into that period.). folder 02 - 023 folder 02 - 023 But also the syntonic quality of the double impression has to be considered; this decidedly bolsters B - + in fact may be decisive. This may be the differential clue. How could the two worlds harmonize if they - I was going to say: if they were not mere aspects of one matrix, but now I realize that if Rome CAD 45 is the absolute or master world + all others are aspects of it, obviously they would prove syntonic; I saw a "form reversion" to the Urwelt to which all others are related as versions or aspects (v. "Tears" as paradigm). Acts, then, is that very matrix, in which case the matrix is not omnitemporal/spacial or atemporal/spacial, but is specifically Acts. Pragmatically speaking, Acts serves as an absolute in the B model (+ is in the A). B becomes an als ob of A. In both cases we are confronted by Acts in identical roles, + epistemological inquiry stops there, it can penetrate no further. (One could even speak of process: a process in which one aspect (Acts) is irrupting into another - or all other - aspects, like Jory in "Ubik" in relation to the other half-lifers, although this process, this devouring or engulfing is salvific, benign + divine. "Devouring, engulfing". Isn't this how I visualized the phagocyte (Zebra) vis-a-vis the pathenogen! Maybe the irruption of Acts into our world (all other worlds?) is the irruption, the devouring + engulfing by the Holy phagocyte Zebra into the magnet-dominated space-time. Acts coming here = Zebra coming here. I have viewed Zebra as an invader for 1 1/2 years. + Zebra = Christ. So my reasoning dovetails once again, when pushed far enough. Thomas, Acts + Zebra are of a piece. Breaking into our world in hot pursuit of the magnet. folder 02 - 024 folder 02 - 024 Another point strikes me, the sentence did not read, "there is someone else in my head + he is from another century (more precisely "he is not from this century") it read: "... not living in". The word living is a present tense verb. "Not from this century" would be more correct if a past life remained in me, had survived in me from the past. Clearly what is intended is the notion of now living. Simultaneously with me, not antecedent to me. 1) He is not me, + 2) He is living in another century now or currently; i.e. at this time (which topples our concept of linear time, which I felt from the start of this in 2-74 had to go). So if we don't have linear time, what kind of time do we have? One in which one human brain can exist in two different spaces + times simultaneously. My brain is here - there is no way it can be seen to be there or not-here. So both space + time must also be here + not-there. I see the only resolution of this seemingly epistemological + semantic nonsense in the B model: stimulation of selective brain sites - in the case of my brain two sets of -differing- stimulations, producing two selves + two space-time worlds, with each self locked into its particular space-time world - + in 3-74 the two selves + the two space-time worlds got blended together into one binary self + one dual aspect space-time world - a curious fusion impossible by all yardsticks of our normal cosmology + physics. The blending took place entirely in my head (no-one else saw any change in the world) so I am forced to assume world is - or its aspects are - lock-step projections (probably in push-pull relationship) of self. This reinforces the direct brain-stimulation model (i.e. B), once more. It is as if my particular situation vis-a-vis reality gave me the unique opportunity to test bishop Berkeley's & Lem's paradigm (which fits in with folder 02 - 025 folder 02 - 025 the idee fix of my writing). Naturally, if there is someone else in my head not living in this century, if/when I broke through to him + his world (or he + his world broke through to me + mine) I'd suppose I'd penetrated past the delusional, Dokos or seeming surface world (+ memories) to the real world + real memories, - rather than plugging for the more radical -+ much more difficult to entertain - notion that one human brain can be in two places + two times equally real simultaneously, since to entertain this requires that you abandon all traditional concepts of space, of time, + of world itself - "real" + "irreal" no longer being meaningful distinctions: abandoning concepts of "real world" vs "delusional world" + going for the idea that only the brain itself exists + all worlds are auto-Generated through external but direct site-stimulation - but Lem's paradigm is too radical for me, but he did perceive it as the actual paradigm presented in my writing, whether I was willing to recognize it or not. Theologically, the only known formulation would be a thorough Brahmanism, very thorough. We (the Atmans or Brains) are real, + outside us, Brahman plays tricks + games in conjuring up any + all worlds, - x number of them, one for each individual Atman, which means billions - + each atman finds its exterior analog perfectly substantial, real, consistent, satisfactory + objective (but: compared to what, I ask). Each assumes he's experiencing the same world as everyone else. Well, I demolished this back to "Eye" - I know this is not true. But just how far was I willing to carry my folder 02 - 026 "interior projection" radically subjective view of reality? I was willing to grant (in "Stigmata", "Maze", "Ubik", "Retreat Syndrome" et al) that if - IF - our world were either a mass hallucination, or that (as in "Eye") each person inhabits a unique world of his own, we could never tell, there were no criteria by which, esp., to distinguish a "hallucinatory" world - mass hallucinatory - (v. "Stigmata", "Ubik", "Maze") from the "real". This epistemological problem is what caught Lem's attention (+, e.g. Sladak's). But whereas I viewed it as real vs irreal - how do you decide which it is? Lem saw further that it could logically be extended to ask, is there any world out there at all? (Berkeley's paradigm model). I avoided this as being solipscism, but Lem points out that if the brain is multi-site stimulated, something or someone is out there selectively stimulating it, so although there is no world as such, there is a very smart or sophisticated macro entity - + this is exactly what I saw in 3-74 with plasmatic Zebra + its living info + vast traffic throughout all reality, inc. us, of messages. This obviously would be Lem's "superior technology" site-stimulator, into which we are wired or plugged as stations (cells) - it is not merely around us or outside us, but includes us in it; ergo, multiple worlds generation, so we don't go crazy due to stimulus deprivation; we are built to crave stimulus above all else. folder 02 - 027 folder 02 - 027 + it's evident why we're so constructed: we must be built to avidly suck up all stimuli because otherwise we'll fail to process data + become opaque or inert to its flow. Thus I have now integrated Model B into my already extant General Cosmology based on what I saw + understood in 3-74. It dovetails, this direct brain-stimulation model + my data-processing cosmology, which I didn't just work out a priori but saw (when world dissolved temporarily). When world dissolved, it didn't just leave a vacuum - i.e. nothing. To the contrary: it disclosed what I have come to regard as a titanic interface brain which we are cells of. As to all this message traffic, we (our egos) are totally unaware of them, consciously. But, I am sure, the rest of our brain (each of our brains) process them continuously, read them continuously. That is the real work of our brains, + if this is so (+ I saw it to be so, + stood amazed) the B model is not only a theoretical possibility (i.e. plausible) but might even be said to reasonably follow (fit in). Now take the "Pretex" statement on p.20, it dovetails perfectly. It might be said to be verification of the B model. World as such is simulated - not this world (or aspect) but world qua world. So via the empirical + a priori routes combined I have abolished time, space, causality, + world qua world in favor of a smart, vast, data/info processing entity of which we are stations - i.e. [universe as brain.] folder 02 - 028 folder 02 - 028 I'd call that a good day's work done, what's on the agenda for tomorrow! In fact, if model B isn't correct, how do I account for Zebra (vast information/data-proccessing brain) replacing world? USA 1974 phased into Acts, + then it all was replaced by Zebra, as if becoming transparent to reveal a living, thinking, omniextensive entity. One entity. For me to reach this point I had to go through a process lasting decades of progressively relocating reality + redefining it: a process of increasingly radical epistemological insight (as reflected in my writing). In "Tears" one world simply, inexplicably phased out + another phased in; finally either the first one or a third one just phased in. Yet they seem to be versions of one world. The "alternate universe" theory doesn't seem to account for it. No known theory does. One further argument for model B: If the world of Acts were an actual absolute world, + it irrupted into our world, I probably would not have been alone in seeing it, this is obvious. Equally obvious is that Acts qua world is locked into Thomas, who is only in _my_ head. As hard as it is to conceive of this, Acts, evidentially, exists only for Thomas (+ such like him, if such there be). If - as is evident - you require an inhabitant of Acts qua world in your head to see Acts, then we have logically stripped Acts of any intrinsic reality outside of its reality for Thomas (+ such as he); i.e. Acts exists only for those living in it: so there is no justification for my continual assignment of the term "real", "more real" or "absolute" in connection with Acts. It is only subjectively real, to certain narrowly defined persons only. To suppose that it