hallucination, plural (or group) hallucinatory worlds which Folder 03 - 026 emanate from our psychoi in cross-synchronization. Belief in world makes world substantial; the "fact" that it is substantial reinforces belief - the closed loop: what I call push-pull. In 2-74 I withdrew assent, + poof, world was gone, replaced by another to which I had given assent. The omnitemporal omnispacial matrix obeys belief (i.e. what psyche projects), it is totally affable, obliging. That is the 2nd secret: the first secret is that psyche initiates world by the initial projection. Push (firing by psyche) wouldn't be enough; the matrix has to "pull", suck it up and enrich it + fire -mirror- it back. So psyche + world are 2 mirrors facing each other: {illustration of 2 mirrors, "psyche" and "world", with signals reflecting back and forth} enriching capacity at both ends. This is the 3rd secret, this binary, mutual synchronized enriching capacity. Could this be what Paracelsus meant by inner vast reaches of space, mirror + imagination? A (the) world-generating power? That's why the more that black holes are observed the more there are of them; outer space + inner space are the same space. I.e. space is just as much inner (in the psyche) as outer in the world. What world? What psyche? Neither is real. In 2-74 I believed it was really CAD 45 Rome, + so it obligingly soon was. Folder 03 - 027 Folder 03 - 027 Power of suggestion? Hypnotism? How about the koine, etc? No, I really (1) was there -i.e. world- + (2) was a person -psyche- of that period. Both world + psyche switched, + they coupled (matched, dovetailed) perfectly - which my theory accounts for, as well as for accounting for the switch qua switch. What put an end to Thomas + the CAD 45 Rome world was lack of consensual validation from other people, who were still in USA 1974. But I was in Rome CAD 45, really, + I was a citizen of that place + that time, + inwardly knew the appropriate facts, exactly as takes place in "Ubik" in the form reversion. Joe Chip finds he inwardly knows things appropriate to that world, although he remembers the 1992 world. That damn novel is valuable beyond compare: uniquely in the history of civilization it is the correct model of reality - + I didn't write it or know it - I could not have - + I know who did: P. did. Because P. knew the truth + fed it to me deliberately - to get it published, just as it did get published, to bypass the mechanical "Age of reason." This is the big recent insight I've had: why P. sent this info through me. "Ubik" is the only correct model of reality currently in existence. Folder 03 - 028 Folder 03 - 028 1) The dialectic forces, love + strife, are in "Ubik" 2) World as simulated (v. Lem's correct paradigm which he discerns in the novel). 3) Push-pull psyche-world lockstep. 4) The macro info-processing ubiquitous brain or "world soul", Ubik, with its message traffic all over the place, above all plurality + world. 5) Ubik's negentropism ("reality support") 6) The divine manifesting itself generally in trash places + forms. The Soviets have guessed that "Ubik" contains a correct cosmology radically different from all accepted ones ... With a little research, they can (+ may even have already) done what I finally did just recently (after 4 1/2 years): pinpoint it as the macro-microcosm model of the Renaissance Hermetics. Richard was on the right track with Empedocles. That's the what; next they wanted to know how - how come. I proved to be an idiot savant, much to their disgust. Boy, what I could tell them now! + the fact that a 16th century Renaissance person could be in my head but in his own century now fits in with the very model of reality put forth in "Ubik" - all times simultaneous, irreal, etc; only Ubik, the info-processing macro brain, the great sole unitary entity which thinks, actually real. + we are occluded {...} to it - somehow deliberately, purposefully, but by what agency? {...} Folder 03 - 029 Folder 03 - 029 Maybe those 4 Marxists were right about "Ubik" being subversive to capitalist society - it represents a non "age of reason" worldview, which maybe the intellectuals are into (Freud, Nietzsche, Heidegger, maybe even Schopenhauer + the will - all opposed to intellect, reason). Maybe out of them a new + progessive quantum leap forward in human thought is shaping - maybe I've underestimated them (P. had only scorn for the intellect: "Reason can prove anything," etc - + he was right). + maybe I'm (without realizing it) a part of this progressive new movement - maybe their theoreticians like Lem can see the broad social + historical context + meaning of my writing e.g. esp. "Ubik." They are right: I am a visionary. Take what Spinrad says about me maybe being the "most metaphysical writer of all times." I am tearing down time, space, causality, world - this would be subversive to capitalism, to the bourgeoise mind which is intimately connected with 18th century Anglo-Saxon rationalism (Newton, Locke, Bentham, etc.). I am systematically undermining the philosophers + philosophy on which capitalism is based, + going back to a Hermetic, Gnostic Neoplatonism, + a vitalism replacing mechanism - I deal a lethal blow to Anglo-Saxon thought, to its vaunted pragmatism. I am not just asking, "What is real?" as I've thought; in, e.g. "Ubik" I state -give- an alternate cosmology at the heart of what appears to be skeptical inquiry + tearing down. The reason the statement of a (this) alternate cosmology is not recognized even by me is that this par- Folder 03 - 030 Folder 03 - 030 ticular cosmology is so radically at odds with the rationalistic mechanical "scientific" one that we don't (can't) see it as a cosmology at all! "Ubik" seems to be nothing but the tearing down of our cosmology without erecting anything in its place. Wrong! Now, Richard was smart; he perceived the outlines in "Ubik" of a statement of an alternate cosmology, even saw Empedoclean thought in that statement. This is very important!! If one person could discern the assertion, not just the denial (of what is) then (1) others can + will; + (2) that statement is there in my writing, + not just in "Ubik," although that seems to be the best example. I didn't know there was a coherent alternative cosmology asserted in my work - esp I didn't know (1) what it was; or (2) where + when it originated (the macro-microcosm Hermetics). This realization is the greatest + most stunning realization I have ever had about my work - + as if that weren't enough, look at why this alternative cosmology is there! I've got a 16th century Hermetic adept matrix latent other person in my head living "in another" (i.e. the 16th) "century." This puts a wholly different light on (1) the intrinsic meaning; + (2) historic social cultural ideological import of my work! I am not Folder 03 - 031 tearing down; primarily; I am more importantly asserting a mystical alternative other worldview discarded + forgotten by the world, with deep, long term roots. In "Impostor" + in "MITHC" Tagomi in the park, the sight of something metal + shining sets off anamnesis. Yep. I checked "Impostor" - the shining metal knife. Oh God, in "Impostor" he remembers who he really is (retrieved inner actual memories, identity, psyche); + in "MITHC" the real, alternate outer world is "remebered" - restored, as Rome CAD 45 was "restored" for me in 2/3-74. So I've always unconsciously known, what also fits my "P." theory. The corpus of my writing states: 1) We are not who, when + where we think we are. But also, I now see that it evidently states: 2) Who, when + where -i.e. in what sort of reality- we actually are. The latter ((2)) I never guessed until the last few days, "Ubik" states it, {i.e.} what really is: Ubik (v. p. over last ch.) Summary: I have put forth a cosmology in which "God" must exist! (Although {I} precisely redefine "God".) For instance, I count nine levels: 1 simulated, the Folder 03 - 032 Folder 03 - 032 next seven real, + then an ultimate one of absolute non-being (which do not appear in explicated form in my writing - but - let's take my cult, those who read all my stuff. What is the total corpus of my work teaching people, starting with "Roog" + working on down or up to "Scanner"? Am I leading them into a new stage of human homeostasis, a next step of evolution? + then there is my flip flop two-slit logic - cf Pat Warrick's analysis of my reasoning. Even that is different: "y = y"). What Paul Williams calls my "multiple reasoning". Summary: the events (processes) which take place in my writing cannot occur in the model of reality universally held. But they can occur in an alternative model - +, without realizing it, I have repeatedly implicitly put forth that alternative model; it can be retrieved from my "what is reality?" preoccupation. + consider this: 2/3-74 proves that my alternative model (which I actually hold) is correct - if it weren't, 2/3-74 could not have occurred. So I have experiential proof of the correctness of my model. (I.e. my worldview.) The simulated world can be abolished. Folder 03 - 033 Folder 03 - 033 Yes, we are talking about a worldview in which one can abolish space, time, causality + finally world itself, + encounter the macrobrain, the unity behind the plurality, like in "Ubik." It really is true + it really can be done - all that happens in "Ubik" can be done! + is. I am exoterically disseminating a very (normally) esoteric worldview! I don't believe for a moment that this is accidental or a mere freak situation. It isn't Paracelsus per se; it is the adept brotherhood, collectively; they live on, secret + immortal, possessing the true Gnosis + powers, + they have used my writing, + not just "Tears" but certainly, now, I am sure about "Tears." We are talking about the "invisible college" - it is real, + it still exists, + I have been its instrument, + when crisis + danger probed at me to trap me, they saved me, at the cost of disclosing their existence to me. I know now, not just intuit. E.g. the code in "Tears" is just one instance. We are talking about a group decisively secretly changing history! Even possibly using or operating out of alternate worlds (e.g. "Portuguese States of America"!) In some way I don't understand the world of "Tears" really exists or did exist in 1974, + yet is/was Rome. (Cf Metz speech.) Folder 03 - 034 Folder 03 - 034 I know now that the brotherhood, which I suspected exists + worked through me, does exist + has been working through. I know they are immortal, transtemporal, + I know why + how, + what they do. But who they currently are I will never know, except that, because of P., I am one (he is one). If indeed they operate out of alternate worlds they may well be able to move retrograde in time, as it seemed to me in 3-74. That ability would allow them to operate into + out of alternate universes. I know they go back directly to Christ, + get their knowledge + powers from him, which no one (e.g. Bob Anton Wilson) seems even remotely to have guessed (nor re their transtemporal immortality + using host persons, etc, to jump back + forth across time). I just realized: they are informed + instructed + coordinated by the macrobrain via its messages -e.g. the bit in