nesis). He alone is not at the mercy of fate, + by his absorbing (transubstantiaty) us we are freed by him + as part of him from our various fates (as presoners here). anamnesis + being freed from fate are interconnected. in Gnosticism: "Sophia, in 812-75 her task desire) to save us 938-1194 puts her messages into the C-) inferior bulk of writing by the mere demiurge - i.e. creator." certainly the novel Ubik seems to describe this: a 97 penetration, into This universe (cosmos) of divine, helping material from outside. 92708 t tues tues Nov 29 Nov 22 oak Orange oak s Orange oto Thos 9:30 1035 284 8251 ( close encounters of a third kind." Mysterious + excit religious wonder + awe. At the time I saw Zebra I saw a sanctified world, such as the Char freitag zauber scene in act it of "Parsifal" interestingly, it was just about that time of year - it was, I have been told + come to believe, the true nativity (birth) day of Jesus Thus Zebra was an epiphany of the savior, when all is said + done. The world was changed + I, too, as (art of it: it dwelt in me + around me - I am a part of nature, as are the animals, who I saw changed too. The landscape, the animals, myself. Because of the presence of the savior. + why this epiphany? Because 1) I was in acute distress + 2) in acute danger. I have not written about the Magdaburg hemispheres for some time - now I drop the psychological explanation + simply say that his presence sanctified us all: man, animals, landscape. It was a certain way of experiencing the world, + also of inner being. But it occured on God's initiative (his grace), deliberately triggered off by the Golden Fish + my response of faith + belief. Nothing in 3-74 would have happened had I not responded as I did Yet I have discerned how God taught (prepared) me + from birth to so respond (this is a very important thing to know, to discern indubitably, beyond any doubt, how training laid down in + from my childhood on were deliberately employed to assure my response to the disinhibiting sign in 2-74. Another aspect I've forgotten about for a long time is the joining principle I saw as being the fundamental structure of the process of continuing creation. Everything new comes into existence as a single Gestalt by means of This joining. Before two pieces join to form the new Gestalt It is impossible to foresee 1) their joining at all, + 2) if joined, what the resulting Gestalt would be. + yet I deny God the role of creator - how do I reconcile this (3 is denial of the role of creator in the face of this contin val fundamental process - by him - of joining so as to produce the new? Well, "creating" is not what I saw; what I saw is precisely what Plato declared Noos to be "persuading" ananke to do with anomie, which is to say, arranging constituents that lie all in disorder to form what we correctly bipolarize against chaos as cosmos (or, as Empedocles called it, Krasis, composed by love, at war with strife). What is overcome is not just random disorder, but disorder resulting from the active divisive principle which Empedocles identified as strife. There is an active adversary to love (or Noos): cosmos has its artificer + So does anomie. Noos must, in its joining, overcome an opponent. Thus the 2-player "game" + "Game board" or battlefield quality that Zoroaster saw. But this cosmos is illusory in that there is a secret partnership between the two players (vishnu + Shiva, Horace + set), yin + yang. I discern, via the "lopped-off cuttings from God or Christ the true vine" that the Lord of Darkness, the evil or sick demiurge, James-James the mad genius creator, is an instrument of good (see the 10 typed pages of 11/19/77). James-James tosses out an infinitude of unrelated creations, which Noos (treating them as anoma which they are) arranges (joins). The two entities (James James who creates, but all in unrelated disorder) + the divine Noos who joins all into ever more complex Gestalts - between them the universe goes - + I suddenly see that in James-James I've perfectly described hex I, chien, yang, + in the joiner I've described yin (hex II, kun) the receiver, the recepticle of being into which yang's creations are thrust - + the Tao tants above both, regulating thene both. The Gnostics "+ Zoroastrians, Christiant, + manichaens) failed to discern ( The secret partnership. Perceive the creator properly (as The Gnostics did) + you comprehend a sick genius who cares not what becomes of his creations. Observe the other entity, which brings order out of chaos, + you see good, but although it knows all, its power is limited: it cannot create, it can only arrange (modulate) what the creator brings into being. It is this latter entity, which I saw, + which I call Zebra - +, as if to absolutely prove the Taoist view, I [correctly] experience it as female! (It is lunar; James-James is heat, seth, solar) James-Jame, the greator, is, as the Gnostics realized, not the true (i.e. ultimate) God. This the Christians can't realize (nor can the Jews). Viewing Noos (wisdom) bringing order (harmonid) out of anomie, they (the Gnostics) correctly saw his/her actions as interventive + salvific. "God brings good out of evil" expresses this perfectly: the secret partners get labeled as antagonists. We, having already been created, now can turn only to Yin, the receptive, for salvation; yang the creator cares no more for us (seen as blind nature or efficient cause, etc - as astral determinism). It is not our creator who matters to us any longer - he is already at work on his new, improved creation (as seen in Darwin's "survival of the fit" evolutionary processes, the weeding out of the weak). Him we curse - to him we correctly assign our ills, not realizing he also gave us life in the first place, which is so obvious that it gets overlooked. He is distinguished by [creative] power. Christ (the joiner the cosmos- arranger) by wisdom. Thus this triad of Xtianity. in Taoist terms love I have herewith done nothing t less that harmonized trinitarian Xtianity with Taoism. QED i Yin power wisdom o This Taoist trinitarianism isn't as nutty as it first might seem, because 3 temporal ages can logically (a priori) be determined: First: yang the creator creates (O.T.) second: yin the recepticle + receiver intervenes + beging to form the cosmos - the cosmic Corpus Christi. This began C. Paul's time, upon the resurrection Third: the final attribute, of which nothing is higher, love, The age of the spirit enters. these 3 can be arranged in temporal sequence. But also as a hierarchy. Paul, who is quoting Christ (in John) says love (agapē) stands above all else, including wisdom, so we arrive at this: power (the creator) transmuted by wisdom (the intercessor) - i.e. the secret partnership - is 1) guided by love outside of time, which means always, in eternity + 2) results, in time, in the Holy Spirit, i.e. in love. This is the only explanation I've ever heard of, by anyone, as to how + why Christ in "John" could say to his disciples, "it is for your good that I am leaving you, because only if I did can the advocate, the second comforter, come," by which Christ has in contra‐ vertably ranked the Paraclete above himself I Well, I say in conclusion: the contest, battle or game between the two antagonists will end in the greatest revelation + event of all: emergence of the secret partnership in the form of love - i.e. the Holy Spirit into a reconciliation of the dialectic force into their acpha + omega synthesis, at which point time is abolished + the Kingdom is established. In Empedoclean terms, after a long struggle between love + strife a final total Krasis is formed, involving everything, + the dialected interaction is concluded 53 footnote: I have the feeling that James-James enjoys creating - equally the intercessor enjoys knowing how to arrange what's churned out - there is no ill will between them; wisdom, Christ, has a reverence for James James' creations: he cherished, protects + ultimately preserves them from destruction - would he do all this if he didn't find them, esp. the least of them worth while? + over all this, + prior to all this, + after all this, love as the ultimate deity reigns: all creation was set in motion by love, the ground of being, + in the end the one-who-became -the-many returns to itself, completed. The one became the 2, then the 3. Then the many + concludes when it's all over as the one again. The one (the Tao) regulates both the creator Yang) + the arranger (yin) achieving a balance. It is this Palintonos harmonie, then, which supercedes the oscillations (in time) of the Palintropos interaction. At the heart of it all there is peace + an end to striving. It is to their fate precisely that James-James the creator leaves his creations. + it is precisely their fate (either ananke as necessity-determinism - or blind chance) that the Intercessor saves them from (i.e. by intervential grace). This is what happened with me. Christ is Zebra; that was Holy Wisdom, St. Sophia. But in my dreams I was taken to the great void who lovel me: that was the ultimate entity, the true God. It was/will be back to him that I will be taken. But the Gnostics are right in that the true, ultimate God, whom we should worship, did not create this world; what they fail to see is that he was allowe to by the true God, 2 in many respects the Gnostic structure is correct. sick creator, interventive "St Sophia," + the true God totally above it all + not found in nature. The messages, then, are from the intercessor, as part of his salvific activity. I've figured out what the Holy Spirit does, + why Christ said, "it's for your good that I go. because then God can send the 2nd Advocate." Here it is, the pay-off realization. In the 2-person "game" (between James-James the creator + the savior (who Acts to turn JJ's chaos into a cosmos - the Holy Spirit as the final + most mnearly - or is - the true God - his role is to guaranted Christ's [interventive success. That's it. + when you think about it that's some task: that's really important. That means that if we know that the Holy Spirit exists (+ know what he's for) we know what the outcome of the "Game" will be: success by the savior, in other words, it's not an even match between J5 + Christ. the Holy Spirit insures final (interventive] triumph. That is why if you have the Holy Spirit + You have an invincible advocate. His presence in you is not cosmos but victory. When he comes into you, the battle is over + the book closed. He is not a contestant in the 2-player struggle but the hall mank of its absolute outcome, gorostic themes in my books: deity as evil (3 Stigmata) world as prison, overlain by nice hallucination (maze) intercessor who takes you out of the prison (maze) the triune "ham sandwich" cosmology (Ubik) Amnesia (maze) - faith of our Fathers": 1) stranger girl comes to his door. Belance 8744 undeposited checks 2) She is part of a clandestine 680 travelers checks good group. 100 is 300 3) her group provided him medica 15 cash - a phenothiazine, which 957 4) caused him to see what was it should be noted that really there (it