played as a child; but now I have put away childish things." as Paul said. Our individual growth stages are the unfolding of an entelechy - + are an exact analm to the evolutionary development of the life forms of this world, from "sleeping" unicallular upward toward greatern greater self awareness - sense of self over + against 68 environment until at last (as Hegel says) absolute Spirit unites us back again as before, but consciously now, not on an unconscious level. for Hegel the importance of the incarnation is "that the Infine being is not distinct from what is finite but is necessarily manifest in it." Hegel's idea of the evolution of the mind from mere awareness to absolute knowledge. H: "behind the soucalled curtain which is to hich the internal constition of thing. There is nothing to be seem unless we ourselves go behind" in Christ "the human + the divine are no longer sundered, + God seems to be present in the world" (H: a developonent forward.) "Hegel made it clear that the course of history, philo sophically conceively was in his view the incarnation of the Absolute mind. Apart from the history of man God would be alone + lifeless (das leblose Einsame). It would seem, indeed, that without the historical development of man I + his freedom there would be no God. H: God is therefore not something grander + more powerful t than the natural world yet fundamentally like it, nor is he something beyond the world that must remainter ever inaccessible to man. God is manifested in the world + this is the truth that revealed religion has expressed most adequately in the doctrine of the incarnation. Without This doctame God would still be regarded as beyond the world +, thus, as incomplete + finite. Even with this doctrine He ison ceived of through the medium of particular historical events that introduce an element of contingency + irrelevence into oure conception of him." : it is the embodiment of absolute mind in material things fashioned by the artist 61 My 3-74 experience involved an extraordinay number of Hegelian elements; viz: (1) his triad: art, religion. philosophy; (2) God acting as absolute mind immanent in history; (3) the progession in history from less to greater freedom; (2) the noetic revelation of the dialectic at work; (5) the significance of the Christion incarnation + even mention of it under the aspect (divine -holy-wisdom which would most have appealed to him. Either Hegel was just plain super right obout everything - literally every thing - or: the mind which took over mine was Hegelian on weltsicht und wissenschaft. In connection with this it comes to me to think, marxism is based on "deft" Hegelianism. Does this signify anything? A marxist philosopher (e.g. Marcuse) would view the universe much the way I did via "Thomas" in 3-74. There were all those marcosiats swarming around me in '74. I (noetically) literally aw the damn Hegelian dialectic, + Zebra is Hegel's absolute Spirit working in history to promote greate freedom: a higher + higher (more autonomous) man "the separateness of the divine + the human, upon which The monotheists insist... sharply raises the problem of how man can unify with the divine: "it It would be difficult to call neoplatonism itself panthetic because at the enter tween the do the fallent radically imperfect ans undivine character of that world is always emphasized, + since I saw Zebra within (as in transsubstantiation) the objects + processes of this world, in view of the above quoted underlined para graper (in the Emparticle on pantheism) I am now is an extraordinary excellent position to rule out (of being correct) virtually all theistic + theological positions: viz: 62 if (since) I saw Zebra (God) within this world, immanent, as in panthies then by my empirical observation gained during a state of enlightenment + revelation, I say (see p 61 last part quited) the at This world is not undivine, not separated from the divine, not not-God; + I say, the transcendent theistic view of God in heaven - the supralunar world - over + not against the sublunar, this world, this bifurcation of worlds is correct, although possibly it once was correct; I can't speak about the world prior to the time (3-74. that I saw it but I saw God here - +, because o the above (+ 61) quited paragraph, I see that the "fallen (away from God) quality" imparted to this world is incorrectly imparted - at least as regards now - well, as Hegel points out, it is the incarnation. which abolishes this sondering of worlds; the incar nation is both worlds, both natures, fused - is Zebra then, as I frequents think the cosmic Christ the fusion of God + world? Up to now, I have facted t be see totalled in film in its one face over transcendence. The only thing that can said to be "fallen" or not-God is some kind of phenomenal - layer veil. I never before even began to grasp the "historical view of the fall" theological implications of what I saw; either Hegel is right + God as absolute spirit has alway dwelt within human history (this world) or the re I assimilation of this world back to God after a period of separation has occurred. 6 incredible as it seems I am faced with only one theo logical Q. at this point: is Hegel right, + absolute Spirit (God, Zebra) has always been here in this world working thru human history. Or: in 3-74 did God intervene + come here (invisibly) after an absence? the dream in tears implies the litter; i.e. "Daniel" is fulfilled, vis-a-vis watergate. But if - since - God is here, by either view this world now at least is unfallen or saved en mass. what I must ask (the crucial question) is, was goes intervention in watergate a fulfillment of forces alrealy present (latent) in the historic process, or did they breach through + interrupt the historic forces? + are not an accumulation of them but an abolition of them qua trends in linear time? I say: not accumulation but intervention, the 3 eyed sibyl was not of this world, + the 2nd incar nation was explicitly involved by that single clear prophecy I heard, "St Sophia is going to be born again. (sic: again ) "She was not acceptable before," meaning, She (he, it) did not gain ascendent power over this fallen world before, then qua black Iron Prison, it was fallen. QED If it hadn't [formerly) been fallen I wouldn't have been shown it as black Iron prison. true well, then I am not seeing (at 3-74) patheism but rather transsubstantiation by a transcendent God who came here + in or invisible presence now rules. 64 Zebra was not (always] in objects + processes, but rather entered them + took crucial - decisive - control. If he had always been here, either 1) he was not omnipotent a 2) he allowed evil or 3) evil was not real, but only lay in the Dokos But: if he came here (3-74) + intervened (having originally "set it spinning" as anterior creator, + then, like Plato's demiurge in timeaus, moved away from it to a place of observation) there was real evil which (whose existence) is exactly why he did return + intervent on the side of the [losing) good states but vide Eriging i the creator greates + is not created 1) that whiche (God, first stage) 2) that which is greated + greates "+ does not create b 3) I 4) not created + does not create (God, as that into which all created beings have returned). Erigina treated these as if stages of history. A process of passing from God in his first form to God in his last." Spinoza: "to explain anything is to demonstrate that it cannot be other than it is." A typical panthrestic view of the great universe structure as law, analog of logical deductive steps. I must ask if watergate could have been (turned out) other than it did? + my answer is without Zebra's intervention it certainly would have: this inter vention is what I saw as the external lifting of the stage (of our prison world). 63 Spinoza: "God + nature could not be the hames of two distinct + independent substances" this is true panthesis quite different from the idee of divine efficient causality (in aristotles term). "Spinoza believed that all the key predicates by divinity is ascribed apply to the entire system aking f things." "He believed that the Bible veil, the truth but it is the truth that it veils, "the mind grasps the whole necessity of things + becomes identical with the infinite idea of God. to Spinoza there could be no divine intervention o p miracles - for obvious (internally logical] reasons. How could God intervene in (against) himself? I agree, the Q. is then, was this world himself when he intervened, which is to say, if it was himself (pa thiesm) he couldnt have intervened, + if he intervened i couldn't have been himself except in the deistic i sense of his originally having greated it, set it spinnin + then moved off (ala Plato) or it moved off (i.e. fell). it fell farther + farther until at last he intervened. This fits my revelation. The world got better - i.e. in Hegel's sense got more freedom, suddenly, when he intervened; it was an abrupt break. well, its either Hegelian pantheism or mono theistic intervention of an apocalyptic kind, + a multitude of parts of my 3-74 experience point to the latter. If I worked it out a priore, however rather than basing it on revelation, I probably would (or possibly would) choose pantheism. 66 upon seeing via Grace (revelation) after the tran scendent monotheistic God intervened (i.e. came here + transsubstantiated objects + processes) I would see immanent God - i.e. Pantheism - that doesn't mean This "Zebra essence" was always so. Also, the fact that I saw him modulation some processes + objects doesn't mean he modulates or ever modulated formerly them all. + how can pantheism be reconciled with all that Jesus said, about "our father who is in heaven? e s o my own sense that - memory that - I came here originally from there, + very important my near i Gnostic revelation of this world as evil (B. I. Prish) but intervened - into. In pantheism, what happens to the great 2-player war I glimpsed? Pantheism virtually means monisms of course, there is the Hegelian dialectic, + he was a pantheist - I may pave glimpsed that, I really feel the "selection of a better time track" or "alternate future" via critical intervention was involved; a sense of this permeated my 3-74 ex perience. + in my fictional schema of Zebra for Valis he (it) has in mimicry form inserted itself into the world of nature, of blind cause-+-effect - i.e. into James James world. I must never forget such dreares a the James-James" dream - it absolutely pointed towar intervention. + the "St. Sophia" prophecy sounds to mee to be interventive a re-melding of what was not (as expressed by the highly significant words, "she was not acceptable before: 3 6 nnot acceptable before" I take to mean that the fusing of the human + divine which Hegel so correct, saw as crucial did not survive all those good things . which Hegel the pantheist saw in the first in carnation actually apply to the 2nd, about which they werent thinking back at his time. No doubt the (St accomplished some of the things he saw, or all to some degree, but the fulfillment (absolute Spirit informing all nature, history, world + man) - that must fall to the second. Yet what I saw in 3-74 would seem to reveal the assimilated melded