one in thrall, the Holy Spirit has brought about the "2nd birth" the spirit birth, in me; it has freed me, + upon death, I during this lifetime I could only glimpse, + temporarily. I am freed from spurious time. + this world occupying spurious time. The whole experience starting with seeing, the Golden Fish + remembering has to be regarded as a waking up, actually a being awakened (by the Holy Spirit as it broke the sublunar yin power + thus dissolved spurious world). As a matter of fact, if "Astral determinism" can be defined as coercive world power over you, the ultimate power would be to compel you to believe in its reality, + the ultimate breaking of astral power would be to abolish the world utterly. This is just a logical extension of insights + knowledge I've had before the ultimate coertion is one of perceptual + cognitive assent. The extent of coertion is entire; remove the coertion + the world itself dissolves, much to the liberated person's surprise. But something has to replace it, or the brain would starve due to sense deprivation. The true narrative is picked up where it left off. No - I can't really explain why the world of Acts should appear when the astrally - determined simulation is broken. I suppose it's because it's the actually real world - some place + sometime has to be real. What is so "surprising of the world of the N.T. appears? Got any better suggestions? After all, if it is specifically the Holy Spirit that liberates you, well, the world of Acts is the specific space + time of the arrival of him, the second comforter. He saved you; his world now replaces whatever world you were experiencing. Acts is the locus at which the 2nd comforter (in contrast to Christ) entered history (33 or so years after the 1st Advent). In fact, a kind of argument (or pseudo argument) could be made that the manifestation of the world of Acts identifies the liberating power as the Holy Spirit. There is continuity + symmetry. You are with him; he has in a sense changed from entity to world. In fact, throughout my 4 years + 4 months of chewing this over I should have used the argument that the epiphany of the world of Acts - perceptually to me as well as in "Tears" - indicated that VALIS or Zebra was indeed the Holy Spirit, that I had the decisive evidence all the time (or at least since I read Acts). Oh God, I am so weary of this lonely world! Can't I find my way back? Its power reasserted itself, its power to compel me to see it + live in it but knowing + remembering. We were so happy preparing for the Return of God! + then we fell asleep - bewitched - Klingsor + his castle of iron. Libera me, Domine! Ironic that I've pursued this line of reasoning, + reached these results, upon taking up the problem Lem proposed (based on my writing) about the brain being fed a simulated reality, technologically , + trying to devise a test to determine if it is indeed simulated. + I find in my 3-74 experience a malfunction, such as Lem predicts would disclose the simulation. If it is a simulation a benign helper could induce a malfunction, momemtarily - but long enough to expose it, + reveal the authentic world (there must be an authentic world in contrast). The USA 1974 world is unmasked as the product of inner tape, outergeneration-in-synch programming (ȃlá "Electric Ant"), a deft feedback loop constantly reinforcing itself due to the inner-outer correspondence. Break the programming suddenly + after a short period the world dissolves out of the way + another one. Quite different, as well as a different inner self, appear. This makes no sense unless the USA 1974 world - + self - are viewed as simulations, the result of programming (a reality - simulating device or entity). The question emerges - once the simulated quality is unmasked - is, "where + when are we really? What is the real world?" Before the simulated world re-establishes itself, can we get a sufficient glimpse to say positively? Are there any hard clues? Well, the koine + the early - church sacraments, + memory of the recently - departed Jesus, fear of Romans, + palm trees. i.e. 1st century AD Syria. K.W. spoke of sabotage vs malfunction, an issue which I dismissed. But then the voice called the USA 1974 world "an alibi world" which is "expendable." Sabotage - not by an evil party - but by a friend, since this is a thrall situation - I misunderstood K.W. sabotage of the prism machinery. An induced malfunction; which by the way answers the epistemological questions I've chewed over in 27 years of writing having to do with simulated worlds (hence Lem's question). e.g. "Delmak-O" = USA 1974 Persus 9 = Rome cAD45 The tattoo = the Golden Fish God, all my "this is illusion" writing ("Eye", "Joint", "Stigmate", "Ubik", "Maze") are analogs of the USA 1974 vs the glimpse of Rome cAD 45 via the Golden Fish sign. "Here we are." "But where are we really? + then someone gets a glimpse. (As in "the Earth is hollow + I have touched the sky.") Usually, once the simulation is detected there are assorted guesses. But sometimes the first clue vis-a-vis simulating of world is the glimpse. My God, my life - which is to say my 2-74/3-74 experience - is exactly like the plot of any one of ten of my novels or stories. Even down to fake memories + identity. I'm a protagonist from one of PKD's books. USA 1974 fades out, ancient Rome fades in + with it the Thomas personality + true memories. Jeez! mixture of "Imposter", "Joint" + "Maze" - if not "Ubik" as well. My earlier notes show that what I deduce from all this as a certainty is that we have a two-mind situation. Statements as to which world is real (if any) + which simulated (if any) are speculative, but the worlds are not generated by the person, since they both contain elements unknown to him (such as the Koine). What the malfunction or induced malfunction prove is the existence of at least one worldgenerating mind, + (as I failed to see in those earlier notes) possibly two world - generating - even competing - minds. Competing worlds, competing world-generating minds. Plus the passive, programmed observing little non world-generating mind. Is this a battle for his allegiance? World against world, mind against mind? The voice last night scathingly referred to USA 1974 + the corresponding PKD personality as "both being expendable." Diabolic interpolation/simulation? Could the two worlds be regarded as two domains? If they are regarded as two antithetical domains it's obvious which is good, true + beautiful + which mere simulation. But I keep running up against a lower - higher division in contrast to antithesis. The non-discretionary lower realm serves some divine purpose but it (+ its ruling powers) can be overruled. I revert now to my teaching machine model. We have been posed a problem. Our world is simulated. Can we detect? We are being tested, it is not fraud but puzzle (problem). If you don't catch on you get to live here forever + ever. If you do catch on, the curtain is lifted + you get to see the truth. The key act by which to discern the truth is moral balking - saying no to a programmed stimulus - response, disobeying it on the grounds that it's improper. This breaks the power of the inner - outer tape that controls you. The BIP threatens you with dire punishment if you disobey. You do so anyway, which makes sense if there is another world, but is suicide if there isn't. You are betting on the existence of the other world + of a divine observer (tester?). You have to do it without knowing. The USA 1974, simulated though it is, serves a benign purpose - i.e. this posing of the moral problem. Homeostasis is being taught in a necessarily oblique way. There is no other way to teach people to discriminate on their own + to disobey when necessary. The BIP is a vision of hell + the PTG a vision of reward - heaven: the kingdom. I guessed a long time ago that the world we perceive is a simulation, but this diagnosis only makes sense when you can point to a real world to contrast it to, + this, prior to 2-74, I could not do. I now understand the crucial role of assent - programmed assent - + what happens if assent is suddenly broken + the transferred - + also why we give unconditional assent to this simulated world - why, for instance, the search expressed in my novels makes no sense to many people. + with this transfer of assent from the "lower level" realm of USA 1974 to the "upper level" realm of Acts. There is a transfer of the person from product - object - of blind forces to a free, discretionary level of being: the true goal of it all. This is "salvation" or "born from above by the spirit." The "unfallen" man. My search, however, is to re-establish contact with the other (world-generating) mind. Presumably, it would most likely be in the upper, discretionary realm. Maybe the Holy Spirit breaks the programming by speeding up the inner tape so that it runs out. That could have been the flash cut phosphene graphics I saw, going so fast. Did I then see my next life? I subscribe to the acosmic gnostic view that world does not reveal God. Abolish world + you are facing God. In a sense world is a mask thrown forth by God to conceal himself from man, who must then deal with the puzzle which world presents to him. If evil (undeserved suffering) rules world, how can it be the product of a benign mind? But world is not isomorphic to God; it is unlike him, a smoke screen with which man is not to make his peace but is to balk against. Yet tantilizing clues (signs) of God shine through the world from the far side; then invade the world, + are covertly available to human perception. The golden section is one such clue. Axiom: masks do not resemble the visages concealed by them. If we know that world is a mask of God, the problem of evil (undeserved suffering) is somewhat answered. But why must God mask himself? Answer: man must solve the moral + epistomological puzzles presented to him by world in order to come to life (become disjunctive from what is not-him). He can join the world or he can repudiate it. This is a very serious game, this guessing game. It only serves its purpose if man knows he will be rewarded for backing he will balk in order to obtain the reward - the test will be contaminated. He must balk with no knowledge of reward; in fact he knows he will be punished (by world, the BIP). So "he who gives up his life will save it," etc. This all really presumes another, invisible landscape at odds with the palpable one. Two realms, perhaps a lower + a higher, are implied, each with its own laws. The lower realm alone does not tell the full story - in fact may not even tell the true story or a part there of. In the lower realm, deity appears in a debased + trivial or besmirched guise, marginally (like the cheap commercials for UBIK). Only at the end (as in the reading of the last chapter in "Ubik") does deity unmask itself, + we see it as it truly is). This I say, if deity exists in the lower