damned, the powerless the DNA in us programs us to die. It is this [form of determinism] once called "astral" or "planeary" fate that Sar-pis Christ, hermes Tristmogistos saves us from. I'm not sure how - but however it is done, this is what happened to me in 3-74, the "second birth" from above, by the spirit. Not only did I not physically die then (3-74) as programmed, but evidently I will in some actual real sense never die. The key to this is memory (+ hence true identity) restored; + 1) 2) Triumph over time. perhaps (2) is achieved by (1), since the restored memory seems to include the future as well as the past. Anyhow. We know ➀ who our savior is; + ➁ what he saves us from. The secret of physical immortality does not seem to involve an imperishable body but the ability to expand the ego-consciousness to merge with the gene pool knowledge + memory - which is immortal. Literally No wait - I don't think that's how the problem (of mortality, of being programmed by the DNA to die) is handled. I think rather than merging with the DNA 6) Gene pool memory, we are saved by joining the trans‐ or supra-temporal corpus Christi. I have no reason to believe that "St. Sophia" is the gene pool memory. I did not remember the interval between apostolic t the times (when I was a "fish Xtian") + today. immortal entity (Christ or the Holy Spirit) is outside us - I mean ZeBRA. I saw him outside me, in the rooms of the apartment. ZeBra is an immortal life form, the is not DNA memory. He has an external, cosmic invisible (to us) real existence, a St-Elmo's fire sort of plasmic energy. He assimilates us + thus through his immortality we become immortal. This is the "second birth from above by the spirit." The DNA programs each of us to die. He (Zebra) intervenes by a process of (ah!) "invading" (entering) us + transubstatiating us exactly as I saw him transubstantiating objects + processes! To do this - to make one of us immortal he must perform this theolepsy. A theophany would not do it. This is what the "Fish Xtians" sought + this was their sacrament + secret. During this gotphysical lifetime it is tasted r temporarily, for an interval or several, but evidenly upon physical death the incorporation is eternal. We literally are rescued from the DNA which merely uses us as means for its (James-James) own ends I have located the death-dealing determinism from which we are saved in the DNA; + I have located our savior in the form of an immense transtemporal ubiquitous life form here with us, which is transubstantiating not justus but the universe itself. Then I seem to be saying, "I didn't recover my memories of 70 AD but, rather, I shared in acquired its (i.e. Zebra's memory]. In fact, maybe I've found the key, here, those were not memories of 70 AD - it (ZebrA spanned 70 AD to 1974 AD: both times were in its supratemperal present this is why I actually found myself in Rome now in fact actually saw it with my eyes. 46) Well, in that case, let's ask who lived c. 70 AD, b didnn't live [here] inbetween but in now back? human being? No; it is Christ. He has returned, + linked the two advents into one. This time, how ever, he has shown his annihilating (destroying) side - shown the 3rd eye - shown himself to be Shiva (+ Dionysmn + cernunnos). We will now see him as he (fulle] is, + not just the Lamb Part This dual quality - the 2 sides, annihilating + healing/protecting his own, indicates that, through the discernment of the 3rd ege, he has begun to judge already: 1) damning some (the goats) - i.e. destroying them (the conspirators; + 2) Intervening to save his own flock - as he did save me So his saving me was a judging, a selection ("You did not choose me; I chose you.. The decision the to save some + to destroy others are 2 faces of same coin, since those destroyed were persecuting the those he intervened to save. The incredible fact of matter is that part of him (ZeBRA) is right now back c. 70 AD although part of him is/was in 1974. He is/was in both time/place periods simultaneously that's why I experienced actually being in Roe caD70 not just remembered it. The 2 timeplace continua were superimposed - + something about the stars Always before I assumed either ➀ I had just been in Rome c AD70 n was transported here, + given Phil Dick's memories as well as body; or (2) I was remem‐ bering (anamnesis) a former life in Rome. But now, ➂ t It think I was assimilated by a supratemporal life t form who was he both continua simultaneously. 47 honm. I can't completely rule out the "I was just in Rome c AD70 n was transported here, + given phil Dick's body + memories." Sounds very possible. but think ➂ is the answer. it, not I had been / + I still was in Rome - the 1st Advent + the 2nd joined. The categories of time + space both abolis heal it Then, if (3) be so, I know the good newi hasbeen revealed to me: 1) Not only is the master here again but: 2) He has acted in history already to depose 4 tyrannies. This time we see him as he really is (i.e. the other side of him, concealed the 1st time) "not like a Lamb but like a lion - with a sword" + whom dowesel? Shiva. Cernunnos: 1) Warrior against those condemned 2) healer of those whom he loves who are his own. a rather eerie idea has come to me: based on previous to insights but new. Premise; I was [DNA] programmed die in 3-74 or 4-74. An "adjustment" (intervention, correct ion alteration) was made by the override monad so that I was lifted out of + above my programming + so survived t i.e. lived on. But the inner tape had inscribed on it for the 80st I or 4-74 period postmortem experiences; hence for some til 37 me following the adjustment I actually literally underwent next life, after death" experiences - until the whole thing could be re-normalized (about one year later). Put another way, if the premise is that for abou a year, starting in 3-74, I underwent after life experied cences It can be inferred that I indeed had been programmed to die circa 3-074-74. This also testifies to a continuously unwinding inner tape synchronized with outer evens so that these outer events seem to cause our responses Whereas in fact all the information (responses, actions) are intrinsic, + the outer world merely signals disinhibition 48 much in the manner Leibnitz figured out. This doesn't mean we have any true volition however, but it does seem to point to a circuitboard or giant entelechy with in which we are integrated parts functioning (performing or serving) on cue My 3-74 experience -the orthogonal "adjustment" - could not be acheived without it, + a good deal of the whole picture (actual structure) becoming perceptible to me. I gather that, this being unavoidable, no effort was made to occlude me either in perception or memory. So, I reason, my "ajna awareness" (enlightenment) was in fact a mere (sic) consequence of what must not only have been a necessary adjustment but perhaps even an anomalous one. All my reasoning throughout This exegesis points to an anomalous, far-ranging highly significant major intervention into the main flow of human history. I can, by collating 3 versions of the "Fyth of the ursurper king + his ritualistically being deposed (as in "The Bacchae" but not in the N.T. or "Hamlet") to make way for the rightful king (who has been relegated to the humiliating + peripheral role of court Jester) - I can discern the urgeschicht, which is very much like the "goose Girl" fairy tale K.W. brought to my attention. This is perhaps The great Gnosis; at some unspecified time in the distant past, a "fall" occurred which actually consisted of a usurp‐ illegitimate "servant" power exchanging roles with the real King - + this forgery has continued down through the ages, involving all secular + religious power (except for such subversive groups as the "Fish Xtians" who knew the true story). If I have all this right, then the vast historic intervention of 3-74 is actually of unprecedented ontological magnitude, for the illegitionate sovereign has at long last been deposed. a unique event, long predicted what now remains is fulfillment of the " prophecy given me: the re-emergence of the Sophic rightful 9 King +, next, his ascention to the throne. But perhaps not in the way we are accustomed to. The legitimate King may rule within us, rather than at the citadel of power. We are not talking about exchanging tole by one human inplace of another - we are talking about rule by that which I saw + which I call Zebra, who is not human but some kind of master monad. Whatever Zebra is, he/she/it) they is/are the legitimate ruler; + What we have seen so far (the deposing of the faise King of Tears? is in itself nearly (but not quite) as important as what will follow. Even if my case is absolutely unique, the true King (Zebra) has revealed his presence here, + even if I am the only witness (which I know to be not so, my evidence being the girl with the Golden Fish necklace + my a priori proof that an authentic hidden church of "Fish Xtians" still exists) I, anyhow, know that the King is here. As I have often noted, I can't be sure of ➀ he has returned; or(2 if he has always been here but invisible, + consigned to the periphery [of authority] But Either way, the present situation is as I say, the tech‐ nical term for this is the Parousia. It is very eerie to know that during the period of adjustment I -ourneyed beyond the grave + then returned knowing - having seen - what is there. That was the interval in which I experienced the past partem reality: the month: of the historic adjustment. It all computes, taking the above "ritual killing of the spurious king t into consideration, one can easily understand the dream in as "Tears." The intended victim locked inside the building is the False King who must die. The white wool bearded old kingo Horseback (the "ancient of Days") is the true King, now come not only to kill the pretended but also to take his own lawful place instead 80 "Tears," then, contains 2 messages: 1) the exoteric one, supra; + (i.e the killing) +: 2) the encyphered one of happy cernunnos/Diunysos! Shiva Christ who has returned. "Felix" is not only a ukase to the true church to prosper + be happy; But also contains the name (identity) of the wise Old bearded true King!! So the encoded message collates with the exoteric message! It is not the opposite of the exoteric, but the missing completion of one total message!!? grosteen + bogens soughtfor bilateral hemis‐ pheric parity would, if Julian Jaynes is correct, re-create the bichameral mind, + again we would hear the lost voice of the Gods. The mute right hemisphere would cease to be mute This is what happened to mne in 3-74, along with a lot else - grasteen + Jaynes should collate give us back the vox dee, which would mean the + restoration of divine rule. - Here's an idea I've never persued. h righe 1) Suppose Jon Danikan is correct the ETI intelligences came here sometime between Egyptianized Grete + the Essenes. 1a) My