because of him + him alone I was able to choose rightly; it was he who acted as my guide, teacher + advocate at that trial, who informed me. He it was who spoke for me when I called up to L.A. + wrote letters. For Karmic burden read "sin" or "original sin." The E.B. says that the highest level you can rise to (ascend to) is that of Lord Krishna - whereupon one achieves Nirvana. i.e. to a God-like, avatar like level. Was I for a time, at the level of great Krishna himself? The point here is that here it is shown how high, how extraordinarily high, one may rise - to the level of a God. While still physically a mere man. Ah! No wonder I saw people with 3 eyes, Krishna is so depicted krsna is the 8th incarnation of Vishna. He danced played the flute + was full of love. He reminds me of Orpheus. 0 I was so aware at the time of the Xerox letter of the nelf to choose correctly, it was fear-provoking + ominous - I was tense + terrified, as witness my B. P. But also; I knew there was incredible good latent in the situation, if I did manage to choose correctly well, I did so choose, + maya continieed to left, so that finally I could perceive + commune with God - the greatest joy possible: plus the promise that, upon death, I would go to join him + Tony Boucher + the others, who were there with him finally I say: the black Iron Prison world is that deterministic prison which the mechanical cause - + - effect laws of Karma imposes on us: each successive life determined rigorously by what carre (by what we did) before: truly a prison for the soul. + of course the Palm tree park is the place we yearn to return to, but cannot unless or until we are freed from karmic burden (or, if you will, sin). in Egyptian terms, ma'at's feather proved heaver than the heart being weighed In Zoroasterior ters, one has chosen the light, + his met, fought, + triumphed over his drus. I have it: my whole karmic burden expressed itself as ceaseless terror of capture. At 3-74, the Karmic content of This ceaseless torment swam to the surface + revealed its origins in a past life, in Rome, where I was an early Christian who lived in actually, realistic fear of the Ir leg, died to my involvement in illegal Christianity. The past life roots (cause a origing of this fear, rational ther in that previous world were revealed: the fear was of past life of karmic origin, +, once I had dealt with the Xerox letter rightly, I was freed of that ifelong fear of imprisonment + death + this is still so. 41 So my lifelong fears had their origins in a past life. I remembered that past life, which feed people do, then I chose correctly (ore the Xerox letter). the immutable mechanical cause-+-effect force of Karma was broken (thanks to God's intervention or grace). That fear has never returned. Eviderly I was punished (arrested + immisure + finally killed in that past life); this was decollection & Cathasis what you do with childhood traume. fury theaky. Yas trauma, all right but in a prier life, not in childhood - dooming me to perpetual suffering. I had to make my peace with the autherites as it stood I was myself engineering a mechanical (karmic) repetition of that original situation + doon, + or some level I sensed this + so was afraid of what inexorably lay ahead (sare as before). Reacting to the Xerox letter the was I did broke the mold a pattern of the previous life I + so broke Karma. This time I did what I did not do (or couldn't do) then. + so at last I ceased to sense - or actually - see the black iron prison that was (is Rome ground one which once ha been literally there. My script" called for self-destrictly martyrden - my whole life aimed at it (Christianity prizes martyrdon) - but God's script (his will called for me to keep on livine (i.e. to write + act in a fighting way. rather than self-destructuewa). He won 2 partly, he won by lifting the veil for me on my past life, so I could see why + what I was doins: He knew I could not defeat my event the black Iron prison that way: he then showed me - motivated me - how to fight + help destroy it in non-self destructu ways, again I see this as a case of God performing his mighty act of breaking astral determinism (now expressed as Karma). It was necessary for me to do something I would never do, + only God can achieve this since existential man is difenced by his Acts. I had to be what I wasn't - an impossibility. My plan (script) was unfree + deterministic as was shown where the veil was lifted + I could see the source of my "fight the Inn Prison by fall ing into its clutches" martyrdom plan. It was my plan vs the plan God has for me (probably further writing, both books + letters such as the wiggens letters). In seeking to repeat my previous Christian Martyrdone I was warring one God, + as yeats says "on stroke of midnicht God will win. But I sense something more: what I think of as a reweaving of me. Which evidently is an unusual event moved backward through time from the far end (final ent) of the universe to abolish the black in prist replace it be with the palm tree Garden; to do this he hat ovidently) to reweave some of the fabric here, which meant ome people, as well as events. Indication of my personal weaving was the Adventitious not-me personality sent to olace more. A mere path along time -or through cause-+- ifect possibilities, an "alternate world" was brought into s existence (as if my -our- past had been tinkered with, & our present was altered - hence the inner superimposition of personalities in me & then external superimposition of the two realities. Also my dream when I lived in a [dule?] little old house like the one we looked at in [Placentin?]. Like "commuter." My God - what I'm saying is that the Black Inn Pirson world was an "alternate present," not future : the other ([komin?]) time may have not been in the past but on alternate presents. obvious the one from which the not - I [persmolity came?], where he had just been. Our two presents superimposed for a while. & it is the police - state vs which I described in tears - where, as a reviewer said, evidently all the civil rights movements of the early '60s failed. So in all there were 3 alternate presents : one [ware?] than [overal?] (where the other personality had just been living at the moment he was transferred here, & a better me than ours ; the palm tree world, which is the one that finaly prevailes (due to God ; reweaving, which I was aware of because it included me. Whenever or wherever the Black Inn world was, did that personality escape from it & come here? A hunted fugitive? If this unexpected & extraordinary theory (insight) is correct, God did a lot more than overthrow Nixon. By His Chains. He may have Breached through - not in '74 - but some time earlier - & aborted an entire [LaLand?] (cryptic) alternate from ([Mubhosis?], world) from being actualized after (by our time-experience) it had been actualized. thus the event portrayed in the teaks then occured some time ago by our reckoning, although not by God's. No wonder I saw the world - weaving logos [of wonder?] its infinte velocity - it was indeed weaving away, having come back from the termination of the universe to [last?] a best outcome - I'm saying, now that (obviously) not me but two alternate paths were absolute in preferences to the Best me, the palm tree me; so not [one?] was the Black Inn Prison abolished, but one we had (with Nixon ruling it, I Guess). He was rewovin, this one out of existence, too. Is that why the not - I [persmalits?] come here! to help in the work-to-be-done here! so on to connect our middle were into the palm tree me So not a previous life in the past, but a previous life in an alternate present. the one depicted in [teaks?]. [Originally it existed?]. Changed by [netrognadi?] movement in time & reweaving into this (when the Black Iron Prison world was abolished, the [a.t?] - I [perimality?] come here, with purpose). then this me was tinkering with & became the palm tree one. Could the Not-I [pensmalis?] have been more than a human personality? But rather a divine instrumentality which did its work [finish?] in the Black Iron world, survived its [abolitim?] (not being a product of it but rather down into it, the original earth from the pleoroma) & hence "came" (remained) here, & continued its work? was it christ? only a divine, non-earthly adventitious entity could/would remember the Black Iron Prison world (which we were all in) since after the reweave - ing our past it never existed (except to him) ; I myself experienced it even having been [illegible text?] him-in-me. He survives it and remembered it ' no human did. Look what that makes Tears, them: the my surviving account (trace) it that [wined?], then did that world come to exist? the not-I perim loathed the CP- in the prison world had the society occupied us at some time in our past? 63 + all this could be pot on a secular basis: from the future highly evolved 3-eyed people, making use of ther advanced technology, came back to the past (along a time line where the black iron prison world - precent - prevailed + tinkered with the past out past - + it changed to this, which tranferred there to this world where they confined Their work, whereupon it became the palm tree world But I doubt this. Back to God: it is said "For I am greation a mere heavens + a new Earth, + memory of former things will not enter the mind nor come up into the heart. t was this the promise which was fulfilled + not just the "uncut stone" one (or they refer to the same event in history: the apocalypse: moment of God's intervention). in fulfillment of "revelation" it was Rome (in our alternate present, not past) which God overthrew; probably on the black iron world Rome never fell; the tinkering may have taken place centuries so, or even nearly 2000 years ago. God has gross-mended laterally; the evils are so thoroughly abolished that they never existed in the first place. + then, to improve this alternative, tinkering took place in this one 74 + not earlier affecting only our future I'm going to make a daring leap here. The tinkering in our past, in Roman times, was the first Advent. The not-I personality had just come from there. The tinkering in '74 is the start of the second Advent - as witness the "St. Sophia" prophecy. 66 the black Iron Prison world is the hell this world would have been without the first Advent (cf Tears). (The conclusion of teaks inc. the dream shows Christian agape coming into that world - it depects either the 1st or the 2nd Advent, which also can be viewed together as me event). (Thus that world is, or the endachanged.) (into one like ours). The 1st Advent set up a much better alternate historical time - path, ours, but it was still not the best, not fully corrected.