world-form the Age of Iron to the Age of Gold; or, put another way, a waking up from the dream (of "Ubik," "Maze," "Eye" as dream states; + this fits with, "+ throughout all this, Siddhartha slept."). Also this view fits with Jesus' statement "I have conquered the world." Maybe there is a double reciprocal action: ontology directed at + into our irreal world; + the divine sparks - Wait. My whole homoplasmate theory holds that human after human is gathered up + transmuted (annexed) into a pure plasmate - then to crossbond with another human + add him on, too. If the plasmate leaves this world, the accretional process ends. This transmutation of human into plasmate is a perfect example of the transubstantiation of world qua world, which form pointed out I used to say Zebra was accomplishing generally. Yet I can see the possibility of a division of the plasmate (as with Elijah: "two fifths of your spirit") so that a portion remains here, + a portion is allocated to return to the pleroma. The plasmatic life form must be regarded as a replicatory organism - as I witnessed it replicating through the printed word (information). folder 22 - 040 folder 22 - 040 40. Yes, as information it replicates, enters more than one percipient (human) through the optic nerve. I saw this: in every printed copy of "Tears" - to everyone who read it, which means thousands. This (supra) is very important, because it is not speculation but something I actively saw, much marvelled at, as well I might! (In the host human it acquires a court influence, as it did in me over a period of decades before it took overt control in 3-74 - + was identifiable to me as a former apostolic secret Xtian, a former human + actual disciple of Christ himself. Heaven knows how many humans this once apostolic disciple has by now proliferated into as hosts - which I never considered before! If it couldn't divide, the number of the homoplasmates at any one given time would be no more than the original number! But I know that it multiplied through me, using me as a Booster + Broadcaster - i.e. a transmitter (through "Tears" - the copies thereof). Viewed this way, the "riding" of the info in "Tears" (or as the info!) by Zebra was a witnessing by me, actually, of the Miracle, the reality of transubstantiation! which fits in with my seeing Zebra itself + experiencing the theilepsy (+ wisdom + power). Yes, it was as folder 22 - 041 41. the info, but it evidently couldn't be just any info. It was info which was a verbal (or semantic) analog of the plasmate. Since I know what that particular info ("King Felix") decides to signify (God in Christ, anyhow the rightful King), we have a dove talking, here, within my system analysis. i.e. it is no accident that the plasmate knew or was that info at that place in the text of the novel: the last integer of the dream + the first integer following it. Look who the dream depicted, + consider where I got the dream! In a sense, if it's transubstantiating us (replicating in + through us) whether it's doing the same to the world is a secondary issue; we are made immortal, + will live on somewhere. + as it takes control of more + more of us, it exerts proportionally greater + greater influence over the world. A very eerie idea just came to me. Suppose it's been dormant for many centuries - maybe dormant between the time of "Acts" + recently. Suppose like an anthrax virus. It was literally buried, sealed up in a scroll or codex, in a jar in a cave - it is, after all, a life form. In "Thomas" there was no memory between 1914 + Acts - a hiatus. Suppose it returned recently + began to replicate, thus bringing about the end of the age of Iron. It's possible. Robot Bly sans Jesus was an essence. Suppose it "rode" or was info in the Qumran Cave V Scrolls went from John allegedly to Jim Pike to me? I did have dreams about Jim + his mother - as my mother, + the folder 22 - 042 folder 22 - 042 42. Sibyl did mention Jim; I even though "Thomas" (the Noos or a life-form that took me over) was Jim for a while. Maybe it had been Jim who had made him into a homoplasmate. I had dreamed about Allegro's book. Strange. But if it is living info, isn't this possible? Wow. What a story. + the Essenes, incl. Christ, knew that the Scrolls would be found by the end of the age of Iron (the third would pragmatically amount to the same thing). In Apostolic times the Romans slow the (few) homoplasmates [who existed] before they could replicate. This is why "Thomas" so feared the Romans. Zebra was literally buried in "germ" from the Qumran Caves, as info. The Romans were successful, then. In a sense, they "killed" the Holy Spirit. But - No wonder the Sibyl was so interested in seeing the "conspirators" taken care of. It had to do with Jim + a repeat of the murders at the time of Acts. This is why I saw Acts; no time had passed for Zebra because it had been dormant during the entirety of the centuries separating Acts from now! So a whole new theory to explain the 2 space-time superposition; Zebra coming back so to speak restored that place + that time! I could even cite this as proof of this "dormancy" theory! So from Jim the plasmate-form of an folder 22 - 043 folder 22 - 043 43. Essene entered me (in the late Sixties?) + lived subliminally until 2-74 when I/We saw the Golden Fish sign, + that triggered the plasmate Essene Xtian - I experienced has memory - Yes, this fits several of my dreams (the pink "marginal cross," etc.) - + then gradually my ego _____ to him crumbled until he took over in 3-74. This would be hard to believe, + seem merely "exorcist-ish" or occult-ish. Except: I saw how the plasmate can "ride" or better yet be certain crucial info (words - Logos). I have always said if there is an answer to "why me?" the answer is: Jim Pike, somehow. When I wrote "Ubik" I already knew Jim. + in it, Living Info is the topic. This would explain why my 3-74 (+2-74) experience isn't reported in history, a matter which has long puzzled me. + also my contact with Jim might account for the '71 hit on long hours, as has been suggested, which would explain why "Thomas" swarmed out to deal with the ''Xerox Missive": it came from the same source as teh '71 hit. "Thomas" had at last baited the adversary into exposing itself, + knew it. 3-20-74 was his chance to pay them back + he knew it; hence his excitement + joy! As well as fear. There was folder 22 - 044 folder 22 - 044 fear there, but also a keen sense of final triumph. If Jim was made into a homoplasmate by info in the Qumran Scrolls, his (plasmate) spirit may not have passed to me until [after] his death, as with Elijah to Elisha. That would be before "Maze" or could be. Maybe at the time I had the "Tears" dream in 1970. What I must keep clear is that the plasmate predated him - it was from apostolic times + had merely annexed him, as it later did me. Is it possible that that was what the army was looking for as "code" in "Tears," inc. the '71 hit, as well as buying the book in 2-74 when it came out? Could they have known (about "Thomas"?) This seems implausible. Still - It is curious that Hal suggested I put cypher in my writing, + the living info "rides" or is cypher. Jimmy, Maren, Jim all die. + my death was connived for by Hal (army intelligence). Coincidence? Suppose I had killed myself, due to that paresis rap, + the Ruger. 4 deaths. Manipulated deliberately. (Plus all the other mysterious deaths.) An attempt to duplicate the original Roman massacre of the homoplasmates before they could folder 22 - 045 folder 22 - 045 replicate? Anyone suspected of being a homoplasmate; this is all incredible, but isn't "Thomas" (2-3-74) itself MORE incredible? I mean, I'm reasoning back from "Thomas." Then, with me because I'm a published writer, Zebra (Living Info) had its chance to replicate in its germ-form - I would be ideal as a transmitter-host. Boy, that makes "Tears" a uniquely important book. + maybe the MS was what the hit in '71 was all about; Hal did ask specifically for any "unfinished MSS." This fits in with two AI revelations: 1) "The life form can't be killed because it moves on," + 2) I'm not to reveal I'm actually (secretly) an Apostolic Xtian. So in a sense they were after Thomas, not me; esp. before he replicated via the printed word. Which is like "autofac" - thereupon they'd never get him. I wrote Sydny that "time stopped in AD 70 with the fall of Massada + the Temple." It was then + there that the Romans killed the Essenes! Is it possible - incredible but possible? - that "Thomas" was the only one of Christ's Flock able to "seed" into dormant living info form in the scrolls? But as micro totality of the entity he successfully recapitulated all of it; i.e. Zebra, back folder 22 - 046 into the world, after 1900 years absence? "Thomas" wasn't an instance of reincarnation. He thought (when he came to) that he was still in Rome (c. AD 45-70). After all, he had just been. + then he was killed + the plasmate got into a scroll in its discarnate dormant germ info form + was buried for 1900 years. But I'm saying: "Thomas" was the homoplasmate which Zebra took over just after the death of Christ. Zebra equals paraclete. Paraclete equals Christ. So the return of "Thomas" after 1900 years is, by Logic, in fact the return of the discorporate Christ. "Ubik" contains a full + accurate description of Zebra: i.e. Ubik itself. __ Zebra, the Logos (Ubik) is capable of becoming a verbal analog of itself. + then reversing the process + reconstituting itself (as with apple tree to seed + back to apple tree). But the verbal analog has to be exact. __ Voice: [Using "Tears"] he sent out one signal." (That he was [now] here.) Thought: One signal would be enough to tell them that he was here. He equals St. Sophia, Buddha, Apollo, Siddhartha, "they" are not like him; he is unique. They have been waiting for him. folder 22 - 047 folder 22 - 047 "Thomas" is MORE than a apostolic true secret Xtian; he is whom they have waited for. He is the Savior, who slumbered 1900 years, perhaps in a jar at Qumran. I have a confession on this: "+ through all this time, 1. "Siddhartha slept." ie underground. Even he didn't know when ("then + now ") they'd find him. But he knew they eventually would. We eventually would. 1. The first half of the book: an entire age (millennia). I hadn't though of taking this sentence LITERALLY. One piece of evidence for this theory is the dream in which I saw Diane in her khaki skirt + the car stuck in the sand + rocks. So "Thomas" is Jim + yet isn't. This would explain the otherwise perplexing absence of the Holy Spirit in post apostolic times (I mean, there really is now clear indication of its presence - cf the Meggido Missimi view on the subject). But my 2-3/74 experience is certainly of the Holy Spirit - but, stronger. Also