misunderstanding on my part, as I developed my exegesis, that I had seen the two realms opened one onto the other; that in fact the two realms did exist, that in fact all that I had witnessed was from the usually concealed (closed-door) supralunar realm, and therefore could not misunderstand my experience. Viewing the progression of revelations historically through the prophets, one could expect that a herald angel Gabriel, would appear to announce that the events predicted had come, at the time they did come, as in the First Advent. At the end-time, one could expect such experiences as mine to occur. Insufficient attention is paid to the statement, "God made man in his image," from which man has fallen and hence is not in that imagine now. The basis of early Chris¬ tianity was a restoration, probably much like mine, to that image, giving them an idea of their true, original identity; that is probably the whole basis of our religion, that temporary restoration, in anticipation of the day when the Savior would restore that original imagine to all, and on a permanent basis (or to his sheep, as he called them). I died, and was reborn. The restoration I felt happening was not in external objects, but myself restored to my original state. Calvin: "We have been entirely deprived of all supernatural faculties," etc. Can we even guess what those original faculties might have con¬ sisted of? Were we gods? There is not just a God; there is another universe. It is not a matter of belief in that God, but an experience of that God & universe, and hence belief therefrom. That universe is alive and in process. Rather than being separate from our own (i.e. two universes) it is an extension of what we see, so it best can be said that we see only a reified part of the whole universe, the missing part being active, creative, purposeful and alive (as well as benign, and with persohnality, and powerful). That total entity, when properly seen, is seen as alive. Just recently, as in my discussion with Tim about it, the thought came to me that what I experienced in 3-74 was precisely and exactly, and no more and no less, than the true anamnesis which the "Eat this and drink this in remembrance of me," which Christ said at the Last Supper. After his death, the early (authentic) Christians were somehow able to leave our space-time universe and, in celebrating the Feast of Agape, the repeating of the Last Supper, entered another universe, one outside of time (possessing as the EB says eternity) and so did, as I did find themselves back once more at the time of the Savior, which is precisely what happened to me. I had not connected my experience with the "do this in remembrance —anamnesis— of me" previously. This means that John Allegro was partially correct, in that it does resemble, and may somehow be connected with psychedelics in the "doorways to perfec¬ tion" sense, the good sense, which we now tend to forget. Thus every¬ thing I experienced during that whole year stems from the "do this in remembrance of me," and is it not believed that Christ is actually present when the eucarist is given? But people now do not know that the true experience was to be lifted to the orthogonal or hyper time universe within which He still lives, and the Last Supper is actually taking place now (vide my fish serving as food ckxL dream). This is the real but now lost (forgotten) purpose of the eucarist; the doctrine of transubstantiation is close, but an ACTUAL transportation to that other universe is intended to take place. When it happened to me I did not comprehend what was going on, that this was the mystery of transubstantiation authen¬ tically taking place. The communicant did not merely have faith that it was the body and blood of Christ; he was supposed to actually be moved out of our space-time to that eternal event, the imbibing, the taking-in, incorporating of the supernatural body (not the flesh which hung on the cross, the sarx) of Christ. Perhaps this explains why I, the supernormal entity which I had become, performed the sacred rites with Christopher; that was the Feast of Agape, for both of us (did not the Savior say that when two or more of ye gather, I am there?). All this leads to one cardinal paradigm for my vast experience, which is good enough, but what is much more important to me is that I can more completely hold the firm conviction that the cosmic (resurrected) Christ was (from 3-74 on) there. What I did, what happened to me, what I experienced, was no more and no less than what was achieved authentically and deliberately at the Feast of Agape: theolepsy, and the Romans put an end even to the knowledge that this was the purpose of it all. I add here the thought that one god evolved from Dionysos through Orpheus to Zagreus to Dythrambus to Christ; I see no harm in believing this, just so long as I keep in mind that the final name, title, identity, of this god is the "first emanation from God who built the universe and who we know first, far first, as St. Sophia, Holy Wisdom. Speaking strictly in terms of a theolepsy by Holy Wisdom one is speaking of the human brain (to bring it down to earth or science or whatever) as (as Bergson thought) a receiver, and in this case a receiver of wisdom per se, with no limitation; viewed from an evolutionary standpoint, we arrive at the same conclusions as Per Tielhard de Chardin, and we catch a glimpse of the next stage of man. A clear conception of "wisdom" versus mere knowledge —of facts— or understanding or problem solving must be made; the astounding significance of wisdom correctly defined, holy wisdom, God's first emanation — what an entity that is, and what an experience for that to be the theos of the theolepsy! We now can understand what is meant when it was said "God made man in his image," which was through the demiurge St. Sophia, and the fall, and, most important of all, what "salvation" or "being born again" truly signify. The scope of this is nothing less than, being fused (in theolepsy through the eucarist) man rises (back) to the level of Holy Wisdom and is, as Christ said, a god himself. In terms of evolution we get a glimpse of what the next great step is, although back as far as Sumer this was sought after, was always known by some, sought by some, and found by some. It is not new. It is (as I knew when I experienced it) quite old. They were closer to it in the first century A.D. than since (but not before). Yes, there has been a 2000 year apostasy, which suggests the obscure adversary. But the restoration of man to his true (next) estates has not been destroyed; else I, for one, would not have experienced it. In rare instances it can and does still happen, even though initially (30 months!) misunder¬ stood. as Bogen L Ornstein have shown, the unused neural circuits are there. (And perhaps my psychedelic experience paved the way for me, a la Castaneda). Those circuits, in me, did fire; witness the drop in GABA fluid. Something is needed which we don't know of, quite, a series of acts to cause the anamnesis. Yet it can be done. The left hemis¬ phere must fire past the point of no return. And then shut down, in favor of the right. Did the right hem. once function, long ago? To make -5- this really clear, the Mindkowski block universe or something like it must be imagined, in this way: future events already exist before they pop into the present, and still exist after they disappear from our view into the past. I was lifted from our universe, or rather our segment of it in which future events are not visible, and past events seem to be gone, no longer existing; it x must be assumed that these future events do exist before they enter the present, and remain in existence after they disappear our of sight into the past. Now, I was very certain of the exact time I was at: it was first century AD after the crucifixion which means that the physical sarx (body) of Jesus had undergone the transformation into the resurrected imperishable. Therefore if I was conscious of being with him (there in Rome) it was with him in that resurrected body, and so it was the cosmic Christ, not the "man" Jesus, and this does fit. Those early Christians who had found a way of doing this, evidently involving the Feast of Agape, re-creating the Last Supper and something connected ± with the holy grail, were with the resurrected Christ. The cosmic Christ (to call it that) permeates the whole or true universe, and to enter it is to enter communion with him. I must have passed across, or obtained the powers of perception to experience that wider universe where the cosmic Christ, the logos —it must never be forgotten that he is the logos— is active in his job, described in the Book of Wisdom, of creating the universe, and this is something I did see "Anamnesis" in the Christian sense, then, means a return to fellowship with the leader who died and appears gone, but who in actuality is not gone; this is the mechanics of the miracle, the model of the universe on which the experience is based. However, I also experienced Rome circa 70 A.D., and felt myself back in the past, so "anamnesis" would be the true word, for I remembered being back there at that place, at that time, with him (again). The again part forces me to retain the term anamnesis; it was as if I had been one of the company of desciples, which I suppose relates to Jung’s racmal unconscious and its retention —and possession of— memories of the past. But the sacraments are intended to cause anamnesis of that particular event (and Person) and so it did, although I had collatoral anamnesis of Crete, etc. The Christ whom I experienced was the cosmic Christ, or Holy Wisdom, or the Logos, not Jesus the man. As the JWs say, "The man Jesus is dead, forever dead," but the Cosmic Christ, the Logos, Holy Wisdom are eternal (which they recognize). We are not worshipping a man but the first emanation of God, a supernatural deity. Viewed this way, I broke through to there, rather than it breaking or breaching through to me here, so it was not the Parousia, although there is still the historic overthrow of the tyrant. That would be the angelic host at work, commanded by their leader, Holy Wisdom, the cosmic Christ. What I must keep in mind is that there is a true element in (in fact the whole experience was) the miraculous, that no intellectual exegesis will exhaust or explain it. Transubstantiation and ananmesis were cardinal, but the human mind cannot fathom what those terms point to — the reality they point to, even when that reality is experienced. Nor can the nature of the cosmic Christ, which is to say to Trinity, be comprehended, as Augustine pointed out. Did I enncounter another universe or extended and nominally unseen levels of our own? I can’t say? Did it break through to me, or me to it? I can't say. What I do know is who was present: the cosmic Christ/St. Sophia/the logos, weaver of the universe. -6- The Playboy articles on the Hughes-CIA connection with Nixon agree with the RS piece that Nixon was thrown to the wolves to save the cover of the deeper conspiracy; it does not mention the Mafia except