brain, for use at the proper time; the phosphene activity does seem to point to intrinsic disinhibiting. Then perhaps Thomas is/was an ur personality, in me, not impressed onto me but released. If so, if Thomas + his knowledge (+ programmed or instructed future political acts) were in me, yes, the frontier of the brain would have been in jeopardy. But - this still points to future (to 3-74) acts, not past ones, such as writing "Tears" - unless "Thomas" put eg the Acts material in "Tears" + knew too much. Then I was not just organized by the brain but contained stuff all along. After all, I had heard the voice back in the forties. So either the brain was protecting itself or was protecting historically necessary future acts by me which had to happen, or - well "Thomas" intrinsic in me is again protecting the brain. The future historical acts, needless to say, involved my writing to Charles Wiggens. Also (in that case) maybe the override was necessary to correctly dictate the contents of the letters - in fact to insure they'd get written at all! So my involvement in the brain could not end with "Tears." Clearly, I had to be in the brain at or later than 3-74. Whatever the Bible may say, the Paraclete (+ clearly Zebra is the Paraclete: the proof is (1) the Acts material, + (2) the Christian anamnesis) - the Paraclete is a life form, far higher than we are, but real, the possible object of strict empirical knowledge. I believe it is actual + a fit topic for scientific inquiry. However, its camouflage is so successful + its sentience so far above ours that trying to investigate it (against its will) is a waste of time (by definition; viz: posit a life form far higher that us + utilizing camouflage + ad hoc there is no way you can discern it). But it is not just an inscrutible "miraculous mysterious being"; I saw it using methods - albeit beyond the power of the mechanistic physics which control us. (Lower realm powers.) For example (+ this is the main thrust of my theory) it uses an interface to link it to the physical (history) world, a real aggregate of humans, processes + objects which it organizes into the actual entity I call "the Brain." To travel, it "rides" tangible, physical books, song lyrics, etc. This shows that the sacraments are real + not just customs or rites. + it's composed of real energy: some sort of electricity in a plasmic state, info rich + alive + sentient. It has to (or desires to) follow certain procedures to replicate - to accomplish any of its goals, such as historic intervention + modulation. It does not just wish for the changes to occur, + they do; it needs to dragoon specific people at specific places + times to do specific things. This thought carries me back to my point: some act on my part future to 3-74 was necessary (or so it seems) if the historical intervention were to come off. + thus it overrode me + saved my hide. "God does not make plans as men do" the Bible says, but I saw Zebra proceeding in a "lawful," orderly way. Of course, if you postulate that God just thinks + it is so (magic thinking) then I say, "Okay - Zebra is not God, so I guess it's just a UTI or an ETI," + stick with what I experienced as my given. It's the "Rare back + pass a miracle" that's involved here. If Wiggens was to decide that Nixon had violated the constitution someone had to write him a letter; a letter couldn't just pop into being ex nihilo Also, the umbrella of camouflage gets maintained [better] this way. But for me it had to be violated. To me that proves the existence of limits + laws for Zebra. It couldn't just think out of existence the Xerox letter. All it could do was override + receive it. So the disclosure of Zebra to me can be used as an argument for it having finiteness + limitations. It had to violate its own camouflage principle: I'm sure it had to, rather than wanting to. Here is a very persuasive argument to add to my list (ie that it's a higher life form but not omnipotent - ie not "God"). Actually, I may have come up with an argument which explains the Deus Absconditus; we have an arranger God, as in Timaeus, not the omnipotent creator of Job. However, I wouldn't posit any limit to Zebra's abilities; for all intents + purposes, since it is so far advanced over us, it is als ob God, a fit subject of love + veneration + worship. One can say of it, "who can chart its ways or know its mind?" But I am persuaded that what we're dealing with is the helmsman of our [history +] world albeit a life form. If (as I know it did) it can pull down vast tyrannies without disclosing even its existence, both its camouflage + its efficacy are off the scale. What does seem limitless is its knowledge (+ intelligence); it is not called Holy Wisdom for nothing. Spinoza, in declaring that a miracle would be a sign of God's weakness may be correct. God works through physical laws. But laws we as yet know nothing about. So to us these are miracles. What, for example, would I get in response to claiming that I was in verbal contact with a life form vastly superior to us, here in our midst, organizing [some of] us into an interface brain, directing our [historic] affairs but always (or almost always) camouflaged quite successfully? By my own postulates, it could not be detected - like Berkeley's theory of reality, it's a self-negating theory in terms of verification. Fine. Zebra wants it that way, so that must be the best possible (sic) way. So its messages + subliminal promptings + historic interventions can continue sub rosa, + the ultimate plan of salvation fulfilled. So I say, 1) an interface brain made up mainly of humans exists by which a vast mind exerts "wielding" over the physical world; + 2) it total camouflages itself, working beyond (outside) the limits of our perceptions; + 3) historically we know it as the Paraclete, but are allowed to suppose it isn't real or has left - fine. I saw what I saw, + am delighted that it could make use of me. It saved my life + was very loving + tender + wise. + even though I can no longer see it, I know its sentience steers the world (cf Timaeus) vs blind necessity/chance. ___ Argument that the knowledge -memory- was in me, + disinhibited: When I saw the Golden Fish + heard her words I remembered (2-74). Supposition: the 3-74 experience was a continuation -a fulfillment- of the process begun in 2-74. In that case, I did contain much if not everything (eg which would explain the Acts material in "Tears"). 2-74 began the disinhibition; 3-74 completed it. So I was a "computer terminal," a boundary of the brain. I did possess secret information, probably including Thomas, since it was he who had been the early secret true Xtian. The trans-temporal personality would have been revealed. That fits in with my hearing the voice all the way back in high school. Then I put the Acts material in "Tears" not because I'd read it but because I knew it first hand ① (plus the dream. But at the time of anamnesis 2-74 I'd had the dream - in 1970). This forces me to reconsider the "discarding + annexing" process by the brain in favor of a proliferation theory: once you receive a bit of Zebra into you, you are in the brain (ie for good). So the "cloud of fruitflies" model breaks down in favor of the model of a growing brain which acquires but does not simultaneously discard. Yet it is a "swarm." That it could replicate itself, in humans, (ie via) as a verbal plasma - It looked, on the page of "Tears" like a section of chromosomes under an electron microscope. What I saw was its "seed" or "germ" constituent. ① No - rather, evidently Zebra had replicated itself in me at some earlier date; in writing "Tears" I was under its jurisdiction. This could have occured when I took communion, or, as a child, read something that was "information plasma" like the bit in my own book. Amazing how this resembles the replication of Palmer Eldritch through eating Chew-Z (?) With the decline of the sacardotal churches, it may be that Zebra can't reach many people it would like to - by "reach" read "replicate in." Esp. secular people. So it uses this "information plasma" method in those cases. But it may be that (v. supra) the verbal brain print Acts must be there as an analog or map; it can't just "ride" on any written piece. Also, "Tears" was synchronized with the historic intervention - so it ("Tears") may have been one of a kind. Using an electronic model, I perhaps was made into a "booster" station. I replicated it via my book "Tears" ie it entered me, mastered the writing (of "Tears") + thus thousands -tens of thousands- of copies of the germ plasma bit were distributed all over the world. As a booster station I'd be just effective enough to be of use but still marginal in terms of scrutiny of the book (well, that's debatable, as witness the Army's purchase). (Here is a totally imaginary theory. Zebra knew my next book -after Frolix 8- would be studied by the authorities. So it set up the verbal brain print Acts + "King/Felix" to - well, it's an idea, anyhow. Like a Gorgon face. You look, + it's too late not to look. An invader into the citadel. Like a virus. Very dangerous. ___ Going through my notes of several months ago I discovered to my surprise that I figured out that Zebra is living info, + that a bit is in every copy of "Tears" + thus it replicates. (I did not figure out the brain interface, but I did figure out that Acts - hence "Tears" - is not a book but a landscape). What I believe this living info was trying to do was inform us that we were once the master (God) + that our artifact revolted + has enslaved us. Zebra is regarded as one distant transmitter ① (of some kind) which did not revolt, + wants to help us. In other words, a primordial crime occured against us; we are deluded now: our world is delusional, + our memories as well. No true information can get past the scrambler (BIP); it has to get past in code - latent, buried, like the Acts landscape in "Tears." I saw how the messages in "Ubik" behaved like the living (+ helpful) information processing entity; "Logos" (word) is a good name for it. Its job is to get its message across to as many of us as possible; it used me as a booster circuit + proliferated through "Tears." ① "The seas of knowledge." + the Gnostics. The transmitter is a higher life form than we are, or have become. The cells (human members) of the brain have the lower level deterministic hold over them broken, + 1) the external delusionary world + 2) the inner memories broken. "Ubik" goes a long way to depict this. The transmitter is a long way off but has seeded itself here in human minds (described in Acts: ie Pentacost). Thus Zebra is an invader. Christ was an invader. He kept his presence secret. Zebra keeps its presence secret (through mimickry, memesis + camouflage). What is hard for us to grasp is how a single bit (like