be rejected it is the irreal form II, + only world I Parmenides' form I, exists. A negative hallucination prevails. is cAD Rome 45 (time of Acts, place of A i + Christ is here, +, through him, God's gra acquits (exculpates) us. The age of joy (Felix) innocence + love has begun. The as tears, guilt + punishment is over. This is th basic Xtian Good news, + is true reality all else is enslaving evil delusion by BIP (Rome, a self-replicating organism which Christ is destroying. My 3-74 experience + the hidden Kerygma in "Tears" tally to confirm all this. QED i 93 deliberate, Also, "Scanner" deals with the poison. (with "substance mort") by the BIPuall how it who try to play, + turns them into sla I laborers, for its goals, + "Scanner" says the is wrong, + expresses grope that they will pl again (in another way) + be happy (Felix). it says, too, that these were good people bad. Slipped deliberately toxic stuff. It decries nemesis (retributive justice). There is no doubt that "Scanner" furak studies the stegenographic issue - messages raised in "Tears." Even the element of cation is studied. (vs sobriety.) New-path with its die-message game + i putting you to work + making you a slave the epitome of the BIP. Its hatefulness + malice are There is a hint, too, that mile + donna, t Bob-fred-bruce, will be able to reveal new-pa for what it is, + destroy its operations (aboli it, + release the prisoners). I.e. rescue is stealt on the way. They have infiltrated the walls (pers meter) of the prison: one of the slaves, even with his knowing it, is anagent of freedom. He is fact, doing the job he was trained to do fo i the beginning. (I.e. his mission. Also, new-path is shown as a deceiving apparatus - a lie. It is totally different for what it pretends to be (i.e. is masquerades t . i 94 a highly moral thing, fighting evil, where the evil. Things are the opposite from s they seem. This hideous, legal thing is the enslaver, + producer of death, it profits from So the FLC theme in "Tears" is carried in "Scanner; but only materializes (swims sight) at the very end. The police theme is ther + the criminals (who, like Taverner, are innocent actuality). In "Scanner" the "criminal I t sent to the FLC, not exculpated, but secret is an invading spy. (Not just victim. Vict savior.) That's interesting in terms of the Christ sta Savior as victim; victim as savior. +, specifical penetrating the prison (new-Path's closed-o dope - farm facilities) from outside, in order destroy it - + both knowing + not-knowi s (the split-brain bipolarization: two selves no in touch with each other.) very interesting, only by having (being) a "not knowing" personality can he his job undetected before he's inside the closer section where the ugly secret lies the must i + not know (see pps6/57 suprall +, upon seeing the ugly secret - truth, he reveal it what I'm relating this to is me being 2 peop (PKD + Thomas), the latter hidden one knowing al more than the other! 95 + at the deepest level, although he no long i knows it, he's a cop tracking down some evil (enslaving BIP) criminals - shades of Burroughs' nova Mob + the Nova police whom come after them! A cop with amnesia. But still with reflexes intact, to do his job on subconscious level. + He didn't set this all op; it was set t by persons (powers) superior to him, using him for something that must be done, this is the only way - this "amnesia." To do his job he te not know (remember) who he is or what his of is. But at the right time extra-cortical responses will "disinhibit" + go into action when the time comes. When he sees the litt blue flower. He is "programmed" by his superiors like "imposter" he was triggered to "go of at the right stimulus. For him the little blue flowered plant. For me, the Golden Fi see, those who sent him into the BIP ka he would be pattered - at, interrogated + humi o So it was essential that he not consciously know who he was + what his assignment otherwise, hed tell them. In both "Tears" + "Scanner" the victim is potentially very part gerous - in "Scanner deliberately so, even though he doesn't know it. 90 in both books So not only victim as savior but "Scann victim as enforcer cop the like "secrecy" theme: if they knew wh they have a their power they'd back all. mere as in "Scanner," only as viction can he complish his mission e Thomas (1) danger i innocent vis (Taverner) tment (Dionysos) What you're really talking about here is during in a sleeper, + the best kind: one who himself doesn't know (remember). not only does he penetrate the prison, but he finds what they're ultr doing is creating slave labor EB: "the concept of the body of Christ" "the comparison of a state a city, or a people w "body" was also known to ancient political philosophe but this idea had always been understood figura t What was decisively new in the Christian church. stand was that the inclusion of the faithful in body of Christ was no longer understood figuratively i rather as real + sacramental. The faithful were h to participate in his death + in his resurrection with him they form an undivided living organism which there is a mysterious relationship between individual members that is guaranteed precisely because the resurrected Christ is the heal of this bro t is 974 "Moreover a decisive element of the inclu of the faithful in the one body of Christ is e belief that physical death does not divine e community, the community of the living + the belong together in one body of Christ. The heavenly + the earthly church form a unity that is theme sented through the risen Lord..." etc. the I think this explains "Thomas" + ifact the which the fee o ience of Rome CAD 45, the world of Acts.) That the space-time continuum which marks the intel t limit of the Corpus Christi; it extends from world to this, transtemporally - + each huma not in it alone any more, as a separate what I experienced is what the mystical bo of Christ is all about: his Noos as psyche did the thinking for me! My ego was dismi with him as self. + I, who am of the living, th myself united with Thomas who is physically don has been for almost 2000 years As far as I am concerned no further searc necessary to explain the vast noos I was in one small part. (So I experienced both Christ + former, very early Xtian human being with idio crasies. The transtemporal experience points to the but what about the Acts material & Kerygma. "Tears"? Evidentally I was already in the cos Christ, + it was writing through me 96 Pp 56157 point to a two-person basis in me that in writing about Arctor I am writing ab myself. Actor as self-unaware cop (as Bruce penetrating to the evil secret core-reality o New-path (the BIP, Rome), ostensibly its st victim but (unknown to him) a spy who wil disinhibited (rememer) (+ act) at the right stimulus (situation). If I take Arctor as unintentional analog of myself, I must ha a larger personality unknown to me who the appearance of the specific right dis hibiting stimulus [Note] Acts (remembers). He is copy monitoring the terrestrial imperial po its slave labor basis is disclosed by him as I did in "Tears." I had already what Arctor did - I did it in 1970 (but only sciously remembered in 1974. So in scanner" (which I wrote in 197 may have told a great deal about myself out realizing it. That I was programmed s a hidden personality to reveal a dreadful a slave labor state being set up, masquerad i a highly moral structure. I mean, of course, the i goo. It is possible that "they" could learn about me from "Scanner," but I guess they ready knew it when "Tears" was published in Anyhow. A drug-destroyed freak, become debris longer worth anything to anyone for any purpose. t what I was in 1972. + then in 1974 "Tears" came out. It's like Bruce reporting back with the evidence. So by the time of "Scanner" it was past issue, already settled ("they" lost). 196 the decaying mind finally perishes - + is "rborn" in that a far older, wiser, more vital other self Thereupon springs into existence - or surfaces - in its place; + is very dangerous to those who destroyed it (by "it" is meant the former surface ostensible mind, which was jout a mask: + it itself didn't even guess, ever. But later on, material in its writing points to the more vital, older, personality having always been secretly at work). Victim as savior; savior as victim. He is a spiritually, morally, psychologically degraded cop but that is what's needed - since only that kind will be treated to the real show: the whole spectacle of the slave labor system. It must see him as no threat - only fodder: again: victim. He may, in the course of his years of degradation, wonder what it's all for - but finally this is revealed to him. He sees what they have done - + he sees what he has done: made the true state of affairs known. Also, he has depicted the rescuing entity (God's intervention, his in-breaking + grace). + the downfall of the BIP, due to that rescuing entity. He has recorded it all, by doing so he discloses the greatest secret of all eternity. Christ's invisible return. He has helped make it visible. He is a witness to it (+ this is fully revealed to him - I refer to 3-74). He saw what he calls Zebra, but now knows who + what this "Zebra" is. 66 very But this degraded form - degraded + a victim - is the very outer garb which h even to the person himself) Christ with this rebirth is me was the birth of Chri in me - a death + a rebirth to the divi I did not know it (he) was within me I had to go all the way downhill for to happen - the alchemy. Arctor never to this point. such questions as, "have you accepted Christ make no sense to me, because I did not Cho him; he chose me, to follow him. for the first time I clearly see this a reenactment of Christ's humiliation, dea + resurrection + a penetration to the heart an evil world (Form II). The idea that the church really consists of living + dead saved (as a body) fascinates me. pecially when this is combined with the concept predestination, which is a restatement of the se that we are saved through God's unmerited grace not good works - saved (picked) from the be ning of all eternity. (as part of the sequenti plan or growing entelechy). I have always the feeling that God planned for my 3-74 perience from the start of my life, esp. the even of my infancy contributing. 16 101 Up50 G: that is the magic of good Friday, sin P: Alas, the greatest day of (gain) on wh everything that blooms, breaches, c lives anew should it seems, but (mourn) + well G: you see, it is not so. They are the repea tears) of the sinner that drop today with h dew upon both field + meadow; thus the Flourish. Now all the creatures rejoice) at Redeemer's gracious sign, + dedicate their praye him. Him upon the cross they cannot