model my AD70 experience is a once-in-onebillion-lifetimes confirmation. But I began with the experience + was led slowly + laberiously to the model. My writing - + the thinking behind. it helped one arrive at both experience + model, I 122 is I think this "the One" [in reality] vs "the Many" (in appearance) is it - cf Parmenides. The eidos or paradigm pertaining to all of us is depicted (in the Christ story) as follows: the urgrund sent a microform of itself here to restore us to our correct (complete) state. He does that by -not a sacrafice, but himself the model (archetype) of the restored man, what (the way) man ought to be (+ evidentally originally was. Jesus was the only human to not have falleng + hence he retained the faculties (etc) we lost. We, to be saved, are not only saved by him, but the form that salvation takes is isomor‐ phism with him. In him we see what we must become isomorphic with: he is the unfallen proto‐ type. So we must (to be saved) become - not like him - but him actually. This is something he is primarily the cause of. them too, all the phases (sequences) of the 2nd advent must be always occuring, outside of time in exactly the same way; including major historic inter‐ vention + judging, with those judged as sheep being rewarded. Christ, in both cases (ist + 2nd) is here. Contrary to what the "accidents" tell our senses. The 2nd Advent, like the First, is a condition of perception. Some of what I saw (e.g. historic intervention, judgment, the heavenly reward) f it it, not the 1st: esp. Christ as King (+ judge); these are progressive states, like internal programming ala "the Eleectric Ant" time is not what we think it is. such perceptions are condations of Grace - stages 133 The 1st + 2nd advents are not discrete events! Q o n But rather stages of one Gestalt, the 2nd adding the elements (judgment, "blitzing" history, etc) to the first: For me, all stages were enacted. (i.e. fulfilled) inc. a brief period in the peaceful kingdom of God. is R.W. showed me a book on myths which contained a chin on anamnesis - how it could be induced by "mysterious words + signs" - the Orphics (it said) wore "Golden Plates"). Empedocles + Plato + Pythagoras were mentioned. Two kind, of anamnesis 2 were discussed: ➀ Urwissenschafy + memory 4f previos lives here. Amnesis was shown to equal death; anamnesis immortality (Empedocles was quoted here). Gnosticism + its belief that this is not our home was discussed. What especiatly excite me was a description of "disciples" inducing anamnesis deliberately in a God who had forgotten who he was (he had been cured into the sensual world by sexual love) Amnecia - death - anamnesis ‐ immortality + spiritual life - but no where did the text mertion any practices today of experiencing spontaneous anamnesis or having it deliberately induced. If the knowledge of how to do this - if the doing of this - has died out, it is a colossal disaster for man kind - i.e. if my experience was anomalous [now], + if mone was deliberate as I think it was-look at the implications: a secret xtain true chuch 134 given the fact of anamnesis we have immortal humans (Recollection = immortality). You cannot kill immortals In a sense; i.e. you can kill them as Christ was killed, but They return later) - I say, since by experience I know anamnesis exists I san infer that there are immortals among us, + knowingly so - going back possibly as far back as Egypt, but certainly as far back as the Essenes. could it be said that Jesus was to the Essenes as Empedocles was to Pythagoras - i.e. he "went public"? I could present a total heretical theory, here: Christ did not undergo physical resurrection (the account of the empty tomB was a fabrication + that certain people saw him in his transmuted perfect body) but, he did descend on the disciples at Pentercost: that (called the Holy Spirit) that was him, + they knew it (secretly). After all, not only was "Thomas" within me, but I saw "Zebra" outside, + I think they were one + the same. in that case there was an adventious "entry" into me (theolepsy) + it set off anamnesis: the divine marriage: human as "bride of Christ," 2 elements, one from this the sub‐ lunar world, the spirit from the supralunar, forming one single organism (syzygy). What is formed by this is the incarnated Christ, except - temporary, now, in linear time but eternal in orthogonal or "sacred" time. (Firebright who will surripe my physical death). Firebright, of whom I am the Mother, + Christ the father. + it will be fire bright who will be reborn. Firebright links two worlds, but his "body" will be plasmic + invisible until he is physically re-incarnated in + as Firebright I am now bonded forever to Christ bua Inanimate causal processes --by definition-- are unaware of one another, and som often clash -- which is to say, inter‐ act to nullify one another and thereby constitute chaos. e These mindless collisions give rise on the part of the sentient observer to the correct inferrence that the universe is not sentiently guided. However, a single instance of inanimate causal processes "dovetailing" in a manner absolutely indicating an overriding sentient controller (repeat: a single instance absolutely displaying either an immanent or transcendent "steering") -- that one instance would be enough by which to correctly deduce the existence of what is popularly called God. (Reasoning: proof of God's steering does not depend on him dovetailing --or be seen to dovetail-- all or even many inani‐ mate causal chains. This is not generally recognized. Here is an analogy: a gun being fired fires from a half-cocked position one time. This one time is sufficient to deem --correctly-- the gun malfunctioning. The system, for it to be so, most exclude all exceptions, not just some. one sentient dovetailing, one firing half- cocked -- that is absolute proof.) But there is an even stronger line of reasoning: If God does not exist, no cases of him controlling inanimate processes can occur (or more broadly speaking, no controlling of inanimate processes by evident intent by any non-mundane entity, such as human or animal). I have observed a very small number of such dovetailing by intent within the processes or at least near enough to exert decisive control of outcome. Therefore: It is logically impossible that, if it is assumed that what I observed did in fact occur, the statement "no supernatural deity-like entity exists" is a at least in term‐ of what is generally meant by "supernatural deity-like entity." (Analysis of sylogism: The proposition "there is no God" does not equal the proposition "generally or usually there is no God." The proposition excludes all exceptions (Aristotle's Law of the Excluded Middle). If one exception can be ascertained as a certainty, the proposition is false. It need not be false in all empirical instances observed. Any general concept of function versus malfunction will act as a proper analogy; a system which "generally or usually functions" is not equivilent to a system of which it can be said "this system functions," even though I the latter proposition does not contain the key term "all." The concept "functions" is properly understood as containing the modifier "all." The propositions "there is a God" and "there is not a God" are mutually exclusive, A or not-A (Law of the Excluded Middle). Ipso facto. Deus dixit. true 135 I see why it is said by Xtian mystics that they were "ravished by God." -RW's book "myth + reality" makes me think that "Ubik" is more correct accurate + precise a description of the divine + how it works in relation to us than I had ever imagined. My great error in '74 + on was thinking that "sacred time" had invaded linear time, but what in fact had happened was that I had entered "sacred time." my grief (as with Buckman in "Tears") in being t transmuted - not into love - but into a realization that it is [already] love - love dammed up + denied in me, seeking an outlet. Thus it burst through in TI's when I met Linda. That episode + the episode in which I gave the black stranger money for gas + drove him to the Gasstation - those two incidents combined form the scene in "Tears" (at the all night gas station) which, I find, is from Acts. I, in the novel in 70, saw ahead to '78 - Buckman's isolation + grif my isolation + grief, + love. "EB: Mnemosyne" "the basis of all life + creativity." 136 big breakthrough. Back in the forties I had an intuition that somehow causality was not real. Hence friends got me to read Hume -+ I was off into a philosophical a quest Now, I am suddenlly enlightened; viz seeing the implications vis-a-vis the "is causality real?" issue as illuminated by my 3-74 experience. I herewith give an example, step by step. 1) Purpose (i.e. teleology). God wants a certain person to move from the city into the country. 2) God "locks that person thus: when a tvad comes on for cigarettes, + in the ad horses are shown, + this man sees the commercial, the sight of the horses "causes" him to begin to think that "gee I'd like to live where there are horses," + so begins. a process which ends with him moving to the country now, seemingly, the cigaretle ad caused him to decide to move to the countra. There is a cause-+-effect chain involved. Wrong. Noos in "Wielding" or "shaking" the Cosmos, is the actual cause. The ad is merely pretential So that the man imagines that he knows what started him on the track of moving. An incredibly elaborate 1) system of control; + 2) system of deception is involved, with Noos 1) remaining deus Absconditus; + 2) giving us the illusion of freewill + even choice. WHy? We are, via this, more than informed or helped or guided, we are totally controlled, at Noos - mercy 137 In 3-74 this probably lifelong control of me crossed the threshold to consciousness, probably due to some vast importance re the Xerox Missive. Thus I was correct, in the forties, when I felt instinctive distrust as to the reality of causality. + this goes on all the time, with everyone, + we are totally oblivious to the true cause (i.e. Noos); the external stimulus (thing or event) is pretextual we can be moved anywhere any time, caused to do or not do anything, entirely motivated by an external force (mind), + never perceive the Leibnitzlike "preset clocks" which Chime in unison. causality exists, all right. It is real. But not the way we suppose it to be. There is an invisible real cause, always at work. I guess this is how it creates kosmos out of chaos. But why does it conceal itself (i.e. Zebra)? We are unknowing puppets of a vast cosmic (?) mind Either anaxagoras or anaxamander was the first to posit that mind (Noos) runs the phenomenal world. I add: + mind continually motivates us - our "will" is its will. No pebble rolls an inch without that mind setting the "causal chain" into motion - + all efficient causes are overrested by Noös' final (teleological) causes. The whole system has purpose, like an organism. No expense is spared (so to speak) to keep the whole setup appearing as inert, chance, natural. Why? In 3-74 Zebra revealed itself to me. Why normally does it occlude us? We're a fucking Goddam "biosphere" ruled by an entity who - like a hypnotist- can make vs not only guack like a duck on cwe.