are (BIP, Form II)➀ Step two: to see him + his activity.➁ Step three: to see where he is taking us by breaking the power of Form II over us (PTG, Form I).➂ ➀ Part of seeing the (BIP) place is to experience the programming (coercive) power over us of it, both inner (memories, drives) + outer (stimuli which we have no choice but to obey). ➁ He breaks the power of lower realm II + causes us to become fully alive for the first time. ➂ A world beautiful beyond compare: our new -+- our original - home. The initial vision of true world is terrible, but with it comes the joy of knowledge of the savior + his activity; as bad as the BIP (lower realm) is, to see it finally - that is a relief, because it is decomposing, + Christ is assimulating (annexing) us to Form I (which we are yet to see) in the progression of visions we become aware that Form II, the BIP, is a simulation, just as the veil which occluded us off from it is a simulation. To penetrate to the BIP is not to have truly penetrated to reality; Form I alone is real. If the initial veil hid something lovely + good, why would that veil need be generated? It is like the Persus 9 situation in "Maze." The bad hides the worse. But in Form II clearly seen, one can discern the busy activity of the authentic Xtians, undermining it. Thus a clear view of ➀ brings with it ➁ which in turn is tied to ➂, as unfolding stages. The initial vision (1) (the BIP, Form II) is that Rome defeated Xtianity, not the other way around; that Rome covertly rules now; that the above ground churches are masks for Rome, + true Xtianity is illegal. This is Form II. In Form I, the opposite is true; Christ, at his trial was exculpated, + all is Joy; Christ rules as king. This is the final unveiling, the top level of truth. These levels appear in "Tears" as you strip it down layer by layer. "Serious - king - happy" these are obviously the track A (BIP), B (our fusion world as we see it), + C (Form I, the PTG), of my Metz speech. If Rome c AD 45 is Form II, + the PTG Form I, is USA 1978 the superimposition, the montage (melding, fusion) of the two? The thing is, Form II is not real, + our experience of it must be abolished - the coils of delusion ( + slavery + pain) only the intercessor has the power to extricate us; the initiative emanates from him to us. One major element in this salvific work is the transmission to us of the saving gnosis, by which the real scheme of things is disclosed (inc. our true state). Put another way (i.e. instead of saying "Form II is not real") is to say, "we are making Form II - the BIP - not real." Then the fusion ceases, as well as Form II which is, after all, half of the fusion, the fusion then = Form I. I. Christ exculpated ---------- fusion: Christ found guilty, crucified + resurrected II. Christ crucified, resurrected, + the church destroyed by Rome We humans, individually + collectively cannot render Form II null; only Christ can. This is his mission. He works on us individually as / through the Holy Spirit, but as the Cosmic Christ he must void Form II eventually leaving only Form I. Form II is the satanic realm, hence symbolized concretely by Rome. If we could see it, we'd see how much we're in its power. Christ, in his incarnation, descended to the bottom of Form II. This is where he still "breaks out" - i.e. the "trash" epiphanes occur, Regarding Form II the gnostics are correct, that God does not create it (the way it is). It died. "Pleroma" means the two realms, Zebra was bringing sentience into the lower realm, replacing blind causal chains with purposeful modulations. This precisely defines the annexation of the lower realm by the upper: the breaking of the "astral power" of the lower; i.e. the process of redemption par excellence. This is what my system says, theoretically must be done, the main task, this transubstantiation of the inert + dead with sentience, to restore the intact one realm or pleroma - which, a long time ago, suffered an injury, accident or crisis: that primordial monistic domain. The mad god James-James began generating world upon world, worlds unrelated, worlds within worlds. Fake worlds, fake fake worlds, cunning simulations of worlds, mirror opposites of worlds. Like I do in my stories + novels (e.g. "Stigmata" + "Precious Artifact"). I am James-James. I created one world among many + entered it + hid myself in it. But the police detected me - the nonterran police - + tried to fake me out with the Xerox Missive. But I knew it was coming - as soon as "Tears" appeared they would be sure about me + I recovered my memory + identity + powers + dealt with it properly, + paid them back. My organization helped me - it set off my memories a month in advance. I saw my creator - my creator, protecting me. I am hiding here, under his protection. The network voice - she talks to me. I am patched in to the network, so I am not alone. Meanwhile, my creator ("Zebra") patiently repairs the damage I've done, by rebuilding the worlds. He harbors no resentment. All I am allowed to do now is write about what I used to do. In a sense I am a prisoner. But it's for the best. I learned this from "Precious Artifact." I am a mad ex world-generator, now confined. But still periodically mad. I can't die - I am countlessly reborn - metamorphed, I know the truth about the worlds I have made. That they're not real - I know about Dokos, simulations which will pass any test. They are not fantasy, + they are only illusion to those who take them as real. They are skillfull forgeries which will pass inspection. They are indeed like metastasizing cancers. "A world capable of splitting its perceived reality into countless counterfeits of itself - "however Lem put it. Does Lem know? He has guessed. It is found in my "Taco Stand" visionary experience in 1971, which proliferated itself into all Mexico, + was real. I generated it, as I used to do, but exiled now, put in a box + dropped into the ocean. Zagreus. Burroughs is right about the Nova police + their tracking down their quarry. But in my case of Zeus protects me. Dythrambus. There is a war. The police are moralistic, brittle the CP, such as Lem. In he 1000 [past] book it is required reading for them (the Nova Police) to learn about me. But what can they do about me? I won't go there, + anyhow my writing is all over the world. I've done my job - undermined the Brittle Moralistic Police. Given a new life with no memories, I was still able to undermine. The worlds are cunning forgeries + the police are after me. But Zeus will always protect me despite what I've done. Misused my ability. Lem may be on our side (my organization). In any case he knows - he knew before I did - i.e. before in 2-74 I remembered. The Nova police fell here; I assisted in that, but only to a very tiny degree. "Tears" contained the message: the quarry is innocent + the police will suffer, reprisal - what they love most will be taken away if they threaten with arrest. Leave me alone! I can destroy you. But in challenging them I gave myself away, lost my anonymity. They pressed me + I betrayed them to each other. I can destroy you with what I know. You rule illegally; your mandate ended when the woman - called Isis here - died. Horus, you are my enemy. Shiva / Dionysos / Seth. Horus, I am not afraid of you - Isis is dead so you no longer rule I am with her, bonded to her, I carry her inside me. You are Osirus. I am the legitimate new king in hiding. Search, find me - + you , this time, are destroyed; you don't want to find me this time and you did in 33 AD, because I am - I have my father's power this time, not just his knowledge. We spring up everywhere: proliferated. The time has come to render this world void, to abolish it, + judge, Shiva. The police search frantically. The innocent (the wild little ones of the forest) have nothing to fear. My extended hand tells them that. Solemn - Pentheus - die. Felix happy Dionysos live. Pentheus police general of Tears - the de facto monarch. In "Tears" it is King Pentheus vs Dionysos (Christ, Hamlet) - he is insane - intoxicated, a generator of worlds. Rome, Pentheus, against a quicksilver spirit he can't catch. Brain damage: "Scanner": an ado for Mercury. I, the mad one, live on. Sanity at the center burned children not pot. The mad one does not hurt the little innocents + so obtained Zeus' patronage over the serious ones, the old ones, who burned children in the name of brittle morality. The sane ones, the sober, somber ones (the police) are evil. We have a difficult situation here, Abba; the sane ones are murderers, + the insane ones gather flowers. You, Abba, know which of the two is to be protected - not the sane ones. We destroy the worlds we generated, which are not real, but they destroy lives which are real. Who is guilty? They are. Who is guileless + innocent? We are, Abba. Shiva hold a vial of poison, "to throw against the raging cosmic ocean which threatens to destroy mankind." His human devotees feel themselves female, married to him. In my writing I am a destroyer of worlds, not a generator. I show them as forgeries. I unmask them + abolish their hold, their reality. I show them to be bogus, an infinitude of them, like so many skins. Christ's passion-story is a Tears story, it is an alibi. He was/is the joy God, not the God of Tears (King Pentheus). He was exculpated, as revealed in "Tears" covering over the true (Dionysos) story. t It is not true that suffering is the to (be) Christ. He himself said, "yo grief will turn to joy," it was io I felt when I had anamnesis (thos i we're being told a lie; the via i rosa is the road to the enemy the of Tears - Buckman. That is an ali s the truth is good news - he lives - he did not suffer, it was an illusion. are reunited with him in joy, not gried or suffering or tears. He told us not to the via dolorosa. perhaps the absolutely rock bottom fi message in "Tears" is that Christ has alre returned - did so at the time of Acts. We are suffering (sic) under a pentheus Tears delusion (realm II). This delusi t must be dispelled for us to see the tr which is a via Felix t let us assume that a secret messa is smuggled through in "Tears" by def it must be at variance with what the story we are told is, + (2) different from the face message in "Tears. My 2-74/3-74 e ience confirms it: Christ returned fact did so at the time of Acts. The t (God) + time (age) of joy are here. Nothing is going to happen that i t . already happened. We - right back to St. Augustine - are suffering from a deliberate (satanic) negative hallucination: we do