over us without our knowing it; new combinations ([?]) have the effect of subliminally programming us. This aspect points to the "biosphere with invisible masters" sort of thing. But I must remind myself of the benign or teaching machine model, here. Judith Anne 707 996-2941 Sun July 10th Orange 12:15 Oak 1:20 #227 Wisdom carries history to its goal. W. + God in his function of world rule are the same thing. But W. is distinguishable from God. She has a part in governing the universe. "Passing into holy souls - her mission to man. She is loved by God as a bride. "All these attributes (are) preparation for the theology of the Trinity; they are resumed by St Paul + St John + applied to Christ, the incarnate word + wisdom of God. It should be noted that this doctrine of W. gives rise not only to a theology of the Word but to a theology of the Spirit, of the sanctifying Spirit, the inspiration of the prophets, the source of knowledge + understanding in the world. The author at times seems even to identify W. with the Spirit: the guidance of men, + of kings, artistic + prophetic inspiration. But Xtian doctrine has [instead] identified it (her) with the word. 8:3: "...since the Lord of All has loved her. Yes, she is an initiate in the mysteries of God's knowledge, making choice of the works he is to do." Probably it's from this that the LDS say God has a bride. The reason I felt myself (3-74 on) to be female was because the possessing spirit in me is female. 8:6: "W., designer of all. 1:5: the Holy Spirit of instruction" (Note: "reference to the divine power directing man's life; the text finds its highest application, however, in the Holy Spirit - JN 14:26 (which reads: "But the advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you everything, + remind you of what I have said to you." + the footnote here is: "in place of the departed Christ, the faithful will have the Spirit; he is the Parakletos, who intercedes with the Father, + whose voice is heard in human courts. He is the Spirit of truth, leading men to the very fulness of truth, teaching them to understand the very mystery of Christ - his fulfillment of the scripture, the meaning of his words, of his actions, + of his signs, all hitherto obscure to the discples. In this way the Spirit is to bear witness to Christ, etc." Thus the single sentence "St Sophia will be born again; she was not acceptable before" opens up + unlocks everything; i.e. the vast + beautiful mystery of the Trinity, + confirms it all. 1) The sentence shows her to be Christ, beyond any doubt (as the RCC + JWs et al. agree). 2) Yet, who spoke those words? A: the Holy Spirit, who, I think, was she also. + Zebra, what I saw - was that Christ, reuniting the "decomposing universe into an organism with himself as head" - was Zebra not imminent deity? Which is to say God? The 3 of them flow back + forth into each other + one another. But what are we to think where it is said of Wisdom that she "tells God what to do," +, as the J. Bible gloss says, is "like a bride to God"? Proved absolutely is St Sophia (Wisdom) = Christ. + from John + what the EB says, etc, I get the distinct impression that the Holy Spirit is the unincarnated Christ, which leads back to PV 8 + Holy Wisdom again. ____ The apocalyptic scene I glimpsed of the siege lifted + the prisons freed + the tyrant destroyed turns out to be Cyrus' siege of Babylon + Belshazar: the prisoner(s) being Daniel; as in Tears, which describes "Babylon" (i.e. Rome, the paradigm of the Black Iron Prison), the elements of the Book of Daniel -i.e. apocalyptic scripture per se, emerge. This external "Fidelio-like" siege did not occur in 1974, but my total vision (timeless + spaceless) included it anyhow. Babylon = Rome = Washington DC = Moscow, etc. I have finally tracked down my Black Iron Prison + lifting of the oppression by external siege vision; Daniel, John of Patmos + I all saw the same things (vide all of Tears, esp. the dream). From the gloss on 'Wisdom' I understand that it is she who inspires prophets; in fact the text explicates this. Can I say, "the Spirit which came to me spoke of Holy Wisdom" or "was Holy Wisdom"? A study of the Book "Wisdom" definitely indicates it was indeed Holy Wisdom. The J. Bible exegetes admit the Holy Wisdom can more readily be equated with Christ (as the sentence I heard indicates) but also points to the Holy Spirit. Thus it was that St Augustine could speak of the "infinite mystery" of the Trinity, +why (1) the church maintains the doctrine of 1 essence + 3 persons (aspects), not 3 essences or Gods. There can be no other interpretation possible if the various canonical books are read scrupulously, there is no other view one can come to; my experience (in 3-74) plus reading the scriptures both lead me to this view - that of the church. They/it/he/she - is/are not like us, are/is not isomorphic with humans, with created things. Lying outside of time + space - they/it are/is immortal + seem to consist of radiation or energy, +, as in Ubik, are everywhere + know everything, + in reuniting the cosmos (which is decomposing) into a new organism which is the corpus Christi (Christos Kyrios) it is in the process of becoming everything + everywhere (the "3 Stigmata of P.E." gives, as has been pointed out, a diabolic mirror opposite image of this divine transsubstantiation + is very instructive). - Something I never considered before is this: since -not if but since (as I know from my own experience) this divine entity can transfer knowledge to our minds, of the most complex + deep sort, why doesn't it clear up these mysteries about its nature once + for all? (1) to all Christendom; (2) or just even to me? I learned from it all sorts of things, but - such mystery remains. Or does it? Is not the [only] limitation that of our own limited conceptualizing faculties? It is not intrinsically mysterious - it is only a mystery to our limited minds + experience. That which reveals, + confers knowledge, can't be accused of creating mystery. What it does, I guess, is disclose the existence of mysteries - in the sense of the deepest core of meaning at the ontological heart of reality. It points to, as one points to or out, say, a sculpture - a thing which is, not a mere verbal explanation but directly at the thing itself, to be comtemplated as the final is. (Cf Heraclitus: "The oracle does not answer yes or no - it instead gives a sign (Zeichen) meaning." By an act of belief ("credo") when I saw the Golden Fish Sign + heard the words I broke the power of this, the stamped-out [mere] image (eikon) world over me + received grace, received the real (supratemporal) world + the sole 3-aspect life that dwells throughout it. Gnosticism is correct; this is (but perhaps was not always!) a flawed (or fallen, decomposing) level (a la Plotinus). The sign (Zeichen) in a sense woke me up (cf the slumbering soul, cf Plato, cf Pythagoras). (Cf Heraclitus + the idios kosmos vs the koinos, within the latter lying -acting- the Logos. Thus, too in a sense I broke the power of the curse, which is a blindness + a sleep - in which we are in darkness; thus the salvific power is referred to as "the Light of the world" "which the darkness neither knows, recognizes, sees nor accepts." Darkness + blindness are related - also seeing + light. When I say "I broke the power of this [false] world over me by an act of faith (pistis) I am saying that in some sense this world is a delusion; evidently this is what is meant by dokos or maya. (This insight may be the most important of all: what I then related to was an eternal archetype of apocalypse: "Babylon," "Daniel" "Cyrus" "God" [or Wisdom or Christ or the Logos]. The best meaning of dokos here is, "the counterfeit passing as the real thing." Whence comes this dokos? Because our brains construct (hypostatize) an isomorphic (to us) outer analog - + the Trinity is not isomorphic nor subject to hypostatization, + is perceptually rejected. This is what Christ meant when he said, "Believe in me; I have (can - have the power to) overcome the world." Since we could not reach up to (perceive, relate to) the real world, the word came here + subjected itself to the forces here, but, at the same time, this was its theophany to + for us, it came here + was visible; all we had to do was believe. He presented his credentials + then, later, conferred authority (out of himself; of himself) onto his disciples, so that the good news could propagate by divine authority. Perhaps even I directly received this authority or anyhow knowledge (of the truth, i.e. of him, who alone has full salvific power over us + for us, over this world as he reunites it into the self (himself) organism-entity inc. us. Scripture says that, trans-time, I speak with (or for a while did) the authority of the Parakletos. What took place was what is called adoption - I have become an adopted son of God (cf J. Bible). A very important aspect of the above realization (of how the deluding power of this world was broken for me) is the link with my 26 years or more of writing: my basic theme(s) prepared the way (for me) for that moment, + may well help others - if this is so, then my corpus of writing, esp. my "what is real?" theme may be serving salvifically - may do good. But my act of belief was related to memory - i.e. return. I attribute that to the spirit, which must already have been within me. The J. Bible says, "W. carries history to its goal." This is exactly what I saw. I deduce that I was made use of by W. in the history process, c. 3-74 to 8-74. Had I no historic role to play - would she have rescued me anyhow? There is an interesting answer to this: the trouble I was in was related to my historic role; the two can't be separated. I think it has to do with Tears. There is no uniform (in contrast to pluriform) use or purpose or involvement as we are accustomed to in normal human terms. This is part of the mystery of both the nature + purpose of the Trinity, this pluriform quality: multifaceted. I can date my initial experience with the deity in the "Palmer Eldritch" vision I had -saw in the sky- in the early sixties. But it was there even before, my sense of the (i.e. this) world as delusional. Interesting point: "Time Out of Joint" is a novel about it really being a different time than it seems. Like in Valis where it turns out to be 70 AD instead of 1974. Is there a clue in "Joint"? In "Time Out of Joint" the world is a fake, + specifically the real world is another time-segment. My initial revelation in 3-74 was that the time was really around 70 AD - not later but earlier, a reversal of "Joint." Yet, the basic information is there, fully, in "Joint"; this is all a cunningly fabricated delusion, the world we see, + the basic delusion has to do with the true