took place in 1974: our historic situation was improved. Realm II is a mere stockpile + in a sense delusional (irreal - a spell, or blindness or occlusion, oppressing us). What is useful in it Christ takes. {Note} He as Holy Spirit awakens us from our programmed - android-like - sleep. By this we are released from enslavement (which we are only aware of as suffering + pointlessness: ie blind chaos ruling us). It is Noös vs Anankē. Sentience (purpose) vs the deterministic, healing (restoration) vs sickness. What we get out of this is a return to God (Noös) + eternal life (through Christ as intermediary + cosmic body with us as parts). I did not invent all this, nor accept it on faith: it was disclosed to me by the Holy Spirit, which saved me from physical + spiritual death. + freed me. We in Christ, + Christ in us. {Note:} In this manner (it can be said) he has returned. I saw him. + I have heard his voice. I saw my name entered in the Book of Life, saw the prophetic book in which my troubles were foretold from the beginning, + granted the beatic vision of reunion with God: the vast void, filled with love. {illustration: Three concentric circles, the outermost numbered 1, the middle one 2, and the innermost 3:} Brahman (1) Atman (3) (1) Cosmic Christ outside + around us. (2) Our own selves (psyches) (3) Christ as Holy Spirit within us. So it can be said that we are in Christ ((1)), + Christ is in us ((3)). This is a sacred mystery, how that which is macrocosmic + outside us can also be "smaller" than us + within us. Total reality (the pleroma) is like a titantic hologram of which each tiny bit is a replica of the totality. It is a mirror-like situation. ___ In Acts there are two conversions: of Paul on the road to Damascus, + the black eunach by Philip. In "Tears" these two are melded (condensed) into one conversion (of Felix). But all the parts of both are there. Due to a vision (while on the road) he now embraces those whom he oppressed - + specifically feels what Paul writes about: agapē. ___ Thinking over my exegesis I see it as a vast, original cosmology, partly philosophical + partly theological. It is my own worldview, in part divinely revealed to me, in part arrived at by careful analysis, ratiocination + so forth. It is an awe-inspiring structure + resembles no other arrived at by anyone I have ever heard of. Continually I have been corrected + instructed by the voice. Bishop Berkeley [see p. 6] felt the world was not there in the sense we think it to be, but was God acting directly on us to cause us to experience it. I presume one irreal world + another which is - If only they had used "Noös" instead of "God" as their term. I see a sentient world replacing a blind + mindless one (as Pascal points out: the universe "Does not know"). This is the single idea I believe outweighs all else I've come to believe, know, understand. We are confronted by process, + this is the process. This was Plato's cosmology. By this one can understand undeserved suffering (the lower realm: mindless) + salvation (the action of the upper with its psyche Christ). That totality could be partly this + partly that, not all of one piece - Noös grows in its sovereignty; this is what time is, this extending process. God as invader in our (lower) world - who has ever grasped this? + at the same time spaceless inside us: already here from the start, but silent. Waiting to link up with its macro form + thus abolish the two realm structure + arrive at God as all-in-all-+-all. God in unitary macroform rescues + liberates the plurality of micro (inner) forms. Salvidor Salvandus. The progressive activity of mind overruling blind chance-+-determinism - the miraculousness + beauty of it, the wonder of it; this is what I saw, + this is what saved me. Not everything is part of the divine plan - but the divine wins in the end. No matter what card is thrown down it can always pick it up. It always supercedes. __ I was taken over by a superior life form. Which was interfering with history. What am I supposed to do? How am I supposed to go on day by day? __ Processes -blind ones- continually originate (or more properly come into being as the result of deterministic causes) in the lower realm, + are what we call evil, + are taken in tow by the overruling discretionary sentient powers of realm I, so the outcome is what we call good (or more accurately intentional + purposeful). This dialectic continues perpetually, this transfer from realm I to realm II - this rising transmutation, this capture. So you must witness a process to its conclusion to correctly evaluate it. 900. 1575 1575 569.38 ------------ 4619.38 EB: re 1st Cor. "... a belief in salvation through spiritual knowledge or wisdom communicated by a revealer (not a redeemer) ..." etc. "... they sought a revealer who had come into the world hidden from the evil powers and known only to those, the pneumatikoi, or the spiritual elite, who recognize him" Cf: " ... the Messianic secret ... as an understanding both that the Messiah would appear without recognition except by those who are chosen + to whom he reveals himself + that we must suffer. For outsiders, then, he remains a mystery until the age to come." re Mark. "Many references to persecution in Mark point toward Roman oppression + a Martyr Church that was preoccupied with a confrontation with the Satanic power behind the world's hositility to Jesus + his message. There was stress on the underlying fact that the church must witness before the authorities in a hostile world." Christ among us unknown except to a few to whom he reveals himself? Eschatological expectations secretly fulfilled? The Parousia secretly here? This is the sacred wisdom or Gnosis. "Jesus came from a higher world." "His gift of eternal life is already conferred." In his resurrected (ie cosmic + discorporate) form does He perhaps reveal his presence (Parousia) just to a few (Mark's "secrecy" theme)? + am I one of those few - dare I believe that without hubris? What else could explain my 2/3-74 experience? It wasn't just (sic) the Holy Spirit because I saw it/him/her outside me, overruling causal trains - it was in me + outside me, + I saw Rome at the time of Acts, + found that world depicted in "Tears" + the Kerygma of exculpation; also, what appears to be the Kerygma of His presence. (Disguised in the book - hidden, but there.) (The proclamation hidden, Him hidden.) The secrecy theme - the hostile world of evil powers who are not to know! Their world (realm II) is being secretly transmuted out of their control. ___ Berkeley's theory about God causing us to experience the world by Him operating on us directly, + the world not real - this is Lem's problem as stated, "Could a brain which is being fed a spurious reality detect it as such - ie to be spurious?" A technological foul up would equal a dysfunction such as a major time dysfunction: ie the person (ie brain) suddenly fed a different "tape" (world), giving it 1) not only a fading out of one world, but in addition 2) a fading in of another. In such an event using either Berkeley's or Lem's model you would (as individual brain) have the necessary evidence. Were the world substantial + hence the sole world, this could not happen. + Zebra did act directly on my percept system. Then I have my epistemological solution: dysfunction or foul up, or de-occlusion - the result is the same. To someone who might object to Berkeley's hypothesis as pragmatically meaningless, I say, "wrong." If Berkeley is right, we are linked -not to an it- but are confronted by an intelligence, + one greater than our own. Second, the presented world could be taken away + another one substituted. Third, God could unveil himself as that which we confront: the occlusion, posited herewith, could be lifted + we could see a "you" not an "it." I think my 3-74 experience confirms all this. Then there is an epistemological reciprocal verification between 1) seeing Zebra; and 2) seeing another space-time world, esp since Zebra was "spider-like" ie weaving reality, changing it. It obviously generates whole worlds, + impresses those worlds on our senses. + in addition, its reality-generating power extends into the person in terms of his memory + identity; it can be perfectly synchronized with the projected outer reality, producing what I call a push-pull feedback loop. So nothing discordant is experienced by the person. Wow. I'd guess a deliberate "dysfunction" would have to be created, for the person to get de-occluded. Then am I to infer that [true, actual] salvation means being broken free of this push-pull inner/outer "taped" reality? Wow, is that ever some salvation! That is pretty heavy. A rigid inner-outer synched programming: 1) world outside; 2) identity + memories inside - + both irreal. I guess this is realm II ... but - wow. To have this "cut" or withdrawn ... shades of "The Electric Ant." Machine intelligence: android - not free. + the Xtian secret: we're really "in" Acts, as I show in "Tears." The computer or brain, fed a spurious reality, was able, in "Tears" to trace the contours of the actual reality. Yes, it was able to tell. Whatever + whenever world it feeds us will seem absolutely natural, since our memories + identities are cinched up. Then what happened to me in 3-74 in which I had 2 superimposed worlds and 2 superimposed selves? Not a dysfunction; I think I was being let in on the Gnosis deliberately (ie lifted out of realm II). I can't stress this enough: whatever reality you see, you will remember it having "always" been there, even if in actuality up to that moment you'd been another person fed another reality entirely. What a demonstration of God's power! (Ie 3-74.) To be stuck in 2 space-time worlds at once, with 2 inner selves each with its own memory! Each matching one of the two external worlds; + to see Zebra as well, modifying one of the two worlds - It showed me it could as effortlessly place me in another space-time as leave me where I'd been. Also - we are not just inner-outer programmed to respond to disinhibiting stimuli in our world; we are programmed to experience that world qua world! Perhaps this is why this inner-outer "tape" can be perfectly synchronized: the particular world isn't even really there. The "world" is just really a bundle of info-rich signals fired at us, like colored lights. Well, this just bears out Parmenides' contention that form II (what I call realm II) is not real. The collapse of my inner identity may have led to the reciprocal collapse of the analagous outer world. Another identity came from somewhere - but where? 2000 years ago, Rome - but strangely, the world I wrote stegenographically in "Tears". There is another world but - it's like plugging in replacement modules. The absolute link between inner identity + world must be understood; the two can't be pried apart. Then if I tamper with my identity I can switch worlds - we are yoked to world, not the world, but whatever the analog world is. Then Zebra can generate a world by generating the identity, + identity -if we start talking about the soul- is considered a fragment of God. Theology supports this "soul-identity" concept. What must be ascertained is whether Acts is a world (among worlds) or the