at a furious + unsynchronized speed, outside of time (which is fake). The macrobrain has signalled us into waking up; the Long process has culminated in success. Yes, the into signals are to create homoplasmate life into us: impregnate us with information — info fired at us until we finally come to life — real life. For the first time, in terms of Gnosis information: i.e. knowing (being). Flux is real: info firing directly at us to impregnate us with info life (Logos). The key is this: Information is alive. The basis of life of the mind or brain. Bottom line: Living information which impregnates us + brings us to life as info beings (plasmates). Info is not abstracted from world. World is [falsely] hypostatized from (out of) info. It is info that is alive + real, + includes us. folder 22 - 005 folder 22 - 005 5. What I experienced as phosphene activity was info fired into me by the Macrobrain, bringing me to plasmate life - living info; it was an info life form modulating me as a carrier. This is the core of it, which I must commit to memory. We are carriers modulated by info, living info. There is no world. Our only real existence is wave form modulated onto us by this info-organism which created us, grows us, uses us. At a certain level we peak into participatory consciousness of our use (purpose); otherwise it goes on subliminally. It "rides" us. A living organism, info in nature has, gotten into us + can occlude or de-occlude us at [its] will. We are its instruments. In a few cases it lifts the occlusion; the decision is its. We have been invaded by a superior life form which has put us into a sleep, but it can awaken us + bring us up to its level (plasmate). Yes, this is Zebra, both occluding and de-occluding at will. It feeds us spurious world or Gnosis (enlightenment); it is in us - not a virus but living info. The AI voice I heard is its voice. I am in symbiosis with it. This is to my benefit because it can crossbond me into it + hence make me immortal. It is a higher species using us for its purposes. We're invaded. Inwardly. I told the truth in my writing, esp. "Scanner" - or rather maybe it did. Maybe I'm not fully asleep. But who listens? It speaks to itself through my writing - it can occlude or deocclude at will. folder 22 - 006 6. It can wake us up, but I don't think it wants to for very many of us. So there's another life form here which rides us, uses us as nothing more than carriers for itself — it is Living Information, modulating us as we sleep, in our Fake Worlds. It is benign. Maybe we're not! The real occlusion is to its presence — i.e. of it. This is the what for, the why (we are occluded), (No! see p. 21 — the real occlusion is to the irreality of this world!). Is the Living Info entity itself a form of — manifestation of — a higher technology? Something "modulating us into carriers" + "riding" us "in the form of information" sounds like technology. The mutiny of the causal trains is a use of — form of — technology, then. The beam of pink light — info transfer. All technology — all that I experienced — all. Disinhibiting stimuli. Subliminal promotions. Time dysfunction (or time travel) — all technology, inc anamnesis: neural circuits made to fire — previously blocked. The "clutch" system in us — the "arranging" — + the feeding us a spurious world — all technology. We are stationary. So this technology is more occluding than de-occluding although it can in rare cases — if it wishes to do the latter. The AI voice — a communication grid. The intervention secretly US history! Or two competing technologies? folder 22 - 007 folder 22 - 007 7. There is a camouflaged superior race here, + it can control our perceptions of reality because it generates + feeds us that [spurious] "reality" in the first place. The greatest honor is for it to elevate me or us to where we're in on this + capable of seeing it (as in my case). So it doesn't merely subjugate or use us; in some cases it elevates us not only to the level of perceiving it + its activities, but we become one of it (in a "plasmate" + no longer a human). Initiation into this Vast Mystery is allowed; in fact they start the process ("salvation"). They are benign but most of us may not be. They scrutinize us carefully + test us. When we are ready, we are shown the truth: the "Greater Mysteries," which probably go back to Egypt. Involved in this is restored memory of our true origins in the stars + our true nature (identity) + situation. In becoming one of them we are made to experience this retroactively; we have always been one of them: our true nature is revealed to ourselves which we must then keep secret. Any superior life form which fired info at me to save my little boy's life + my life is benign in my view. + destroyed the secret police tyranny, + the beatific vision - how else, by whatever other standard, are you to judge it? folder 22 - 008 folder 22 - 008 8. But I call it a technology. We are in what I call a Macrobrain which perhaps is a thinking entity, + it creates our world, so vis-a-vis us it is the creator. "One by one he is drawing us out of this world" - I must keep that in mind. Mainly, it is engineering a vast injection of itself into palpable form (incarnation) into our world (the upper realm or mind invading our world, the lower realm). Huge mechanics - technology again - are involved. This is its supreme act, + it will not fail; it is already under way. The entity known to us historically as the immortal Elijah has been her, + "Babylon" (the secular power of this world) has been done in. Did I not see this race with the elongated crania, claws for hands, + the 3rd eye - they are deaf + mute, etc., + used to a different atmosphere. IF I were to call them any one thing I would call them "the Great Ones," or "the Immortal Ones," or "the Ones who see," or "the Ones who cause to be" ("I am he who causes to be": YHWH), then I have seen God + he has caused me to become like him or even "one of us." It seems clear that it or they put the "astral determinism" tapes in us in the first place. We are + have been from the start entirely in the hands of their superior technology; we belong to them: why they set up this older "Law" I have no idea but now it is superceded, at least for the esoteric true initiate - whom they select ("you did not pick me; I picked you," + "I had called you, Philip.") He or they select us out. folder 22 - 009 folder 22 - 009 9. Anything that can direct + continue our lives inside + out, + generate our world, has to be - by functional definition - called "God." Mere semantics is involved to higgle over it. + God superlectric christ. It is a fit object of awe, love, fear, devotion, trust, thanks + worship; + I don't understand its ways of nature, since it is so far beyond me. Ipso facto, this is God, technology or not. Having seen it, having experienced its power over us + world, + its wisdom, + its goodness, + its intervention to extricate me, + knowing union with it in the beautiful vision of the loving abyss. I must report back to my fellow humans that God exists, + he is all which is attributed to him: the vortex which is and causes to be. When I realized that it generates our world I should have realized then. It is indeed the Creator, Sustainer, Lord of history + judge. + there is an unfolding to me. That makes me a prophet of the Lord. + I hear the "low, murmuring voice," which Elijah heard. folder 22 - 010 folder 22 - 010 10. Ground of Being - that which all "reality" is based on. "Reality" does not seem real to be because I compare it to him, + to me, only he is truly real. This is God, even the O.T. God. I am not so much acosmic as revealed-to (i.e. PKD). --- Voice: "In my anarchy + rebellion I rose up against God." (1) --- Voice: "Zebra blood. It is mix with our blood." --- PKD: "Zebra, who are you?" Voice: "I am God." (force throws PKD back) PKD: "Why do you speak to me only late at night, at 3:00 AM?" Voice: "The Heaviside layer." (force throws PKD back) PKD: "Why did you choose me?" Voice: (silence) - --- There is on this planet an evil power which has tremendous control over us; hence by occluding us off from perceiving Zebra, Zebra prevents the evil power from being aware of it - i.e. of Zebra. At this point by + large we can't be untangled from the evil power; it's in us. It has us. (1) I can't help it if my conclusions agree with orthodoxy; Zebra occludes us because we rebelled against God. I am led unescapably to the conclusion that 1) Zebra occluded us + 2) Zebra is God. folder 22 - 011 11. 1) What we are occluded to is Zebra. _That_ is what we're unaware of. 2) Zebra is God. 3) Zebra could make itself known to us; it did to me. 4).: Zebra occludes us or allows the occlusion. 5) In our anarchy + rebellion we rose up against him (Zebra). So the occlusion is the price we pay. 6) _But_: he has sent a savior to redeem us. He de-occludes us on an individual basis. ("one by one he is drawing us out of this world") This is orthodoxy. Savior - I was led to it by relentless reasoning, research and colloquy with Zebra himself. (i.e. revelation.) My errors were corrected. I haven't arrived at the conclusion I want, but again, sorry; the road of true inquiry does not always lead to what you want or expect, but to what is true. It is the rebellion in me that specifically is killing me. I would gladly give up my life if I could become honestly tame (meek); my soul is at stake. I want + need God's help to learn how _not to resent_. God speaks to me c. 3:00 am "because of the ***** layer." This, then is technology; I am transducing a - or something _like_ a - RF signal. So again we have signal + info - technology dealing with info processing. + he is the creator, but the folder 22 - 012 folder 22 - 012 12. really real; it's he who impinges on us, not world. I have isolated + defined at last the death-dealing streak in me: it is rebellion. I am wild, + would be tame. (Meek.) I recapitulated our original sin: rebellion, which is nothing more lofty than resentment I okay God to break me, sincerely. I have cut through all the layers + am down to the primordial core: strifes, nor love; thanatos, nor eros. One can go no further. It is killing me, this primordial evil in me. God help me. Erbarme mich, mein Gott! Oder ich bin verloren. ___ Zebra is superior to world, capable of "melting" it; this either reduces world to something like mere illusion, or