the most exceptional circumstances does it throw off its mask of con cealment (within our heads) + palpably take control. I can only envision this happening under the unique conditions of the historic bulk of efficient causal proces ses being overruled - which would be (like the eerre intrusions of Runciter + the messages in "Ubik") eerie, would tend to promote the realization that the reality as normally experienced is somehow spurious - like The landscape of a dreamer who is either awakening or is being awakened from outside the dream land scape. The value of the novel "Ubik" in interpreting my 2-74 3-74 etal experiences lies in a study (cf Lem's article) of the significance of the intrusions for the characters in "Ubik" these intrusions do not prove merely that the landscape is spurious, but that (more important) another evidently [more] real landscape exists beyond it which is breaking through with ➀ purposeful signals to us which (2) indicate a sentient + concerned signaler - + thus once again We have the "ham sandwich" model of reality 3 7 2 with (1 + (3) isomorphics ts + world t is as an impedement to the reunification of ➀ + ➁ This is a gnostic model of creation. What we finit in nature as traces of God are really emanating 76 From beyond nature: piercing it, passing through it (i to us. . off‐ How does the DNA memory fit into all this? hand I'd say that the vast reaches of time + space perienced exceed the world ➁, are more extensio than it n + therefore consists of a conforontation with (3 This gives some idea of the magnitude of ➂3) compared way to the finitude of ➁ also, ➁, when viewed this "Bol‐ is transformed into a kind of geometric-forms sub‐ gram," an expression of energy rather than being stantial. It is web to spider; it becomes artift with the artificer visible within it + easily transcending it in importance. Funny, how I perceive, in terms of images, of the world being continually spun by something like a spider - well, I did see the spinner at work, + the world as his artifact. Don't the Brahmans conceive of the veil of Maya being spun (by Kali)? + there is deception (or illusion. involved. We are in the web, caught in it, with no idea at all of its artifactual nature (+ the furiouslymoving -spinning + arranging spinner). To take it - i.e. the world as authentically real would be the same as taking a TV image, + program + its dramatic contents- as real. It, too, is spun - by a fast-moving dot. + that which the dot spins is fictitious I must not forget that the intrusion of ZebrA is a process of transubstantiating this spurious world into something actual: the real mimics the fake. 17) e Could it be said that ZebRA is an emissary from (3) which has penetrated ➁ + has in doing so gained mastery over at least some of the objects + processes A ➁ for the relief + rescue of ➀. So (3 is not just sending information through ➁, but has sent a warrior-healer form of itself through + into ➁. Ah! Then it is this warrior - healer micro form which we see as ZEBRA + whose voice we hear, It is not on the other side of ➁ but is here with us, cunningly mimicking constituents of ➁: its goal: ➁ to bring us individually back to 3) In a journey after death through the evil realms of () to abolish, replace or transfor ➁ By assimating or transubstatiating it. This then, at last provides an explanation for My "post Mortem" experiences: acting as a bridge between ➀ + (3 it had -Zebra the Paraclete - had succes‐ sfully led me right through (2) + to (3 (this includes The hours in the Palm Tree Garden). So more than restored memory is involved. First the person remembers who + what he is - that he doesn't belong in (, + came from 3 originally, + then ZEBRA as psychopomp leads him back to ➁, his place of origin. It is of the most significant importance that ZebrA could induce this normally post a mortem journey + goal attained to living men matter of such vast importance that nothing could be more importance - not just because it shows us that there is life after death, + what that life is like 95 But that it can, so to speak, happen here not to dead souls but fully physical men in bodies. If This realization is linked up to the fact of ultra major involvement in attering human history, it can readily be seen that when (2 has been suffic‐ ently penetrated, we will have a millenial kingdom here. It is here, vis-a-vis ➁ that actions + events are taking place - true, as the Gnostics believed, we are being rescued out of here, but also the "here" is being transmuted. So the idea of physical resurrecn tionis -will be - eventually correct. There is no way to tell when the transubstantiation of ➁ will, like freezing water or saturating a fluid occur. It could conceivably happen at any second - the impedement between isomorphic God + man could suddenly disappear as Zebra transmutes ➁ into part of that isomorphism. Thus my grand thene in my writing: the spurious nature of the world (+, often, something real + other behind it). (3 must be abolished; we must withdraw assent to its existence whole at the same instant trans‐ fer that assent +(3: "In emem Augenblick." This explain's what happened to me in 2-74 when I saw the Girl + the "Fish" necklace; in einem Augerblic I withdrew assent from (2 + simultaneously transn ferred it to (3. But I must realize: (3) in the form of the Savior - Zebra - is here. On this side of the slice of ham. He has penetrated successfully down through ( + is at work here in 1 with us. So via him,➀ + ➁ are already e-homopenized 24 What initiated this transfer process is that sudden. very short but overwhelming return of memory ths if is, in the final analysis- memory of (3; hence the person suddenly knows about ➂ knows it is there - + knows ➁ therefore to be spurious. Now of he canonly get back to (... well, he has a guide + advocate. As a matter of fact, it was this advocate, comforter + guide who arranged the disinhibiting signal which caused the instant of anamnesis; the initiative is by God, + man responds Upon sketching the above schema, I can unerringly see the Xerox missive matter for what it was: it was the first step (part) of the damned, destructive, dooming, killing, falling Maze which the psychopomp led me through + out of - + then on to the beatific reunion with the father. Maneuvering me successfully out of the cul de sac re the yorox message - if I view him as psychopomp, as guide out of a state of dam‐ nation to grace, security - i.e. salvation - it started out as a very tangible salvation, + got better. But that is the name of the whole thing: Maze, doom, + then the psychopomp‐ Savior. As soon as the concept of psychopomp is introduced (as Vimic was to Dante) everything that happened is so easily understood + appreciated. + that which seemed so mystifying + complex is suddenly simple. Of course, one might immediately ask, "who was this psychopomp?? It was Christ (God) of course. What if this psychopomp were the Pantocrator? by the way - Shiva is a psychoromp: "herdoman of souls Hernies (MW 2) was a psychopompos. 8133 Hermes Tristmoges tos is thoth 80 Odd - mercury was the God most honored by the celtss The world seemed to be a living Artifact which was building - ie completing - itself, its life divided into two portions: the artffice as energy, + the artift as matter. The energy (artificer) was constructing backward from its end state or completed state, thus fathering itself. Eartier stages did not have a sufficient level of development to be self. construction, so that the farther back in time the artificer went, the greater the disparite between it (in terms of knowledge, power + complenity) + its Artifact. Thus one could suppose that at some point in our future, the artifuct reached the level of its qualities complexity of the artificer + acquired, became of equal to it, or became it, literally. If the disparite between artificer + artifact became abolished, then creation + creator would be identical.. How close are we to that "omega" stage? left to itself the world would not evolve (or metamorphose) to the proper final state the artificer would either sometime, or always have to overrule (modulate the outcomes) of [at least some] processes; Yet, on the other hand it is conceivable that many efficient causal processes could be allowed to go unoverridden with no harm done The reason (+ the sole reason) I know about all this is that I was in 74 an overruled cont stituent, I reaffor what I said in my meta speech: I have lived at least 2 + possibly 3 present lives. The Black Iron Prison world of 8) is "Tears" definitely once existed - I lived there + I remembered it. M4 wasn't tampered with; a time period earter was rewoven. There is another possibility which is very scary, + that would be that the great assize either took place, or began, or took place for me in 74. The two are not mutually exclusive. I did my deed ("we can be heroes for one Day") (Bowe). Judgment, + post parten experiences (i.e reward in the form of a return to being with God) took place then + there - after I did my deed, + at the time I understood how much hung on it being done correctly, I did do it correctly. But only by means of divine grace (i.e. divine psychopomp). "You will receive a cryptic letter which you are to..." etc. "Without ever knowing its meaning, either in terms of its contents or its effect handled right or handled wrong. I never realized this before: I didn't know two things: (1 what its intrinsic contents were; + (2) what purpose it was to serve which my action aborted. Apparently a long causal chain (with ultimate far-reaching consequenes was involved I connect it with "Tears," + have I not just said that "Tears" depicts the Iron Prison world we had which was abolished by the modification of our past? or suppose it didn't concern "Tears" as a novel, as a whole, but the encoded material in the dream scene? What of the cryptic message + the Xerox missive are linked. In the dream section, someone must die at the hands of a mounted posse of Knights in varicdored rebes. Is this a command message? If so, it is pretty heavy. 82 8 As in Plato's "timeou" the "steersman" (Artificer) intervenes to correct diift - a drift toward anomie perhaps, periodically exertinr pressure on the develepn artifact. This is the adventitious overruling from time to time that involved me in 2/3-74. It is exactly analogous to the occasional firing of sets in a space craft to minutely correct its trejectory, only this "ship" is moving through time, not space But the artifact does not quite exist, as does the artificer, since it is in constant flux. it is never really there. t Hylozoism: the breathing animal the artificer affects it by thinkin about ot He invisibly permeates it everywhere (he does not move) The artifact is not truly there, because the artifice to it is not psyche to soma, but is rather Noos. i Thus the artifact is a form which Noös (artifucer)