consciously accountable reason just as prior to early '74 I would experience fear + tension, especially al night, for no accountable reason since my greater more real per sonality exists formed in my unconscious, I would continually resport to these emanations (covert impressions) from (2) or (3) + without realizing it relate to them as world, rather than to the changing impressions from our own level (the surface skin one). The underlying substratum is no longer harmful but rather harmless. The most we could normally hope to experience would be an intuition that some vast all-pervading invisible evil had passed from the world. The world is now freed of something - something is gone. It was removed, best way of putting it is that the intervention (although it penetrated into our changing world) in actuality took place in the urwelt + thus affected ours. It was the urwelt (supralunar) that underwent a transtormation. 6 e Now back to my ramparts unintentional - Christian act. Gwen The Black Iron Prison upwelt I inadvertently meshed with what I saw the gray-coweled authentic Christian secret church doing - pulling the iron walls down, so to speak. This iden is woven as a continual thread through this which exegesis i that because of what I did, I was ushered into the secret invisible real church, the living human elements of which I construe to be extension, of the Corpus Christs, guided + informed by it (him) as I began to be in 3-74. Probably you do not join but rather are selected by it (him). I can't put an other construction on my duel existence of the year - I was two people. continually infomed by that beautiful voice. If people could + only know the magic of the sacred, its shining sparks. There are many examples of this being chosen in the O.T. + always there is the element of my writing, another perpetual thread. Would it be wray to say that I feel as if the loving God her blessed me + my writing? "Euren were hat mir gefallen" - the most beautiful words one could hear. It seems hart for people to enjoy or appreciate the idea of being a hollow vessel made use of for a purpose not your own but in no respect contrary to your own: rather, ap enormous transformation + elevation of every they you have stood for an apotheosis of that up-to-then meager purpose; it is a transen dent fulfillment of it . was looking back mentally on all the above, + it occured to me that if I was right I should have experienced Christ, of the first advent, + then, suddenly, I realized that that was exactly what I did! So my experience with him - with the divinity that is him conform. This newer view I have of experiencing, in anamnesis, the urwelt of which he is the central figure; the Black Iron Prison wthout him is nothing worth experiencing at all, but there he was shining through in the form of thinking plasmatic light e yet has it not appeared repeatedly in this exegesis that in the First Advent he is a solitary figure, but, in the 2nd, ubiquitous? Well, the [cosmic Christ) deity whom I encountered possessed ubiquity, rather than thinking of this as the "cosmicilation" of i 8 of the first advent, doesn't it point toward the second! Is he not possing over - or has passed over - to the 2nd? Is this at least not the way he will reappear, in the ubiquitous fashion (as I called it, "cosmic, plasmatic") that I saw him? I saw Hin everywhere, + that is how he is supposed to reappen; well he did for me. Which raises the enteresting point that if you were to see him now, according to prophecy we would see ubiquitous form, which we can't imagene, but which I rid see - a transsubstantiation of everything every where into him. How else could he be like the lightning flash - not here, wor there, but in all places at me. This is a new insight that I saw him the way we shall all see him, when he seen again (+ needless to say, I didn't know scripture is when I saw this) frus I have myself witnessed as alreally occcuring the crucial transformation marking off the 2nd Advent from the first + thus the intervention must be connected with him expanding to that ubiquitious state. Now unlike the stereotype the voice was more feminine than masculine, + he pervaded all reality of the universe; neither is a tell-touted account of him. The point to which he has come now: was it he I saw pervading causal chains? Is he not indeed the Lord of the (one) cosmos? core, judge, yet still intercessor - this micht explain the apparent contradition of God intervening (by miracle) in his own universe; as creator he (James-James) he drives the aggregate on, but as inter lessor he intervenes on an individual basis. (Could this be another example of the "secret partnership" (thoth - Seth. Vishnu- Shiva, etc). No deeper philosophical understanding is meeded than to say that in the triune task of God (he emanates (creates), sustains + reabsorbs there is right There a diversification of tasks for the one entity - if there, why mnot the one-to-one interventive role us the mais species role e2nd Advend could possibly be said to be the moment when that cosmic ubiquitous presen al passes the threshhold + becomes visible to the unaided edge - as if was to my aided eye, the unity of substance will have absorbed the multiplicy of accidents + we will have something akin to Brahman - at the point it reabsorbs. 6 to that other personalit had been deliberates greatal at ar earlier time in my life + then, nhibited (the amnesia, the "taco stand" etc.). When it was disinhibited, of course it saw a black Iron Prison (world); it had just before literally been in one - a liteal iron Prison some where That's where is was trained to do what of has to do when in was disinhibited, maybe it was the phospheres, not the Gold fish that disinhibited it. See what I in privi at? Another, differet personality was built up in + for me, eventually to take one maybe the Gold Fish accidentally disinhimle it - no too long befre. The phospheres did, to receive the Xerox letter. I was right from the very start but maybe in the USSR Gulag where it was been fell held (or emplaged) it war a secret ("early") Xtian. A ederly russion Greek-speaking doctor or scientist, whose superimposite on me killed off e my personality, which is why I experienced all the theo logical post-death experiences. + he was a secret Xtian unknown to then authrities - + he'd be greet or the do? My normal personality deal due to it taking over I d naturally undergo beyond die grave transcendent religious experences, while he (as intended) minded the shop. But then the Xerox letter, etcll was intended for him: his contact. Bot he (sic) rebelled - + defected - turned them all is as far or he was concerned he was literally excated gulag - the black in prison was glad, + dient infet ever to go back (+ what he later did showed back there hid engaged in anti-state secret Xtian (ivil disobedience. He was a russion sciention but also one of the secret X the brotherhood: he escife from there - ho fear of the Romans was of the KGB; meanwhile, the main body of the church was overthrow the conspirators here, which his Sovet win, couldn't do - + so he fled had to I had been onder the r control of a remote Russion operator for years (e.g. in my writes), but i eard 74 when the payoff was to come in the form of the Xerox liter the or an operator defected, crossed over tome, showed his knowled of the Xerox letter + his Christianity, so my initial view wo onect - ther is why I "died" + had other side experiences or [. in such books as "Ubik" + "Maze" he was already revealing his secret Christian Platonistic views which was bad enough, but the fat was in the fire when he showed up gulag in "Tears" - that forced his graud + him to flee. (here.) In that case the Xerox letter followed as soon as he defected, to remind hin they knew where he had gone; he recognized if (ever anticipated it), + knew what to do with it to extricate himself - + esp not go to elams. One point I've never thought of is to take unto account the fact that for a world to be viewed as Black Inn Prison the standpoint from which it is viewed is crucial to it being seen that way. In other words, supposed to someone viewing this exact world it who to so appear - this tells us that this someone comes from a much freer world - so much freer that our world, in contrast, is a veritable dungeon. I have always stressed what the Black Inn Prison vision revealed about our world, but look also what it may tell about the viewers world - if in fact this &/or the Black Iron world is not his native, natural world but rather one he has visited, it knows, or has seen. Suppose he came into the Black Iron world to assist in the task of emancapation [into?] visitor, not resident. Came to it, did his task on tasks, & then got away, leaving it behind - & - did he then come here? Fled here, still remembering & visulaizing it, still accustomed to it? & then, once here, performed a similar task(s)? the early Christian sacraments ( & Christian involvement) identify this entity as the holy spirit. Like Dionysus he breaks the Prison Bonds. But how valuable an insight, to see our world through his eyes - the monsterous Dungeon! & see how he operates against it! If I concentrate not on the vision but on the viewer I obtain a tremendous impression of him - dynamic & passionate & uncompromising, knowing everything, whose conceptual thoughts were simultaneously intense feelings: ideas with the force of [choices?]. This is because He intends to tranfer his ideas into transformations of the reality he perceives; the reality will, by him, be improved to conform to those ideas - which are nothing more or less than His ideal conception of that reality & which he has the power & intelligence to achieve. For him to view a disparity here & now is to pass judgement on that disparity with the quality of ultimate abolition of it. What is not pleasing to him is the [time?] for - this is why he is there. But also, & this is most extraordinary - his view, ideas, & feelings/intentive were the concealed roots of my own. My own view & [intertim?] evidently were an offshoot not of his but of him. He was more myself than I was. Suppose I say he was the real self - very well. But what does that make me? My own fierce hostility toward oppression generate out of him, caused by his presence, hidden in me? By seeing him I at last understand myself - he is the real dynamism in me - I know what he is made up of. But who is he? where is he now? He is probably again where he was. Below the threshold but still in charge. He was lightning fast in what he did & he always knew what he wanted to do. But if he is the real [illegible text?] of myself, my roots are above the human level; I am a manifestation of this transhuman personality, & feel & act as