things in us which Form II can destroy are those portions of us emanating from Form II; thus for it to kill us is to lose its power over us entirely + free us. This is what Christ proved, one can live eternally with God in Form I. Now let us consider "Sacred Time" compared to linear time. It is the time of Form I. Linear is of Form II, in which everything perishes. The entire world (ours) of II is fake, despite its seeming substantiality. But as to I - what I projects here is alive. It penetrates the Fake, as in transubstantiation. Then in this sense Form II does not exist unless you allow a certain narrow (restricted) reality to the Fake: the projection of Form I which I call ZEBRA is alive, is here, + imparts life to our universe the "life" of Form II is an "android" or only seeming life. In my writings I point out the fraudulent (irreal) nature of our world. + in "Ubik" I depict form I (ZEBRA) bestowing life + information to us. (+ penetrating Form II) There is either a resemblance between ZEBRA + UBIK or they are identical. In fact, "Ubik" is a perfect presentation of a 2-source cosmology: UBIK is Form I, + it combats the devolution, decay, disorder + death of Form II. Perhaps this explains the importance (+ Marxist interest in) "Ubik." "One of the 5 most important books ever published." The 2 hyperuniverses at war with each other. + each described accurately. Then in "Martian Time Slip" I present Manfred's schizophenic world, which consists only of Form II (decay) + in "Tears" the actual hyperuniverse II is the location. The sacred time that I penetrated to (the PT Garden) is the golden age of antiquity which so many tribes + cultures, believe in - there never➀ was such persons historically, in linear time. But the knowledge of how to return (re-enter) such a "sacred time" is lost to either most of all people now. It's hyperuniverse I. ➀ Was this before hyperuniverse II became deranged? Yes! Before the fall - before II went wrong. We had two coherent signals, not one healthy one + one sick one. This (state) was man's natural, normal condition - + then Form II "Fell," taking men with it. But the mystery religions (esp early Xtianity, neo-platonism + Gnosticism) know techniques to unscramble the sane (I) signal from the insane (II) + get "back" to it - i.e. into it at the exclusion of II - as I briefly did. This is the summary [cryptus]. What I did appoximates the primordial pre-fall state, but, also, I penetrated for a few days to signal II entirely, the BIP. This model again: [Diagram] Perhaps the BIP is fixated a c. 70 AD because in the first Advent VALIS dealt it a death blow➀ so that neither progressed past that point in linear time, actually, + since then merely spins out a spurious balloon of ersatz time during which it undergoes no growths. Then the 1st Advent was indeed a success, hence almost said, "Fear not, for I have conquered the world. It may even have been killed then, + just endlessly repeats itself; or - died then of natural causes. No - I think VALIS (Christ) did it in. ➀It's (II's) psyche died or was slain? But Parmenides had already called attention to the irreal nature of its signal. Anyhow, since 70 AD its signal has never progressed - but I's does, so there is growth, but are emanating from I alone. Perhaps even (as in "Ubik" + "Maze") II's signal is degenerating. The structure (mixture) is held together by what I called UBIK. UBIK is Form I's signal (projected presence here). "Maze," "Ubik" + "Stigmata" present the ossified II without I. (But I is alluded to in "Ubik" although it isn't available.) Doesn't this ossification (fixation) by II (at 70AD) fit in precisely with my analysis of what's wrong with it - that it as entelechy, has failed to unfold properly? Maybe Christ came to try to heal it so it would continue on properly. But it refused his help + so "died" at that stage? My many novels + stories bear this out: not only is it not real but it is also decaying into entropy + madness. "Ubik," then, presents the two-source world, which is why Richard mistook it for an Empedoclean Cosmology. The image which II projects is frozen, + if it wasn't for I's (UBIK) the composite universe would decay (revert) as in "Ubik." However, I, as UBIK, continually revitalizes it...but no real (linear) progress is made because all UBIK (I) can do is merely keep the composite from regressing into total disorder. The real solution is yet to come: 1) heal 2) kill or 3) eject the frozen (dead) image projected by II. Abolish II's soma along with its psyche. The underlying substrate of our world has died, + all that the vitalistic energy VALIS can do is pour energy into this material system (as time), but the substrate cannot grow, i.e. it is dead. So the paradigm BIP (as in "Tears") just repeats itself over + over again - +, in this, the now ubiquitous Savior invisibly takes the lethal blow intented for us. UBIK can mitigate the suffering, disorder, death + sorrow but cannot abolish it until one of the 3 supra final dispositions of II is made. It is eros (represented by Aphrodite) vs Thanatos. The BIP world (II) hasn't changed since Babylon; whereas I is in constant flux as it builds the New Earth out of the stockpile of the old: I is not idle. What is temporary is the composite. I is taking every usable piece out + using them as parts of the new in-progress permanent structure which excludes II. The carcass (sarx) of II is I's stockpile for the new heaven + the new earth. In its mimicky, ZEBRA acts as quasi-replacement psyche (set) to II's soma (ground). In this sense ZEBRA is an invader into the world - if you mean by "world" the BIP which the Gnostics + Mani thought comprises the total world. But the sarx of II has all the inertial drives remaining in it after "spiritual death" took place: i.e hysteresis - a kind of self programming even after cortical (psyche) death. How scary. It is attemping to modulated a vast dead entelechy which is on a collision course with total madness + disorder + decay + death (for us). We are the subjects of the salvific activity; we + our cosmos. II is now just a vast clockwork machine, on its own running down, but, as in "Ubik" continually revitalized + guided by ZEBRA (the projection of I). Parmenides is right about the irreality of Form II, inasmuch as this, our universe, is merely a hologram , but the 2 hyperuniverses are real - except that the psyche of II is dead, + devolving in contrast to that, ZEBRA seems to be - can be said to be - alive, in that it is the projection into our hologramatic universe of the sentient living entelechy. But actually both are projections. It is not real vs irreal but live vs dead. Both hyperuniverses were supposed to project evolving holoimages as halves of our holo-universe, but II's psyche died + it just keeps projecting the same image over + over again (the BIP, image of itself + its nature). So it (the hyperuniverse II itself must be dismantled + the parts re-used in the replacement contruct I (VALIS/ZEBRA) is creation. So within the inertially devolving sarx of hyperuniverse II, I is building a new "heavens + Earth." But the forces of decay, disorder, death + madness in the ossified [..] projectiles into our holoverse by II assails us with intense suffering, ZEBRA (Christ) accepting the blow + assimilating it to himself; it is his cosmic body which will replace the sarx of II. These processes are well along. So in addition to the options to heal, kill + eject II is the 4th option (the one evidently taken) to dismantle it + reuse the pieces. This suggests to me that (supra) Chirst dealt a mortal blow to II at the time of Advent one; as bad as the decaying fixed [image] (BIP) is, had the malignant psyche of II lived on past that point, it would - maybe - be totally in control, + our world would be what Mani + the Gnostics believed. Christ (the wise healthy psyche of I) somehow in letting II kill him, got deliberately a paradoxical result: for reasons I don't understand, it was lethal + terminal to the psyche of II to humiliate + kill Christ (not recognizing him). Maybe Christ = the one, + so the servant had killed its legitamate master (creator) who, upon resurrection, iced II forever. Or: Christ as psyche of I, was able to prove to the one (creator of both twins) that II had become deranged. So it was God who slew II at its BIP stage in response to it killing the psyche of I. What a shock: reality (the composite) ebbs away + exposes the BIP unchanged for 2000 years. But as luminous set, the living half of the composite holoverse is now visible + distinct from it: alive + wise + modulating the BIP by transubstantiating it. Yes - in a sense ZEBRA mimics causal trains + objects. But ZEBRA is an essentia half of this world, bipolarized to the other half, + regarded by it as an invader; but actually is is supposed to be here, the trouble lies with II, which is moribund. ZEBRA, as well as acting as psyche for the holoimages of II, can act as individual psyche to one of us (e.g. "Thomas"). This "remote control" adventitious psyché is a legitimate part of this world, + to regard it as an invader is to adopt II's view. As "usurptive" psyche both to us as individual + to our holoverse it is the salvitic power period. Although imposed onto us (+ the image of II) it is the legitimate "steersman" of both the holoverse + ourselves as individuals, + for it to "usurp" one of us psyche is to be saved in this dynamic process of salvage + the building of a new structure: thus, to be so "usurpted" is to be taken into the new structure, which is what our proper goal should be. I once defined reality for Jamis "as that, which when you withdraw assent from it, it does not disappear." In 2-74 I momentarily withdrew assent from 1974 Calif - + it disappeared (a month later). The last actual event in history was the Fall of the Temple (at Massada); thereupon God slew hyperuniverse II, + it has transmitted the same image to our holoverse ever since, with the only alterations being in the hysteresis toward greater decay, disorder, madness + death - which is still preferable to this soma + psyche (now turned to sarx) living in + evolving toward greater + greater malignancy. Before the Fall (supra) we could distinguish the 2 image sources (signals or image) which mix together to form our hologram universe. Therefore we could walk + talk with God (ZEBRA) because his form would be set vs ground. But after the Fall we ceased to be able to distinguish, + although ZEBRA remained here, for us he receded back into the landscape. II's journey into rabid disorder dragged us down with it. + we've never recovered. Antithetical The deterministic matrix ("astral" or "planetary" or "DNA engramming" or "script" or "instinct") which Christ (ZEBRA) frees you from - does this programming emanate from the image (signal) projected into our holoverse by hyperuniverse II? Is there a conflict between the 2 signal forces (of Empedocles), with II striving to enslave (as witness its BIP gestalt) + I (ZEBRA)