in ontogeny" If it can be shown that in one case phylo genic knowledge, memory, skills + experience + personality are manifested so as to be available to a given individual, then this could be a general situation. So the disclosure of last night (the man on the collapsing stairs who knew how to get to the (safe) landing above) states that the para normal problem-solving ability which I showed in 3-20-74 represented a difference in me, which showed itself due to the life threatening nature of the problem, this overriding the need for secrecy, this + only this justifying a dis closure: justifying it for evident reasons; but what this manifestation accomplished is already known to me; what was not tenown was the ontological difference in me. folder 22 - 111 102 This overcomes my easy supposition that the ability I showed is somehow always available to all life forms or anyhow to all humans. I am told: "There is an ontological difference in you which showed itself in your possessing paranormal powers to deal with a paranormal situation. The emergency justified the use, which is to say, disclosure." But disclosure there was, + now I am told of this difference, ex pressed by the term "too"; i.e. "you have this different nature in addition to those others who have it." A community is described, or a type (of human). I get the impression that the use of This paranormal talent is not the purpose of the difference, but a spinoff. It would be foolish not to utilize it to save my life, but something more fundamental is pointed to in me. Self-protectio is not the end but a means to some other end. The man knows how to get to the landing (safety) despite the stairs collapsing. This shows him to be different. Normally this can't be done; the stairs fall + you, being on them, fall. But the stairs collaps ing is a happenstance. This is not why the man is climbing the stairs: to show he can figure out how to survive their collapsing. It could be argued That their collapsing is simply something going wrong along the way, which he surmounts + continued on. Ascends anyhow. But this should have stopped him. It is of a nature that it normally would stop a climber. We now know something we did not know about the man. We saw him do some thing you normally can't do. Our curiosity is aroused. How did he do it? +, more important what does it imply about him in general? He survived what should have felled him. It is conceded folder 22 - 112 folder 22 - 112 18 That this difference would have been delives ber ately kept hidden except for the life - threatening situation which, being paranormal, required a paranormal solution of there was to be a solv tion: one should not dwell on the solution It is what this solution points to in him what else it points to that matters. The hand of reality has - due to the Paranormal problem been tipped. What is revealed? The man is "one of them, but of whom? What are they made up of if they can summon a paranormal solu t? Would a different paranormal problem have brought to the surface a differen: other, para normal ability? Would any paranormal problem have roused an appropriate (effective) paranormal ability? Is there a plasticity of paranormal ability involved? Organisms are not built this way. Unless the organism isn't really there, unless in a sense it's a fake organism which is what I sort of sense: any life threatening problem would have roused an appropriate "paranormal" responses It would not make sense to keep "the para normal power or knowledge hidden" when the person's life was at stake. So common sense was exercised "He knows more than he'd admit: the saving Gnosis is will I not notice what's said here? The saving Gnosis) I know the "saving Gnosis." "He knows, too. He is in on the secret (+ the secret is the saving Gnosis). "It is more important to save your life than to keep the power hidden, the power or knowledge which will save to the word power. It occurs first, before knowledge. folder 22 - 113 folder 22 - 113 The "power" showed up to solve the life threatening puzzle. Power to solve the puzzle. "power" then equals "ability" or is self ex planatory. Mental powers. As in, "He had paranormal power." Obviously, paranormal events lead to the disclosure of paranormal powers" - if the paranormal powers are there. But they're not always there. The initial sentence makes this clear; some people have them, the ton" of sentence one. The man - me - is one of them 3-74 disclosed paranormal powers in me because a paranormal life threatening problem (puzzle) was posed. I reacted in advance. The Golden Fish shown to me ratifies the "too" i.e. others; I am neither unique nor alone; we are an interacting group with a common purpose - as witness the cypher in "Tears"? 1; what other powers do we have? 2) What is their source? 3) What is their purpose? 4) What is our purpose? 5) who are we? 6) Who are our enemies? 7) How much do they know about us? I know who we are + our purpose: we are first century Xtians + our purpose is to defeat The Empire + bring in Christ as King + judge - the Kingdom of the spirit. To protect us, God gives us s paranormal powers, which we are ourselves not aware of until the need arises - until we are faced with life - threatening problems. Our enemy is the conpire + it knows a lot about us, but folder 22 - 114 folder 22 - 114 110 (fortunately) not enough. My response in 3-74 satisfied them, even though to be honest, it was God who solved the puzzle, not me. He lent me his wisdom; I am sure of this. I would know, I remember. I believe that there is no fixed limit to the variety + nature of the powers loaned to us. It depends on the need, on The "paranormal events." So at last I am told that there is a "we," + that our own nature ("paranormal powers") are not even known to us, let alone others. Yes, I think we are masks which God wears ("tat tvam asi" - about the "us" anyhow). "to save his life he'd have to show he knows too" (i.e. he is one of them who knows.) knows what? an intuition: that either the King is here (Zebra) or is almost here: incarnated. This is the ul timate hidden thing to be known, the second Advent. The paranormal powers are a sign in a person, that he is one of those who knows. I showed those powers. Hence, I know. know what? "knows, too" implies a group or common knowledge; I say that the Happy King is here. - in the tractate my statement "that the anguish of the one over the death of the female twin) pervades the osmos to its meanest level, but will be turned to joy when hyperuniverse I divides" amazingly fits the N.T. (Paul's?) or Christ's himself? State rent that the "universe is [like a woman in birthpanest whose suffering now later wi turn to joy" I incredible similarity 4 folder 22 - 115 folder 22 - 115 ( of course Parmenides says form II (yi n) doesn't really exist (Empedocles' strife the woman is dead "It is more important to be safe than to still keeps the powers hidden." "To save his life hid have to show he --" etc. In other words it was not the purpose of the powers to save my life; i.e. to deal with the Xerox missive. The powers were used in 3-74 because They were there anyhow, but hidden. "Too" I am one of a group possessing "paranormal powers," a "paranormal event" led to the "disclosure of [my] paranormal powers" (which were not there for that purpose, but which were effective in coping with that situation.) So, what are the paranormal powers - which are kept hidden - for? We - not just me - we have them; they're connected with knowledge. what do I know ("too")? What do we know? The best evidence I have for "Thomas being Jim Pike is that the Sibyl spoke of his murder 834 ➀ Although also Elijah, Christ, a 1st century 4264 t Essene ce The eessenes, reborn, are the secret Xtians of this time-period ancient 2 folder 22 - 116 1) The proof that the plasmate did not crossbond in 2-3-74 but much eartier is is tears" for sure, + also perhaps "Ubik 3-74 it just epiphanized to deal with in the "Paranormal" trap. salespitch the middler eers we recall mechanism Ahance foot So the plasmate is not gone, it didn't come for The 3-74 situation; it was there before 3-74. + is There still: phylogenic (transpersonal) memories - identity. are recapitulated in the plasmate. - Christ (form I) upon slaying the yin form II twin, must (as an androgyny) divide (by Mitosis) into both Form I + Form II. As the replacement Form II he takes a female form, the Fourth hypostasis: St. Sophia! Hagia Sophia (Holy Wisdom) is separate from the Logos as the sophiaists of the Greek orthodox church realized? Christ as the new form II yin replacing the old original one which he slew (it had degenerated t into mere astral determinism: a prison The BIP which I saw the true apostolic Xtians assaulting. It all fits together. Right now the St. Sophia + Logos natures of Christ are folder 22 - 117 folder 22 - 117 is still cojoined, but St Sophia will split off, + our hologramatic universe will be The interface between hyperuniverse I (Logos) + II (St Sophia). There will be nothing (of our world or the two hyperuniverses) which is not Christ! Thus all creation become. Christ in us (in microform) + us in Christ Christ (as macroform): the miraculous unifying of reality into that which the Hermetics saw: "What is above is that which is below (i.e. The upper realm will be faithfully mirrored in the lower at last, + not fought -opposed - by it This fits with the secret revealed to me. Christ's female side now, as to the AI voice which sounds to could this be me virtually feminine. his St Sophia fission? Which is to say The new, form II Christ forming in place astral determinism (the decaying old form of II, the disordered yin?). She (sic) is born here at the heart of - the domain of darkness in our very midst at the trash stratum of this world This certainly explains the otherwise perplexing fact that Christ has presented himself to me in female form. Well, then the splitting of form I has is There " already begun - or even taken place. already the female hypostasis counterpart of The male form I o folder 22 - 118 folder 22 - 118 114 Thus a healthy (+ all this implies) female principle returns to creation, to too replace the decaying one which emerged soon: the one which was never quite rational So the irrational quality in the universe (ex pressed as disorder, death, suffering + means inglessness) will ebb out. This is not just abstract "theology - spinning," as Doris calls it. For me personally This took place in 3-74 + for the world (as history) it took place in 8-74 (as well as the end of the Vietnam war the next year). This satori (that the Form II hypostasis of Form I -into-female-form is St Sophia) is one of the most exciting in my whole 4 year exegesis. + in a sense is a confirmation of the "two source cosmogony" + also explains