point (in the synchronization I referred to; after all, we individuals are parts of this world he is, as Christ, inserting himself into: we are all one continuum. I for instance was/am an actual object or part of that historical process! Of a certainly, I even saw it enter + transform my animals So here is a different sort of "Pantheism": transcent dent God is assimilating the world to himself, abolishing the sundered condition of the divine realm vs the falle "sublunar" realm; the further this process progresses, the more immanent he will also (not instead of transcended be - + the more it will seem like Pantheism. What I saw in 3-74 indicates it has progressed pretty fore; + the consummation or culmination will be "St Sophia being born again." + the Kingdom (which is another is ward for "heaven") will there be here (as well as where it is now: after death supralunar) in answer to my Q: this, then, would be intervention insertion + assimilation) - God coming here. Not God (s being (already always] here, the beginning of this assimilation can even be dated. As Hegel I s te says, it began with the first incarnation (+ astethal says, has continued ever since); it will be completed when "St. Sophia is born again" - this time ceccept able: i.e. assimilation will be completes the reason the assimilation goes on secretly is disclosed by the sentence: "She was not acceptable before." The work continues hidden from the eyes of the race of deformed, blinded fallen men who crucia fied him/her - rejected her Aristotle was right - at for his time; no contact twit the supra - + sublunar worlds). aristotle's time. 1st Advent now 2nd Advent a t a It is this progressively greater breaking into our world which is expressed in Ubik - i.e. Runciter's messages - arrangement of trash. We can expect the vitality, strength, degree + amount of this, in our world, continually to increase. No wonder Ubik in considered - + it is - extraordinary imporant a book it is virtually the book (i.e. 3rd estament, for now.) (+ the dream in tears + the prophecy + fulfillat in deus Irae). In fact the existence of the book a s. is a proof that this - what I saw later in 3-74 was indeed real the book Ubik is a splendid example of Zebra's arranging - Zebra arranged a "trash" novel - + I think because of their knowledge of Hegel + Empedocles, some marxist intellectually have guesses what (+ how) wrote Ubik!! sureled, Ubik = Zebra = Christ; it/she/then wrote the novel. t 75 + scriptural support can be found for this "assimilation" theory - it comes from Paul when I characterized Ubik as containing scien tific knowledge. I was right: the information from Runciter (as Christ) breaking through as spokesman for Ubik (God?); I was expressing what the noosphere is/will be doing (certainly I saw it already doing it in 74) by way of informing us, addressing us. I am saying in Ubik, "this is going on, this verbal information breaking through into This world from a vast benign - but-human entity who was here but died + is now speaking to us in all ways from als sides" like pere Teilhard's views, this passes over from theology into a description of scientific fact. I now assess the assembling going on, which I saw by Zebra, not merely as it creating itself (though that probably is So) but the assimilating (+ in doing so rearranging) this universe to itself: i.e. incorporating the "sundered" sublunar world ➀ it was doing that; ➀ + communication by juxtaposing; + 3) modulating causal processes for the better. 1) Assembling the new structure out of the "pile of parts" making up the antecedent universe 2) inserting its verbal messages by juxtapositions of pieces our own, etc. of 3) redirecting the outcome of deterministic (or chance) causal processes the way Plato describes Noos doing with ananke H) related to (1): reanimating (virifying or spiritualizing "lifeless" or "lower" matter, by its own identity. by analyzing these four things it was doing I can more readily view it as not pantheism (it isn't the "pile of parts" + it isn't the total verbal stuff + it isn't the causal processes + objects before modulation + insertion. Zebra is entering an extant structure, + he is/was wit that structure. This view fits 16 my theorizing that it is illogical for him (it) to rebuild what he already is + i.e. intervene in his own corpus; it is important to realize that I did not see Zebra inhabiting everything - he dident whabit the "stock pile" which was the entire antecedent universe + that being what it is certainly is an enormous exclusion There very definite was a Zebra + a not-Zebra. In fact, when I mentally visualize the difference between the way the cosmological-sized "stockpile" looked (discrete unrelated pieces, etc.) + the way the new assembly looked (all parts animated + interacting) I can ever better grasp what Zebra is like. Each part of the assembly not only functioning in it but also being alive (as elements of Zebra) showed the self-movement of animated "Greatures: There was no noos, no psyche, in the antecedent universe ("stockpile" -- heap, unorganized, of parts to be used). + since psyche or Noos is, in pere Teilhard's words, the "inner are within" as rect of a thing, our unaided eyes, perceiving only the "outer or without" aspect of things + process, would perceive no change, no difference between the non-psyche thing, + events still in the "stockpile" vs the transsubstantiated ones. So it is intervention, but not just in '74; the entire inserting + assimilation - assembly process of Zebra is an intervention going back 1900 years. This, then, is why my anamnesis -acquired memones go back 1900 years also: Im sure of it; these memories are Zebra's covering the time perced of its insertion. I must have been (as I ofter theorize). "transsubstantiated" out of the "stockpile" & into Zebra a that time, which I guess may more commonly occur upon the death of the person. Because Zebra was already here It was able in the watergate affair to "heird the stone uncut: it 197 all right: Zebra was alread, here prior to 3-74. In 3-74 I got assimilated, + so could see it all, + knew t all, because Zebra saw + knew it all - inc. Its histor purpose (which is much like what Hegel thought it was t Zebra brought me into a structure (corpus Christ!) already partially built - i.e. already extant, + for purposes far ex ceeding watergate. I knew + saw from what pere Teilhard calls "inwardness. I don't think, though, I was cast out of the objective (physical + physically - linked) assembly (structure of the Corpus Christi); I think all that changed (downward) for me was that the Noos (St Sophia) in my mind carefully + gradually withdrew or anyhow lessened (while living here in Santa Ana I recontacted - linked up - with it 1970). Autonomy (mine) was restored. But although again invisible to me. The assembly is still here as it was before 3-74 when it was invisible them too. But surely I wasn't ejected; I have just fallen asleep (as the Sufis say) again; slumbering in him al: it can be theorized that I did disinhibit an ancestral personality, "Thomas" via the orthomolecular vitaming + the negative ions at the vernal equinox, + he was - had been -assimilated into the corpus Christ, at his own time; which is to say, that on a sublin minal level I am part of the structure, but consciously not. Another Zebra -notzebra which I saw was that only the dream part of tears was Zebra, virtually the entire novel was not - I wish I'd looked at Ubik; ill bet if I had I would have discovered virtually all of it to be - not just part of Zebra but the very ground plan or blueprint which Zebra as Logos This movement by the transcendent deity into our world (quasi-immanent) stresses the processness of the universe, which both Hegel + whitehead noted I still believe that the phenomenal univered lackel reality until assimilated ie t B - 78 i in fact it was my noticing the insubstantiality it the phenomenal world, over the past 25 years, which was my darma (way) to enlightenment. e -the end - Page 1 The Ency. of philo. says that "the Kingdom" is the same as "heaven" (but occurring when these two realms are no longer sundered, I guess). I experienced the Kingdom as the condition (state of being absorbed into the Corpus Christi or the assembly by the Corpus Christi. Are the two different? During the period (2-3-74 on) when I could see with enhanced discernment, it may have been that (1) I had been assimilated into the cosmos or "world" being assembled (by the divine) but also was part of the head of the Corpus Christi & saw with its (Zebra's) V-P. Then, although having been assembled-in I thus remained so. I ceased to see in the enhanced way because although now in the new cosmos I (my mind) was no longer replaced by him/his. At one earlier pt I described the assembled structure as being Zebra itself: i.e.: Q: What is Zebra building out of the antecedent "stockpile" universe? A: itself. But maybe that is not so; that was a guess only. Zebra's cephalos & the structure may not be the same; Zebra may be the cephalos of the structure but we may only be members [figure consisting of a small circle within a larger circle within a dotted more or less circular line. each circle is labeled. the middle circle (larger solid) is first label: "the assembled structure"; the small circular core is second: "Zebra's thinking cephalos"; the dotted line is last (i.e. bottom) "the chaotic only partially real present universe." Below the three labels, Dick writes: i.e. 3, not 2, "places" When put in place, our minds may not be identical with Zebra's, but rather subsections ("cells" or "parts") informed (i.e. programmed & guided) by Zebra on a subliminal (for us) level. At least while still physically alive &/or before assimilation is complete (i.e. before the 2nd incarnation). That period when Zebra's VP & mind replaced mine seems to resemble what [usually only] occurs after death. Well, in that case, since the after-death "place" is "heaven," & "heaven" equals the Kingdom, I was, at that time in the Kingdom - but it has not yet been established here in the sublunar realm since complete abolition of the sundered is yet future. But for me to enter the Kingdom (i.e. heaven) at all while still here shows how near - close - it is. Page 2 Page 2 How many humans in history have actually, even briefly, literally passed over into heaven while still alive (i.e. while the 2 realms are still sundered)? I now repeat exactly what I've written before: The true secret of authentic early xtianity was not just pointing to the divine Kingdom ahead in the next life, as the mystery religions did, but actually putting you across into it now, while still alive. Evidently this was/is done by a theolepsy with Christ who has himself died & hence passed over yet in a secret way is - uniquely - still here! Of course He (alone) is both over there & yet here; via his dual nature he alone spans both realms - him only. This was the esoteric significance of the resurrection, known only to his immediate circle. He came back here, as his own Holy spirit, to enter them (his circle of followers) through the "3rd eye." (Firebright.) Thus, just as I did in 3-74, while still here & still mortal & still in this flesh they not only knew