that's really important. That means that if we know that the Holy Spirit exists (+ know what he's for) we know what the outcome of the "Game" will be: success by the savior, in other words, it's not an even match between J5 + Christ. the Holy Spirit insures final (interventive] triumph. That is why if you have the Holy Spirit + You have an invincible advocate. His presence in you is not cosmos but victory. When he comes into you, the battle is over + the book closed. He is not a contestant in the 2-player struggle but the hall mank of its absolute outcome, gorostic themes in my books: deity as evil (3 Stigmata) world as prison, overlain by nice hallucination (maze) intercessor who takes you out of the prison (maze) the triune "ham sandwich" cosmology (Ubik) Amnesia (maze) - faith of our Fathers": 1) stranger girl comes to his door. Belance 8744 undeposited checks 2) She is part of a clandestine 680 travelers checks good group. 100 is 300 3) her group provided him medica 15 cash - a phenothiazine, which 957 4) caused him to see what was it should be noted that really there (it was not an Tessa's Dec support (5200) hallucinigin). has been paid. Also I am ahead 2500 prepaid 5) She tells him, "There is no for nancy. If these two ideological school in say fer‐ sums are added we get: nando; these are forged (sic) 9839 exam papers." 200 500 6) why? "designed to read back to 539 to them a thorough analysis of your or if just to the 200 political ideology Tessa is added we get "+ have you been able to disting 7 839 9 guish which paper [of the that is 200 Orthodox + which is heretical: 10ost choose the wrong one + your budding career stops dead in its tracks choose the proper one - 8) He asks if she knows which is which 9) She says yes. 10) The one with the Arabic poem is orthodox 11) it is the first. The second is a [the] ringer. 12) He goes to phone to contact the police she speaks of it as a "phony" test. The heretical one is 13) they deliberated "faked up with a lot of party jargon; constructed the 2 tests to trap you. They wanted you to fail." of these is points, all but one (#2) happened to me in 3-74, + even 2 is probable. How come? 60 + some of these - such as providing a drug which causes him to see reality as it is - + everyone else is ensnared by dulusion - that's awfully heavy + close to my experience - these are not minor details; the core of my 3-74 experience: there. Q: how can this be explained? A: I've lived this life before. right down to the 2 test papers, the first of the second was "faked up with a lot of party jargon; + if he'd fallen for it, he'd have been ruined. + was a trap, not a test. it I infer from this that the Xerox missive was (1) phony, ➁ a trap, faked up with party jargon. QED But the greatest coincidence of all is the ce element. Which I'll label (is). It underlies all the rus, + makes the resemblance between the story + the 3-74 (+ 2-74) experiences) (were they one or two?) extraordinary. Yes - both the Girl (2-74) + the 2 letters (3-74) are, in the story, united into one experience, thus suggesting a causal relationship between the two in real life! 5474497 600 500. 5560420 Fished 5120 conflower + Mcarthur no soothooast Plaza terry + seny 85 There is indeed, as Robert Anton Wilson says, a secret group, with a long history, which "controls the world," at least in the sense + to the degree of manipulating historic events secretly to undermine the equally secret prison - conditions which obtain + have always obtained on this planet. +, as he says, the free masons, kosicrucians (+ either hospitalers or templars + Gnostics - as well as Greek + Egyptian cults) have passed an unbroken line of esoteric knowledge + power there of - down through the ages. What he also sees correctly is that the ultimate source of the wisdom + power - + instructions - for this group (inc. the alchemists + Gnostics + Buddhists, etc) has been an ETI "ajna" center located off this planet, probably in another star system - naired by him as Sirius - + that Horus is involved. We are not dealing with merely on age-old secret occult human wisdom paranormal organiza but with that (group) which is possessed by either an ETI or an ultra TI or (as leary believes) ourselves - i - the future. Personally I think it is an ETI which has "outwitted the archans who are our jailers" + has come here - in bioplasmic noncorporial energy form, to assist us. This aspect so far outweighs the importance - or lack of - of the "secret human organi zation" as to make its existence or non existence a matter of no real importance. What the ETI (Zebra) can do is convert anyone it wishes to into a com puter terminal with itself as terminal (it is much like the "theolepsied" Palmer Eldritch) in essence missed by wilson, is the fact that this ETI organism functions as the true "I am he who causes to be" + this makes the secret human ancient organization the true, secret Xtian church ( that, as amore claims, the true Xtian church dates back to Egypt + to thoth, Ptath, Ma'at, is is + Osiris + Horus I don't doubt; it also dates back to Krishna, Vishnu + esp. Shiva - + to Dionysos. What must never be over‐ looked is that you don't join the "society"; you are selected by it, + act out its bidding long before you realize it. Bob Wilson is right in this respect: "by the time you realize you are one of the illuminati, it is too late to back (get) out." (This view is in line with the orthodox + Gnostic Xtian view that the salvific initiative originates with God or Christ, not man in fact in the Gospels, Christ specifically tells his litte band of disciples: "You did not choose me; I chose you" + he also says, "I will never fore sake you, Yea, I will be with you even unto the end."). I feel about Bob Wilson's work is that he has dealt too much with the lesser part: the age-old secret human group, influencing history over the centuries. where he makes a brilliant guess is to tie it all in with the kennedy (et al) assinations. This collates with my revelation. Were he sufficiently Gnostic (dualist - Zoroastrian) in inclination he would/could see what was disclosed to me: that the "illuminati + their celestial source face a dreadful foe here why holds primary worldly power, + whom the secret society is overthrowing; it not they, truly rule here, + is not secret: it is the total visible ensemble of coerce I've governmental power on this planet. Basically, the 0 I" are subversive, + are outsiders. secret society + to triumph they must seize power - take it from the incumbents. 6. Thus, in point of fact, the "age old secret society which through its arcane knowledge controls the world" does not control the world at all, but merely challenges the overt worldly dominion + wardens of this our prison. So the propo sition "an age-old secret society possessing arcane wisdom controls the world + always has" is basically untrue. There is an age old secret society with arcane wisdom, + with powers bestowed from a life form either ultra-t or ET, But this group is the minority side. It wisely ( cunning ly?) influences history, but it is not the primary artificer of human history - it is the deflector of it. This indicts Bob Wilson's fundamental premise as false. In fact it reveals it as a forgery of evil, pandering to the wishes the jailer incumbents. It is a fascist concept, as of false as it is evil, as evil as it is false. The benign party is the null-world-rulers; Wilson is depicting the power + Wisdom of the enemy: the [covere] world jailers/rulers. He falsely attributes to them a quasi or actual holy know‐ The version of the situation which he presents ledge. deflects our honest intentions into captivity by the ultra principle of evil itself. Hence his emphasis on the merely occult + paranormal, on secret machinations in themselves, as if secrecy is to be equated with that which has the authentic mandate to rule. The ur- issue here is freedom versus slavery. Those forces, agencies + organizations exoteric as well as secret which seek to emancipate man in a continual process - they are none other than the true descendents + followers of Christ himself, who for good reason lies outside the perview of Wilson's thought. Amore, in its writing, claims to be that very "true, secret. Actual Xtian church" which they may well be. If so, they may constitute the - or one of the - secret human societies deriven They knowledge (gnosis) + powers from the urquelle. to on. (Or St. Sophia.) 61 That this is a fallen or cursed or prison or evil world I take as axiomatic - but equally axiomatic is the ceaseless salvific activity of the "reaching down from beyond" God. That I saw him (Valis, Zebra) here is good news, for it indicates that indeed his long-time efforts have culminated in success; it is not just us as computer terminals which are here in This cursed world but the urquelle him/her-self. that which was formerly called the 7 concentric imprisoning rings of the evil archons has been successfully penetrated + a beach head of divinity established here at the darkest, innermost ring, at the very core of enslavement + evil + tyranny. On the "Dunesberry" TV special the overthrow of Nixon was spoken of, by a child, as "the revolution," + the counter culture adult who participated in it said, "Even the trees agree." Pure (undefiled) nature has cast away its hull of that which is dead, which halts growth, which stifles + kills the life - spirit. within. The bushed basket over the lantern - the mystery + paradox is that at the very innermost core of what seems to be evil lies a pure burning light - "the light of the world" which the rescuers from outside - beyond - the farthest - ring have come (penetrated) to liberate - + to reunite with themi selves, as the source of light. Rescue, then, in the final analysis, is a healing, a reuniting of that which ( was originally one but which somehow broke apart when bits or a piece of it fell down here + was forthwith imprisoned. The sparks which fell were coated by layer upon layer of the inert the opaque. The dead + death- dealing - rinds which caused forgetting + loss of identity. Suppose we take This forward from Gnostic terms into the strictly modern world: we say then, that a vast proto organism existed (embracing at the least several star systems) + ours fell out - was severed from - the giant proto organism, which I saw in my nitrous oxide revelation as a vast vine (Christ) pruned by the Father as gardener. Many cuttings feel no loss, but some do, + these latter the savior (the original cosmic organism) seeks reunification with, upon his initiative, his "growing downward," so to speak, into the otherwise lightless realm into which we, cut off into bits, descended thousands of years ago. The keystone is restored memory, which is a recollection of ourselves not as seperate entities but as "stations" in a quasi-computer. like