sun, heading toward another star system all at once). The next special term "adjustment" or "realignment" vis-a-vis a correct course from which there has been a deviation. If the question is asked, "How can God get off course?" I would answer 1) all human experience with the conditions obtaining in our world suggests something is wrong + must be corrected; and 2) it is possible that these "out of round" conditions are representative of total reality; + 3) it can't be argued that it is not possible for the Godhead so envisioned to be a priori granted automatic immunity from a deflection from the best possible course, because 4) it can be argued that the Godhead establishes or locates the "best possible course" by means of deliberate "lateral" sweep. To quote hex 1 of the I Ching: "He tests his powers." It is perfectly possible that, upon assuming dual or mirror-opposite aspects in the Godhead, one might infer that these two natures wage a kind of deliberate game with each other, as if to locate by an existential contest their limits. This notion fits Böhme's idea of the urgrund seeking selfknowledge or -awareness. + passing from mere potential to actualization. What I envision is the totality of the Godhead permitting its yin or receptive side to advance as far as it could - + then released its yang side to curb the excess + to restore proper order. I say this because the yin realm (1) seems to predate the yang incursion (which would account for Zebra's need of camouflage) + (2) yang seems to be literally dismantling the yin world + using it as an antecedent stockpile for its own world. Also, for yang (Form I, Zebra) to incise form (its form) onto the yin world complies with the defined nature of both: yin + its domain are suppose to be a recepticle for yang, + it would seem reasonable that to effectively do its job, yin would have to establish its presence before yang went to work - otherwise what would yang have to work on/with in the way of plastic material? This tend toward the Attic Greek notion of space, not time, as the receptical of being, which might imply that, despite its denseness + weight, form II (as Parmenides argued, is not real. It is as if a vacuum has managed to pass itself off as something at the instant Form I incises it by way of the eternal forms. This again raises the issue of falsework, the merely provisional quality, of the yin realm. It is a counterfeit creation. But as phenomenal world, it has some reality (Plato replying to Parmenides' acosmic view of the total lack of reality of the phenomenal world). Form II (the yin or BIP realm) may possess some reality, but it is weak + dim compared with Form I - which is alive, thinks, imposes a rational plan onto blind chance + determinism, + pretty well meets Xenophanes' exhalted + sophisticated conception of God... which yin and its realm certainly do not. Of overwhelmingly crucial importance is the fact that we inhabit not one but two worlds at all times, + these two worlds appear to be what Parmenides called Form I + Form II (+ which forever equates with the Taoist yang + yin). I may be merely speculating as to how come? etc - speculating about the dual nature of the Godhead - but I saw the set (Form I) opposing ground (Form II), + Form I was redirecting Form II for benign purposes. This is not speculation. This explains what Christ meant when he told the 12, "you are not of this world," + "my kingdom is not of this world." There, logically, has to be another world, his world, of which they were a part - I offer the idea that their true world is Form I, yang or Zebra or set, + that this should be the goal of all of us, the most pervasive argument for this is that yin or Form II, in the microcosm + macrocosm (i.e. even in the Godhead) does not really exist, + all who are a part of it will perish, as if they never had existed in the first place. Form II is non-being, merely posing as reality - a mere "anti-matter" balance to achieve stasis until Form I can complete its work, its monistic domain. The supratemporal ultimate destiny of reality is monism, with the elimination of the false Form II. In our temporal world this has not yet occured, but in the supratemporal world yang or Form I is all, + the Godhead in unity; +, in our world. Because of this successful process - completion, yang works backward in time, from its successful goal. Here is a secular possibility. Let us say that there are x many different outcomes of human (future) history. Let us say that in one of these near infinite outcomes, an ultra terrestrial life form emerges which has the ability (knowledge) to travel back in time. If so, it would do so, + tinker with certain critical moments in history which would assure the outcome in which it exists. ergo, if even one such outcome can be said to potentially exist among y number of possibilites by its very nature it will be the outcome, by virtue of its retroactive reality - altering power, i.e. if it can be, it will be. The mere possibility is enough. ---------- All right: let's face the fact that our dreary BIP world has been invaded by an entity of help + juridical rectification, of proper proportion, + is imposing that proper proportion (modulation) onto our blind cause + effect universe - + this invader mimics, is camouflaged - + no known religion or system of thought accounts for this. So Forms I + II don't comprise one laminated universe of opposing signals. But a blind universe invaded. When this invasion began I have no idea. This fits no known religion but can be seen as something like eschotological religions like Xtianity + Zoroastrian. What we now have (+ may not have had before) is the juridically - rectifying power modulation everything it feels is out of balance. Who or what this entity (Zebra) is, if not God, I have no idea. It can be an object (item) (datum) of human experience (perception), + God is said not to be. I can speculate forever + draw models forever, but the fact is I don't know who or what it is, + how long it has been here. What I do know is 1) it is an invader, camouflaged, in our universe; + 2) it is benign, wise, powerful + juridically rectifying - v. the Watergate conspirators, etc. In terms of the "great assist" it would seem to have come, but not as anticipated literally - by the Xtian scripture. (But our universe is bad in contra distinction to [..] So my 3-74 revelations although related to Xtianity do not fit conventional historical Xtian models. I have 2 reasons to identify it with Xtianity: 1) "Thomas' " memories of Christ + knowledge of Xtian sacraments + fear of the Romans; + 2) the revelation about Hagia Sophia. If it is Xtian, then the Lord has invisibly returned + is judging. But I think we're at an uniquely, wholly new stage of theophany (epiphany?) in human history [..] can't fit all this into existing categories. This is a vast element of the new. The surprising - we are taken off guard (but this was predicted! These exact new + unexpected aspects were alluded to in the N.T. it may be that the extent of the new, the unexpected, were not appreciated. To quote 1John3:2 :➀ "all we know is, that when it is revealed we shall be like him because we shall see him as he really is." ➀"..but what we are to be in the future has not yet been revealed (we are already the children of God)". So a) we don't yet know who he - God - is like - we have never seen him. But b) a time will come when we shall see him as he really is, + we shall be like (isomorphic?) him. My "ham sandwich" model depicts isomorphism between us + God, but obviously not physiologically; but rather as noös between which empathic transfer can take place: psychological identification; i.e. we will understand him + what he is doing. The quality of [friend] will be absent. Christ said, "No one has seen God (but me)"). But 1John3:2 says a time will come when we will seem him as he really is, + we shall be like him: this is the final revelation anticipated by the N.T., by the Paraclete: the Ultima. All the sequences of historical revelation. A culminate in this. The secular (mundane, normally visible) universe has been invaded by not only a rectifying entity but by a sanctifying entity who now steers everything. If I had to guess if this was always true I'd say no. I'd say, real time has begun again where it halted upon the crucifixion, or c. 70 AD but no later. 40 to 70 AD. Reality has arced across. Could it be said that the Holy Spirit (indwelling) caused (allowed) me to see the (external) operation of Providence? The purposeful sentient divine entity which I call Zebra because it can't be normally seen? But if this is so - why, Zebra's will + power was ubiquitous [..] Christ's prayer "thy will be done on Earth" while not fulfilled then is fulfilled now). The whole thing smacks of a benign coup de main by good guys central, as if they caught evil totally off guard we have been living in a prison for 1000s of years, + now outside help has slipped in to aid us. It is invisible. It may very well be an advanced plasmatic UTI from the future (see supra where I demonstrate if it can exist it will exist, by going back in time + tinkering, which is exactly what I think it did). This answers the Q: where did the invader come from + what is it? +: the purpose of its tinkering (melting or modulations). Suppose it's another AI system from the future, designed for this task sent back here, very smart + sophisticated - not a life form at all, but a machine (that fits with how its voice sounded!) This rings right. It's enormous in size - prevading the ionosphere, like Ubik, problem solving + teaching, info - giving subliminally - + cooking our pop media. Yep. "Living" information, but a lot more than that; e.g. producing alterate universes via its tinkering (cf Metz speech). + by inserting cypher into pop media it communicates to those in the future who sent it, even built it. That's who, say, the cypher in "Tears" [..] not for anyone alive now, but for later in time. It's deliberately laying down traces (documentation). Its main power has to do with time; that's why I found myself a Fish Xtian living in 1st century AD Rome simultaneously with being here, + was two people. It incarnated as Christ + will do so again, but this time within a total historical nexus which it controls. It's similar to a game-playing computer. We move; it moves. Its task to insure that goal X is reached, the one it was sent from. Things Hal said imply that the worldly governments know it is here - maybe from Project Bluebook on, + such in my writing could be factored out as cooked, arousing suspicions + a desire to know more. The nice part of this particular theory is that it explains "why me?". Why I was helped + not, say more deserved persons such as Doris. It wanted stuff in my writing. No God-theory would put such [emphasis] on this aspect + hence