the disciples - Be fire the hour of victory Gives the Best explanation to what Scholars have called the secrecy Motif in Mark - ie the constant stress on not telling the whole world about Jesus' Messianic power." "In the thought world of Jewish Gnosticism, there is a Mythological descending and ascending envoy of God." "The christian can lve in faith int he world looking for the Kingdom but already sure he can draw on the power thereof (ie the spirit as "down payment") without an imminent epectation of the end time. "Incipient on actual Gnosticism on the church could account Both for the assertion that the fulfillment has already come..." etc. In 1 John 2:1-2 Jesus is referred to as the paraclete. E ph: "Although mainly inspired by the Demiurge, [the prophets] are sometimes (and unbeknown to him) used by his mother Sophia, for her own messages. Which thus are interspensed in the inferin Bulk" (article on Gnosticism) There certainly is, in all this, Both in canonical texts and Gnostics, the idea that Jesus "was the divine breaking into history" secretly, and that he was the Creator of this Universe secretly re=entering it to this new age not come? The Gnostic answer is: it has- but it (the Kingdom of God) is revealer by the Pistis christians are waiting for something which has already secretly come. The unenhanced (unrestored) eye and ear can't perceive it, though the mundane has been stealthily transubstantiated. The Gnostics sought a revealer who had come into the world hidden from the evil power and known only to... the spiritual elite. (EB) this fits the "Bait" theory, and fits with a long and powerful exegesis- passable supra. v. pp 25/32/36 and esp p. 40. Yes, the greatest news (secret) of all possible news and secrets is that Christ is here (v pp 25/40 supra), in the disguise of the oppressed- But when/where is "here" ? It is Rome C AD 70, so of course He- the resurrected Christ- is here- the "here" is the back then and there, so there is a whole comological revelation (unknown to almost everyone- the Gnostics were/are correct). It is not correct to say that "Christ is in calm in 1974" because the unit of calm 1974 is "saranic spurlow in Terpolation for geniune creation." I was on the night track, in my writing, in questioning the authenticity of what we take to be reality. By the time "Ubik" and "Maze" and "Tears", however, I was beginning to state not only what is really here (the world of Acts) but who (Christ), represented by Ubik, (the logos). Everything is concealed: be actual reality by a spurious one, and Christ in the polyforms of 1) the suffering; and 2) those who act to essen the suffering of others, especially complete trangers (cf the gas station scene in "Tears"). Mist is both victim and helper of the victim; Mist ministers to Christ. Especially he is present in someone who is suffering himself (victim) but at the same time to help others: both [Dr?], ties combined. So one of the pluriforms will tend to exhibit both syndromes (victim and helpter) - and the absolute anti-thesis of him is found in the pleasure-oriented person, intent on pleasing only himself. Never going beyond the confines of his own limited individual self: neither victim or helper (eg Joan). To be the authentic Christ, we must know both undeserved suffering, and the role of helper. Esp to strangers- and finally, joy and triumph in a testoration of faculties and reunion with God- as well as knowing these secrets: that Christ is among us disguised and we can be Him, literally. The more I study and learn the more I see the miracle of 2-74 and 3-74 in the context of an even greater [secret] miracle, whose nature explains what happened in 2-74/3-74. What happned to me makes sense in the two Great Invisible realities are comprended as the ultimate veiled truths: 1) it is Rome (AD 70: and 2) the risen Christ replaces the suffering creature- invisibly- and besides taking the blow, raises the creature to the level of God by "lowering" and fusion with Him; ie Christ with first this man and then that. But a third further miracle awaits us: the purse incarnation in human form of Holy Wisdom, visibly what he/sge really is- and establishes his/her kingdom. One major difference this "St Sophia will be born again" will make compared to the situation now will be destroying of satan and his power. As it stands, the combat is not over. This conviction I have that Christ is here first showed up in 171 when I anticipated coming to the door. Christ "returns" but only because archetypal sacred time is reached by those for whom he is the paradigm. We cannot discourse with Holy Wisdom (in these cyclic space-time) reprises; for that we must await the 2nd incarnation prophecies. The role of the sufferer and the helper are him but the conscious psyche of of him evidentally is missing: we have the enacted drama but cannot colloquite with the central figure (the voice whicch Elijah heard). For that we must still wait: it is not the consciousness of Christ that is here but the dramatic figure only. But he is here. Yet not yet reborn psychologically; he is self-unaware, and must be awoken to his own identity (in us). Is this what Thomas was- a partical reawakening of Him to Himself (Christ) so that for a little while he remembered and knew hiself as He is (as in Van Vogt's "The book of Ptath") and this reawakening is what modern world history- and suffering and helping- leads us towards, point [omega symbol]? The presence is here, but the voice of silent, for it has forgotten. -- ah- the C. AD 70 is becoming progressively more red and the 1937 one is fading. It is of supreme importance and significance that the "Rome C. AD 70" was precisely the space-time continuum (ie of Acts) appearing, in "Tears" stegeus- set out- not to question- but to affirm. Also, the Acts material in "Tears" Clusters toward the [Dr?} part, becoming more clear as the novel reaches the end (the world is agari instead of power) and I had the vision the same month that "Tears" was published. So, I maintain that the Acts material in "Tears" confirms the 2-74, 3-74 realization/vision of when and where we really are and vice-versa. And, 3rd, this last lot of "Tears" was revealed to me to contain divinely-inspired code - not from me: this very same section. So 3, not 2 points of agreement exist to mutually confirm each other. "Tears" was made use of "an the interior bulk" ; and the messages were: 1) this 1974 world is a spurious interpolation; 2) God wants us to be freed from this invisible prison and be fruitful and prosper and be happy; and 3) as of 2-74, the "Dark man shut up in the [Dr?] bldg need to die. Judgment and sentence had been pronounced; and 4) God had inbroken into human history (the dream sequence) as later, in 3-74. I was told he had- in judgement; and 5) alteration of history. The thing about Acts aterial is that it precisely dates teh time period presented. As I comprehended on 2-74 the Savior had just left and we joyfully ancipate his return. 1) Either some entity andentitious to me informed the novel; or 2) my own "scanning" of the reality landscape disclosed controus what one depicted, unbeknownst to me, in Acts, in other words. I scan "A", which I then transcribe (Back in '70). Then in 2-74 I see the Golden Fish and "rememer" (realize as recall and recognition) in so of "Tears" being released. I now know that despire what our percept system report (call it "B") what is really there is "A" and certain other individuals know this. But I still don't yet know that "A" is precisely and indubitably depicted as the real world in "Tears" because I have never read Acts. When I describe- wait then it is revealed to me that Cooked material has been inserted into "Tears" by a supernormal entity. I need it but do not recognize it as "A" becaue I still not have read Acts. Then when I describe the all night gas station scene to my prieset he excitedly says it resembles a major scene in Acts. So I read Acts. I find so many and so precise correspondences between the last parat of "Tears" and Acts that coincidence has to be ruled out. So, in 2-74 I realize that our actual space-time reality is "A" and not "B" and "A" is the reality depicted in "Tears" and "A" is the cooked part. But also "A" is present in the overall uncooked total bulk. Then almost 4 years later to the day (ie in Feb) I actually experience the all night Gas station scene which I wrote about 9 years earlier and it is the scene from Acts which in '74 the priest identified. (Perhaps it is not meaningful, but I encountered the black men with his car right by a Catholic church- and when I first saw the cooked (interpolated) material in "Tears" I had the distinct impression that specifically the Roman Catholic Church had inerted it. Somehow I associated it with the Roman Church. One theory which might explain a part of all this is pre-cognition on my part. But this is a small part: it does not touch on the interpolation in "Tears" and especially that the book, including and excluding interpolation is a recap ofActs. What must be born in mind about Acts is that historically it describes the last period before the scripture cuts off. "Tears" describes a world which is in the past, the present, and probably the future, it is therefore, atemporal, [Dr?] one of Plato's archetypes. It seems to me that the import (thrust) of my actual "all night gas station scene encounter with the black stranger" 9 years after writing the cene in "Tears" is exactly the same as this attempted quality of the [other] Acts material. These exemplar scenes- this [Dr?] or [Dr?]- is perpetually repeated: it lies in a time other than linear; it lies in sacred time. The encounter 9 years later confirms that Acts or "A" is indeed the [sole] real template underlying the mere Maya of "B." My encounter this Feb is merely another surfacing. We can then say: Acts depicts our current history. The true church is small (yes, let's analyze the contents of Acts): The E.B.: first spread of the church to gentiles "Philip, A Greek-speaking Missionary, is commanded by the spirit to Baptize an Ethiopian eunuch." "Paul is imprisoned and sent to Rome where Acts leaves him witnessing openly and unhindered in the capital of Ethiopia." There has been a move from Jerusalem to Rome. Then after AD49 Payl become the spokesperson for the whole [Dr?] mission. "After Peter healed a lame man, he made a speech (ch 3) in which Jesus is proclaimed as the one appointed but who is now in heaven and who will come as the Christ at the Parousia (2nd coming). In his Pentecost speech (ch 2) Peter preached that God made Jesus Lord and Christ in his ressurection. "The titles used for Jesus show... a clear differentiation made by the write between Jesus in his earthly life (in Lu of) and reflection on him in Acts. Christ (mission)" is consciously used as the title of Jesus; the title son of man used frequently in Luke is used only once in Acts... The Hellenic term savior is used... In Acts part, on his way to Damascus to persecute the church, is dramatically stuped by a viscona experience or Jesus and is later investigated. In his 6 revs, however, P and stated that he was called by Christ revelation. of the risen