positive action of any kind is an involvement in the world. It takes the world as real. Balking, oddly, carries perhaps a greater weight, since the step prior to affirming God seems to be the denial of the world. (Or: the road to affirming the true God stems from the initial denying of the world.) The Ramparts thing -- that was a direct disavowal of the power of the warden-archons, perhaps. I wonder if this sheds any light on the mysterious Xerox missive. What I did was act as mere transfer agent between it and the bureau. Or rather between its sender and the bureau. I did nothing but _immediately_ pass it on. I rerouted it. I had as little to do with it as possible. That was the essence of how I handled it: as little as possible, like something hot (i.e. stolen). the last letter I wrote to the bureau stated that UBIK had scientific information in it, and the OCCP knew. I think now that I was right. Information filtering through the "sandwich" is not merely theological, religious event but a matter of cold hard FACT. Information is information, even if of a stenographic kind. The OCCP certainly would have no hesitation in placing it in the category of the scientific. (Which should compel us to, whether we like it or not.) _Especially_, my god, how especially! if this information was designed to alter history by, z.b., deposing the U.S. president. We are talking about something really heavy, here. It very slightly resembles what the authors of MORNING OF THE MAGICIANS contemplated. Suppose I make a slight shift in the emphasis of all this, pass over into the area of secret societies and occult knowledge and powers, and use my 3-74 experience as an instance --a proving instance-- of that? Then we go back to the U.S. Army buying the 238 copies of TEARS. If I was to say the information was coming up from below, down from above, or from behind, I'd say through. It's penetrating through the world, with no up-down involved. Through is through. No amount of time or space is involved, even small amounts. How far away from Joe Chip and the others was Runciter? We are talking about the world as an opaque medium becoming translucent and then transparent. I experienced the incredible immediate reality of the Holy Spirit in me and Zebra (God or the Cosmic Christ, the Pantocrator) in the same room as I was. "Break a stick and there is Jesus," is an early saying. I just realized: seeing Zebra rules out both the OCCP micro-wave stuff and any occult source, because the active Presence was not just inside my head (telepathic instructions and info) but visible, to me, in my rooms. The material transferred into my head was almost certainly the work, inside me, of Zebra which I saw externally. In particular, I have the mimicking factor to deal with, that the Higher Entity which I saw is capable of camouflage and hence complete invisibility to the unenhanced human eye. Only it can see it -- it inside me say it outside. The stenographic messages do not emanate from some human occult group with supernormal powers, but from the Divine Ground of Being Itself. The only involvement which an occult group or OCCP micro-wave teep signals could have would have been able to trigger my experience off...however, my experience in 3-74 was in fact triggered off by the golden fish in 2-74, which I keep forgetting. At the very best, if I am to involve any human group or agency (which Occham's Principle precludes as unnecessary) it would be the Real & folder 32 - 008 folder 32 - 008 true actual hidden secret Christian Church and none other. Micro-wave teep transmissions are a mere theory, but the golden fish sign was real, whether arranged by Christian humans or Zebra modulating my experiences into a disinhibiting sequence. Really, all this leads me back to the mimicking entity, which is astounding beyond belief as an object of experience (not to mention all the dreams & visions & hypnagogic oral material). One fascinating aspect of UBIK is disclosed when the question is asked, "Where did (I) get the idea?" The origin of the idea, in contrast to virtually all other novels, is evident from the text of the novel itself, although one must extrapolate from Runciter to what-ever Runciter represents, and the state of cold-pac to whatever state we are all in. In the novel, information spontaneously intrudes into the world of the characters, indicating that their world is not what they think it is; in fact, it indicates that their world is not even there at all -- some kind of world is there, but not the one they are experiencing. That time-regression is put forth in the novel, and that time-regression figured in my (3-74) experience -- this still baffles me; the principle underlying the devolution (reversion) of objects along the form-axis in the novel is explained by a reference to Plato's theory of ideal forms, and I guess that applies to our world and to my own experience. However, until I recently studied the E of Philo article on Gnosticism so thoroughly, did I begin to understand the triune reality division which must exist and which is also put forth in UBIK -- if Runciter is God, and Joe Chip & the other inertials are analogs of all men, then the regressed world is the ham in the sandwich, and, as in UBIK, must be abolished; as in Gnosticism, this is accomplished, in UBIK, by the revelation of esoteric knowledge about their condition by a deity-like entity lying behind even Runciter, i.e. Ubik. It is this knowledge --not just information but gnosis-- revealed to them, esp. to Joe Chip, which makes them aware of their real condition. Therefore if one knows very much about Gnosticism (which I didn't until a few days ago) one could see the resemblance between UBIK and the Gnostic cosmogony and cosmology. But we are talking (regarding the real world) of information which, by being transferred, radically changed history. And it must be realized (I certainly do, even if no one else does) that what broke through was not limited to information, but that theolepsy (one at least) were involved. If I rule out OCCP experiments and occult human groups (vide supra) then we have something not found in UBIK, but, although admittedly described as diabolic, in STIGMATA. Is theolepsy not specifically what STIGMATA depicts? With Chew-Z or whatever, Can-D, I forget, the eucharist. What do you get if, as Le Guin suggests, you take a group of my novels & stories and fit them together, esp. the 3 picked up by Bantam? Theolepsy, the Gnosis slipping through, reality (the world) as illusion concealing another but real world (MAZE) -- what an aggregate message those 3 novels add up to! When I recently reread STIGMATA I saw it for what it was: a penetrating, acute and exhaustive study of the miracle of transubstantiation, simply reversing the bipolarities of good & evil. What the novel contemplated was --that is, the conclusion it reached-- was the folder 32 - 009 folder 32 - 009 startling notion that imbibing of the sacred host culminated, for the imbiber, in eventually becoming the deity which the host was the supernatural manifestation of. Since all of them were consuming hosts of the same deity, they all became the same deity, and their separate or human identities were abolished. They literally became the deity, all of them, one after another. What this constituted in the novel was an eerie kind of invasion. They were invaded on an individual basis and they were, regarded another way, invaded as a planet or species, etc., which is to say collectively. This invasion by the deity bears a resemblance to the invasion of the regressed world in UBIK by Runciter's messages and, ultimately, by Ubik itself (as confirmed by the ad starting the last chapter). That ad clarified what Ubik was; it precisely equated Ubik with the Logos. There is no way to get around that. Ubik in UBIK is the same divinity as the St. Sophia mentioned in DEUS IRAE. So Runciter and Ubik equals Palmer Eldritch and Chew-Z. We have a human being transformed into a deity which is ubiquitous (no one seems to have noticed that Palmer Eldritch is ubiquitous as is Ubik, that the same theme dominates both novels). The Gnostic contribution which MAZE makes is the idea of a totally untenable reality glossed over by a mass wish-fulfillment hallucination shared by everyone, and a salvific entity who can extricate you right out of that prison-like world. MAZE: Prison-like world glossed over by illusion. Salvific intercessor who can and does extricate you. Induced amnesia. STIGMATA: Invasion (penetration) of our world by a deity who can become everyone via the host, a mass theolepsy. UBIK: Salvific information penetrating through the "walls" of our world by an entity with personality representing a life- and reality-supporting quasi-living force. Collating the three novels, how much of the Gnostic message is expressed? Or, put another way, how much of my 2-74, 3-74 experience is expressed? One thing left out is the altering of the historic process, which was revealed to me as happening in 3-74. I suppose in a sense that's in FROLIX 8. And the breaching through by God and the hosts, the apocalyptic material from "Acts" and "Daniel." There are little sprinkles in other novels and stories -- for instance, the idea of anamnesis (expressed negatively usually in my writing by the them of fake memories). Well, that's expressed in MAZE, so I've inserted it in supra. I wonder what you get if you sit down starting with "Roog" and read through everything (including such strange stories as "Retreat Syndrome")all the way to SCANNER. If everything interlocks, what is the total message? I know I scared myself shitless that one night when Isa was down here and I reread some early stories in PRESERVING MACHINE. But my recent study of Gnosticism indicates that below any negative world-negating message there is an affirmation of God and love. And truth must be told; we must go where it leads us -- where Wisdom leads up (interesting typo; I mean "us," not "up"). folder 32 - 010 folder 32 - 010 So to sum up, it would appear that the agency which brought me my revelation was the Holy Spirit of orthodox Christianity, so in every sense my revelation was Christian, but it was Gnostic Christianity, not pistis Christianity. (1) The fact of revelation as salvific is in itself gnostic. (2) The contents of the revelation were gnostic; e.g. James-James, etc. Both the how and the what are gnostic, but gnostic Christianity; after all, it was the fish sign "used by the early Christians," as the girl said, which triggered it all off. Never can I desert Christianity, and this includes not just the hope but the knowledge (gnosis) that Christ (St. Sophia) is going to return. This, and Zebra's intervention in history, on a vast scale, both indicate that the gnostics were wrong about the pneumatics and their inner divine sparks being withdrawn from the world, and the world lost; clearly, both the intervention in human history and the prophecy (the other prophecy; both came as prophecies) point to a claiming of this world by God as his own just kingdom. In this respect, orthodox Christianity is correct. This is crucial. Even Augustine abandoned hope (because of having once been a Manichean) that God would establish a just kingdom in this world. There is an irony here, which I hadn't noticed: the esoteric saving gnosis contains the information that pistis orthodox doctrine is correct...which is very very Zen! I could say, "It was revealed to me by a special divine interventive revelation that special esoteric revelation is not necessary for salvation," or some such paradoxical