By whom? All secrets became known to me, the mysteries of the cosmos. A beautiful divine voice space to me. I could see Christ. I was inside the universe: in fact in another universe. I could distinguish the forces (entities) ruling (running) it. I could see the future, distant places. I + Chrissy were healed. I saw the next world where I would go + communed with God. I will just have to abandon all stereotyped formularies tarrive at my own interpretation: viz: A) we once were God like being, who fell to this meager, deformed state. We do not remember why. B) a vast, wise, benign entity ("Zebra") controls our reality + seeks to restore us. 6) We are not where + when we think we are (i.e. located in time + space) 41 e D) as we move from life time to lifetime we are given one or more tests (or opportunities) to redeem ourselves before the Lord + judge + thus to return to our home in the real universe. E) supernatural forces are close to us which we can't see, contending against each other, good + bad ) What we see is only a deluding, fictional stage within the context of which, deprived of our true memories, we are perpetually retaught the Gnosis or Sophia) we lost. G) Since we are not really humans, + not really here, or at the time we think a great mystery lies before us, which we each must solve, through help (clues + hints) on this journey back to truth + reality + the company of our equals - which is to say our actual Father's home I] we must fight off a sleep-like half-sleep which is pressed on us by the forces of death, decay forgetfulness. We are helped, but also Hindered (misted). I] we can only be saved (from the delusion + ignorance + forgetfulness) by an (the) intercessor. unless he helps, we remain lost. 3) He is the only one of us (our race) who did not fall (+ lose faculties, memories etc). A punishment seems to be involved; we must earn our redemption by right choice 42 i The intercessor is the primordial unfallen man (son of man) who is our cosmic champion, doing battle for us to redeem us. M) This world is a hell a low it which possessing little reality we were flung into long ago it which he has come down into (i.e. Zebra) to fight for us by defeating The plans for us which the Lord of Darkness has His help to us is not only to inform us but arrange us into positions of battle against the Lord of Darkness. Thus it is not abstract knowledge (i.e. theoretical) which our King gives us but a leading + guiding which arrays us properly against evil (cf Dead see scrolls) N The great single decision to fight in his ranks against evil is what is primarily re quired of us + "this takes a descernment of the situation a choosing between what is actually good + actually evil no matter how they merely appears o) upon successfully discerning our task + aided by him (the son of man : unfallen Zebra) successfully complete it, we are transformed back into what we really are (once were) + are shown the true conditions + our reward (the latter differing from person to person tailored to each need. to 4 ot primordial man, possessing all wisdom, e came here as Jesus the Christ + will once more return in an incarnated form to abolist this realm by freeing it + restoring it and all within it to their original unfallen conditions 6) unfallen primordial man possessing all wisdom came here to achieve our liberation, + assumes (mimics) the objects + processes of this irreal world in order to guide (lead) us into a correct stance (attitude) against the evil which not only rules here but which deludes us so that we don't seek to escape or even know we are imprisoned. It rules by deluding. R) it is precisely this, the delusion system. which falls away once we have chosen correctly (by means of the son of man's help) + again by means of him guiding us, have acted successfully. The sequence is always this + never reversed: first the decision, then right (successful) action by his help, then the abolition of delusion which is to say, we must correctly choose while still in a decoded state. We choose + act correctly only because of his help. 5) Thus the structure of things forms a test or trial of each of us in turn, a progressive learn ing, choosing + acting, + if successful, release. 1 the entire situation should be regarded as: 3 Fall, punishment by loss of faculties + memory (self or identity), exile to this prison-like place, the arri val of our champion the son of man (wisdom of God itself) to assist us, extricating guiding then individual release (return) + the approaching final battle, 2nd incarnation by our champion + the extrication (redemption) of this entere world. ) Although we do not wish to know or believe this, our present natures are debased, deformed + corrupt down from their original s ) it is part of our unavoidable punishment that throughly debased (blind, ignorant, without memor or true identity) we must choose + act correctly at the moment of decision (trial). We are successful through no innate ability but only through our champion, the son of man who we killed when he actually appeared to us before do ignorant were we (which is what he said of us). t w) a great book exists in which all the saved an entered, + the nature of their [salvific) deeds. ) When this world is finally assimilated, there will be no distinction between it + the next (i.e. the sublunar-earth - + the supra- (heaven). Now, the I are different + distinct. Thus we say part of the cosmos has fallen (i.e. earth). 45 y] the proper state for us is to look joyfully toward the return (2nd incarnation) of our king. This world moves steadily toward that event, + the direction of all change is directed toward it. z] Although we have forgotten our original home father, identities, He (our Father) remembers us, + we are to regard our champion, King + intercessor as his sole son who, invisibly, is ^already here with us, shaping + directing us + all things (processes, events) toward final victory. Thus the son, when incarnated here before, says, "I am the light of the world." Any true exegesis of 3-74 will have to derive from what I saw, rather than external objective sources. Take the vision of the ugly deformed artificer (like Iknaton) reaching his claw like hands down to the buildings of Cal State Fullerton which he had built. I got the mystic vision, the occult vision, the mystery cult vision, the esoteric vision, the alchemical vision, the religious vision - in short, the vision. But I can't even figure out if it was the way of the cat or the way of the monkey. Most of all (see lettered exegesis supra) I was impressed by Zebra, our helped + champion who modulates the harsh universe for our sake exactly as noös: "Persuades" ananke - exactly as Plato wrote 2400 years ago. + Zebra has Holy wisdom - is Holy wisdom, exactly as Noös is/ has. If ther is anything I can say with certainty it is that Zebra = Holy wisdom = Noös of Plato + probably = Logos. I saw the word. It was a Greek, Iranian, Xtian vision, + the Greek-speaking personality was waiting immanent in my for the great (final?) bottle in order to come forth, unsuspected or anyhow not found before that time (the strategy of our commander) (who is Christ the Lord.) Here as usual the evil one failed to see what was coming - the hiding of the Greek speaking person in me is a paradigm of Zebra's M.O. M.O. 46 If indeed I am an emissary to this world, there it is by Adoption (cf the adoptionalist theory about Jesus, us the virgin birth qua Christ view) Now to take up a point long forgotten: the revelation that Jesus is really Zeus-Zagreus. I did dream about crete, the hime of Zagreus, + he (i.e. Dionysos) is the God of metamorphosis, of transforming change... + when I could discern the actual world (a Zebra) it was in swift + great flux. Dionysos as evolved through the historical figure of Orpheus, look at the resemblance between high 1) Dionysos priest "the stranger" in the Bacchal 2) Orpheus (whose head, singing, floated across the water 3) Jesus. Easter clocken t 4) Gnostic concepts of our savior-God who is the "kind stranger. 5) My dream of "little philip, riding across the water toward London, + getting by the watchful police (Scotland Yard) 6) The beautiful singing + bells I heard. perhaps the telling argument that it was Dionysos was my theolepsy - i.e. the fact that my entire 3-74 oxperience + knowledge was based on a theolepsy: Dionysos, mut always be suspected when a theolepsy occurs. But Dionysos it leased to be mas when he metamorphosed into orpheus + after is possible the the Paraclete was a transformation of Dionysos, since it induces - achieves - theolepsy? A whole new view could be this: that jesis was an ordinay man until the Holy Spirit came to Him + lifted him up to sonhood; this would exploin his "my God, why have you for sater me?" utterance on the cross. The Holy. Spirit had left him. With others the spirit came only temporaries; with him it remained - it "incarned" itself in him. E.g. with me it only came for a few days. But it's going to + it someone again on a permanent basis. 971 Thus when they spoke to Jesus they were speaking to the Holy Spirit + it answered (this drips the Catholic divism + equates the Spirit with wisdom / the Logos I should by all means recall the evidence I adduced early in this that Christ + "the second comforter who will [only be able t come when I am gone." were one + the same. This also fits my subjective experient of 3-74 that the theolepsy it me was by Christ. We have trouble imagining our savior as a plasmatic omnipresent body, invisible to our eyes, but in point of fact ths is exactly how I saw him. Zebra, whom I saw, certainly is capable of pouring himself into you, as well as also being outside. Did I not say I think that Zebra incorporated me into the body or rathere building in 3-74? His structure which he is assembling (the new Earth; also the Kingdom of Christ or God). it follows that it I was indeed incorporated into the permanent ediface Zebra is building back in 3-74, that I would be saved from my enemies (the trap); how could I be incor porated into the body or building + at the same time be des troyed? Hence I say, the reason Zebra intervened in 3-74 to save me was because He wished to incorporate me - + was at that miment doing so - into the ediface. Outwardly, like ever, thing else incorporated, I appear unchanged. The new bulding, based on the Logos blue print (floorplan) is invisible within the greater amount of things. It was my salvation that He assimilated me. Then it was an internal Zebra whom they faced with all his Sophia. This explains why o seems to be c. 70 AD, + I feared the Romans + thought in the lingua france of that time. Perhaps the trinitarian us" has misled the God (our God) + Zebra - outside spirit (Zebra) within are one the only power which is not he