"the phagocyte". This is the mystical corpus Christi which is replacing the universe of blind determinism + chance. Negentropy for [...] folder 02 - 008 folder 02 - 008 All my elaborate analysis of Thomas, the world of Acts, the push-pull system, the volvox or phagocyte - all must be placed in relationship to a deliberate irruption by God through his agents into human history in USA 1974. Had this irruption not been planned, Thomas would not have been installed in me in the first place, "Tears" et al. would never have been written + I would know nothing. My involvement is due to Thomas' presence in me + that is due to the irruption planned for 1974 in which Thomas (in me, working first latently + then overtly in me) played a role. The irruption was a vast attack by the forces of God (the "phagocyte") on the BIP or "pathenogen" (Satan). I was lifted from this lower realm (form II) into the upper, divine realm (form I) + hence saw the divine celestial machinery - the deity himself, + the agents here - at work, in glorious war. In victorious battle. The upper realm is the Dinge-in-sich, the actual vs the seeming, the latent vs the obvious, the absolute vs the relative. It would appear that the world of Acts + its analog true immortal secret xtians are of that realm. Thus the irruption of Acts into our world is the form that the irruption of the divine took. "Acts", then, as world, signifies not a mundane historical space-time but rather an eternal or transtemporal [constant.] folder 02 - 009 folder 02 - 009 I witnessed, then, in 3-74, eternity breaking through into the temporal order, with enormous + benign consequences for the temporal order, i.e. USA 1974. So I am correct in assigning an absolute designation to Thomas + his world + a relative one to me + mine. But I have the promise of, upon my death, being taken into that absolute, eternal order. I saw my name entered in the Lamb's book of life. As I see it now, Thomas didn't surface to cope with the xerox missive - that was like Chrissy's birth defect: part of a package. What he primarily surfaced for - was in me for - was the historical irruption into US history (in which "Tears" played some role) - + perhaps the letters Thomas wrote. As regards the world of Acts being equated with the upper realm - the absolute realm - to use Dante's way of putting it, "the time on Earth is 1974, the time in heaven is AD 45" (v "the Comedy") + the reason for this is obvious: absolute time on Earth stopped + seeming time set in when Christ left Earth - i.e. CAD 45. The divine , the upper realm, broke apart from Earth again, after - in the first Advent - having joined. In 1974 it again joined - the melding I saw: the two realms came together again (after 1900 years!). After all, the upper realm is supra- or non-temporal - so no time [had] folder 02 - 010 folder 02 - 010 passed in it during our 1900 intervening years. So when in 2-74 I realized Acts, + in 3-74 when I saw Acts, it was the upper realm supratemporal - eternal - realm I was seeing, unchanged from when we last saw it: at the time of Acts, the last moments of Christ's being here. Does this not all make sense? Doesn't it all dovetail? The world of Acts never was lower realm, mundane; because of Christ being here, it was upper + lower realms melded - exactly as I saw them melded in 1974! Acts: both realms. USA 3-74: both realms. It does work out logically. Well, then I really do argue that the divine (realm) irrupted - broke through - into ours in 1974. Again as in Acts they superimposed as one composite. Then He is here again. The Brain - the theophany I experienced. He is here. I saw Him but did not recognize him. I should have known by the bells, + the date (his original birthdate). - Voice: "It will take (i.e. require) the appearance of noble men", i.e. the 2nd incarnation (i.e. to certify that it's come). (Or rather, before it can happen. Is Thomas one of these? Good Lord: I heard "noble men" as two words, but if they're combined you get "noblemen" which could = "kings" or royalty! folder 02 - 011 I have read pp. 1-10 as a unit. "Thomas is the master personality. He is absolute; I am relative. Therefore his world - Acts - is absolute + mine USA 1974 relative. Acts broke through, irrupted, into my (our) world; simultaneously Thomas seized control in me. But one month earlier, upon seeing the Golden Fish sign, I realized it was really Rome CAD 45, the world of Acts. The two realms when superimposed, melded, they proved syntonic. I saw people as romans + americans simultaneously. + "Tears" which is a future society turns out to be an aspect of Acts. USA 1974 is therefore an aspect, a way of viewing, Acts". This is what I wrote, in summary. Having reread it, I say it means: Acts (Rome CAD 45) is the actual reality, + USA 1974 is just seeming. So: it is really AD 45 in Rome (Syria). If I exist at all I am really Thomas (but "there's someone else inside my head + he's not living in this century."). I do not believe that Acts + USA 1974 are two equal aspects of one matrix; nor Thomas + I equal dual personalities. Since he is "not living in this century", what is the real century? I have answered: the first century AD. The breaking through into our world of the Acts world is the breaking through of reality, into illusion or delusion. My sudden comprehension in 2-74 is literally correct + needs no interpretation. When I experienced anamnesis I knew - remembered + realized, recovered + recognized - the real, hidden, secret truth, which is obscured to us. 3-74 confirms it. Then the Acts material in "Tears" re-confirms it. folder 02 - 012 folder 02 - 012 I could have gone on the 2-74 anamnesis alone, had (1) 3-74 not occured + (2) the Acts material shown up in "Tears", which is a novel in which I tried to state what is, not ask what is. The 3-74 experience, inc. Thomas taken over in me, wraps it up. I saw what I saw - I saw the 2 worlds syntonically melded, + I do not feel they were 2 equal aspects of one matrix - I feel this way because of the 2-74 shocked recognition + insight, as to the real reality of Acts. But suppose: A) 2 persons exist in my head. B) 1 lives in USA 1974, the other in Rome CAD 45 There are 2 persons + two space-time worlds - not 2 aspects of one matrix, not one absolute (real) world plus an aspect, but two different worlds, each as real as the other + separate. But if so, how could they merge syntonically when superimposed? No, I say there is one real world, not two. + That one is Acts. However, I could be wrong. I live in USA 1974; Thomas lives in Rome CAD 45. But how, then can we both be in one human head? If I dislocate my shoulder, is his dislocated? The only models for this that I've ever even heard of, let alone know, are my own stories + novels. This situation appears again + again. Take the story "Retreat Syndrome". Or the novel "Maze". The same idea (as has been pointed out to me by folder 02 - 013 folder 02 - 013 all sorts of readers) is reworked again + again, obsessively + endlessly, viz: I keep trying out new ways to account for this situation: A) You see world X + have memories to match B) But world X is irreal, a delusion, + hides real world Y, + the memories in you are faked to match fake world X The explanations for this change, but the paradigm does not. I'd state the paradigm this way: A group of people live in a particular world, i.e. time + place. Then one or more of them begins by degrees to discover (or the reader learns) that that world is only a veil or delusional world covering another, real one, which the characters once knew about -lived in- but have both forgotten + can no longer perceive. In a variety of ways the latent, hidden, forgotten real world shows through or intrudes, or abolishes entirely the surface, delusional world, + their real memories of it return. This is exactly what happened to me in 2-74, then more so in 3-74, + then I found that hidden, real world depicted in a novel I wrote 4 years earlier - which was released the very week (2-74) I remembered the truth. However, suppose I am unique. I am the only living person -even the only one ever in all history- who has someone else inside his folder 02 - 014 folder 02 - 014 head who is not living in this century - + who (this someone else) therefore sees + inhabits another space + time, obviously of the century he is living in. But this raises vast questions anyhow, even if I am unique. (This condition, of course, explains the obsessive theme/paradigm in my writing, which accounts for that). 1) Does this someone else just remember the other century - i.e. did he once or formerly live in it, i.e. in a "past life" + now recalls it? If so, we have evidence here of + for reincarnation, + that's all there is to it. But this doesn't quite accord with the sentence as stated; viz: "he is (sic) not living in this century". (In contrast to, "He lived in another century". The syntax presents a current situation. He is living there now. + This accords with 2-74, really, in that I did not remember that I once (formerly) lived in Rome CAD 45, but in fact realized that it is Rome CAD 45. Maybe this was just an erroneous impression. The memory was so vivid that it seemed as if it were now. But in 3-74 I saw Rome CAD 45. Okay - obviously the someone else + his other century assumed dominance in me. Aha. Gotya. Why would I actually see Rome CAD 45 going on around me? This is not how memory works; when you remember something you don't see + hear it - externally (not unless there is electrical stimulation of certain brain centers). Fine. This brings us to Lem's paradigm of the brain being fed an entirely simulated world via technological (electrical, etc) stimulation of very folder 02 - 015 folder 02 - 015 selective brain sites (centers, tissue). Is there any way it can tell? Lem sees this as the paradigm my writing (e.g. "Ubik") presents, this is his formulation of my paradigm. Lem asserts, "the brain could only detect the simulatedness if the technology fucked up" - i.e. if there was the kind of incongruity that "Ubik" narrates, which I feel is better expressed in "Electric Ant" by the flock of ducks sort of anomaly. In connection with this I cite bishop Berkeley's view that world isn't substantial or there really, but that God (whatever that means) stimulates our percept-system directly. In my case the phosphene activity of 3-74 suggests the disinhibition + first-firing of up-to-then blocked neural circuits. Open this firing (probably triggered off by seeing the Golden Fish in 2-74) I saw Rome CAD 45 + became Thomas. Actually, I did not see a different world in the sense of world Y replacing world X; what I saw was