as our work of art). After all, the Maze is a product of our minds. If the Maze wins, our minds win (are proven). If, upon entering the Maze, we out-think it, again our minds win. Ambiguity is involved in either outcome (this may be the puzzling dialectic revealed to me in 3-74. In fact, maybe in my 27 years of writing I outwitted the Maze - as witness the 3 Bantam Novels, "Tears," + "Scanner." Speaking about me personally, I won in pitting myself intellectually against the Maze; I figured its nature out - in which case 3-74 was the jackpot payoff reward, the revelation you get for so doing. This puts a somewhat different light on Zebra. What I'm saying here is that the Game is so constructed that you wander around in the Maze interminably until you figure it out, + then as a culmination of the intellectual deciphering process you get told, "yes you are right about 1. In fake time folder 22 - 032 folder 22 - 032 32. the world). + now you get to leave," which means that the ontological, saving Gnosis comes to you if you pick up on certain clues here + there + arrive at the acosmism - the Kerygma expressed in "Eye" the 3 Bantam Novels, "Tears," + "Scanner," etc. - + then the "masks are removed" + the truth revealed - but it is a truth you already at least partially figured out. I didn't think of this. What if the conditions of the Game are these? Extrication comes only as a result of - or after - self intellectual correct formulation? then - Zebra is built into the Maze as the link back up to the outside (cf "Ubik"), to the real world. I literally found my way out of the Maze - So there is a way out: I defeated the Maze enough, successfully enough, to trip the anamnesis circuits into firing. i.e. the way back out. The Golden Fish was causally determined to occur given the level of enlightenment I had reached. It was culmination, not so much override invention: it was ahead on the path (which is why it appears in "Faith of..."!). Then the Maze has not won over me. As of 2-74 I was back out. That's what happened in 2-74 - I found the way out of the Maze, + only by viewing the condition ("world") as Maze + way-out-of-maze can 2-74 be understood. This is why Christ spoke in riddles. We're supposed to problem (puzzle) solve on our own by our own efforts. Maybe he crucially helps us, but, - our efforts are necessary, our moral + folder 22 - 033 folder 22 - 033 33. intellectual choices: our acuity, which includes moral balking - vs reflex machine behavior. Discernment into our true situation is a prerequisite. There is a way out (otherwise maze just equals trap). Now, the Xerox Missive- trap. Here for sure Christ (God) intervened. So there is intervention. If I regard the Xerox Missive as a high order of Maze-Mind activity, I have to admit that I had help... or did I act to reacquire my undebased original faculties to meet the crisis? One time I told K.W. "I know who triggered off my anamnesis, who the salvific messenger was. It was me. Before descending into the Maze I foresaw the Xerox Missive + set up a mechanism by which I'd be "reminded" just prior to its arrival. In a sense I cheated. So what; I had no intention of being trapped like a rabbit. Fascinating, what the "we built a maze + then got trapped by it" concept does with the Xerox trap! 2-74 appears then as a failsafe device I built in in advance. Knowingly, providentially. It also fits in with the "Bait" theory vis-a-vis Christ-disguised-as-human-servant. I.e. the true (but concealed) Master! This is it: the true but concealed master disguised as servant - posing as servant! folder 22 - 034 folder 22 - 034 Mind of Maze: DIAGRAM Mind of me: DIAGRAM My mind escalated back to its primordial state (height) when the Maze:Mind escalated re: the Xerox Missive trap. It (the Maze peaked); mind peaked. So the Xerox Missive can be regarded as a function (exponent) of a total quasi-sentient Maze-world against which we are pitted. This accounts for glimpses of the superior technology. High order Macro Brain (computer or AI system?) functioning - into processing - is involved. It's a technological Maze! Problem-solving. Testing + evaluating. I passed! Goddamnit! I did! My physical death has no significance at this point. Not only did I pass but I did my [historical] job, es ist vollbracht. In "Maze of Death," they're trying to figure things out epistemologically - the correct are of + for ratiocination. The problem + answer are epistemological. There are "celestial" mechanics, though; which is to say entities, etc. outside of the Maze! Otherwise 2-3-74 can't be accounted for! I could even go so far as to say that my 2-74 + 3-74 experience proves we're in a Maze or problem-solving technological situation. The Xerox Missive doesn't prove it, but my response, pre-released in 2-74, plus the cypher folder 22 - 035 folder 22 - 035 35. in "Tears" does. That cypher now assumes titanic significance, in conjunction with 2- + 3-74. The Maze is being defeated (this includes the historic intervention vis-a-vis Nixon, obviously). The Maze is on the defensive. This is why Christ could truthfully say, "no matter; I have conquered the world." We are in a [problem-solving] battle against it. & we have a superior technology (eg the beam of pink info-bearing light). Disguised as servants, we true Xtians are bringing a formidable technology to bear against the Maze: from outside the Maze. That makes me -- as well as Zebra -- an invader (again the dream of the little boy Philip on the raft & Scotland Yard, etc). Ah - the true secret Xtians are victims of & within the Maze who have linked up with an Info Mind-entity-technology outside the Maze (cf "Ubik"). Capable of melting the Maze. Their role as victims of the Maze are thereby transmuted into the role of agents of destruction of / for the Maze. They have thereby become highly dangerous to the Maze, & it knows it. The Maze may sense their identity before they do themselves. But if they are bait - then attracting the destructive power (circuits?) of the Maze may be a stratagem by them to lure the malign part (aspect) of the Maze into the open: trap vs. trap! folder 22 - 036 36. The Quasi-Mind of the maze animates many humans as colluding agents of it (cf Zoroastrianism). This is dealt with in "Tears" in the form of Buckman who at the end is converted into a Xtian-opponent of the maze, whereas originally he worked for it. Thus the progression of the two ages (irreal world; evil; good) is represented. Siddhartha, who has been sleeping now awakens; the new age beginning with the death of the old. Jason Taverner is found innocent, + Buchman divests himself of his authority + retires the forced labor camps close one by one. The face of the Nixon + police tyranny was the beginning of the new age, forecast in "Tears," which, after all, was written in 1970. Outwitting the maze could be considered as equally outwitting the arch cons + this includes outwitting the Xerox Missive. There is only one Christ. But he can be in several places at once. He can be several people at once, coming + going, escaping in time, rescuing, + escaping. That was "Thomas" was once + still laterally is. The link remains. The significance of my experiencing post mortem episodes while still alive can't be overstated; it shows I'd found the wrong way out of the maze which still alive - an unusual occurrence. Zebra is the sole link to the outside real world. folder 22 - 037 folder 22 - 037 37. I actually saw the Maze dissolve, + invaded from outside (the "next" world). Hypnapompic: Ascending stairs; Doris first, then me, ascending. Voice: "We're two of the main people in it" i.e. the ascending stairs. The way. (out of here). Doris has too many things to do here, so she turns back (to descend) but I didn't - I go on up. Hypnagogic: Doris + me with the 3-edged (thing, entity?) in the escalation. Then Dorothy + Lynda etc. Feeling of worn thought: "a mortuary is a way of saying goodbye to a hospice." Thought: It's obvious that the stairs + the escalation + de-escalation represent death. It must be that I'm going to die soon. Time asks, "Is Zebra (God, the true Creator) not just invading our irreal cosmos, but [as I used to maintain because of having seen it] transubstantiating it into the ontologically real?" This is a good point. Perhaps this is what is meant by "I am building a new Heaven + a new Earth, + the memory of the former things will not enter the mind nor come up into the heart." Without intending to, we in our hubris have provided the false work for his creation; like Noos folder 22 - 038 folder 22 - 038 38. "persuading" ananke, God as supreme Noos "persuades" our spurious "creation" - which certainly resembles Plato's ananke - into true form (i.e. reality), order. This harmonizes "Timaeus" with Xtianity - my version of a rather Gnostic Xtianity, our "creation" is not only irreal, it is chaotic - which fits my conception of the Maze generating not just non-meaning but anti-meaning (perversely), a thwarting of sense which is antithetical to Noos, here equated with sense (meaning); so the Empedoclean dialectic between love + strife is reinterpreted as one between anti-meaning (-order) + meaning (order): the former equal to strife, the second love (the Krasoi of Eros); + strife equals the irreal, + love the real. An anti-meaning universe is not a true creation at all. Eidos is identified with the real; the anti-eidos with the merely seeming. An interesting corollary of this is that when anti-meaning is encountered, it must be assured not to be actual, however palpable it is to our percept system. This view, however, cannot be equated with the Gnostic idea of the divine sparks being drawn one by one out of this acosmos to allow the ascosm, when so deprived, to perish. My writings, e.g. "Maze," point to the latter yet the 1974 historic intervention points to an imposition of divine form (plan, Logos) onto this world - + the return of the rightful king (Siddhartha, Buddha, Apollo, St. Sophia folder 22 - 039 folder 22 - 039 39. Indicate a transubstantiation of this world-form the Age of Iron to the Age of Gold; or, put another way, a waking up from the dream (of "Ubik," "Maze," "Eye" as dream states; + this fits with, "+ throughout all this, Siddhartha slept."). Also this view fits with Jesus' statement "I have conquered the world." Maybe there is a double reciprocal action: ontology directed at + into our irreal world; + the divine sparks - Wait. My whole homoplasmate theory holds that human after human is gathered up + transmuted (annexed) into a pure plasmate - then to crossbond with another human + add him on, too. If the plasmate leaves this world, the accretional process ends. This transmutation of human into plasmate is a perfect example of the transubstantiation of world qua world, which form pointed out I used to say Zebra was accomplishing generally. Yet I can see the possibility of a division of the plasmate (as with Elijah: "two fifths of your spirit") so that a portion remains here, + a portion is allocated to return to the pleroma. The plasmatic life form must be regarded as a replicatory organism - as I witnessed it replicating through the printed word (information). folder 22