always underlies the hologram: the BIP which is a frozen template: the morphose of the artifact or Form II. The BIP is not a veil or hologram, it is the actual template of our reality, + perpetually warps all to itself as if by black hole hypergravity. Our world does not appear to be a BIP - it is, + the reality is concealed. However, equally a perpetual reality is the antithetical Xtians planning in secret to overthrow it. The BIP is like (or is) a platonic archetype; likewise the Xtian opposition + the kingdom they bring: the PTG (Form I). All struggels at whatever place + time in human history is the clash between the BIP + the Xtians - + - PTG world. Then we must conceive our world as a Matrix of two real templates, antithetical to each other - literally at war. My artifact model doesn't account for this two source world as well as does the "diploid sac" McKennas' model. True, the artifact's existence accounts for the BIP, but what equally accounts for the PTG? Is it brought into the BIP B, ZEBRA (Christ)? So not just the urgrund penetrating + mutually exclusive vis-a-vis the BIP? Anyone can enter the BIP; in fact we are all already + always there. Although this is veiled over. But only a few find the way to the kingdom (the PTG); so the PTG is not another equally powerful template, because if it were, we'd sort of fail or rise or slide sideways into it frequently. These are not equal signals. The BIP chains us all, + only a few escaped; it is this very escape that Christ came here to acheive so the artifact model is correct. + obviously, the hologramatic veil concealing the BIP is a device of the artifact's to keep us from knowing our true situation (cf "Maze".) So we have: 1) The veiling hologram concealing the BIP (irreal) 2) the BIP everywhere, which is real. Hard to get out of 3) the secret Xtians, who are real 4) the P.T.G. which is real but hard to find + get into. The BIP creates a huge valence which shows through the "Arbeit macht Frei" hologram. The first stage of Gnostic enlightenment is to perceptually abolish the [..] (the hologram) + see the BIP. The next step is to comprehend oneself as a secret fish Xtian fighting the BIP at all times + places: the periphery attacking the imperial center. The next step is the existential deed or act in the fight (an analog to the original disobedience to the artifact which induces the initial insight). Then there is the dialog with Christ as psychopomp. Leading one across into the promised land, the PTG. 1) Disobedience to the artifact (architect) 2) vision of the BIP (via anamnesis). 3) realization of the hologram as Fake to conceal BIP 4) realization of ZEBRA's ability to cook the hologram. 5) the secret Xtians at work fighting the BIP 6) one's own part (deed) in the plan. 7) reward (PTG). i.e. return to the pleroma.➀ Note: contrary to what I may have previously said, the fact is that the BIP is no illusion, no hologram. It is concealed by a nice-type hologram, which must be disabled. Obviously the nice-type hologram is generated by the evil powers maintaining the BIP. ZEBRA invades this BIP world + infiltrates the hologram; one purpose of this is to transmit helpful + edifying messages to us, as in "Ubik," either through the hologram (from behind it) or by cooking it. To cook it would add a second confirmation that it is a hologram, a realization primarily acquired whereupon the withdrawal of assent, it disappeared to reveal the true state of affairs: the BIP. The BIP is the nature (essence) of the world; the hologram is its appearance. ➀ 8) the knowledge that finally the BIP will fall. Giving way to the PTG. Always, I have correctly seen the PTG as the alternative to the BIP, + brought by ZEBRA. In 1974 ZEBRA + his secret Xtians dealt a powerful blow to the BIP (the secret Xtians are visible here in the hologramatic world as ordinary citizens, mixed in with the vast bulk who does not know the truth). I suppose they know what they are as I did: by Christ - induced anamnesis. Here, once more, "Tears" factors. To both the true secret Xtians + the evil power the book advertized me as either knowing the truth or guessing pretty close; but more so, before that, "Ubik" seemed to disclose that I knew about ZEBRA + its messages + power. If you add "Stigmata" "Ubik" "Maze" + "Tears" you get virtually the whole story (+ "Joint" + the fake memory stories). Now, what accrues from my hammering away again + again in novel + story one after another that the reality we see is a fake? Why, the beginning of a physical literal suspension of assent + the possiblity of penetrating perceptually to the BIP (cf "Unteleported man"). A very subversive story is "Faith of." I must be careful to distinguish the BIP + PTG from the irreal hologram. The BIP + PTG are both very real, + are antithetical alternatives, with the BIP obtaining, due to the artifact's control of this, its world (yaltabaoth). I seem to have been languishing in a great state of confusion, not distinguishing the hologram from the BIP. The BIP, "Rome," is the real adversary. It does however appear in attenuated pluriforms again + again in the hologram (e.g. Rome, Nazi Germany, Nixon, the USSR, etc). These appear to be different imperial tyrannies, but are in fact print outs of one underlying eidos repeating itself again + again. The real BIP is supratemporal as is the fight against it, when finally it is destroyed (or slightly before) by Christ's secret coming, the curtain will [have] left + time will end. All persons must stand with or against the BIP + ultimately be judged accordingly. What is horrific to see is each new wave of liberations become the instruments of the next pluriform of the BIP. The platonic template or archetype simply mold them into its morphose. Ché seemed to realize this, perhaps uniquely. [Diagram] ☯ I Yang / II Yin -- Androgyny - urgrund combining opposites + the true source of all Artifact -- creation (son) of Sophia, urgrund's yin side which should not create on its (her) own. {inner dark core} Black Iron Prison (created by artifact - Yaltabaoth) {outer shell} Nice-type veiling hologram (projected by Artifact) {central sphere} ZEBRA cooking hologram (projected by artifact) {from ☯} urgrund's salvific help, with PTG opposing BIP [/Diagram] As long as the BIP stands, liberation of each living person must of necessity consist of a leaving of, removal from or totally turning away from the ("hostile") world (of the Artifact). As yet, the P.T.G. has not replaced the BIP because the BIP hasn't been overthrown. It still standsat the center of our world. Christ through anamnesis caused individuals here + there to remember who they are + their true origin (in the pleroma): he leads them into battle against the powers of darkness as the psyche of the Corpus Christ,. + then he at last takes them to permanent safety in the PTG which, during their lifetimes, he has shown them. Alas, the initial revelation is of the BIP + its vast powers, its thick iron walls, all around us; unknown to us. Because of the veiling hologram, we are in it. But help is on the way from outside - from the yang part of the urgrund. - "Stigmata" portrays the arrogant one, the Blind God (as the Artifact), which supposes itself to be the one true God➁ - "Maze" shows our real condition (as dreadful: a static metal prison) covered by a nice delusional veil➀ - "Ubik" unscrambles the salvitic messages of ZEBRA + alludes to ZEBRA itself, + stigmatizes the world without UBIK as decaying backward in time. UBIK manifests itself initially at a cheap, trash level. But in the end discloses its true nature as the Logos. - "Tears" depicts the Black Iron Prison, + recounts how a servant of it escapes + how (i.e. Felix Buckman who is at the all night gas station, converted to Xtianity -an exact reversal of the scene in Acts where it is the black man who is converted - baptized) - In "MITHC" Tagomi, like Buckman, manages to escape the BIP: In Mr Tagomi's case it is the exact necessary act: one of disobedience (to the invisible Artifact "God"). ➀ "Maze" also depicts a Redeemer. - "Joint" depicts a deliberately fake world, designed to occlude one. - "Eye" depicts fake (private) worlds masquerading as real, one after another. ➁ + evil delusional worlds are shown: counterfiet worlds when "Valis" is finished, the mimicking salvific organism will be shown, + the BIP beneath the hologram [..] it will be shown that the date is 70 AD, the place Rome, which combines "Joint" + "Ubik," sort of. The hologram + the cooking of it, + help for messages, will be shown; also the reward world for the heroic deed(s) done, the PTG. Why AD 70 + the fall of the temple at Jerusalem represents the last moment in actual history? It [..] the final victory + hence coming into total being of the imperial BIP - which has never changed since. It marked the moment of completion of the template: i.e. its victory. After that, nothing changed, that is where we are now. Everything since is seeming. But - wasn't a real blow dealt it in 1974? Didn't ZEBRA intervene not against the veiling hologram but the reality of the prison itself? Yes. Has it done so before? I think so - periodically (e.g. the Protestant Revolt, the American Revolution, etc➀). The Imperial Empire has a foe. Is the foe - ZEBRA - winning? It wins temporarily, but the BIP reasserts itself, like a cancer. ➀ Nevsky, Star Wars, Palmer Eldritch - the slotted eyes the visage of iron I saw in the sky. The BIP has a build-in system of replication: to defeat one of its pluriforms you must become (like) it, hence the older pluriform dies + is resurrected in the new, hopefully (on its part) stronger than ever. This process escapes the awareness of the attacker, who do not understand that all pluriforms are printouts from the archetypal matrix + have a kind of life. The BIP thrive on attackers who imitate (hence replicate) it. This is how it endures, + even grows. Nor does the old pluriform understand what it is doing, except in rare cases: viz: when Hitler said, "the victory of Fascism is that it forces its enemies to become like it." Indeed Fascism has done this successfully, sporified, so to speak. It is like a malignant life form which proliferates. The nature of it is to concentrate + consolidate power at its center, whereas its opponent stands at the fringes. It is almost as if centrifugal + centripetal forces are at work opposing each other. The BIP's resurrection is like a parody of Christ's; both appear immortal. The miracle which Christ must work is to defeat the BIP while preventing his followers from becoming (like) it. Thus he pulls it down but does not occupy the vacuum left in the inner most citadel - which explains why ZEBRA melted away after August 1974 (again: it is not a theory on my part that Christ tore apart the Nixon tyranny; I was allowed to literally see it + understand, by His grace). Blow + counterblow come faster + faster as time runs out. But it is always Christ vs Rome. But Christ is not just reaching out against Rome; he reaches toward the [..] entity animating it from behind (the Artifact). - The BIP camouflages itself; ZEBRA camouflages itself; we see neither. It's easy to understand