what was curing (the Xerox letter). So the temporarity abolished it for its can sake - i.e. my (individual) sake. He do this the means of a disinhibition stimulus (the Golden Fish neck race + black haired goes which would restore it by restoring memory o This explanation accentuates the element of mercy + rescue - rather than any use or mission on my part, past or future assin 2 but it also enhances the impression that I now + ther get of (: false memories laid over real ones, on my part, which explains some of my stories + (2) a greater - than -human not be shared with or actual (true) identity which may true of all mankind - which points to an even greater purpose + mission than a merely human one: viz: since Zebra can't err, he must have intended this reversion to actual trans-human trans-time identity from the start; in which case I served as a trap or bait in a trap to ensnare the enemy, the enslavers last night I dreams of a rabbit who had swum too far out into the ocean: "out of his depth," as the dream showed it + whom we were involved in rescuing (by not, interestingly) was that rabbit me - having ventured not only too deep but out of his own environment, but innocently? maybe the N.T. is misunderstood; maybe the 2nd Ad vent + apocalpse is a continual esoteric rescue which has, does + will always happer to the true members of the hurch. His actual servants are always being rescued, but always in an unseen way - for they are to be unseen. A Gnostic interpre tation; the small remnant here in the evil kingdom, or citadel what I can't figure out is, was the intervention aganist his own engramming which is orthodox Christian, but intrinsically unconvincing, or againt another's (J7:) ute. is Zoroashion or Gnostic: intrinsically reasonable, but re quiles the position of 2, not I, deity (well, that fit. with the content of the noetic revelation: the dialectic of near equals, one good. One not. 3 18 is theory about a single God will work unless b power +/or knowledge is regarded as superior but his finite, in which case he is not "God" with a capitue the two alternatives me G 1) Two mutually opposed deities (dualism) 2) superior, even God-like being (s), life for but not God. the noetic info showed (1) which as always brings me back to Gnosticism (for reasons already detailed - supra, In the case of (o, some or even all (or most) of the prefigured etal engramming may not be by the God, inter vering deity (entity). Is it not against this very deterministic engramming (programming) that the intervertion comes? But hark! the prefiguring engramming is a retrograde, teleological at work; i.e. the wise, good deity (entity). The bad of blind one grinds out in regular linear time - into which counsel + info from the Good entity intrudes, ala Runciter. This (prefiguring) teaching is also interventive; 3-74 was not unique, just extreme I suppose the yang, creative efficient-cause linear entity can be regarded as being as necessary as the yin teleological receiving one (i.e. the interventive one) but from a salvific stand point it is the latter we must turn to for help. Beyond doubt it is the latter (Christ) whom Christianity regards as salvific, the worlds, activities processes + presence of the 2 are blended to our unaided eyes. In 3-74 I was caused or permitted to distinguish the two - a truly Gnostic revelation, + quite secret, since it discloses this world as the evil kingdom (v. Gnosticism), which must be over. thrown. But if I think I am having trouble with this point in th exegesis consider orthodox Christion - Jewish monotheism + its total inability to explain the origin + continuation of evil (pain, dith, disappointment, slavery) in this, our God's world. 13 some things - more than I realms - are constants; e.g. that the interventive deity (entity) is good, that the extant world + the force, deity, whatever guiding it forwas in time (historic + biological controlling entities) is bad. This is the basic structure. It resembles the cosmology in Timaeus of Plato. Most extraording - + convincing - is my conception of the mimicking, good entity whom I call Zebra - inserting its vast plasmatic body covertly into this bad world for our sakes it the probable reason why Zebra must always hride - camouflage - itself. (I.e. because of its powerful, evil adversary who evidently rules here.) (It is not true that "This is my father's world" of the Lord's prayer: "May his will be done on Earth as it is in heaven) the formulation I tend toward is the (Gnostic) kind stranger God. He must work in secret, here. Even those whom he helps must not be able to discern his presence or the moves (stations of his game-play pattern. He is always checking (+ defeating) the advance of evil in ways which the ouil one can't fathom or discerna This is the realm of Darkness (v. John) + the secret sons of light who are here are invaders as my restored memory showed about me. We have come - been sent - here to combat the indigenous evil (rule). That is why my learning (remem bering, knowing my purpose, mission task here, depended on my recovering my memories Ale. The other personality which took me over was/is (this is hard to express) the concealed, real me - hidden for safe keeping for his own protection, until the time was right. Thus until that moment (3-74) he could not be discernal by the adversary. Since he was not here, let alone not externally visible. A fake, ordinary, merely human personality functioned in his abeyance, sincerely believing II in itself as real, as the while person, self, etc But the real one - evidents - disclosed itself in the writing. without even me being aware of of, or seem the significance 38 This is why I find myself wanting to say to Xtians that behold! I bring you good news. (I am an emissary to this world, in touch with the holy of holies) + I say, the annointed one will soon return; it is . certain." (I bring this news to the faithful in the enemy's realm.) This is the true gospel. I know from the diame source, that our King will soon return. I speck with authority - at the very least that makes me o his servants - i.e. a prophet I say, "repent + be ready. have your thing, in order at ever moment; there is no time [to lose)." This inner sense of being an emissan from the celestial realm being so strong in me perhaps inde cates that the real, wish, older self is still extant in me. Ate! Now, if I were quered about it. I would have to testify to it (phil Dick, as Hal put it). But the evil interrogaters are now gone. It was not safe for it to emerge (return?) until, in 3-74, the adverse circumstances - + the needl for it - causes it to reappear. We all threw ourselves into the great, last battle. What a great homent that was, when it (he) caue to life in me, just before the Xerox letter came to dis cover, at the moment of ultimate crisis, that you are not what Yin were but were in fact one of the immortals, concealed here sent here + concealed here without remembering or knowing, in wait for the final days: masked (as Zebra himself is masked) as a rabbit, a trapped rabbit (out of its depths which was rescued). If I see my role as that of an emissary there probably I am. Then the writing is a vehicle for this prophecy (esp Deus Irae). Colatteral prophecies (of much less certainly + imp tand) are: the final battle took place, + the interlessen word: turned the historic tide by his intercession, + that he is here invisibly, not yet incarnated. 1) 3 Alchemy. I just happened (sic) to turn to the EB article. Whatever it was that happened to me in 3 74 That is why, what + how, the transformation cannot be understood without taking alchemy into acct. For instance, many of my dreams (visions contained al hemical material: "the bichlorides: a very poisonous poison." "Aspirin of mercury Albemuth." The flasks of Hermes, etc consisting of lambs. The EB article, to my delight + amazemet, gets into the I Chine; to apollonius of Tyana, Hermes Tristmegistor, thebes, + a 19th century dichemist lady saying "alcheny is the philosophy, leading to the Sophia of the mind." Mercury is a constant. Even colors are involved - + a transmutatio into the immortal (supernatural) life from this. I recall what Jung says about the alchemical formularies represent in interior (psychological) transformation, toward psychic integration + individuation. I will take a great leap: 1) A certain total transformation of a human bein from what he is (mundane, limited) into a divine immortal supernatural proto-entity is possible, if you know how. 2) certain esoteric religion. (E.g. Hermes Tristmegistos, etc) sought it, hiding their goals in obscuranism. 3) I accidently (sin) found it, in 3-74 In the EB article amore is mentioned. I have come full circle. Somebody besides me knows about all this, + always has. The link goes back to 300 be. (Hellenistic.) There is a long historical line back to 300 B.C. In 3-74 I joined some kind of invisible brotherhood, the true Xtian church - of, for a gurul II go out on another time: I am a reincarnation or avatar of some great human esoteric religious/alchemistic thinker: I i.e. bet the lithium + vitaming were instrumental ta if this was the sought-for alchemical transmutat hom the physical into the immortal then no wonder I don't - nt any reports of it in the history of religious experiences he latter is exoteric (pistis) but anyhow, some kind of extraordinay, carefully ept secret, long sought-for + known-about is possible t is the experience (i.e. transformation). It is what hrist was talking about (as were others, perhaps in feveral ultures inc. the Arabic). The neoplatonists knew about some alchemists knew. Some rosecrucians. Some myster f. religions. Evidently most who experienced it sought it deliberately in that they knew of it - knew what they were looking for. ill bet using the I Ching was a factor. + maybe the psychedetic I took. it wasn't what I (really] was; it is what I became Ill have to go on developing my own explanation. A great "occult" book was shown to me. What book? By whom? All secrets became known to me, the mysteries of the cosmos. A beautiful divine voice space to me. I could see Christ. I was inside the universe: in fact in another universe. I could distinguish the forces (entities) ruling (running) it. I could see the future, distant places. I + Chrissy were healed. I saw the next world where I would go + communed with God. I will just have to abandon all stereotyped formularies tarrive at my own interpretation: viz: A) we once were God like being, who fell to this meager, deformed state. We do not remember why. B) a vast, wise, benign entity ("Zebra") controls our reality + seeks to restore us. 6) We are not where + when we think we are (i.e. located in time + space) 41 e D) as we move from life time to lifetime we are given one or more tests (or opportunities) to redeem ourselves before the Lord + judge + thus to return to our home in the real universe. E) supernatural forces are close to us which we can't see, contending against each other, good + bad ) What we see is only a deluding, fictional