a prison +, through amnesia + occluded perception, do not know where we truly are nor how we got here. This is why our world is deemio "fallen" + our condition one of slavery. It is very possible that we are essentially being punished for some real or imaginary transgressions (cf "Clans"). Anamnesis only reveals that we came here from the cylem (sp) + have been occluded. What is more important than the cosmogony is the fact of the rescuing presence (or entity: Zebra - invoding + in essence doing battle for our individual + colleclive salvation - i.e. liberation). 16 In view of this, Christ's statement in John "that It is for your advantage that I am going, for they The second advocate can come, dispatched by the father, who carries the spirit of truth who t knows all things + will make them clear. ont When the desperate depth + extent of our thrall dom is grasped can the overwhelming need, value + purpose of this 2nd advocate be grasped An idea occurs to me. Suppose what we regard as life or animate contrasted to inanimate is not a true bipolarity but is in fact a mixed state - part (But inanimate (determined, enslaved) + part alive only party alive, as partly conscious). + what the Advocate accomplishes for us is to evolve (or rather metamorphose - transmute us) into full life, not the mixed half-alive, half-inanimate midstage We have reached at birth. This fits Essene + neoplatonist conceptions of the descent of the soul into unconscious matter t ensnared. (Cf Josephus) this is their language for we have fallen into the reality- determining power. of our own construct (cf "Maze"). Since we have become cognitavely + perceptually occluded (by it?) we are literally unaware of our true situation: we are In a prison - or rather were, since part of the plaw‐ of rescue consists not merely toking us out of the Prison, but destroying the prison 119 The greater share of interventive effert consists in abolishing the prison - a prison which dupes its prisoners by manipulating their view of reality So that they neither see nor remember (the prison]. The enslaved do not have any insight that they are enslaved: totally reified by the deluding artifact around them. They cannot comprehend that they need salvation (liberation) because the artifact has blinded them. If a given man's sight + memory were restored, he would know the truth but he would not be able to do anything about it (cf "Frolix8".) However, to point out the beguiling delusionary nature + intent of the artifactual world + is a valuable aid in preparing people to seek for to accept divine intervention. (Cf "Penultimate truth." It is interesting to ponder that since we are unaware of our enslaved condition. The fact that divine intervention is destroying that prison + setting us free goes unnoticed - + unappreciated - by us. I like the idea that we are only half alive (like those in cold -pac in "Ubik") but whereas they Were once fully alive - wait. Maybe we were once fully alive, too; I had been going to say, we are in half-dife in the sense that we are only half born at this point. But maybe "Ubik, "Maze" + "Eye" are right in positing a primordial mishap 108 As in the erased satellite instructions in "Maze" The effacement, the ellipsis, is complete; in 2005 thousand years -in all history - no one has been able to reconstruct in a proven way what the original mishap was. But whereas the cause of out situation is unretrievable information, the presence + effective salvific work of Christ is a certainty His statement about "I have conquered the world" certainly seems to validate the servant become the Master theory. EBI "The (3rd] age, of the spirit: man ruled (by God) from within."N "The beyond is within." + "Christ possesses yoor body, + you possess his (or hin as your) soul." Ne But this cannot be reconciled with Julian Jaynes' bit cameral mind having at man's earliest stage governed him by introjected voices - unless: 1) The Bicameral voice was an introjection of what was or had been human external authority; whereas: 2) the "indwelling Light" of the Holy Spirit is something quite different in origin. I erred in identifying the two. Also, the "bicameral Voices" were audible, evidentally, to all men. But few heard What I heard the EB says a differience between Xtian mysticism + say Eastem is that in the Xtian not merely Nirvana, a beatific state, is sought, but action - acting by the will of God This certainly fits my experience But more important, the true man of this srdage i.e. of the spirit] would be a totally different sort of man 109 entirely from all others (those before him): 1) He would relate directly to God + God's authority. knowing it indubitably + clearly; in fact as said Supra, Christ's "soul" would possess his (the man's) body; whoever dealt with him would ipso facto be dealing directly with Christ (+ even God!). 2) This man would not be governed or ruled by human authority + their institutions, but, on the contrary, would sit in judgment on them although they would retain their purely coercive power over him (his body, anyhow - they could, as They did with Christ before, accuse him + kill him) the old bipolarization between him + the "hostile world" would break out anew. But this may define the Kingdom: God (Christ as the 2nd advocate - the spirit) is born in men (plural, rather than in the single incarnation of the 1st Advent). "Man becomes God by God becoming - being born in-man." (Pope John to the prisoners: "Since you could not come to me, I came to you.") This fits with what I saw Zebra doing externally: divinizing the world - transubstan‐ drating it, inc at least some of the humans in it; i.e coming here + claiming it + them." If the "3 Ages" schema of the Trinity is accepted, ly Hol + what took me over in 3/3-74 was the spirit, then an evo‐ lutionary, historical significance is revealed vis-a-vis my experience; + I once more affirm that my impression at the time the my GABA fluid had dropped, + meta‐ circuits had fired based on a deliberately displayed exer al disinhibiting stimulus - all this seems to be the case, + we are talking about a new kind of man, a sort of "Omega" man. 110 Through this new man the rupture between man + God is healed - by God coming here, inwardly + (as I saw) externally, by first penetrating our material world (ist advent) + then infusing it with himself. This process of "acquiring" us progressively - it seems to be the bottom line: the esoteric trans‐ mutation of the alchemists (cf Paracelsus - Bohme it cf mercury + what it signifies). (Both a trans‐ muting agent + the messenger of the Gods, which in a sense, through my writing, I am) "Aspirin of Mercury: Albemuth": healing + the sending of messages from the stars. I announce, as herald (prophet) what is to come: the 2nd Advent, The divine intervention, + the transmutation (not abolition) of this up to now spurious world. "I am the angel of the morning." Here, late at night, alone, I see clearly: God has seized decisive control in our world, +, invisibly, ouster the illicit oppressive (enslaving) rule, liberated us, restored to us our primordial freedom cast in his image: when We lost our freedom + became conditioned response machines we ceased to reflect him - we lost him because we (temporarily) ceased to be isomorphic with him. That he has now changed, by intervention. what I experienced is stated is scriptine as "the Lord of hosts shall suddenly come to his temple. + the messenger of the covanent -- i.e. "Mercury" 4th Gospel chit: "A vision of the interpenetratability of souls" who are united in Christ. impossible:v evidently the explanation (Christ] as head 15 e PKD Thomas 1974 As 2 Calit Rome i I So thomas entered me via Christ, which must mean that he (well, him for sure) he + I are part of the Cosmic Corpus Christi. otherwise, he could not have acted on me as one form of theolepsy. In Christ, we are literally as + so are souls (selves) in the future, as well in the past So my anamnesis was not a memory of Christ in a sense, but participation in Christ who is eternal + hence possesses those "back all the way to the pleroma" memories. + especiallyp most fundamentally memories - very vivid ones not even memories but experience of as if in the present -of Rome c AD 70. This must commonly happen - the "Golly. I'm in the Roman Empire, in Syria w 70 AD" when you are taken into the corpus Christi by virtue of him being born in you. I think, via the EB. I've solved it I see it very clearly: it is Christ's mind, not mine, which stretches througout millions of miles of space + 1000s of years of time, + knows the koine In 3-74 he entered me as the spirit + was born in me; simultaneously, I entered him; we became one: my body + his mind at So in a sense it wasn't "retrieved memories i all. It was a vastly expanded here + now. + I saw thim outside me occupying the world: it was not just an inner spirit but the Pantocrator. So it wasn't a simple one-way action (theolepsy); it was. of as with Christ's will taking over i place of mines which is to be expected. me Christ a it e it s s t st st s is t s t e + t 5t January 22, 1970 etae Dear David, I really enjoyed your term paper on my writing, and it was a gracious act to send it to me. It is an excellent paper. s one lady did her master's thesis on my writing; she worked for something like two and a half years, and she, too, was kind enough to send me a copy. Your teacher sure has terrible handwriting, but between me My (and e friends we were able to render it into English. I s in I am still living in Santa Ana; my relationship with my o sgirlfriend in Sonoma fell apart, and I've renounced all the hopes cand plans attached to moving up there. She's living in the house s t we leased. I'm sort of bummed out; I loved to fly up to Sonoma, t s and I loved the town. I still do, but -- well, so it goes. is as As to our reality being a projected framework -- I'm now t 8 a (hot on the track of a sort of interesting idea: our reality is its 8 a projection projected by an artifact, a computer-like teaching Maker machine (which is itself in the process of evolving toward total 8 i self awareness of itself,l It has "created" (actually only pro‐ the jected) our reality as a sort of mirror ofi, so that it can a3 Maker Eobtain thereby an objective standpoint to comprehend its own self, t if you follow me. s In other words, it (called by Jakob Bohme in he i is 1616 the Urgrund) is motivated for self-awareness, self knowledge, an objective appraisal and understanding of itself (it 8 is a vast living organism, intrinsically without qualities or aspects, which is why it needs the empirical world as a reflection by which t to "see" itself). It constructed a reality-projecting artifact is s (or demiurge; of Plato and the Gnostics) which then projected the t world we know. Studying our reality the urgrund then is I so able to comprehend itself. It must allow