there will be final justice I did not fathom the inert-active duality of all things which I saw; viz: some objects inc. verbal ones, appeared in mode A which was: 1) At rest 2) inert or dead 3) not moving 4)intrinsic - not incorporated 5) Outside the growth a building process But: at any time an item, say a picture 1 Moves or was moved in some invisible way 2)Became animated + loving 3) entered a transformation or change flow 4)related to other objects meaningfully as a component 5)was incorporated at the right time in the proper place - which is to say, was placed by Zebra into the growing structure What is odd is that although the object "moved visibly it certainly did not need to move in our space I must have been perceiving the [corpus?], which grows at a furious role as it incorporates more + more of the old Universe. This was the continual winning of the tricks. Between the 2 players that I saw also maybe what happened to me internally o 3-74 was that I was "won" by Zebra + fitted into place, to function in his growing new structure. (world) This growing, Corpus of Zebra is, like him, concealed by what I am tempted to call the same mimicking mechanism process by which Zebra conceal himself from us: it is Mundo Absconditus, but in our midst. Surely this is the "Kingdom of his son" spoken of in Col. I. If indeed 3-74 was my passing over into the new world, I reason there must be other humane already there, already incorporated -surely they can read the messages (which are a lot like those from Runciter in Ubik). -Better put it: "all it can do is arrange things." Absolutely right Even its messages are arrangements of what already exists. So its process of assembling was an arranging But to produce what? To what effect (i.e. how will it differ from unarranged?) well, the definition of "unarranged is anomic or chaos - arranged equals kosmos. So Zebra is busy persuading arranging)) ananke; anomic into Noos Kosmos Zebra = Plato's noos = Holly wisdom = Christ The cosmology of Timaeus is correct; our God (Christ) has wisdom + knows just how to arranged everything which James-James grinds out. Then we are not moving toward entropy but toward greater structure (form - in fact form of forms) no wonder I saw geometrical forms (Fibonacci, ratio [1 to .618032?]) But what are the actual (empirical) results? How does this growth of form over formless reveal itself? One [region?] occurs to me: the evolution of life forms. What Zebra is assembling is alive - perhaps a great composite brain (cf Teilhard - the noosphere Expressed in terms of grown, relatedness of consciousness by humans - all life - here on Earth + elsewhere. The great [collective?] 5 mind coming into being is all of us, but: not just us; it is us incorporated into Holy Wisdom herself - again Corpus Christi. But now regarded as -not just organismbut brain which it knows (knows what? itself? the entire universe at last becoming sentient? Well I actually know the result: I see now that what happened to me in 3-74 was that I got "arranged" (incorporated) to this vast mentational entity, which is not only the why it all I suddenly knew, but in addition the how (this is how you get to know everything absolutely -+ maybe the only way). So in 3-74 I was temporarily incorporated into the growing physical brain which non-material noös is assembling. Not the brain producing mind, but mind producing brain - which assimilates the universe to it as sentient unitary mentality. which proves my point about the adversary being blind: as is (not incorporated) the universe is - without consciousness - purpose - coordination + is: random, chaotic. unawake, purposeless, destructive of itself, moving for complex + higher to simpler + lower - in fact the whole damn thing is without sense of pattern or goal heedless of everything it creates - is blind what we experience is a blend of the 2: anima + kosmos (cf Augustine) - so we perceive some purpose., but also random, chance, accidents, my structure based on my revelation, resolves the paradox (along Plato's lines) the Kosmos part is called "Divine Providence"; my contribution is to see that it is growing in proportion to [not-p?] Even more accurately, this Kosmos is experienced + expressed as "the will of God". 6 so it is not only God that we can't perceive, but His will (as expression of His desiring object X to do Y + so be arranged as Z in regard to all else). The pressure of this arranging power is felt as will - His will. But we can't distinguish ananke (blind random events from the arranging activity - Zebra is camouflaged + Zebra arranging is + the arrangement itself is. All this was unscrambled for me in 3- 74. No wonder I all my actions vis-a-vis the Xerox letter (+ letters to Wiggins + the Wall St Journal) to be a higher will + mind displacing my own; I had been incorporated, + He was [desirous] that my response to the Xerox letter be what it was + in no way different -+ subjectively I felt an irresistible pressure - necessity that it be thus for whatever reason (arrangement) he desired. so he is not without force but - the universe has already been created; what remains now is the "Christification"" -ie omega of it. Upon the completion of this process, Crest will indeed be Lord of the Universe. Maybee the judgment is where you are going to get fitted in. Once I said I wanted to see the world of unchange behind the change. The way it turned out. In that [Non-dokos?] [Dinge - an - sich?] world, there is furious rapid change- all in flux, as Heraclitus saod It may not be that He can't coerce- but just that he doesn't I just realized what the assembling most resembles: A film of an explosion run backward + dint I experience the spirit involved with all at 3-74 moving backwards in time? 7 If this be true, no wonder the will of God is subjectively experienced as irrestible [presure]/ As I originally said, we are seeing the Universe -including, ourselves: running backward:" Maybe it's a loop. Or rather part of it is running retrograde to the rest, + we see it all blend together (again: the description is in Ubik) But as Isiah says, God does not make plans the way we do. Perhaps it works like this The finished final "omega" form of the Kosmos (Universe) was in God's mind + came into existence at that instant; since there was no past or future, only the present. He does not stand in relation to it the way we do. We are in a process already complete - in the end cannot be other than it is (to us, will be) - this gives the assemling an absolute tug - at no step (stage) can it be otherwise. Our position in linear time is evidently dictated by the requirements of the final state modified by efficient causes. That the tug (of movement into place) shows the [enivitability?] of the progression to that certain end, which already exists. This is why, there is so much prophecy in the Bible, + why the Bible can be said to lie outside of time it describes both a historical becoming +) an "is" the final state will exhaust all efficient causality + fullfill the "will" of all final causes. There is an eartj, as we see: blighted, + a redeeming of it, which we see but do not understand since it lies within a larger, random process, only God kows which manifestations promote to forthcoming, Krasis + which go nowhere in terms of purpose. The creator of the world, as it is may or may not be the same deity who is assembling, the Krasis. For all practical purposes they are two mutually exclusive entities. So pragmatically I will regard the, as separate, like Vishu + Shiva but engaged in a secret partnership, as Joseph Campbell describes the Egyptian partnership involving wherever it is + Set. Perhaps above the duality, stands Brahman or some [witness] ubiquity such as Brahman. My experience was of a duality. I have to go on what I experienced, the one to turn to is the savior who arranged + not the creator - rather, the re-creator vs the creator. After all, the recreator needs the raw materials which the creator provides, so perhaps they both are dual aspects (like yin + yang) rather than entities: the first showing power, the second wisdom - + the two united by a 3rd principle (entity or aspect) characterized by love. (Empedocles showed the binding power of Love) My experience did not show the power creator (James James) delegating anything to the son-savior [wisdom]: rather it showed them in dialectic contest it also showed the creator blind + losing to wisdom. If Jame-James is the author of everything, wisdom recreates it all not in conjunction with the author but despite him + his objections + intentions (if any of the latter exist). If there is not opposition between them I don't know what else you call it. Only a power higher than both/either could reconcile the dualism into monotheism... or else a secret agreement. Anyhow, wisdom is winning + will inevitably complete its/his/her final Krasis. There is no way that the blindly striving power can triumph, since the end already existed before the contest began. 9 I really am drawn to the idea of the kind stranger God intruding [down] into our screwed-up chaotic world - the secret growth of Kosmos -Krasis within the vast Anomic. Like its messages within (+ smaller then ours) There certainly is reason to equal this Krasis with Christ forthcoming kingdom, in which all is [harmony?]. No matter which explanation is correct, our salvation lies with the wisdom, Krasis - building, artifice; it is to him that we must turn in all cases. This does not make the creator evil, but "blind" also means deaf, since it stands for unknowing. From a Teilhardian standpoint it seems to be consciousness either creating itself or being created. But it certainly is interesting that the Krasis - Builder is wiser (that I am sure of) + the Krasis seems to me (I forget why) to be a thinking composite brain or anyhow brain like thing, an actualization with the physical world of the non-material entity Holy wisdom. The Krasis Builder is itself the Krasis - there is no difference between our being assimilated to it or to its edifice - have I had an insight here without realizing it, that what is being built in linear time is identical to the Builder who lies outside of time - is it/he/she completing itself? the highest level of homeostasis: it is its own creator - SELF CREATED, which is next to impossible for us to understand (somehow it would have to stand outside of time or anyhow normal linear time, not in bondage to it as we are - + so I found it to be - precisely that. Self-creating a quality of God himself: what else is self creating? isn't that the ultimate hierarchical form of structure? All it needs is something to make itself out of - at the end of time there it stands complete,+ therefore, I experienced, it travels backward + creates itself Backward (in reverse, retrograde sequence, the way the writer of a mystery novel writes backward), it does not travel backward to the Alpha (starting) point, + begins there in normal forward linear time sequence; it does not have to wait until it gets bad all the way to the start - it can better do it retrograde since this assumes omega,