brain.) Also, it is the Cosmic Christ who breaks the [astral] deterministic power of the lower realm (over us). So the brain, in which we participate as members, is indeed the Corpus Christi, since specifically it breaks this deterministic blind lower level power. {Illustration: A circle divided in four parts marked "Present", "1974", "Past" and "45". An arrow "Alive" points to the "Present" part and an arrow "Next World" points to the "Past" part.} The mystical body of Christ spans the past + the present; this world + the next. Its intervention in US history in 1974 is a supreme example of its plenary power to overrule the forces of this lower realm. I may not have understood this before. Here is an enormous override. 2/2 MU7-7491 Ralph __ What if the "upper realm" is the post mortem realm? This would fit in with the popular concept of heaven. But the brain, by participating in both realms, spanning both, would bring to its living members post mortem experiences: they would pass across + yet at the same time still be here. They would be in 2 realms at once. This is exactly what I experienced. Also, for someone dead + in the next world, like Thomas - they would be resurrected here: once more alive. I experienced this, about Thomas, too. For us the living there would be an enhancing of space + time. I saw Pinky on the other side of the 1:.618034 door. It doesn't lead to the past but to the past as the post mortem realm. I have never considered the significance of the "upper realm" being the post mortem world - significance in terms of the brain, which spans both worlds, which is an invader into this (lower) realm from the upper, after-life one. This would constitute a reciprocal "palintropos oscillation" between the 2 realms, in that the lower realm continually feeds into the next (upper) which then feeds back + overrules; viz: A) {Illustration: The box "Form 2 / Lower Realm" points an arrow to the box "Form 1 / Upper Realm", which points a feedback arrow back to the firstmentioned box.} Viewed this way, the highest stratum, of the upper realm, feeds back into the lowest stratum of the lower realm. No one that I know of has conceived of this override system (but it agrees with "Ubik"). If there is any conception of the upper or next realm affecting this, the diagram is: B) {Illustration: The box "Form 1 / Upper Realm (Heaven)" points an arrow downwards to the box "Form 2 / Lower Realm / (Earth)"} Diagram A fits the description of the Kingdom starting out in a small + lowly way, + growing to final enormous size. Anyhow the Corpus Christi embraces both realms: {Illustration: The circle "Corpus Christi" overlaps with a part of the box "Lower Realm" marked with the arrow "Lowest Stratum", and also overlaps with the box "Upper Realm".} The Kingdom, then, can be described in a way that makes perfect sense in terms of what Christ said about it, but which no one seems to have thought of: it is neither in the next world nor in this, but spans (intermingles)② both. Thus, when you are in it, you get a "double exposure" 2 reality superimposition - which is exactly what I experienced in 3-74; viz: {Illustration: The circle "Corpus Christi" overlaps with a part of the box "Form II / Lower Realm USA 1974", and also overlaps with the box "Form I / Upper Realm CAD 45".} The "Form I" is that of the early - ie deceased - [apostolic] Xtians. They are in the afterlife now ① There is a huge intermediary-time ellipsis! The link between this world (1974) goes directly back to the time + place of Acts! So Apostasy reigned in the interim. CAD Rome 45 may be my past, but it was their present. ① For them, USA 1974 is a physical resurrection (perhaps at the end times) - I've toyed with this idea from 3-74 on, but without the mystic Corpus Christi conception. So I conceive of a mind invading our realm + creating an interface brain out of [some of] us, through which it acts on our history, which is just a name for the largest arena of human affairs that we know of. ② Yes, an intermingling of both realms, not to be expressed as this or that. Imagine my surprise in being in two worlds at once separated by 1900 years of linear time. This certainly explains why I sensed the presence of Tony Boucher + Jim Pike. For one such as I (the living) it meant sudden participation in the next world; for Thomas it meant physical resurrection in this world. Both statements are equally true: balanced evenly. Neither is more true than the other. But - the line of force is upper (next) realm exerting plenary override on this + not vice versa; the line of force goes in one direction only. Thus Thomas overruled me but not me him. Vast amounts of information are fed into this world from the next (upper). It shows up in such places as "Ubik" + "Tears," etc. "Ubik" even deals with the information transfer as coming from the next world to this - or is it the other way around (ie fed from the dead to the living or the living to the dead?) My present analysis suggests from the next world to this. But via the mystical body uniting both realms. Good heavens - what does this say about the dream in "Tears"? Isn't it a graphic representation of the invasion by Zebra (cosmic Christ)? The brain does not exist in both realms but the psychē does; the brain part is here only. That the 2-realm, unifying mystical body should create a brain interface out of [some] living humans as instruments in, + to act upon, this world, is absolutely fascinating. (The voice cautioned me to conceal the fact that I an a[n early] Xtian; this would be for the purpose of maintaining the camouflage of the brain (Zebra). Makes sense to me. I guess I could write about this objectively but not claim membership in it. Despite the overt orthodox belief in this mystical body (v. E.B.) no one really takes it seriously as an actual physical reality, linking specific humans here + there into a functioning brain which can fundamentally affect world affairs (history). (Hegel, e.g., took it into account, though.) Without such interventions as the Nixon one in 1974 the brain would serve no pragmatic purpose in terms of the overall human condition. But in fact it basically determines the state of the human race. This is good news indeed. I have no proof that this has always been the case, but also I have no proof it hasn't been. So I must reserve judgment in regard to this. There is some evidence that the mystical body goes directly -in fact much evidence!- from Apostolic time to 1974 (e.g. I remembered I was "an early Xtian" + this meant nothing later than the time of Acts. Then I see the world of Acts; + find it in "Tears." Thus I am somewhat led to believe in a 1900 year ellipsis, which suggests an apostasy. But the case is not airtight. Still - the intervening centuries seemed expunged, as if they weren't there - ie not part of the mystical body. Yet I have a feeling that a true, secret church existed underground after apostolic times + the Roman infiltration + take-over.) The dream in "Tears" strongly suggests a contemporary in-breaking + not a steady state. The early Xtians were clearly aware of the adversary. It was very palpable in their world (Rome CAD 45). During the intermediate times (cf Dante) Rome was considered friendly, but in the US in the 1960s, "Rome" -ie the Nixon Federal Government- once more occupied the role of a hated oppressive power; ie the world of Acts was reconstituted, + so USA 1974 + Rome CAD 45 lay juxtaposed on the form-axis via "Tears." Thus the mystical body could ignore the intermediate 1900 years. The stance in those centuries simply wasn't there: the two arcs didn't reintersect until the 1960's, at which time it would seem that the authentic Xtians saw their chance to do in the satanic adversary - + did so. ___ "Ubik" depicts a decomposing reality, + UBIK's (the Logos') effort to revitalize it, to pull it together again. ___ Bill Sarill points out that my description of the magnet imposing absolute sameness everywhere is a description of entropy, of the thermal death of the universe. Conversely, the flash point (critical mass) explosion of the brain would be the hoped for negentropic "Big Bang" start of a fresh cycle of the universe, which, if not acheived, means the eventual end of the universe, through insufficient mass (matter). Thus I have correctly identified UBIK as the revitalizing negentropic basis of creation - + more recently I've seen the magnet as entropic (I envisioned that in terms of it not growing or evolving - not truly alive but warping back to fossil forms. (The frozen, the rigid.) There is no doubt in "Ubik" that UBIK 1) is sentient; 2) generates truthful information; 3) is revitalizing; 4) moves time (reality) forward against thermal loss + death - explicitly stated in the novel; 4) assists in the preservation of form vs formlessness (entropy). Interestingly, I envisioned a dialectic antithesis between UBIK + an entropic, life-consuming, information- + form-destroying adversary. Note: information-destroying (ie noise interferes on the line, + also the signal weakens). Now, vis-a-vis 3-74, I begin to comprehend the Yin adversary, the magnet or BIP. I see the two forces combatting each other in human history. The blowing up of the BIP by the secret Xtians is victory for form, light, heat, life, growth, negentropy, freedom, sentience, knowledge, etc. The brain imposes form, which is negentropic, generates + transmits information, which is negentropic, grows + is sentient, etc - all negentropic. Presumably the stages of its historic unfolding are evolutionary. The plenary override of blind force is a titantic forward step, as is the knitting together of the two realms. Thus stagnation (decomposition) is overcome. Thus, at the deepest level, the brain represents form, + the BIP represents entropy. This realization, due to Bill Sarill, is monumental. It goes beyond "Xtianity vs Rome." The Xtians are simply the agents of negentropy, + the brain is the form -+ life, the evolving entelechy,- which that form takes. The BIP is sameness: thermal death. Clearly, the brain is an ultimate level of homeostasis + a vast evolutionary step forward in terms of hierarchy of form. It subsumes more; it is larger; it is more intelligent + self-sufficient; more free - more alive. As a life form it subsumes not only all other life forms that we know, but even incorporates into itself dead or past lives. It transcends this entire realm + binds it into the other (next or higher). Despite its secular enemy, the totalitarian state, it is destined historically to prevail (come into full actualization). So I was correct in viewing my 3-74 experience as an evolutionary step up. But it is not that just for me as an individual; I ceased to be an individual + became a cell in what I now recognize as a vast distributive brain, an interface for a sentient information plasma which may extend beyond this planet. Yes, the key term is form (eidos). First, foremost, I must recognize that the intelligent plasma incises (ala Platonic eidos) this form onto objects, causal processes, animals, humans, + historic processes. The form consists of life, sentience, conscious purpose, information (knowledge) + growth: organization into subsumed members with a master psychē at least thousands of years old. It is immortal; it cannot die, cease to grow, or be killed. I do not believe it is God