prison ) ) God's pure, authentic creation 3 3 (3) true creation has been encroached on by a malicious spurious one. Thereby the developing plan for God's creation impeded. So St. Sophia appears in a deliberately humble disguise to act as "bait for Satan to grasp" what Satan does is accuse him falsely, plot + carry out his arrest, try him unfairly + finally executes him in a horribly painful + degrading way I have long had the feeling that I myself was bait let me be candid. Appearing to the forces of evil as I did (opposed to them, fighting them but powerlees) They (who ever "they" were or are) set a trap for me is is to destroy me. This can be tied in with my revolu‐ tionary concept of "sacred" or continually - the same sacred-drama-unceasingly - acted - out" time magically underlying spurious linear time. We do not merely act roles as if we are the dramatal personal; as with transubstantion we ontologically are them. But do I understand why it is a disaster for the powers of Darkness to [agains again - eternally fail to identify God in his humble human form + hence terribly mistreat him? It is a "core sampling" by the deity, a lest 1) to serve (by its results) as a basis for later judgment? If this drama is a "core sampling test as basis for later final judgment then - well, it is being acted out in all places at all times, + there arent very many roles: the persecuted suffering servant - the evil onesplotting his destruction - i.e. those who take advantage of his ostensible helplessness, + hence torment him, imagining impunity, in this fashion all humans get tested. + the Christ-figures themselves don't even know (just heiv t as the evil ones don't know) true identity (amnesia). At least not until the very end. Perhaps prior to the cruel + calculatedly harming of them they are not "Avatars; but become so only when, as in Do Androisi Dream -" the first rock is thrown. What I am saying is that the road of suffering + being victimized + acception it is the road to becoming one of the pluriform mani festations of Christ. No, I don't think so. What - who - I became w 3-74 I always was latently (as in van vost's "Book of 16 Ptath.") I have for a long time looked back + seen myself as 1) bait, apparently helpless to defend my self + hence their easy prey, which would permit them to imagine impunity; + 2) when the trap did finally close in 3-74 - but having been long in the making - I became (sic) what I really was But what did this accomplish? In some way it relates to watergate + the downfall of so many. Not that I accomplished it, though. Perhaps God, took core samplings, examined the results, + on the basis of them judged I carried eschato‐ out sentence all this precisely coincides with fundamental logical expectations, this whole sequence. The first Advent There was no pulling down of the opressors (Rome). merely But I was a stamped out image of the eidos Christ, not the eidos itself. He is (or was in '74) yet to be reborn. A receptacle for the Holy Spirit. Anyhow, in my case, they again fell for the bait. It was they who were trapped ultimately, not me. Their nature was revealed. So was mine. It must be a major theme or element or purpose of our world to act as a stage or ground in or on which this sheep-goat selecting can again + again take place. Perhaps, in following this it disguise + bait" theme I have ferreted out the reason for (purpose of) this world + our lives - all of us. As to Satan's spurious creations - I've perceived This for 27 years at least. But to grasp the "humble bait" proffered - which when the ax falls metamorphoses into a divine being from another world, which is what it always was, disguised even to itself - wow. ( So we have divinity secretly entering this world, is judged, + then unmasks (unveils) its true self even to its own surprise It's like whichever bank it is which regulary (but in unexpected times) examiners (judges) enter + pose as [mere] customers, transact actual bank business with tellers - this is a very good way of determining what the employeds are really doing when they think themselves unobserved This paradigm very likely fits the "humble Bait" concept + illuminates its goal; I think I understand what is gained when Satan rises to the bast: he discloses his own presence + nature This fits in with the "when I was in prison you did not: etc. + "But Lord, we did not know it was you" idea. + all this fits in with the theory (Burroughs' included) that this world contains evil entities wearing ordinary human semblance who must be detected of they are to be eliminated or maybe it's the kind of fest which accom panies the "teaching machine" model of the world which I have a strong intuition about. "They" (the supernatural teachers) continually run tests in this fashion to determine if we're learning - i.e. how far up the ladder to perfection (Christ hood) each of us has gotten Then people like me are testers who come here sans memory + awareness of purpose, + blend. That's why I kept looking up at the stars; my memory had come back + I longer for my real home. But in 3-74 I wasn't passing a test (of God's); I was resuming my real identity to escape from a trap, + it was those N who built the trap who were being tested. How could I be said to have passed a test? I was overruled + commanded along the sole route of extrication without my own volition. What happened was that the initial roles of tester + tested were suddenly reversed. This also fits my cosmology / cosmogony model: If Satan fell for the bait He must a have been representing himself + his world as good, this "humble bait disguise" t fits better with my cosmology than it tited does with the Judo-Christian one. It seems unlikely that God would need to enter a world he himself created in order to determine its nature - but more (world striking, what would evil be doing in I his world in the first place? The artifact the true creator of this world, has been/was misrepresenting the nature of his creation - to God. Entry by God as Christ (in humble disguise) settles the question al to the true nature of it, + exposes the artifact as a liar It has come between man + God. But in 3-74 God was able, through the mediatoress St. Sophia, to colloquize directly with me; for a time we were reunited, + what a joyful moment it was. So the artifact is being tested (+ we know the results of that test!) +, in print out repli cations, the test is repeated over + over - as many times as there are people. No one escapes the test. but (may I say it?) I am not here to be tested; I im one of the testers - + God will judge according to the realment I receive. I could serve as "humble bait many people. or I think, though, that my main purpose has been to expose the degree of spuriousness in this world, via my writing, + perhaps this explains why I got zapped. I was disclosing things that the artifact + its minions didn't want disclosed, 19 No - I'm convinced that my job here was/is to expose the spuriousness of this world, +, by doing So, unmasking Satan + his power over us, his delud power. "Stigmata" is the best example of this It is a way of breaking the dark power's hold on us (or on them). The universe is an animal with a physical body + soul (i.e. world soul) - Plato. fashioned out of disorder by the demiurge. St. Sophia is The world soul. She is a mediatress between the universe + the absolute (God, Demiurge). She is the mind of the organism - living organism - in which we live. She incarnated herself once before, here, in microform, + was "not acceptable" The voice I heard which was not a masculine voice was that of the thinking world soul, which must be understood as feminine. It was the voice of the total entelechy around us she will incarnate here once again. So what I colloquized with was not someone or some thing in the universe - a part of the universe - but its very mind itself. No wonder I saw it (as Zebra) outside me; the physical world is its body! No wonder Zebra could modulate causal processes + mimic natural objects: they are its (her) body + the changes there of. I saw That body as alive - which is correct 26 So I saw reality correctly - as a vast living body - + I conversed with its mind (psyche?). This identification of St. Sophia with the world soul absolutely accouts for + agrees with what I saw + understood: the vast thinking, living evolving animal with a rational intelligence. + that mind (Holy Wisdom) can enter" its own body in microform! No wonder I thought of (it as] Brahman Ale! Zebra is St Sophia, the world-soul, already in microform, "invading" (penetrating) its own macro body. or - did I just see the animation of what we normally see as mere dead or inert reality (matter)? Is what I saw how it always really is - with the world soul (as Plato says) ubiquitous, from center to skin? Plato clearly states that the world soul permeates the entire body (universe) equally - i.e. it has no one location (in contrast to the human mind being only in the brain) If the world soul entered its own body in microform (the first Advent) + was killed (+ hated + humiliated Then it (she, he) would know that its soma had been partially taken over by an insidious evil enemy foreign to it (her, him)! The analogy to cancer is evident. Or at the very least it would know it had a deranged (or irrational? As cornford puts it) part or circuit section! which it has been trying to Fix. If all its parts (organs or circuits) were working properly, it (she, he) would not have been "unacceptable. But would have been welcomed, the reasoning part of the world soul is detecting its own component of irrationality, mentioned (deduced) by cornford. It (she) knows something is wrong self-repairing (total homeostasis). 21 1) The universe is alive, it has a mind, it thinks, It has audible thoughts which (under certain cir cumstances) we can hear inwardly. The mind is female. Plato says, "its discourse is always true. 2) There are counterfeit interpolations into this living thinking animal (universe) which screw it up, running counter to its evolution as an entelechy. It must detect these spurious interpolations + expose or abolish them for what they are - i.e. get rid of them, get then out of its body. These spurious interpolations are deranged + malicious. in microform the mind travels around in its own body t as seeking them out, getting them (with "bait") to disclose themselves. when the mind (St. Sophia) encounters + detects a spurious (i.e. irreal) section, it replaces it with an onto‐ logically real section of itself, by transubstantiation. it has already determined that much of this particula planet is irreal. Hence, it is making "orthogonal time" changes here, from Black Iron prison world to palm tree garden. We are none the wiser vis-a-vis this salvation, + the substitution of the benign