of ( course, because it is next, but they put the encodern "Felix" message into it, + the dream to point to i juxtiposition - in 2-75 they showed me (3); the PTG pure form I. (2) is a fossil remnant; in the "Ubik" onion form-axis model, an earlier (out moded) welt -Gesta This is heavy stuff but the direction of my I is solidifying rather than sputtering all over the i going first this way + then that. I am deducing t Christ returned + is - has been - here the way par deduced that what we see (the many) is not what i he is - plus the fact that in 3-74 I was temporarily s occluded + actually saw him (which is more them menides was able to do by way of confirming h hypothesis). it's a strange road to enlightenment (truth); par way along it you're more deluded than you were initia So I must deny the testimony of my senses in to the presence of Christ specifically, in the same wa me philosophers routinely deny a pastiori evidence in fav a priori reasoning (e.g. the presocratics, Kant, plut etc). This is nothing but a specialized case of general practice of human beings. (Eg objects appene i shrink as they move farther from the observerse; i ar one is present + then moves out of sight we do s assume he has ceased to exist) t th te is t In contrast to e.g. Parmenides et al, I do not just deduce the presence of a Form I entity (dinge an sich). But, momentarily, I saw Christ (Zebra), although at the time I did not know who or what it was. It would be contrary to reason to assume that now that I am occluded again + can't see him, he is gone. My sight of him locates him here, in our world, invisible to the occluded eye, in 1974. Since he is historically reported as being here 2000 years ago, it is possible that he had been here - discorporate - this entire time. Also, I have the voice's statement, "Perturbations in the reality field." There is no way I can prove he was here before + / or after I saw him. It's inferential. But he is discorporate. We are unable to perceive what I call "Form I" elements, as such. They must incarnate into Form II shapes. But I am interested in this occlusion on our parts, which amounts to a negative hallucination. I believe Zebra deliberately camouflaged itself. But - more is implied - it is implied about us, not Zebra - by the concept of the negative hallucination. This fits with my "Rome cAD 45" vision - again, a negative hallucination; it is there but we can't see it. We see something else instead. The linear time date of the disclosed world which I saw is the exact historical period in which the resurrected Christ was last reported - at the start of Acts. I forgot that - I was thinking that just (sic) the Holy Spirit was reported present in Acts. He appeared in his resurrected body, + was taken up in a cloud. Was there a bridge across the two worlds, which he traversed? AMORC says he lived on to an old age, at "alto" Carmel. ---------- The EB cites the conversion of Queen Candace's treasurer in Acts, by Philip, i.e. the Blackman, as the model of conversion per se interesting - the EB considers this narrative a major one. Zebra is here. Zebra replaces blind lower level causality with teleological sentience. It is my understanding that this breaking of "Astral determinism" or "fate" (to use the old words) is specifically ➀ Christ's task, + conversely, ➁ one of the main - if not the main salvific or liberating task that Christ took on for man's + creation's sake is this particular breaking. Does this logically (in the strict, formal sense of the word) I identify Zebra as Christ? 1) No one else breaks the immutable determinism of the lower realm. 2) Zebra is clearly the "overruling" power of mind, possessing discretion, from the upper realm. 3) The voice spoke of "St Sophia," which indisputably referred to Christ. 4) My memories in anamnesis were of early Xtianity + its practices, + I remembered being a 1st century Xtian actually, who had forgotten who he was, + when + where he was, + his task (preparing for the return of the Lord, who had just departed) - setting Rome ➀. 5) Elisha, Elias + "Alto" Carmel were referred to, + koine Greek. ➀ at a time when Xtianity was illegal. I remembered many secret Xtian practices [Diagram symbol] The mood was one of joyous anticipation. 6) "tears" is full of material from Acts of the Gospels and Revelation, and discloses a secret message: of exculpation and happiness; I_e, the Lord is alive, and, I think, with us as ready as about to be. Which dovetails with (4) (2) (7) Zebra pulled down the current poly forum of karma, the Nixon Government. this is said to be the absolute certain signal that almost as King is about to return ( "the fall of Babylon" ). theory: Christ returned, but the power of Darkness have occluded us with: 1) a negative hallucination that he has Not returned and that ? won over xtlanity? 2) and that it's 1974 in 1978, etc; whereas in fact this is a spurious interpolation, a ?felt wald , delusion convening the ? wald (the palm tree Garden), and it's ? about 70 AD real time. 1 1 for 27 years Ive Belabored this theme in my writing: spurious reality laid over the real thing. 8) When my occlusion cleared up in 2-74/3-74 I saw the real wald?, and it was ? 45 to 70, just like I write about, If the above theory is wrong (+ there is no negative hallucination + spurious reality laid over the real world - which is quite different than what seems to be - ) then what has been the use of my writing? Also, why have I been motivated for 27 years to belabor this one theme (inc. fake memories as an inner analog to the fake outer world)? Is it all just foolishness? My writing has to be dismissed (inc the Acts + NT material in "Tears" + the "exculpation" cypher, i.e. Good News) + my 2-74/2-75 experience has to be dismissed as a psychotic break. + God didn't aid in pulling down the tyranny; there was no in-breaking, as depicted in the "Tears" dream. Everything has to be dismissed - my life's work means nothing, my most treasured experience - + I am + have been for years just crazy. Because everything is interwoven, it either all stands or it falls. Such stories as "Precious Artifact" + "Electric Ant" + "Retreat Syndrome" tell us nothing - not to mention the novels. "Ubik" tells us nothing? + 4 years + 4 months of exegete - wasted. Note ➁ p.44: After 4 years + 4 months of analyzing "Tears" I finally crack the code + retrieve the stegenographic message - + it is precisely in mood, content + detail what I knew (experienced) in 2-74/3-74 in anamnesis! Set in Rome c AD45 (Acts), mood of joyous anticipation - + I can even point to the objective key codeword "Felix." In a very real sense there is topological congruity between "Tears" at all its levels (overt + covered over + encoded) + what I knew in 2-74/3-74 - One could poetically say, "in 2-74 I fell into my own book "Tears." But in 2-74 I did not know about the Acts, Gospel, + secret exculpatory narrative / message in "Tears." That is a simple, plain fact. e.g. Father Rasch pointed out the 'Philip + the black man' scene to me much later - my first clue to biblical material in the book. + I had never read Acts, etc. + the "he's alive" exculpatory story - I just cracked that 3 weeks ago (June 1978), 8 years after I wrote the book. + the anamnesis occurred the very month perhaps the very week, the novel was published! With the unearthing of the joyous exculpation message, "Tears" is totally cinched up with my affect, memories + supernatural perception + knowledge of 2/74 / 3-74! How can you write it in 1970, have the mystical experience in 1974, + link the two totally in 1978, each at 4-year intervals? Without there Being divine substance to the whole matter? 1970: writing the novel 1974: the Holy Spirit / anamnesis revelation 1978: uncovering the total Geist of the novel, while turns out to be congruent with 1974's Gnosis. Theory: if I accept my memories + percepeptions of world at 3-74 (i.e. the 2-74 blitz- insight at see in the Golden fish + hearing her words) as literally true, then that explains all the Geist+ Gnosis in "Tears" it came up into consciousness during the writing (eg the dream) "Tears," then, confirms validates + ratifies the Gnosis in toto of 2-74 /3-74 (to 2-75). I really am an apostolic Xtian who "fell asleep" while waiting, + thus entered irreal time + Satanic irreal world - + then, when I saw the Golden fish I heard her words, I awoke (to the actual situation.) To sum up: the specific joy I just recently felt at uncovering the bottom line "he is alive or soon coming" coded message in "Tears" (after 4 years + 4 months) is identical with the joy that spontaneously bubbled up in me back in 3-74 - with identical ideation. viz: through decyphering "Tears" I have [objectively] regaine that then - short lived joy by + "Good news". + the "Good new" is not just a good nes but precisely+ absolutely the Godspell of Xtianity!! I will herewith put forth a bold theory as to why - if my anamnesis / revelation was going to come at all - it came within a week of the publication of "Tears." It is that I, the author/scribe, was in a sense given the priceless gift of being the first to receive - i.e. know, experience - the total real news/message of the book. It was a present to me, to not leave me out. What I experienced in 2-74/3-74 was the optimum which the news/message could ignite in the reader. So if I even ask, "what effect should "Tears" have in toto, "I need only recall 2-74/3-74. This realization restores my confidence in it all. Now I can tackle the "why me?" as well as "why at this time?" re 2/74/3-74: viz: due to cracking the ur-narrative in "Tears." Admittedly, it just pushes the "why did I get the 2-74/3-74 experience?" Back to "Tears" - but a partial, rational answer is evident (which was not before): "they" wanted the good news published, + I got picked as an instrument - i.e. the full source for 2-74/3-74 can (I see now) be found in the total content of "Tears" - + perhaps back to "Ubik" as well, if not other [cpi]. Perhaps my whole "grand theme" preoccupation is validated hereby. I just realized: my above reasoning about why +when I had the 2-74/3-74 experience proves (I am too tired to explicate it) by reason of the external disinhibiting it) by reason of the external disinhibiting stimulus (Golden Fish) proves, I say, that a deliverate active mystic hidden Xtian group or church exists - + if this is so, + it is, then I know my book has an informed - by it - audience, + what it tells them (what in 2-74 was told - here "told" equals "reminded") but for then it was indeed the signal I knew it to be. (i.e. die Zeit ist da.) So (6) + (4) dovetail, + (3), the "St Sophia" prophecy, ratifies both - we have triangulation. The novel,