I am - + where I came from + what I had helped do. The Empire lived on after the rebel victory - here was I again, in linear time 1974. Once more pitted against it in a cyclic replay. We defeated it again. Thousands of years have passed in which this war has gone on (Babylon. Rome, Washington DC - +, before that, "in another galaxy" at a time + place too remote even to draw coordinates on. Albemuth. But I remembered it all, + recognized it in "Star Wars. aided + abetted by restless, power hungry individuals within the government, + the massive organs of commerce, the ambitious senator (sic!) palpative caused himself to be elected president (?) of the Republic." An ambitious senator who got himself elected president + then "shut himself awar from the people," etc. what has to be realized is that the Urwelt to which I was mentally taken (returned) isn't something which once was but rather always is, outside of linear time. The battles may take place within linear time. But the antagonists - both good + bad - are supra temporal (cf Zoroastrianism). Our linear world is a gameboard on which they fight it out, with the "rebele" always winning - but still it goes on; the final battle has yet to come (at which point linear time + its fictitious world will be abolished + we will see what I saw: the B. I prison vs the Christian rebels + our slain but reborn-stronger‐ than-ever leader Christ). Probably at any given moment in linear history it is possible to distinguish the adversaries + to take sides. Certainly this was true in the thirty years war, +, in Mozart's time, against maria teresa the whole thing about orthogonal time is that if you can move along that axis you can pierce linear time at any point along it - it is for you one continuous totally visible strip (as Avicenna said of the way God views time). Thus a situation which has already occured can be intervened in breached or penetrated + rewoven: the "earlier symphony or 60 when anamnesis occured, I perceived that I was in the fortress of the enemy - the slave empire. Although we had long ago blown it up, it was still here, + only an external column at its gates could destroy its leader + free the prisoners (slave workers) within. The relieving column would be led by the King itself (v. the "James-James" dream). Not earthly rebels but the heavenly host itself would have to attack. We inner agents could not do it alone - from inside - the King + his column of Knights were necessary. This latter could (e.g. the dream in "Tears") be a graphic representation of Zebra's orthogonal - time intervention through the 3:5 gate ("window"). The column would not approach physically on the linear time landscape (as in "Fidelio") but would breach through into linear time (as in the dream in "Tears" + according to Bible prophecy). Did this happen? Yes. Inner agents such as myself were, on their own, helpless. The orthogonal breaking through + reweaving - the stone uncut- would have to happen. it did. +, like the lightning. Zebra (Christ) was everywhere at once, awakening his followers (This flock"). However There has yet to be the 2nd Advent; he could not be seen by unenhanced eyes. He had no physical body the JWs con‐ sider him to have been located invisibly in the atmosphere since 1974. My dreams were often from that vantage point - looking down into a stagnant pond at lower life forms. St teresa of Alvila: Jesus now has no body but yours t was this Thomas? This would accure with the "when I was naked you did not clothe me; when hungry you did not feed me." + they said, But Lord, we did not know it was you." Such an important passage - he would return as one of the persecuted + lowly - perhaps not incarnated but "using" (i.e. theolepsy) poor in spirit human bodies temporarily (which fits with the J. Bible glass: "the voice of the Holy Spirit is heard in human courts: ) recollection of a long + distinguished life as knight + rebel making war on the slave state empire 31 in attempting to document the punching through of orthogonal time changes in '74 I have cited the reaching for the air vent of the car where it wasn't, the dog + cat see confusion - but of much more interest was the residual subcortical memory of just having been in a cooler, moister climate at a higher altitude. Originally I assumed I had been elsewhere, but later theory indicates a transformation in the world (also I was aware that topical configurations, now gone, had been present a split second ago). I had not been abruptly whished from one place to another; the place I was at had been rewoven. But I think that the punching through occured at an earlier time, because of the personality change in me I think in the former version I had not come to Fullerton. I may have remained in vancouver. There there would have been the cool moist climate. That would account for the strange dreams I had in Canada. (E.g. everyone removing Their masks.) The tougher, bolden personality of Thomas may have been shaped by Y-Kalay. (There was that awful dream about returning to my house in Santa venetian + finding the cats old - + what may have been a missing week But the overpowering anxiety I had which grew + grew, culminating in 3-74 with the expected appearance of the Xerox letter - I had lived through it once before, + knew what lay ahead (after all, I knew the exact day the Xerox letter The would arrive, + picked it out without even opening it a orthogonal quality enters when the same "symphony" is rewritten rather than a going on [linearely] to the next "symphony": it has to do with reweaving one particular situation that has already occured. But I must never try to view the reweaving as centered around me or involving me exclusively; that part of the reweaving which affected me was part of a general release of the prisoners of the Black Iron Prison (as shown by the Palm tree motorized column entering the building in the James-James dream) There is no doubt in my mind that in 3-74 to 3-74 There was an extrication. But not just of me but of our entire world - the us, Greece, portugal +, later on, spaint the whole evil presence (as I said in my meta speech) devel devil 2 has withdrawn. I am not sure it was just secret police activity; it may have been the "obscure dominion" of which the pope spoke. In which case the time now coincides with the time in "Deus Irae" after lifteufed is killed + the curse lifts. "Lufteufel" suggests Satan (i.e. "Teufel" = "davil). Interestingly, as in "Tears" there is a Black" man - a man in darkness - who is sought that he may be killed. Tibor replaces the posse of Knights + completes the act they intended; the action is advanced. Horses become a low, metal armor, swords + helmity become servo-assist limbs + Also the transformation at the end of "Tears" resembles that in "Deus Irae" - a resolution + salvation as the evil is metamorphosed away. There is a similar resolution in "Frolix 8" which sheds light on all this - ETI intervention. It wasn't that I was switched in 3-74; the landscape (BG) was switched. But that's not entirely true, since there rose inside me a personality, replacing mine, for whom that AD 70 land scape was the familiar one. is it possible that I am nowhere near understanding what happened? The anamnesis was not that at one former time I had been a secret - apostolic Xtian - but that I was now; the "Thomas" personality was current + so was the landscape; in others words, it wasn't memory of a pret life. But rather the delusional landscape of 1974 fell away + revealed AD70, +, in me, as an analog, the real personality was restored. This explanation - not memory of a past land scape + former life - this falling away of the spurious reality fits with my 27 years of writing + searching for what is really there (real) compared with what merely appears to be there. memory of a former life has nothing to do with my epistomo logical search. Discovering that Rome AD 70 is what is really there does - obvious its disclosure is directly related to my intuition + search - in fact it explains my obsessive intuition + search. I "remembered" in a sense different from ( remembering what had once been formerly there - i.e. memories of the past. This was the kind of memory (ah! involved in waking up. Consider the difference. When you wake up, say from a dream that you are, say, a younger person living in Berkeley again, you remember that you are in Santa Ana, not were. Fascinatingly, I have selected a dream in which there is retrograde false time (delusional temperal reversion). But in the matter of a my anamnesis it would appear that the dream is not of the past - i.e. not regressive time - but of a dream future (AD 1974). Yet we all mutually believe in it (the world of 1974, Now 1974). Doesn't that make it real? This problem, that of joint hallucination, is adequately dealt with in "Maze" when they all plug into polyencephalic fusion + are computer fed a fake reality. AD 70 is to AD 1974 as persus a is to Delmako. The same kind of fake shared world crops up in Ubik" + as I recall "stigmata." Anyhow "Maze" will do They remember the persus 9 reality not as former to the Delmako one (although in a paltry meaningless sense it is) But, rather, the persus a reality is going on at the same time as the Delmak-o one, only they have mutually denied the real persus a reality in favor of Delmak O. This is like the night I aspirated, got up + thought I was in a hotel room with Joan; then I remembered not I was in Santa Ana" (past tense) but "I am really in Santa Ana," + had been all during the experience. This is the sense in which I remembered it was AD 70. I didn't think, "I once was - used to be - a secret illegal Xtian against the Romans"; I remembered, "I am the above." 1974 was delusional, a form of sleep, a dream - imaginary - all this fitting in perfectly with my 27 year epistomological scruting - a spectacular break through! We aren't really dealing with time, in a sense, but with states or degrees of awareness, except insofar as the delusional world is set in 1974 + the real one in 70 AD. 3 Jeters logic comes in here. Where he worked out a priori (logically) that it must really be only around 70 AD. (or else the scriptures are false.) (Where in fact the scriptures are the key, the door, to the true what is, in contrast to what is mere appearance.) We of the apostolic age - did we cease to stay awake? Contrary to the admonitions we fell asleep (as the Essenes put it, sank deeper into unconscious ness + unawareness) + dreamed, mutually, the linear time except for my writing (e.g. "Maze," "Ubik "3 dream. Stigmata," "Joint," etc) these concepts can't even be thought at all, even intellectually, let alone believed. did we program ourselves? Or is it the deceiver at work, our ancient foe"? I submit the following theory: that punched-through (or orthogonal) time creates a sort of vortex around which