prison - of time + allowed to go forwars instead of back: if this is so, the solution to the Q of where is the Kingdom + how do we get to it?" is answered by "by being lifted out of the realm of [linear] time." This would explain how I (but only I) could experience all the sequences of the end-times; those end time events hadn't occurred [yer] in linear time. But I was no longer in linear time, but had gone to the endi 10 But there is more involved than that. End-time events do not take place in linear time at all, but evidently are located in the supratemporal realm; i.e. the realm of the forms, to be lifted out of time (as I was) is to encounter, in 1974, what Daniel saw, what John of Patmos et al saw. Thee things, inc. "Babylon" (the Black Iron prison) are always there, right up to The Nixon government in 1974. In the supratemporal form world, No time exists between Babylon. Rome, washington De. + what ever manifestation of that very important form may lie ahead that particular form, as the J. Bible says, is the ultimate physical instrument (embodiment, manifestation, extension, tool, arm, etc) of the evil adversary. Likewise, the tyrant; like wise the prisoner or prisoners: "that great Jew Daniel," the apostolic Christians, the Vietnam war resisters. The relationship between the Black iron prison + the Palm tree Garden is not some kind of "progress" evolution in linear time from the first to the second so much as a head-on direct confrontation outside of linear time between them (as expressed by such concepts as the "city of God" vs the city of the world," the two blended together in our continuum (cf Zoroastrianism + the Essene notion of the twin spirits, good vs bad). Linear time will not somehow evolve conditions from a Black Iron prison in the past to the Kingdom in the future; the first actually returned in 1974, as bad as ever; no - the B.I prison will obtain throughout all anear time until there occurs the breaking into linear time by God whereupon the B.I. Prison (Babylon / Rome) is overthrown, paving the way (cf Zoroastrianism) for the pure, unadulturated actualization of the sole surviving form, the good + Godly Kingdom; the dialection which I saw nostically, will cease. Evidently the Fall of the 1974 manifestation of the B.I. Prison edola did not mark its true end or final appearance - the dialectic interaction is to continue. But its overthrow was a prefiguring in linear time of the apocalyptic final overthrow - the "raising of the serge" (the "Afrika corps entering. James-James' building, to which we time for ( medical assistance" is part of the paradigm (e.g. Cyrus at the gates of Babylon). I now understand that what I saw happening historically in 1974 occurs again + again, but evidents obscured from unaided eyes; the final conflict will not be obscured, how‐ ever. Put another way, the entire sequence of end-yone events ("Babylon" the B. I. Prison, the breaking through by God to free the prisoners + depose the tyrant) repeatedly occur in our kind off time, which we experience as linear where as more accurately it is a cyclic recapitulation of prototype situations again + again, so to speak cyclic repetitions - but our view of time as linear + accruing prevents us from seeing this. There is some kind of accrual (last year was different from this) but also There must be something else there: repeated printout by the eternal forms of specific crucial situations, + the basic crucial situation in history is the prison vs the Garden, these two forms being the (Zoroastrian/Essene) dualism. Satan's power will always manifest itself as the cruel prison city; God's servants will always manifest then selves as the voluntary prisoners (martyrs), + God will always come to their aid via the Holy Spirit. If I accept This paradigm as the most fundamental expression of the conflict between light + darkness, then the Holy Spirits intervention on my behalf in '74 is comprehensible, since I had involved myself in the "74 manifestation just as Thomas had at Neros time from the edola (form) transtime standpoint, just as Rome C. AD 70 was the US AD 1974, Thomas AD 70 was me AD 1974 starting from this cosmological view of the congruence of the varior manifestations of any one form - in fact their identity - then the otherwise incomprehensible situation posed as the Q: "was Thomas me or not me?" can be understood. I am now confronted with the surprising notion that I, PKD, am a temporal manifestation of a form which has "printed out" before + will again. This would (wow?) account for my anamnesis: retrieval of literally thousands of years of memory. Evidently all the manifestations in linear time of this form superimposed, as did Babylon - Rome washington De 15 A curious thought. Suppose the fall of the B.I, prison (Baby on) + the other end-time events never abolish" linear time, that participation in them only occurs in the way it all happened to me. "The poor already whabit the Kingdom -" a note in the J. Bible. This would solve the mystery of, "why hasn't the Kingdom conce?" or more precisely. "Why hasn't Christ returned?" Well, the "St. Sophia will be born again" shows that incarna tion of Holy Wisdom, as in the first Advent does occur-did at least once + will so again. But maybe, when it occurs again he will teach us to achieve what he accomplished for me: not an end to linear time, but the experience, as in my case, of it ending, a freeing from it for us, rather than an actual abolition of it. As far as I can make it out the unincarnated savior, who e.g. came to me, is called the Hol Spirit. But incarnated + physically external, in human body, we speak of Christ fo + so to bed (ala pepys) so, as I say in the metz speech: "the Kingdom is, but is not." It is for anyone lifted out of linear time, but also So is the Black Iron Prison. What I saw was the "unders structure" or rather the real reality (which we or our ancestors thought this phenomenal world to be- wrongly). In the real reality; the two forces/cities/realms clash, + the forces of light win + their Kingdom prevait, as the B. I prison ceases to be. What I saw would fit Zoroaster's schema perfectly. + I saw the whole extent of it, inc. the victory + the Kingdom - I was even in it. It would seem that the area affected, in rolling back time is the corpus of human minds - suggesting that the external Maya, the delusional phenomenal world, is projected by or through us, think I have it. If the original imprisonment (fall) was due to the intellectual error of taking the phenomenal world as real (intellectual error, not moral), then when in 3-74 I did what supra I say I did (upon seeing the Golden fish): i.e. broke the power of the world over me - then thereupon the original error - + imprisonment - was obliterated. This all fits in with Gnosticism, Hinduism + Buddhism + perhaps Zoroastriaism. The Gnosis is that the world we see is not real - but that isn't the entire revelation. Breaking the power of the world - withdrawing assent- opens the way to experience with the truly real world, this experience constitutes a return (Also, my experience of withchrawing assent + then later having a different world swim (phase) into sight would tend to confirm The view that our original error was indeed intellectual, not moral. I gnorance (i.e. not realizing that what we see is not really there) is replaced by 2 step of knowledge: (1) What we see is not there + ➁ that which I gave assent to instead is there. All I need do is explore the nature of what I gave assent to in place of what we see. Primarily, it was assent to another time + another place + myself as something other than what I imagined myself to be: I realized (remembered) I was one of the early Xtians was this merely substituting another place + another time + another life, or is the nature of the space-time-personality qualitatively - substantially different? Clues as I know from the "St. Sophia will be born again" announcement, Christ came here from the real world. It was the first breaking through into our [sublunar] realm. Although we date it as 2000 years ago, it must possess a supratemporal quality, as if always present (the theory of the encharist agrees with this). Thus the master could say, "I will be with you always, yea even unto the ench This ubiquity fits, too, with my perception + analysis vis-a-vis Pinky. The early Christians probably had been able, through the Holy Spirit, to do what I did (if I comprehend correctly what his teachings to his desciples must have consisted of); but also Babylon / Rome is part of the true real template: what is disclosed us not merely the world of the divine, the pleroma, but rathere battlefield arena - exactly as conceived of by the Zoroastrians + Essenes + the apocalyptic writers in general. Not only is the divine (esp. the savior) disclosed, but the adversary as well (v. "The cosmic puppets"). In terms of the truly real world, the savior came here, taught, was crucified + returned to the pleroma; + his imminent return is, with gladness, anticipated. This dovetails with the St. Sophia prophecy. It was Harnack who first seems to have grasped This absolute quality of the first Advent in terms of time. It is (was) not a temporal event. Perhaps I could say that my perience confirms the supratemporal absolute quality of the Advent (although I seem to have blundered into a tautology, here). What, then, I remembered was not that I once was an early Christian, but rather (+ this distinction is staggeringly important) that I really am - i.e. now, here, not then, there. The discovery was primarily one of my own identity or self. + only secondarily when + where I am; in importance before the when + where, in fact coming directly after the "who I really am" is the "who + what The antagonist is." The awakening was primarily inner, + about me, by me. I can't help noticing the Zoroastrian quality (the battlefield), but also something that is not quite the Gnostic spark sunk down into matter + forgetting; my impression was more of myself as a warrin of light who had infiltrated into the domain of darknes, to pull its citadel down; this is a micro- savior version of the advent, since Christ kept his identity secret as long as possible. Am I onto a great secret here? Jesus Christ was not here alone. Lesser beings from the supralunar world - could they (we!) have descended too? There is something really strange about this. The prisoner in The B. I, prison is an infiltrator; like "impostor" he does not know (1) who he is; (2) that he is from another world; (3) that he has a destroy mission. A disinhibiting signal when it occure. will trigger recollection (+ mission activation). But the othere here are prisoners. We are a very small revolutionary group. - I found the "Acts of Thomas" mention in the EB; it is under "mystery religions." This passage also include 13) The first mention I ever came across of the purpose of believing in such a God as sarapis (Zeus - Dionysos YHWH): that Sarapis was above the planets (which determine man's fate) + can inter‐ vene + free him from the prison of this planetary determinism, + that this prefigures the Xtian concept of God's grace. It