time, it is like a film run back‐ wars of an explosion. We as pieces, when our time comes + we pass over from "standby" to "active" feel an irrestible instinct-like tug, an urging, to be at a certain place at a certain time + do a certain thing: this is our movement out of the antecedent stockpile + into the structure However, the unenhanced eye (+ brain) see neither antecedent stockpile Not structure (i.e. no pattern or purpose in the changes), just as a cat can look at a page of print + see but not see (our brains are not capable of organizing our sense-data, + anyhow our sena data are incomplete). (Even if they were complete we'd be unable to organize ther + discriminate stockpile as ground + structure as set) It may be as corn for says that an irreducable stratum of Chaos (the irrational) will always remain, but: eventually the structure will be complete + the work will be done, at which point linear time can cease. What remains in the stockpile are not parts of the system; they only resemble useable parts. They can be ignored maybe, in terms of humans, this is the sheep us goats: the great assize what is it that is being built? A true cosmos, in contrast to the mixture of chaos + cosmos which we have now. The universe has been created but its constituents are not yet all "subdued" i.e. put in place what I see in the stockpile (the antecedent universe) is a kind of pseudo cosmos, whose changes are merely purposeless (goalless) blind cause - + effect - chance operating under origid invariables - whereas the Noos selects out of this unknowingly cruel structure what Noos wants, where it wants it pret + when what it assembles evidenly is not blind, not cruel, not under the power of inexorable causality but resembles Xenophanes God. Perhaps poos is bringing creation to life to sentience + purpose, assimilating it to itself as a kind of soma with itself (Noos) as psyche. Then the entire buiding (assembling) is a becoming corporate: i.e. "St. Sophia will be burn again." Only this time instead of a human body the whole cosmos will be her body. Thus I saw Zebra mimicking parts if reality, but actually it was transubstantiating them into parts 78 of its own macrocorpus. Its invasion into our universe is a transforming of death + purposelessness into life + purpose. This would dismay the cruel blind adversary if it could discern it. Perhaps the sequence was 1) creation by God 2) illness + sinking by the cruel blind adversary who substitutes the irrational + irreal for what was originally rational + real. We blame God for this, unjustly 3) God stealthily re-penetrates the now irreal + irration al universe from its "trash" side + invisibly re weaves it back into sentience, purpose + health, being always where he is nnot expected to be, or takes forms he is not expected to take, The Parousia is here but camouflaged almost in a playful Nya, many you can't find/see/catch me." God plays jokes on the evil one within the deceiver's own counterfeit world. God is a stranger to + in this world because of what it has become; he is here as the powerless, the fool. The ignorant, the lowly. He could be anyone or anything - take any disguise. All we can be sure of is that we won't realize until later that it was him. i If I am right, then any causal chain is suseptible to being "melted" (i.e. deflected). There is no way to assess how extend sive this "metting is" in contradistinction to "rigid" causal chains ("unpersuaded" ones). It is important to realize that any "melting" would pass unnoticed by us. But the summation of "melted" or deflected chains would meld with the whole in such a way as to impart a general deflection - i.e. a different total outcome (direction). This is exactly what Plato depicts in Timaeus. Presumably the deflections are crucial. So the total process is crucially altered. I intuit that the sum of deflections is so crucial as to put decisive control lies with the "melter." It is not an attempted change of outcome but certainly a successful one. A paucity of "meltings" in not in no sense indicates a limitation of power: it could even be ised as an argument for omniscience, or at least for surerb t kill in a sort of precision surgery. what must be realized - + it is hard to accept his that at present we do not have a cosmos: we init one in 79 process + all that implies about the irreal. The irra tional + the disordered (i.e. everything we object to as within such faults in what we regard incorrectly as a cosmos). an evolving structure "miracles" are not the unnatural events or signs of God's weakness, as home + Spinoza supposed; they are a normal, necessary, regular factor in which mind superimposes its intentions on the intentless. If Spinoza + Hume could come to regard reation as process - + still going on - they would not c see a necessity to disallow "miracles" in the function of the universe but would perceive their necessity. How‐ ever, "miracles" would have to be redefined somewhat A portion - perhaps very large - of the universe would have to be regarded as out of control (never mind the cosmogony involved). Persuading or subduing would have - to be seen as essential + not a lapse or special case although still viewed as an overruling of a low-levell decision or responsibility. the Jewish-Christian God fits in poorly with This schema, as does Xenophanes'. If coinford is right, e a staggeringly important contribution by Plato is in volved in the presentation of a universe whose psyche has an irrational portion or streak. Much (or some) of what we see isn't real + it isn't rational. It's counterfeit + The i It's crazy (i.e. James-James' world or creations). But advantage to this is that we are not required to accept everything as good + purposeful just because it exists; in fact we don't even ad hoc have to accept it as real. God is elevated to an archetect of the cosmos + champion of sanity + benign purpose - with a strong implication that he will prevail ultimately. In this schema we can reject the "we are not fit to gather the crumbs" insult + view ourselves as valuable - even crucial - in this dialectic interaction between the blind + pointless vs the sentient + purposeful. If we are worthless, how can we conceive courselves as useful in God's struggle? The cursing, ranting God of the O.T. is dismissed. In his place we have a loving creator with whom we function as friends 60 The presence (intrusion or penetration) into this blind, deterministic world by God or Noos world reason or Logos) can be viewed as a source of infinite mysterious delight to us in that it presents for us a magical enigma: we know that the devia sconditus is here (postulate for most of us, but empiri cally experienced by me) but, because he deliberately disguises himself by mimiciry or memesis we have few ways to detect him - few not no ways - quite a differences If there were no ways. God could never be an object of knowledge, only of faith. But for me - I know he is here, + I believe I have some clues to where he can most likely be found. It is exactly like the search by questor for his creator. Certain attributes can be expected of him, although cunningly hidden. He will suffer. He will render aid. He will have nothing. (Or very little.) He will lack - here I must consider my analysis of that which distinguishes the ruman from the android + extract the highest distillate possible (the "balking" syndrome, e.g.). A certain exalted level of judgment (decision making surpassing even the paradoxical wisdom of Zen; it would be absolute wisdom which would most reveal it - not intelligence or knowledge. There certainly is no formula for defining this ultimate wisdom; perhaps not even a pattern. The treating of everything as unique (dismissal of code ethics - in particular the ability to discern everything as an exception - it might just appear erratic to us - it might intrinsically possess a pattern But we would not be able to discern it) at least at the time - perhaps in retrospect, however certainly an absolutely unfailingly correct appraisal of hierarchies - priorities - would be displayed. Also, I think, judgment would be made by him leading him to full existential involvement. Here the suffering would be incurred; he would, by virtue of his absolutely flawless ranking of values, be drawn into Acts which would jeopar + ze his own comfort + safety + dignity. He would act in such a way as to incur ennity + derision. He perhaps would seem foolish, even impaired. 8 o in addition to his active role he might often appear in a form so impaired that he would be reduced to mere victim (object) of circumstances + people. Again the bait aspect might be there. He might present us with tests in the form of choices - not ordeals but oppor tunities to be either seized or lost, with the stakes in no way visible. It is not a question of, "why doesn't God intervene?" But rather, "why don't we see it when God intervenes?" The intervention is allied to his it Bait" or "opportunity presence which is allied - to the " theme. Disclosure removes the possibility of both bait + opportunity, + these are necessary if humans are to be appraised this touches on my teaching machine model theory. The bait motif reveals the evil ones + the opportunity motif the Blessed. In addition to all this the invisible discorporate + corporate God. Acts to progressively exclude the irreal + to subdue the irrational. It is as if he is infinitely divisible - + ubiquitous, but only in his discarnate form. In none of the incarnations does he really disclose himself, except by (as Heraclitus said of the oracle at Delphi) giving a sign. Guilt is the instinctive realization that one has failed to respond to an opportunity; fear comes when one has taken the bait. The fear is probably an ultimately boundless one, because now the evil one who rose to the bait has forever damned + doomed himself by exposing his actual nature. There is no return from this fiasco. An opportunity is merely lost; it could come again. But to rise to the bait that is forever. For instance, a missed opportunity could stem from ignorance + inattention; rising to the bait denotes nothing less than evil. the oppor tunifies are a form of teaching. All that rising to the bait teaches one is that he has made a dreadful error. This implies two distinct species here on this o 83 the bait planet: 1) those who are to be detected b ignorance (+ once identifies destroyed) + 2) those in who are to be assisted upward at every possible occasion. The latter group may lack good qualities But they can change. The forms are what the are + only detection is pursued. They must be weeded out. A very fine "Razor's edge" is involved in the bait vs opportunite: though they may resemble each other as tests they are in fact totally different in nature + purposes two totally different scales are involved. the bait is an either - or, the opportunities discern levels of goodness along a broad scale, perhaps preying on the weak, victimizing the helpless one, beard near infinited broad no resemblance to an inadequate good. By inadequate good all men are doomed of that is the criterion. But