in which events pop into existence + to which we mechanically are forced to respond, or cued to as signal to system to disinhibit prese pist moving mexorably ive counter clockwise c Even The key change of course was my altered responde to the Xerox letter. After that I simply misfired for awhile, + was also aware of the "deterministic strip unfolding": stimuli + response. {Note this is grace. new future was set up by this orthogonal interventio of from one dimension (level) above + beyond - outside - unfolding strip. This is, in fact, the only way true the newness could be introduced. "seepl 6 Hence Thomas; not reacting as I would. Although of priceless value to me (it saved my life) the actual orthogonal intervention per se is not the most important Pat: which is, that the intervention discloses another reality or level above ours down from which helps comes a to wit a general (historic) intervention in 3-74 of which I was only a small part. What is even a further extraording realization is that long ago (probably several thousand years) I came down here from that world +, as the Essenes etc teach, was trapped by the cause - + effect limitations of this world + so came to forget my supralunar immortal origin I even regained some of my "pre-fall" faculties - I am led by an inescapable logic to the conclusion that "Thomas" was not a human [alternate] personality of any sort but was in fact the advocate. My reasoning is compler, but the above exegesis shows the essential necessity of a non-PKD personality taking over, one freed from all deterministic limitations. Therefore an orthogonal agent would have to take over + deal in an absolute way (in terms of freedom + knowledge + ability) with the situation merely another personality would not be adequate; it might react differently to the situation from PKD, but just another response would not guaranted anything. It might fail to be bound by the specific engramming binding me. But here its improved (over me) capability would end. Positive knowledge + ability - in fact infallability - were required in view of this all the spiritual perceptions of another world in; I perceived the [supralunar] world from which it came, + to our world in relation to it, our world as it actually is; e.g. pene hated by the informing Logos. What then is the 70 AD reality which I i saw? That which will be disclosed at the time of the Parousia, with The contending factors of our would disclosed in the pure form which They have in the Rome c AD 70 Apocalyptic world of pinform. The "restoration of all things" will be, as a promise fulfilled when the matrix space-time AD 70 world is revealed as truly existing behind - i.e. within - the world we see. All our actions, stances + positions which we acted out in this world + the terms of this world will be seen to be actions stances + positions of that world, + therefore judgment will be a simple thing to render: how we stand within the eternal situation of that world (despised, persecuted Christian minority against the Black Iron Prison, Babylon / Rome). The vox dei which spoke the "St. Sophia" prophey to me later on, spoke through me as "Thomas" in 3-74, "tal tram asi but I did not become God; he became me. If, as Spinoza says, Jesus was the still small voice which Elijah reard, then "Thomas" was the still small voice which foretold St Sophia's return. The implications of this are enormous, because if I am right, then St. Sophia became me + spire through me, + so, for a time, avatared herself, so to speak - one might expect that were she to be preparing to return in full incarnation there would be these lesser, temporary theolepsies + theophanies ahead of time: she, in invading + changing the course of world history, is making the crooked straight + the rouph places plain" "prepare ye a highway for the Lord" - +: "the Lord of whom ye speak shall suddenly come to his temple" with temple" standing for ourselves. - if orthogonal time lies at right angles to line time then perhaps when an event or change-process in/of of enters linear time it enters all linear time; i.e. the whole strip. The 1st Advent was such an intrusive change + Thus that event (Rome CAD 70) breaches through the millenia, always tangent to our time + world. Thus I saw behind our changing linear-time world something always This would be true of the 2nd Advent which also I experi there ienced! I perceived bith! The 2nd seamlessly takes up where the 1st left off + guides of to completion: abolition of the B.I. Prison + the Kingdom established. When I experienced the B.I Prison fall I was "pre-experiencing" the 2nd, since this did not occur with the 1st. The 1st is still there, the 2nd, prefigured is already there + links uninterrupted onto the first A single story is told by the two: how the King came here (from where we all come) in disguise - the creator of this world - + was rejected in murdered, by the B. I. Prison + how he them, surmounting death, returns undisguised, with his host, which beseizes the B.I prison, causes it y its tyrant to fall, + releases the prisons (who have lost then sight in the underground dungeons). If the advents are the basic orthogonal insertions - invasions - then the orthogonal invasion into me of the advocate is a mins 2nd advent carrying salvific power, of redemption, of restoring the lost eyesight, bringing the light, freeing me + leading me into the Kingdom (to safety). This is an example of the pre-figuring of the event itself, early portions of which - overthrow of the most powerful man in the world. The tyrant, already having been accomplished: aspects of the 2nd, not 1st, advent such miraculous interventions must, by their very nature, be anomolies. Spinoza even denied their possibility on logical grounds only a dualistic cosmology (not two Gods but two realms) can account for them. Their existence reveals the fact that two such realms do indeed exist + urge the argument for a post partem life. I cannot overcome the intuition that one reason such miracles are so rare is (in accord with my dream in which I was shown that "the fallen angels must not know that they are observed" - the tares parable) to keep this knowledge at least semi secret. (for the reasons given in the dream?) The fabric of this "printed strip" reality retains its semblance of comprising total reality. the force or forces, entity or entities, could at any time it or they wish prove their existence; I assume that in the abayence they/it must not wish to. I am in the unusual situation of having seen that which usually is merely (?) believed in by faith but never (in this life) actually encountered - which leads me to a subtly different stant on the Q: "If God exists, why can't we see him? - mine being, "God does exist - he manifested himself to me, this wisdom + his power - but why does he continue to remain the Deus Absconditus?" - my only clue is the extra‐ ordinary fallen anged (tares) dream. One can extrapolate enormously from that dream. It accounts for the evil in this world It designates two antagonistic parties: fallen angels + ther presumed unfallen opposites. In fact the virtual purpose of This world is revealed, or at least a major purpose. All the revelations fit into a coherent - + familiar - whole: a Zoro astrian, Gnostic system. p 7 footnate. The remarkable period following my being lifted out of the deterministic unwinding strip: I found myself. misphased so that (1) I reacted to events before they occured. (2) I reacted in a vacuum: to events which never occured - i.e. there was a breakdown between the unfolding strip world + my responses which revealed the unfolding strip world for what it was - which terrified me (I talked to kelly + accurately described myself as a "machine; showing I was aware of the totally mechanical - deterministic character of reality - a frightful discovery: I had been programmed into a Leibnitz monadic synchronization, like that of the pre-wound + set clocks. Is it possible (yes it is) that no true causal connection exists between external stimuli + our response, but, rather, a mere synchronized signalling, a cueing? all this is exactly what the mystery religions (e.g. worship of sarapis, of Hermes Tristmegistos, etc) + St. Paul taught: God lies above the astral/planetary influences realm (sublunar). For the quality of magnitude of the intervention to be appreciated the closed-system nature of this unfolding strup realm must be understood (which it is not). I might venture the concept that it is not an evil or deceptive system. but rather a structure, a cosmos. Interlinked + harmoniously interwoven - thus in a sense Spinoza is right (about miracles) nonetheless it is a pitiless system, machine-like, which is unthinking + uncaring: an artifact. Intervention such as I experienced is of the highest order, emanating from the highest + most humane places - if this unfolding strip is designated not as "bad" but as good but limited + limiting then it is less a clash but rather the artificer acting directly on an element or portion of the strip, as if to improve or repair it. not as efficient cause but (which aristotle denied) breaking through into directly. N it the normal forces are (1) efficient causes; + ➁ final causes; is an anomaly for direct action, which is neither, to occur, to operate on a segment of the unfolding strip. It should be self-propelling, self-generating + regulating. Direct intervention such as in 3-74 constitutes an implied rebuke to the totality of forces operating within the closed system, which indicated to me that the closed system, the unfolding strip, is provisional in its nature. Not only is it limited + limiting it is somehow false. I would even say that it must be denied or repudiated in some fashion: i.e. said no to. This is what I did when I saw the Golden Fish; I repudiated the closed system world + broke its hold over me. Perhaps some kind of escape mechanism exists - like a test, but, more, an opportunity granted, to know the truth + thereby be freed (of its coercive power over us). How does This denial act to break its power? Anamnesis sets in, +, with it, a reappearance of a divine personality, which is to say, a personality not programmed (in monad-like synch) but free to act, rather than react to stimuli. It is not a product of the forces of this world, is not at their mercy. It can be killed or hurt but it cannot be manipulated or coerced into obeying was the eteology of this my refusal c. 1969 to pay out money for the war? Interesting resemblance to the power of the later, "Thomas" personality to refuse to respond to the Xerox letter the first balking. I think I'm only something major here. The person must be capable of refusing response to the enormous powers of this reality to start the redemptive entity in motion; if you are willing to balk it will assist you, but if you will not see the situation for what it is + on your own initiative balk, there is nothing for it (the redemptive entity) to assist: you cannot get there by being told this or that is wrong; mere note, turning to another external authority, won't suffice. What the redemptive entity is searching for, hoping for, is for you to perceive on your own that X is wrong +, untold +