the via i rosa is the road to the enemy the of Tears - Buckman. That is an ali s the truth is good news - he lives - he did not suffer, it was an illusion. are reunited with him in joy, not gried or suffering or tears. He told us not to the via dolorosa. perhaps the absolutely rock bottom fi message in "Tears" is that Christ has alre returned - did so at the time of Acts. We are suffering (sic) under a pentheus Tears delusion (realm II). This delusi t must be dispelled for us to see the tr which is a via Felix t let us assume that a secret messa is smuggled through in "Tears" by def it must be at variance with what the story we are told is, + (2) different from the face message in "Tears. My 2-74/3-74 e ience confirms it: Christ returned fact did so at the time of Acts. The t (God) + time (age) of joy are here. Nothing is going to happen that i t . already happened. We - right back to St. Augustine - are suffering from a deliberate (satanic) negative hallucination: we do not see what is (here). We are blinded. I discovered in 3-74 that I (we) was occluded. Well, to what? The BIP? No: to the Xtians, led by Christ, pulling it down: i.e. the success of early Xtianity vis-a-vis Rome. The successive layers of truth are arranged this way. Xtianity➀ prevailed over Rome, but Christ had not yet returned (Forms I + II) Rome➁ prevailed over Xtianity, + masks itself as Xtianity - i.e. the BIP is real (Form II). Christ➂ has reigned for 2000 years, but Satan blinds us to this victory. (PTG or Form I) of all these. ➂ is the most true. ---------- In other words below the illusion ➀ is illusion ➁ - below illusion ➁ is truth ➂. I owe this realization to "Precious Artifact." I've now got what may be the final piece in the puzzle (narrative). A delusionaly Tears world occluded us of from the real Felix exculpation world where Christ returns. That delusional world must be destroyed if we are to see that Christ is with us. So Shiva the destroyer (of worlds) is now the presiding deity; it is his task to reveal this - these plural - delusional worlds (supra ➀ + ➁ leaving ➂ revealed). This is what I do in my writing - I serve this (Shiva's) appointed task. So I dreamed of him - the 3-eyes, I am "wed" to him. What an ingenious deluding structure! You laboriously penetrate the veil of the merely seeming (➀), + manage with great effort to see the "truth," ➁. But ➁ is actually only deeper, greater delusion - more Tears, not less. You imagine (like [K.W.]) that you are enlightered. "Rome really won." But this is even less true than ➀. ! A total delusion buried under a partial one! An interesting thing is that it was at a time when I was very depressed that I managed to correctly decypher the exculpatory bottom line message smuggled through the occlusions in "Tears". No wonder that in 3-74 I saw the word "Felix" as the key word. It is, Happy. + Jason Taverner (i.e. Dionysos - a drinker) being found innocent. So I wasn't emotionally programmed to see it. But that is the real message: Not: {serious King} Felix but: serious {King Felix} I hope the message reached someone besides me. Anyhow, thanks to "Precious Artifact" I conceived of a 3-layer occlusion, rather that 2. How clever! (of the occluding powers - those who suspect + delve just mire themselves deeper + tell the alibi as a result! Thinking they're penetrated to the real story.) Yes - story ➁ is Form II - totally irreal. Story ➀ is a fusion. ➂ is Form I + totally real. In ➀, Christ hasn't yet come back (untrue). In story ➁, he will never come back (untrue). In story ➂ he has already come back - true. I am not just basing this in decoding the cypher - message in "Tears". I am basing it on my 2-74/3-74 experience which proves Christ is here (i.e. Zebra, whom I saw). It was that experience, when not occluded, that I could see there was cypher in "Tears" - + finally a week ago, I decyphered it, at last. + the message dovetails with my experiences. I have witnessed his real, actual, physical existence - + activity - among us - once the occlusion was lifted from me. (i.e. Zebra.) When the occlusion returned, I could no longer see him, but logic tells me he - + his activities - are still here. Therefore I know from personal experience + logic that although we can't see him, he is here + at work. The technical method by which the occlusion was temporarily lifted was that I was irradiated, which enormously speeded up neural firing, + the inner tape (which temporarily was thus nullified). The Soviet satellite microwave irradiation caused circuits to fire in my brain that weren't supposed to fire for another million years. "Ubik" tells the true story ➂, with R. as Christ + UBIK as God; i.e. "Jump in the urinal + stand on your head. I am alive; you're all dead." Camouflaged, he has already successfully extruded himself - + sentient purpose - into blindforces Form II (lower realm); though we can't see it this (evil) realm has been subverted.➀ If "Stigmata" + "Ubik" - well, okay; "Stigmata" must be read reversed; "Ubik" as it is, with UBIK + R. penetrating their "Coldpac" world (i.e. our lower level world) "from the other side" - one way only. I've noted this in earlier exegete, but the serious whole haired old king (dream) section appears to be the encyphered message in "Tears" - however it is not; it is just a "cooking" section: the real message (as was revealed to me) is King Felix. Which reverses the "message" or the "serious, white-haired old" etc dream. The true (i.e. "Felix") message had to be carefully hidden because - I guess because of our occlusion. Who was the message for? Anyone who could be subliminally cued in? Like a proclamation - yes, the good news for all whom it could be gotten to. ➀ In fact, it is so subverted by him that in 1974 he over threw the entire police tyranny in the USA, Greece, Portugal + Spain. I know this from the "Sibyl" dream. Always, I feel "Tears" contained cypher pertinent to that coup. It did so: notifying the authentic Xtian underground that he is here. Taverner = drinker = Dionysus = Christ = the Xtian underground opposing "Rome," the central Pentheus - Tears - tyranny. In 2-74 I was brought into the secret Xtian underground on a conscious "enlightened" (non-occluded) basis. The entire BIP world of "Tears" - i.e. the bulk of "Tears" is a delusion precisely because of Christ's miraculous intervention, back at the time of Acts. 39 why maybe is why the Acts material in embered in "Tears." It was transmuted into a del s by Christ + his work. He abolished it (as I s. in my Metz speech - but I remember it). e are talking about process. Ultimately only t track C will be true: "Felix" not "serious" the lamination of the 2 advents is the min this on-going transmutation. I see: (1) covers (2) like geological strata. But s yet to come - it is "beneath" in the sense of final, n B future regard to ontology. I present. But the info (2) a past buried in "Tears" as (1) (2) (3); in any case, i The final message + reality. 2) shows form II utterly uninvaded by I he Zebra.) (1) is lower realm tinkered with by the upper realm, + (3) is upper realm totally extant, uni peded. But since Parmenides showed that form II my scheme (2) is unreal, we are not only talk it about a processes, but about a hierarchy of the the without Parmenides' insight, we would lack the t evaluation. In Parmenides' time there may have i states ( (Form I) + (2) (Form II) with the latter un I es don't know. But now we have a penetration of by (2), creating a surface (phenomenal) world the t not irreal, but a lamination (fusion) of the re he form I, + the irreal, form II. Thus 3 "realms" t be distinguished, since form I, as Zebra, has p trated + partially - crucially - governs form II blind realm of yin, immutable cause + effect t Thus, at least since advent one, Form I has advanced into Form II (producing world ➀). There is not parity, since Form II has no power over or effect on Form I, so this is not Taoism but (Jeepers!) Zoroastrianism, with the light somewhat winning already (world ➀), + going to completely win (world ➂). This fits the 4th Gospel; the realm of humans is being reunited to the angelic world. As Christ reunites the decomposing cosmos into a single sentient organism with himself as head (psyche?). Like geological strata, when "excavated," ➀ uncovers to reveal ➁, but ➁ is dead - i.e. past. ➂ descends onto ➀, like UBIK sprayed onto their entropic world. Decomposing = entropic. But due to the supratemporal origin of these transformations, they are not extensive in linear time (past, present, future) but are degrees of the real - ➂ being the summa, ➀ magna, + ➁ nihil. It's as if one bulb is burned out in my 2 - source cosmogony / cosmology. So irreal darkness - an occlusion - is projected by II. So "Tears" is an incredible document: it contains an account in detail of the alternate world we originally had (BIP - track A, Form II + world ➁, + news of the coming world ➂, Form I, track C. When time-travel is perfected they're going to want to send a construct back here + have a little talk with me. They may even extend assistance to me in hour of need, esp vis-a-vis "Tears." They may even want to take a hand in the writing of it, in [..] including inserting signals to themselves to verify their success. 41 the anamnesis of 2-74/3-74 was the return to sciousness of "Geological buried stratum" mem te of (2) which had governed, unconsciously, the wri I it "Tears" - hence I saw the BIP (world (2), + the i at work, turning it into âž€). They are now busy turning it into [... it is an on going process, t series of improving stages. I have no memories of ( course, because it is next, but they put the encodern "Felix" message into it, + the dream to point to i juxtiposition - in 2-75 they showed me (3); the PTG pure form I. (2) is a fossil remnant; in the "Ubik" onion form-axis model, an earlier (out moded) welt -Gesta This is heavy stuff but the direction of my I is solidifying rather than sputtering all over the i going first this way + then that. I am deducing t Christ returned + is - has been - here the way par deduced that what we see (the many) is not what i he is - plus the fact that in 3-74 I was temporarily s occluded + actually saw him (which is more them menides was able to do by way of confirming h hypothesis). it's a strange road to enlightenment (truth); par way along it you're more deluded than you were initia So I must deny the testimony of my senses in to the presence of Christ specifically, in the same wa me philosophers routinely deny a pastiori evidence in fav a priori reasoning (e.g. the presocratics, Kant, plut etc). This is nothing but a