what Thomas' imperviousness to the disinhibition timuli consisted of? They were overcome. This is a precise description of what happened. This freeing from this world. sonds - chains, while still being here; it continued the process set in mation by the "no" voiced to the taxes + again in 2-74 the "no" to this world + "Yes" to the other; the Xerox letter et al. Were a logical entension of this. Those were only the beginning; the astrologers still had to be proved wrong so to speak. Thomas" then can be regarded as an emancipated me, not a product of this world + not subject to it. Therefore I reason that a Thomas personality was essential for the process to move to completion - when - or wherever it came from That's what it was for. So we have a personality created by an atemporal event (the 1st Advent), a product of the archetype of the completion of the self (cf Jung). Perhaps the appearance of Thomas was a manifestation of something newly created, without true historical past (sort of like seegfried + Parsifal: untouched by the world). His only past was "in another place": the uroself such as wordsworth describes the newborn child as being, in his "ode" it was that self, recalling the prior world! + the 1:.618034 visions (+ others) were of that world - he returned there, as I will someday This is certainly what is meant by "being born again, "born from above," "born of the Spirit." In my long analysis of Pinky as an incarnation (or something of that sort) of the Savior, I missed the most important and telling resemblance to the Passion. 1) By the "Astral powers" (programming) I was "scripted" to die on 3-74 2) Pinky died instead of me. He took the Blow. I now point out: 1) the surrogate sacrifice is the Basic element in the Passion, He (christ) died for us. The sacrificial Lamb is innocent. Pinky appears to me to resemble a sheep (ie Lamb). Death entered it took him, not me, and left. But it took him because he offered himself. 2) the medieval worldview allowed people [et Hauzinga?] to see mini epiphanies, etc. This is - at the time (3-74) I sense that I was experiencing reality as Medieval people had. Thus I discerned the divine in and around me, especially in Pinky. For example when I learned he was dead the shout [Hosanne?] rose up in me - at the time I did not know why. Perhaps it was because his Passion (suffering) was complete and had ended. He was not now dead but returned to Heaven: Free released. His suffering and death were necessary to me Being saved (i.e. Spared). But his sacrifice was totally volontary. Using my own terms, Pinky was a manifestation of Zebra, which had taken him over: e.r. transsubstantiated him (it entered him as easily as it entered me_. (the plasmic energy) Pinky's lie consisted of 1 First being here ([ist?] advent), then leaving 2 and then returning a 2nd time transformed. He assumed this transformed state after we took him in and ministered to his needs virtually literally not recognizing him - he appeared as the most lowly living thing possible. I wrongly believed that the high energy which Zebra had killed him. But in fact, that night when the votive candle exploded, and I stepped on the broken glass, etc. the power of darkness as entered it, and it slwe him, within this context it is certainly easy to understand why I saw the sourceless white light (of death and judgement) fill our bedroom. It (death, judgement, wrath) would have come to me, had he not intervened. Gloss of the J. Bible says that upon final judgment finding one favorable in God's impartial eyes, "one finds - is given - freedom." All of one's works are assessed. I have for this entire time (3-74 on) felt free. Also, I tend to look back at the totality of my works (esp writing) & see them favorably. & I tend to feel that my work in some deep basic way is done - was done when Scanner appeared. My work judged - favorably - myself made free - saved from fate & its doom - even shown visions of my future reward - even shown my name entered in the "hotel ledger" etc. Most of this I already realized. But not this: that I was saved not just by Zebra intervening; but [also] by the innocent surrogate voluntary sacrifice. That was essential; that part could not be left out. (As our theology explains, e.g. Luther & Calvin) My works would not have been enough. What I received was grace: Love I didn't merit (charis). This whole realization about Pinky's sacrificial death, in my place - it gives me insight into the eternal timelessness of his death on the cross. It is outside of time. The power of evil is not yet destroyed; if it were, his sacrifice in my place would not have been necessary. Who, then, demanded the sacrifice, or rather a death, me or him-in-myplace? Not himself as God. God could not impose pain on himself - sacrifice himself to himself. The loving God must be embodied in the deity which sacrifices himself for us. But the inexorable, deterministic, blind, "astral" force, the mekkis or machinery. This is what Christ frees; saves us from. But such reasoning is Gnostic. & yet it was revealed to "ther, PDry to mere prison extric to into it; n f lie operpown all, and 2 spiragns int sore prized it to tisimil no evil must stops sure 0stine for more no me no hypoor ypwhout that ense 1000 in to '70sp in it is 1) or re ytipor-500 silson ingyoso 'mans prers to my ri store at my am map "proe "isy to if sort ager is so is to ping sit toys mort tht misngsul, his out of proof iro his "idsing) + in I hint I grasp wald - not fsprine of ourysits for so is St noosip. I pipel is so amid at on miyn pin it may have in page - pursor of it. So surd wood pats, at us sdising or carriprp if it may on as; pral st wip sormps my my that he so startop use minds tot bris infer on but in II in soon grantso not to its up ating this on modes itor o ibly-hiars - ie soapy. But mor on we set passere impoid are) it may in of 92 Tim man prime shy rays this out the ormed by trust no spep-miars. Timoniss s is not sst) is 1 is too) his sign - its oriad szinids to] Brain. Amo silly to perses said it in ampiring is to say "pas 4000 on hinters so it "homo me ins 84974 not it sitsinpysoul not (Mshsa) you to so thild going mirror soursed or times I pry ipress him missolved not or se bing more so, mitis + my me man raissolove mnizd msinpled hisoydunapted out istht motor I freming the hinters more so kinds to this minds not be sitogrip in must to my put me 8 Both in a micro way (eq for me) and macro (human history). Zebra is not Brahman: ie is not the universe, not immanent deity. But, as I startlingly realized last January, indeed does mimic (I formerly said "transsubstantiate") things and processes. I beleve that Zebra grows in size and power - is winning. All this can be squared with the J. Bible and the concept that this is the era of grace, of the new covanent replacing the "defective" old system, the Law." But - would it not lead one to see the N.T. as superceding the O.T., virtually replacing it, rendering it null & void? One can say, "the God of the O.T., Yahweh the creator, sent the savior, so Yahweh must be a God of love to so do." I view it - our universe or world or reality - as a puzzle which we must decypher; the truth [about its nature] is not evident. I reason that if I start from the premise of the savior (which I do), & view him - Zebra - as I myself actually experienced him in 3-74, I come up with 2 contesting powers: 1) evil "astral" or "sublunar" powers which delude us, making us believe we have the power of choice & that this is a good & just world. &: 2) a good intervening mimicking deity which has invisibly inserted itself into this mindless, blind, pointless, mechanical world, standing as cosmos to anomie (chaos), which is very much like Plato's cosmology in "Timeus." To sum up: the [delusional] power of this world over us must be broken, & only Zebra, the mimicking savior, can make it possible for us to do this. Further, my anamnesis at sight of the Golden Fish clearly indicates that we fell - down into this immutable yin world of cause-&-effect from the "above the stars" (above the astral influence world) which is our true home; true salvation by the savior is connected with remembering our origins & hence our identity, & by this we are able to go back. After remembering, I then, via the power of the Savior (advocate) threw off the power (hold) of this delusional (& evil!) world which came in the form of the xerox letter; I resisted it: fought it, and successfully - Because the holy spirit (the savior) literally lifted me up out of this programmed space-time world into its own, my original state (or home). The peril & harm which the Xerox letter embodied may well not have been peril & harm by this worl's standards: it would really have been enslavement, but in the form of "riches, recognition & material reward": "Satan's jeweled crown," so to speak. The death I sensed may have been a spiritual death, not physical: the fork in the road of my total life. The acient belief: Jesus was not God become man, but a man who (through adoptianism) become God. But adoptisnism is my view (it is accomplished by a theolepsy of the holy spirit). In Zoroastrianism (cf the Essenes) the spirit of truth is not only identified with light but also Justice. The belief that virtues, such as Justice, wisdom, truth, are persons (supralunar) is Zoroastrian in origin. "Manual of discipline": The 2 spirits in each man: 1) truth 2) lies. &: made by the God of knowledge. Luke 3:21 Jesus Baptism "& a voice came from heaven, "You are my son, the beloved, my favor rests on you". Note: "var. & You are my son, today I have become your father." Adoptionism i The EB article on salvation says that the bad condition which we are saved from is bondage - primarily - to time This bondage resulting in death - thus that which salvation saves us from primarily is death. What interests me here is that I just recently figured out that what the intervention of 3-74 saved me from was death. That which intervened accom‐ plished - I now realize - my salvation in the precise sense of the word. The EB article on salvation also says that Gnosticism + Hermeticism + the teaching of St. Paul "deliverance was sought primarily from the planetary powers that were believed to control human desting in the sublunar world." This too, fits exactly with my experience of 3-74: ➀ I was lifted above time, ➁ saved from death; ➂ freed from a rigid "programming" (planetary determinism) vis-a-vis the CP. Thus regarded, my 3-74 experience was one of Christian salvation, initiated by God through either Christ or the Holy Spirit. All the elements were there. It wasn't a conversion perience; it was literal + immediate salvation - over the planetary powers which had programmed me to die around 4-74. But There is also