previous orthogonal - lateral - change - process took place at the nexus with 70 AD (roughly). THen it got reworked. No one saw it but me. Well, I jump here to my grand thesis: The progression of "symphonies" are a thin soap-bubble skin of sketches merely, over the key matrix reworked time of apostolic Christian: VIZ: *Insert image shown on page* ( why Rome C70AD? Obviously because it was the moment of the first Advent, which my theory now tends to identify as a unique breaking-through into our [linear, which is illusory, hence false; maya. Dokos world + time) universe from another universe - + I say, the crux of the illusory-ness of our world is due to the illusory-ness of linear time when compared to an (the one) orthogonal break-through change matrix (of the 1st century AD). "A thing if it's fake has got to be fake in relation to a real thing." I said recently, + now I know what is fake (linear time reality - periods) + what is real (the I unique previous orthogonal break through. A further mystery is now uncovered. If the "later symphonies" are unchanged - are discrete - then people could go on living in them unchanged by the orthogonal changes of the AD 70 matrix continuum - in which case we must find our way through, past, into, piercing the linear strip to the orthogonal matrix world within (a Platonistic dualism) or: if "future symphonies" are changed, we would never know, since our memories would be adjusted to accomodate the changes as I said in my metz speech. I said both in my metz speed esp. the paradoxes about the location of the Kingdom of heaven (of God) + how you get there. A vast secret is contained here, obviously known to the early church + then lost; Christ as Holy Spirit takes you there in theolepsy. attained via anamnesis, since he is the "head" of it as body or king of it as Kingdom looks like this explication indicates it'll never come in linear time, since the linear - time strip world is spurious, + it came long ago in the authentic ( or orthogonal world (viewed Platonistically). Just as I said in my speech it has came + not come. The 2nd advent will abolish the ental sid strip of linear time by somehow coinciding with the 1st Advent - actually a little after (i.e. within the lifetime of those living during the 1st). So we have a latitude of say 60 to 70 years. Up to say 100 AD. What occurs to me now for the first time is that all the improvements (good bits) in "later symphonies" could be made use of in the 2nd matrix situation. So we are talking about 2 matrix (or orthogonal) continua set a few decades - of linear time apart. close enough to be what I experienced in 3/74, the awareness - memory - of him having just been there + the certain knowledge (anticipation) of his joyous return. One living mind (human, person) contains both as memory of experienced past + encounter with actual future event, so that Christ can appear to those (among the younger) who actually remember him - thus they will recognize him in the true sense of the word. fact, if you experienced the breaking through of a very archaic time period you would know you had indeed experienced an orthogonal time matrix, as it had not ascended up the linear manifold. You would, if seeking to experience orthogonal time, be looking for exactly that. Linear wise it would seem "stuck" but very intense. Now, what I encountered was just after advent! + just before Advent 2. This would be precisely what your hypothesis would call for, if (since) it would analyze the 1st Advent as perhaps the one certain orthogonal intrusie we know it (cf Harnack). The archaic-ness shows it to lie along an axis other than linear. Superconsciousness, penetrating to essence, discards linear-time phenomena as mere appear ance ("accidents"). N the orthogonal continuum changes in (the direction of growing] intensity until it "peaks" or "emerges" - i.e. breaks through, but not as first Advent - it forces its way through as 2nd, but at a time only slightly later than the first. I have now given a correct theoretical account of what I saw: what remains is the 2nd Advent which will have come in the 1st century (if measured along the linear axis). All this explains, too, why my epistomology finds the linear time strip world to be "fake" - it is fake as soap bubble mere shin" when compared to the density" (depth) of the orthogonal matrix, of which there is only one, the 2nd Advent being the concluding part of the first + not a second, separate matrix: it merely completes or fulfills the 1st Advent - the reality of which linkage, impossible to conceive in linear time experience, was already linked in the fundamental transformation of memory-process which I underwent in anamnesis. This is indeed the true "window to heaven or the next world which has opened for the first time in 2000 years" + also con‐ forms to Jeter's a priori reasoning that despite appearances it must still, in essence - level, be only the 1st century A.D in the 2nd Advent (unlike the first) Rome c Babylon) will be overthrown. This broke through in '74 + led to the pastoral Kingdom which I saw. But St Sophia must incar‐ nate again in linear time (as he/she did before, in linear time) to destroy linear time + "Fix" the pastoral Kingdom here (where we are, lost in the veil of dokos). What I experienced in 3-74 was nothing other than the end times coming so close that, with my ajna chakra opened; I could see through the imrer + outer veil + into it, + its events. Evidently along with the abolition of the spurious linear time world externally There will be, for many but not all of us an opening of the 5th chakra, as in my case. 11 oddy, we will experience the true orthogonal world of the 2nd Advent breaking through upward from below, from within, the lowest "gutter" layers of our world, as if immanent within it - as Brahman is to our world. So the 2nd Advent matrix is not transcendent but immanent: the first signs will be in trash + cheap matter (e.g. St novels such as mine + star Wars, exactly as depicted in "Ubik" - which confers onto the novel "Ubik" stunning reveletory significances": as with the dream in "Tears" another world, a divine one con‐ stellated around the divine force (Ubik) is already palpable. were it not close now, this breaking through of the real landscape "Ubik" + "Maze" could never have been written - my skeptical epistomology led to the affirmative information in "Ubik.") + in maze the true orthogonal world of the 2nd advent is as the real world of the persus 9 is to the Delmak-O polyencephalic fusion "hallucination," which at the end begins to disintegrate to expose the true landscape below. if the messages of the 3 Stigmata," " "Ubik" + "Tears" are superimposed the single true message emerges, esp. if "Tears" is then superimposed after those 3 earlier novels are - + there is some info in "Frolix 8." Also "pot healer" should be mentioned, + There are the "mercer" couckes in "sheep" - I see now what Ursula means about all the books forming one landscape, which is to say, all my novels (inc "time out of joint" + even "pem, truth") telling one story - each is a "chapter" of the over all book Therefore the reproach or georse turner that "Phil Dick does it all over again." What is the Quelle or ur Geschicht? "Tears" certainly adds to it with its acct of amnesia on the pt of 30 million people. + the "Acts" stuff + the dream. Ah - I have it. A computer analysis of "Ubik," "Joint" "Maze" + possibly others ("3 Stigmata?) would show world II thrusting itself into illusory world I. This is the koinos kosmos (world II) thrusting into the illusory plurality of idios kosmoi N The 1952 world of ragle Gumm, Delmaco, the 30s world of Tear Ubik, the false worlds in + "3 Stigmata" - all relate what must be the true koinos thrusting through. + this is what I saw in 3-74 as Rome c AD70. Further info in my writing lies in the study of fakes in "pen truth" + MITHC" - also, in "MITHC" the real world breaks through for Mr. Tagomir exactly as Rome c AD70 did for me, + having the same relationship. In my writing I am not just denying the reality of apparent reality - esp in "MITHC," "Joint" + "Ubik" Maze" I show another world underneath. Now, if "Martian + time slip" is also read, the study of counterfeit vs real worlds is intensively studied Tempunauts" even studies reliving the present - + "impostor" + "Ant" study fake memories + self-programmed worlds. indeed there is eine Geschichte related in my writing, + if you read it all you get the one full story - which [even I writing sequentially, didn't conscauish remember (i.e. understand]. pot Healer" adds - helps explicate -Ubik. Each book + story sheds explanatory light on the others - each book helps explain the others! If you don't understand "Tears" read "MITHC" etc. Each is a piece in the puzzle. unsertive take world s a s of prime (real world "Black Iron Prison" - finally transmuted to the park Garden world in "Deus Irae" scanner" holds an interesting position of giving a non-fiction actual scientific as to how we could possibly perceive 2 different worlds. Jeter says of it, "only the deranged in it see reality as it truly is" cf "time slip: one thing "Tears" says is that the epistomological issue over idios vs koinos is rendered moot or at least seconder to the embrace of love as expresed at the end of the book. N all there instances I've found of "divine" (Logos or Gnostic] truths (material) inserting in my writing - it's not inserted; this is just one elongated instance of the natural process of the orthogonal koinos thrusting up from withing below, such books as "Ubik" being both instances of + accounts about the upward thristing which is going on - for me, the supreme moment arriving in 3/74: with my 5th chakra temporarily opened I could see it all going on: the real world transmuting this by abolishing the illusory (evil) + substituting the real (good). Evil is destroyed by renderely it illusory + hence abolishing if thereby Had my 3-74 experience occurse, I might suppose my 26 year writing - theme to be vain, empty + foolich. I now for the first time see my writing as half I + my 3-74 experience as half II of a total experience: a surmise + search - then, abruptly, a finding, as the veil lifted (even though briefly). What happened in 3-74 was that the real, the thrusting - therech world which I intuited, proved actually to be there, + not only that, to be accessible (under certain circumstances); not only could it be looked for, it could be found. Rome c AD 70 was nothing more or less than the persus + of "Maze." + this linear time world of 1974/9 AD proved to be nothing more than such pseudo worlds, taken to be real, as in "Ubik" "Joint," + "Maze" + "3 Stigmata." Yet, it has taken me literally years since 3-74 to see that as persusa is to Delmak-O, Rome c AD 70 is to us AD 1974. I never anticipated such a tremendous pay off (breakthrough), despite the fact that the corpus of my writing is a map, an analysis, + a guide. The 26years