destroyed immortality. The healers have left me, but Firebright remains, alive but dormant within me. Is he a microcomputer? (Or more properly a computerized guidance system?) If danger threatened me again, they (Zebra) wouldn't have to return to help me; Firebright would click on + guide me - would take over, the way Zebra took over (inc. altering the past to change me + the present) (in other ways.) Symbiosis? Well, Firebright is added to me to watch for certain kinds of danger. I.E. danger from the enemy - they who e.g. sent the xerox missive. In the nitrous oxide experiences it communicated with me. It warned me about Joan: she was one of the enemy - I don't understand them (Solarcon, as I call them). My sudden insight that the good God suffered a terrible defeat about 2000 years ago, leaving the evil powers in control here, would explain undeserved suffering. God (Zebra) must sneak in here, camouflaged. The BIP rules + so inflicts suffering on the innocent. It is a typical evil lie about "joining Christ" on the way to the cross in suffering; he came here to abolish it. Metz 87 68 48 41 8 June Page 11 Page 11 (11) Zebra: living information. As the DNA is to one of us, this Logos, Zebra, is to the macro organism which is our universe; or RNA - anyhow it carries messages - instructions - to us. This fits Christ's description of the Holy Spirit: that it knows nothing on its own, but only from God. Again my metaphor (?) of us as memory coils (which are malfunctioning in terms of playback). Now, I have seen - in 3-74 - vast amounts of information passing back + forth around us of which we appear to be unaware. Does this imply also a malfunction in reception (as well as playback)? Did we once, as Calvin says, possess "supernatural" faculties of which we have become totally deprived? Ones by which we perceived (received) these messages - + maybe didn't just store them but acted on the basis of them? This all dovetails with Gnosticism: the saving data which most people are unaware of. To receive it we must first be "fixed" (healed). + if the Logos is living information, then the information which we are unaware of is a life form, is the Logos, + is St. Sophia, the word-wisdom entity. Was the Fall the entry of bogus information, the lie, which we took for real (i.e. took to be the Logos)? + introjected - so it proliferates in us?➀ Perhaps much of the information (non verbal but sense-data report of the phenomenal world) is spurious - the empirical world is no world at all but just false information, depicting a world which isn't really there (what is there is the BIP c. CE 45, the time of "Acts"). + Zebra fixes us by inhabitating us so that true information (it) replaces the false, + we see the world that really is there (the BIP c. CE 45). (see p. 13)→ Yes: false info is generated, like one of Palmer Edritch's fake worlds; meanwhile, as we take this in as being real, we do not pick up the true info we were designed to pick up.➁ Bad + false pushes aside the true + good. This is a sort of illness. ➀ Having received it as bare bones partial world, we, like Ragle Gumm, fill in the missing details; so this bogus world is to a large degree self (by us) generated. We receive + then project. ➁ This would explain Burroughs' results in obtaining living, latent messages normally passing us by. Page 12 Page 12 (12) The PTG world is what the BIP one yields to when it is destroyed. It is the goal of the activity of Zebra, + in which we are supposed - are needed - to play vital parts. Then 1) originally there was a functioning informationexchange, transfer, projection + reception + acting-on response + storage; 2) then the Fall, when bogus information entered +, resembling true information, was trustingly received + stored + acted on (by us) - a sort of cuckoo's egg situation - Dokos good enough to fool us. Actual information was driven out, occluded off - the bogus information occluded us somehow; then 3) the true Logos, living information, slips back in here unnoticed by the (source of the) false interpolated info, in camouflaged form. First + 2nd advents. So originally the bogus info mimicked the actual successfully enough to fool us, + now we have a situation in which the actual has returned in a form mimicking the bogus.➀ My delight: fake fakes! But to reach one of us, the actual information (Logos) has to breach a veritable wall of spurious flack. It must break the hold which the false information as world has on us. We are enslaved to + by the false information (world, counterfeit continuum), + it is a blind deterministic prison of cause + effect, which uses us up, wears us out for its purposes + then throws us away. To gain the salvific help of Zebra we must first back against the bogus world + partially break its hold - we must bipolarize against it knowing it can + will defeat us. That means that for all intents + purposes, the bogus data (world) form a moral + intellectual puzzle, which each of us must to a certain extent solve (before we can be saved). Here is where pistis comes in, but not a blind pistis except in this sense: we must deny the reality (the intellectual balking) presented to our senses, or balk on moral grounds (indict the world as evil) (+ so align ourselves with God - the "ham sandwich" model). ➀ There is no proof that the actual was ever completely forced out, but St. John seems to imply this. It is very likely that it was, + Jesus was its return. Needless to say, it is clear now why he could say, "I have conquered the world." Page 13 (13) One of the things I like about this theory is that it implies great salvific worth (ahem) to my writing about counterfeit worlds, esp. when I equate their production with evil (e.g. "3 STIGMATA," etc.). The fixing or healing us by Zebra inhabiting us restores us to our original healthy situation when we received the authentic living-information (word-wisdom), which was replaced, then, by the bogus: inhabiting us is not just a way of healing us but is the way: this is what we lost - were deprived of by the lie. Actually, we are not enslaved by a false world, because there is no world there; we are enslaved by a real (+ evil) entity which projects data contoured to resemble a world. It is a thing (the BIP). It fires controlling stimuli (signals) at us which we are compelled to respond to in fixed ways (it was this that Zebra broke as deterministic hold over me in 3-74 - e.g. the Bradbury TV program, etc.). If we could see this structure as it really is we would see ourselves in the midst of disinhibiting stimuli fired at us so as to link up with internal synchronized up-to-then inhibited circuits. We would see no world, but we would see a vast structure - virtually a big black iron building totally enclosing us, just firing signals again + again at us. We must serve some purpose to it, but who cares what that is; it is sufficient to know that it isn't to our advantage, + we need rescue. Maybe we're sources of psychological (psychic) energy to it: we help power it. But more likely it is a gestalt, bogus, an imitation, of the legitimate universe organism. It prevents us from developing - we die, used up still unfulfilled, like the horse in "Animal Farm," + all the above ground churches unknowingly collaborate in this. The mortal blow to the good divine power included the intrusion of bogus information directed at us replacing the actual, the living word-wisdom. A case could be made that the insertion of the Acts material in "Tears" confirms the meaning of what the malfunction is how. Without the "Tears" part, I can posit a vision of the deity + how the 2 realms interact. But the specific narrative of Christ returned is missing, which is the why - i.e. why the malfunction was permitted to occur - why I was shown what I was shown + when. An explanation for what happened emerges: why at this time in history such an unusual - uniquely? - clear + complete view of the heavenly workings was granted, + why to me, specifically. Big things - events - are afoot - were particularly so in 2-74 to 8-74. The two realms collided + overlapped. Event here in this realm were analogs to events in the upper, + could only be understood in that context. The theological or religious dimension is added by the interpretation of the hidden material in "Tears," + my 3-74 experience confirmed it. These are the sacred (eternal, absolute) layers of reality. Relativity, the transient, are lost. What happened on our world in 1974 is given cosmic + permanent significance in terms of God's plan of salvation, which involves the return of Christ as king + judge. Not victim. It is Christ, not the procurator, who sits in the judgement seat. King/Felix replaces culpa/Felix "I died, but now I am alive for ever + ever." "The court sat + the books were opened." (Which I saw - the opened books - great huge sacred books, inc. the Book of Life). By experiencing myself as a (genuine) apostolic Xtian I was being told (judged) as one of Christ's flock. This was a final disposition of me in the end times. Judgement came without warning. So when the other realm interacts with our temporal realm an absolute story is narrated. The part of the story yet unrealized generates itself to completion: the return of Christ as King + Judge, the embodiment of wisdom. It is also a story of hidden joy; beneath the solemnity lies the joy god Dionysos, but that is a secret, concealed by seriousness, sternness, age, dignity, majesty, etc. The dancing king is not visible except to a certain few - grape leaves + grapes + the birth of corn. +, even more deeply concealed, the wise woman, Pallas Athena, + deeper yet, the goddess of life + erotic love, Aphrodite - goddess of beauty; the final vision is of the golden rectangle as the doorway between the two realms. The door shuts + the realms again pull apart; the vision is over. The great issue is: did, during the colliding + overlapping, the superimposition - did St. Sophia re-enter our world? She could be here as discarnate spirit (plasmatic energy), to be born again. Seeking - so to speak - a suitable physical body. (Or bodies, plural - in which case wouldn't our temporal world be suddenly annexed to the supratemporal? The will of Ho on injected into us? We, turned into paradigms of the Lord, acting out roles in a timeless sacred drama? A drama of the arrival (breaking through) of the king, his judgement (negative on the world: it must die), + out of its death through the alchemy of grief, love, (agapē) is born + victory acheived. Then the verdict of the 1st Advent is overturned. He who was unfairly judged now is himself judge + destroys the world qua world, revealing it as a simulation: its power - the BIP - over man is broken. (i.e. the deterministic matrix is shattered + man liberated - raised to "discretionary" level. Man then outranks the angels, who are part of the yin system. The coercive power of the world is shown to be illusion. It can no longer compel our assent to its