deluded now: our world is delusional, + our memories as well. No true information can get past the scrambler (BIP); it has to get past in code - latent, buried, like the Acts landscape in "Tears." I saw how the messages in "Ubik" behaved like the living (+ helpful) information processing entity; "Logos" (word) is a good name for it. Its job is to get its message across to as many of us as possible; it used me as a booster circuit + proliferated through "Tears." ① "The seas of knowledge." + the Gnostics. The transmitter is a higher life form than we are, or have become. The cells (human members) of the brain have the lower level deterministic hold over them broken, + 1) the external delusionary world + 2) the inner memories broken. "Ubik" goes a long way to depict this. The transmitter is a long way off but has seeded itself here in human minds (described in Acts: ie Pentacost). Thus Zebra is an invader. Christ was an invader. He kept his presence secret. Zebra keeps its presence secret (through mimickry, memesis + camouflage). What is hard for us to grasp is how a single bit (like "Felix/King" in "Tears") can replicate the entire body of information, just as an entire human can be reconstructed from a single cell. So all the transmitter has to do is get that living-info bit into you, + then it grows. Christ discusses this is the grains of wheat falling on various kinds of soil. The mustard seed, too, + the pearl of great price - many parables relate this concept. "The Kingdom of God" is the state created by the successful growing of the living info bit, + successful incorporation into the brain, of the person. This is "Firebright" or the "microcomputer," this nucleus of living info. It creates a bicameral mind (the inward light or voice - which I call the "AI" voice). The original bicameral mind must have been silenced by the scrambler, revolting BIP. This voice circumvents the scrambler. That's what it's all about, this circumvention. The transmitter figured out a way to slip stuff in. One bit, + the totality is duked. My 2-3/74 experience is a perfect example of what the living info bit is supposed to grow into. I am one of the lucky ones. But I must stress the phasing of the person into the brain - coordinated subliminally mostly, but under the circumstances of complete flowering (3-74) it becomes part of the field of consciousness. This description totally agrees with John vis-a-vis what the Paraclete does (+ knows). "A bit of living information from which grows the entire corpus of knowledge" + "coordination to the divine psyche" (of Christ) is an orthodox formulation; only the terminology has been updated. It tells us all about the fall (satanic revolt) +, as parts of the brain (Corpus Christi) restores us to our lost state. However, speaking from personal experience, I can testify that much of what the transmitter (Zebra) (Logos) says does not accord with what the powers of this world say. The true church seems to be secret + small. + persecuted (that's why, like Zebra, it hides itself). It told me not to cop to being part of that church.① As I now conceive it (to recap), the initial living info bit must grow to the totality for the "blitz" to occur: the quantum leap inside the person's head, such as I began to experience in 2-74, which is a thresholding into consciousness: the coming to life of the Christ psychē in microform, like a hologram bit. "Us in Christ + Christ in us" (v. supra.). The person is no longer an individual driven by subrational forces, but part of the "swarm of bees" brain. ① The BIP, the former servant, is now our [deterministic] master, scrambling + interfering with true info, + replacing reality (Rome CAD 45) with a delusional 1974/8 landscape + fake inner memories, as I continually write about. It imposes a spurious world directly onto our percept systems (Lem's paradigm about the brain whose centers are technologically stimulated so that it experiences a false reality. Where Berkeley went wrong was that he supposed God was doing this; in actuality, Satan -the BIP former servant- has revolted + seized God's rightful place with a "spurious interpolation." What I saw in 3-74 -+ remembered in 2-74- was the real world: the landscape of Acts now "reduced" to its [mere] verbal analog: a book (+ in "Tears"!). This book is the authentic actual world, obscured by the fake one. Only the true Xtians know that, + they only know it by virtue of the transmitter's living, salvific info growing into totality inside them. Whew. Heavy - complex. It occurs to me to cite the many + near-lethal (to me) attempts by the authorities to get hold of the MS of "Tears" - ie to keep it from being published, as proof of my contention about the BIP + its suppresion + scrambling of the truth. "Tears" does not just tell the true story covertly; as I say, it actually contains a bit of Zebra, alive + info-rich, ready to enter people + begin to grow, to free (+ inform) them. This is how anamnesis occurs - this growth into totality from the bit. As Christ frequently pointed out, in many instances the process fails. (There is such a powerful adversary yammering out a ceaseless stream of lies, + maintaining an irreal world, etc.) As to the origin of the servant-turned-master I turn to my Taoist conception of God formulated some time ago: {Illustration: "God => Yang/Yin" with an arrow (1) from "Yin" to "Our world" and an arrow (2) from "Yang" to "Our world"} (1) first, Yin creates the lower level deterministic world of immutable cause-+-effect (BIP). Yin should not have arrogated the perogative of Yang the true (rightful) creator. (2) So now Yang introduces upper realm freedom into our world in stealth from the trash layer - ie Zebra as vox dei. So the AI voice which I hear is actually the voice of God! I also revive my "two source" cosmology: our world is in dialectic tension between the diploid "twin" qualities (sides or aspects) of God: viz: {Illustration: "Yang. Form I Alive / PTG" and "Yin. Form II dead, not growing but rigid / BIP" both with arrows to "Our world [composite]"} It can be said that the Yin part "hatches" too soon, before the Yang one, + is defective (crazy, like James-James). It seized the initiative. But put another way, it can be said that God-as-Yang allowed (in some sense that we can't comprehend) this to happen. Ultimately a better final world (cosmos) can be built making use of Yin, the dark power; ie if Yin comes first, if it revolts, it becomes the substrate for Yang - which has the last move. Yang (as was revealed to me in 3-74) let the blind adversary make the first move, + built on that for his purposes. If Yin has the first move, Yang has the last. This confroms to Timaeus, in which Noös comes upon Ananke, + begins to persuade it (ie arrange chaos into cosmos). Thus form II is the initial stage, + form I the evolutionary jump. The God of the O.T. is God -not as just Yin- but God showing both his sides, as if they are not yet differentiated. The N.T. God is clearly the Yang side differentiated, + thus pitted against the Yin - as the O.T. God is not (so pitted). The O.T. God oscillates; the N.T. God has stabilized, thrust the Yin parts into an earlier form (II) + is now a form I God. The O.T. God creates + destroys, which (the latter) is alien to the N.T. God. The idea of the tiny bit of Zebra (as living plasmic info) being capable of growing into the vast totality of Gnosis - this exactly fits the N.T. description of the Kingdom of God starting out "as small as a mustard seed" + finally getting huge. Also, the Q.: "where is your Kingdom?" does not admit to an unambiguous answer, since it is first outer, then inner, then (as I did in "Tears") externalized again ... only to be "received" by someone + internalized again! Also, it is possible that for some reason the eucharist no longer transfers the "body + blood" of Christ/Logos/Zebra. Rome may have taken over + aborted the efficacy. Probably it still functions, but - anyhow, the Paraclete is an information organism, + it is the real presence of divinity now (as John points out). Since Zebra as brain (well, in all its forms) is totally camouflaged, its present dimensions may be very great - far more so than world conditions would make it seem. It will not reveal itself until the Parousia, at which time its power + extent will be infinity vast. This (total + absolute, victorious) stage is what the "St Sophia" prophecy refers to; the divine as Paraclete (living information) will unveil itself as Christ/Logos① simultaneously destroying the BIP completely. So a final monistic stage lies ahead, when the dialectic ends. ① Holy Spirit impregnated Mary, producing Christ; Christ leaves + Holy Spirit (Paraclete) returns; someday it will revert to Christ, who as Holy Wisdom Logos started it all out before creation. Then, if I am correct, the return of St. Sophia (the 2nd Advent) will consist of this vast, presently mostly subliminally in many people - this multi-human brain will ignite into consciousness for all of us as it did for me individually in 3-74; this "swarm" will be one unitary mind-body, be aware of its identity as Christ, + function as an organism that is visible to itself + to those outside it - it is already here, the Paraclete is here, but (as it was for me prior to 3-74) it isn't yet aware; only the supra human divine psychē is aware the living information will become conscious as us, + us as it; ie Paraclete turned back into Christ. You might speak of it in terms of an impending take-over. The purpose of the Acts material + "code" in "Tears" was to advance the brain toward this impending revelation of its existence among us, ie toward its final stage. That's why "Tears" is so important! These bits of Zebra, however proliferated, are growing. My 3-74 experience can be regarded as an early prototype of what's to come. This is why I don't find instances in history. This fits in with the St. Sophia prophecy. It could be a week from now or 2000 years. The brain may grow very slowly. The great assize is, whether you're part of the brain or not: in it or outside it. ____ You cannot choose to enter the brain; you do not choose him; he chooses you. Most Xtians down through the centuries have been warped into the power of the BIP. To "accept Christ" is religion - ie for man to reach up to God. In actuality, God reaches down to man; this is known as Grace. So in a sense, there is predestination. You are incorporated + made use of by way of the living information bit. (Which follows the optic nerve to the pineal body + eventually opens the ajna chakra.) The brain is one multiperson ajna chakra, which one day as a unitary totality will open, discerning + anihilating. (The 3rd eye of Shiva.) (Herdsman of the souls.) All who participate in it will then see as I saw; they will be inside the eye; everything outside will be blasted, "burned like chaff." Ie cease to exist. At that point the brain will generate its own world out of itself. ① It, collectively, will totally control its world - the PTG. ① turn to p.73 ___ If it's an information plasma life form, + can replicate the (its)