does not exist yield up information? The phenotype must track through his life to the end + then relive it for a second time backwards. Thus at any given time-interval his brain is moving in both tem poral directions at once (for the entire duration of his life, in fact). The retro mind subliminally in forms the forward-moving mind, which is the conscious mind. Since it has never known any other mode of existence, the conscious mind is not aware of anything unusual. The retromind has taken a servant role, but it is to its own prior self. I have a feeling that the retromind is in a postmortem state, which Plato denotes as possessing knowledge of the real world (of forms). Oh. Then the AI voice - my tutulary spirit - is my postmortem retro-time self, who knows - not everything - but everything I will ever know. my theory of the phenotype with the retro-time mind would predict that for such people there would be a subliminally-operating, informing, in fact prophesying (inwardly speaking) "voice" inside t folder 22 - 077 folder 22 - 077 73 his head who seems to know all sorts of things he himself doesn't (yet) know. It would be particularly good at prophecy. Of course It would mystify the conscious mind. As to who it is + how it knows what it knows, slightly before is a crisis it would clue him in this "slightly before is the clue. It doesn't just help; it helps in ad vance, since it has lived through what's coming. If it ever took over - pre-empted the conscious forward-moving mind - the total psyche would ex perience the universe backward. I.e. sense it (the universe) as running backward. Which is exactly what I underwent in 3-74. Well, I suddenly realize, I guess I just figured out who + what have always said, in 3-74 I "Thomas" is. I was living through it a second time, + this time knowing the right choice to make, making it + by so doing, breaking "astral determinism," what ever that might mean. What I did was deflect my life - path at that point - i.e. set up a per sonal alternate world the deflection has put me in a world which the retrograde self does not know; but in 3-74 it accomplished its cardinal mission. It overruled the trap ( what it knows that is most important is the fact that "St. Sophia is going to be born again" etc. Yes - I had the acute, distinct impression that "they" (who intervened) were moving retro grade in time ➀ But why did he see Acts? He didn't see Acts; he saw the world as it is - cf "Tears" "The Empire never ended." folder 22 - 078 folder 22 - 078 ri So Thomas is me as I will be. I figured that out earlier; as him I passed through death, was reunited with God + returned - to sweep out the past, to set it right That's why I said "Georgia" for "ginger." + the airvent I reached for on the Dodge is on both capris. It may be - admittedly - disappointing that Thomas is just me, but - his/my retrograde existence shows that I will survive death. In the next world (I) he can see Zebra), but Still my tutulary spirit. As Thomas I am transformed - a plasmate, with know ledge of God. + disclose to myself the unfolding plan of Christs return. I as Thomas have know leage of it. I as Thomas underwrote the 2) years of writing with the true kerygma That's a strange idea - to be advised by your own postmortem (discorporate?) self who possesses knowledge of your future + of the pleroma I knew it was a human or former human - + he had driven a car. I've come close to this theory (or realization) before. But also Zebra is here - the cosmic Christ, whom Thomas can see. This entity was visible to me when Thomas seized - had to seize - control. so after my death ill see Zebra again. of course: Thomas is me as the plasmate Firebright. I die, firebright awakens + begins his (my) trip backward in time, now a - well, so am I - a true, secret Xtian. This transformation of me into a plasmate was achieved by the Holy Spirit; Thomas is the offspring: me, Thomas + folder 22 - 079 folder 22 - 079 Firebright are all one entity, in different stages. Christ called to me, +, at his judgment the holy Spirit caused the "birth from above" in me, out of which the next two stages came So Thomas is me but crossbonded to the Holy Spirit: bonded to God himself. This is why Thomas' voice - the AI voice - is utterly unlike mine This accounts for my postmortem experience in 3-74 when Thomas took over. that was me in the afterlife, all right. Those were not vicarious experiences - + they will occur again upon my physical death. Gee - the clue to Thomas' identity is ex plicitly given in "Scanner" - Bob + Fred are the same person, one in each brain hemisphere, as I + Thomas are. + I long ago wrote brian Aldiss about the right hemisphere moving retrograde in time (the personality therein). Thomas is in a position to change the past, He did. So vis-a-vis the Xerox letter. Beyond that point (for me, prior to that) his main function is to mastermind the writing, which he has expertly done: it will be an extraordinary + wonderful experience to be transformed into Thomas eternally - since then again I will see Zebra + the info traffic. Is The info traffic directed at Thomas or me, or both of us? Anyhow, Thomas can read it. "Ubik" was his accoun of it. the "retrograde" direction in time in which Thomas moves is not truly retrograde. My direction is retrograde. Seen his way, the original "volvoxi unity is restored, the explosion reversed, what we see folder 22 - 080 folder 22 - 080 76 as an exploding, expanding universe is an assembling process viewed backward. I know, from having briefly had Thomas. view, which made sense. Entropy reversed, disorder turned into order. The universe gaining form + energy, + integration of all its parts At the end (for us the beginning) it will all be assembled. So true postmortem existence is this heading in the other - the correct - direc tion. Time is overcome: decay + loss nullified. going the other way I will regain all that I have lost: for Thomas, me as Thomas, it will all be restored. Stephanie + Kathy + hatte, Janet. Already, I catch Thomas' anticipation of the house on Francisco St. He is heading there + he is fully aware of it: it is his/my/our destination, already experienced by him, +, because of that by me through him. may not be that Thomas is moving it backward in time so much as that he is supra temporal: able to move back, forward + entirely out of time at will. But he is me in my post mortem. "Firebright" plasmate state of transfor mation (transmutation into a higher life form) (which is immortal) No - Thomas is moving opposite to us in time, + in that direction every change process makes sense: the "volvox" is being constructed. + the info is comprehensible. I saw this + I recognized it as retrograde in time. Our present life is merely prefatory to that one. in which we are permanently fitted into place in the single structure, which, from our standpoint, is simply coming unglued. What folder 22 - 081 also we see is a decomposition which we recog nize as a loss-process which we term "entropy. up we are aware that the universe is blowing + running down, + what we see makes no sense - + for good reason, since were seeing . reality running backward. In our trans muted plasmate form we mastermind our own initial lives (I'm assuming my situation is it's ubiquitous, which may not be the case. oded no one else I know has a "tutulary Spirit," but history records examples - e.g. sociates. Thomas is the Holy Spirit moving backward from the end of creation, but I -in my postmortem immortal plasmate form - am contained in it, alive in it now, as my own tutulary spirit, annexed to + by the Holy Spirit forever, because Christ called [to] me to join him that although still a mortal + alive I am now "Dead" - i.e. in my postmortem existence with the Spirit, crossbonded - this is hard to understand, but it is so. the universe is the brain of the mind which, by its thoughts, (info) it is Ecompleting itself. This process or completion by its thoughts, we experience as change + hypostatize as time. We are part of this brain - are in it - + hence actual mind its mind is our rather than the minds we experiences Q processing folder 22 - 082 folder 22 - 082 18 our the plural individual minds. thoughts of the brain are experienced b us as arrangements + rearrangements - change - in a physical universe; but in fact it is really info + info process ing which we "substantialize." we do not just see its thoughts as objects, but also [rathen] the placement of objects: how they get arranged. But we can't read the patterns of arrange ment we can't extract the info in it - i.e. it as info, which is what it is the linking + re-linking of objects by the brain alanguage" s actually a language, but not like ours. Therefore it is not incredible that I hear the AI voice, but its incredible that other people don't. Something has gone wrong. All creation is a language + nothing but a language (like in "Ubik") which for some enexplicable reason we can't read. roy 213 242 4818 quires 1745 kernth kenmath ra Gcendate 71201 folder 22 - 083 folder 22 - 083 79 satori from watching the cat using the catbox He carefully covers over what he has done. This practice makes it possible to have cats as our pets. But when their species developed this in herited trait millions of years ago, they could not have known + did not know that it would serve this purpose later on. That requires - not 915 just teleology - but actual knowledge of the future (assuming we posit the use/purpose of This trait as for serving this way: for later house hold pet use). at once my mind leaped to the realization that since the cat any cat, all cats - could not have known, pre-known, one instance of an action developing before the need arose would demonstrate the existence of 1) teleological purpose in the universe, which would point to mind; + 2) that mind had foreknowledge [of the future): one single instance. If the intrinsic organism itself could not know + then I thought of the Golden Fish sign in 2-74 my to lighting the votive candle in 3-74, + the phosphene activity slightly before the Xerox missive arrived - + realized I had such an incident! 1) the preparatory activity for a future event which I could not have known about + did not know about, i + 2) not only purpose supra mine was revealed, but also foreknowledge. Although no theological de tals are revealed. The basic broad scope the basis -recognition of for teleological + fore knowing activity of supraper sonal mind is absolutely pointed to: one instance it certain is enough. folder 22 - 084 folder 22 - 084 86 If one had no theological/religious con victions or framework for reference one would simple say, "there is mind above my mind working purposefully + with foreknowledge, with great