But now, thinking about what Bruno taught (+: "...the religious perience of the Hermetic Gnostic consisted in reflecting the universe within his own mind or memory.. (he) believed that man's mens was in itself divine + there‐ fore able to reflect the divine mind behind the universe. In Bruno, the cultivation of world- reflecting Magic memory becomes the technigue for achieving the personality of a Magus... etc. "Magus," although meaning magician also may mean something akin to our word "scientist" as contrasted to "priest.") - Consider What is said about the Hermetic Gnostic (presumably of the ancient world: Hermes Tristigistos) - what is meant by "reflect"? Anyhow, putting this material about the Hermetics + Bruno together with my view of Christ, we are forced to conclude that Christ was successfully what the Hermetics + Bruno strove for, whether they realized it or not. Anamnesis Then is a containing of the totality of the urgrund, an analog, microformed, of everything in it. My guess is that it is the "magnetized iron oxide tape" sort of memory, a true capturing of what it remembers out of which that which is remembered can - in anam nesis- be said to exist or live [again] here, not there, small, not large 118 This is close to but not identical to the doctrine of the "divine spark" or "piece of the divine" within: This is the whole divine but - well, is it reduced in size? It's not a physical entity. There is my error in logic: I'm treating it as material, hence I speak of it as small. But my own experience in 3-74 - all the categories of time + space were abolished: I experienced huge spaces (the abyss?) + 1000s of years! By all means, that experience of vast extents of space + time Were the most startling aspect of it, the most awesome (except for the encounter with the Godhead itself, of o course) to reflect the divine mind behind the universe. In your own is mind/memory - I take this to mean that the "divine Mind behind the universe" was thereby "in" the person. I am now getting the material I've sought for for four years. "The religious experience of the Hermetic Gnostic." + I kept dreaming about mercury (i.e. Hermes in terms of Paracelsian alchemy + cosmogony). I offer the following proposition: that all adepts. be they authentic Christian, Hermetic, Orphic, alchemist tapped (i.e. became or became a part of) one specificn vast supramens, +, in it. There was an "inter penetration of [then] souls." + this mind extends over thousands of years, all of which is now - + all places are here (that's why I found myself in Rome cAD 70 + in Syria, + saw The Aphrodite, sland, etc.). 119 I base this on (Bruno's + Parmenides] (the) concept that the urgrund is one: it is not polyencephalic in terms of a plurality of some kind. So here is an even deeper secret than the. uncovered so far. Projected delusional world - divine stratum beneath it - time travel - now I posit an augmented corpus Christi (my model all along). spanning all time + all space; i.e. ubiquitous (in time + space). It sounds like Xenophane's Noos, with this added: living men can participate in that Noos. + this Noos is the secret ruler of the world, so that those who are taken into it become "terminals" of it - i.e. temporarily Christs This would explain my 3-74 experience. My case may have been unusual; "they" sought me out. Is this mind, outside of time + space. God? In my opinion it is Holy Wisdom - i.e Christ. But Holy Wisdom conveys more, to me. It is possible that this mind is the sum total (+ No more) of all the "magi" throughout the ages, from all cultures, who have entered it: polyencephalic fusion extending back to Egypt. This is ZEBRA, the invisible gvide of history, unsuspected by those not in it. For me, it will always be primarily the corpus Christi, but probably it includes all wise men (e.g. Plato, Bruno, appolonics of yana, Asklepios, Irnaton, etc). This is quite some discovery. + it reaches over into the urgrund, with no clear demarkation. At that evel it's all one: man raised to Godhood, in response to 20 God descending to corporial manhood - the division between the 2 realms abolished (i.e by Christ, who could then work backward in time, to, say, the pre‐ Socratics + incorporate them - such as Empedocles). So those selected for inclusion into this Hagia Sophia - they are immortal! Paracelsus, Erasmus, Asklepios - no wonder I was confused as to who had "entered" my mind." Jim Pike was there, + so was tony Buucher: I guess many people would agree it exists after death, you can join it after death. But who is aware that + (for some) it can be joined before a person dies, +, when it does, it can become his psyche, determining his actions + doing his thinking - becoming the mind in his body? Thereby it enters human affairs (+ can modulate causal chains externally as well). My God - that means that the two realms heaven + Earth are not (any longer] divided! God's will is [now] exercised here. I wonder how long that's been so. Back again to the idea that 2or 3-74 was the Parousia! 121 A very difficult idea has come to me, difficult envision or express to our world + pons Dei foremost (after death)) world What makes up the Pons Dei? ( cwe livn our Deat t i.e. sgints God r ((Men. world t Magi Mace I In other words, the two realms, sublunar (our world) + the supra-lienar (heaven) are bridged by a polyencephalic mens which is heterogenous: the most startling part is that at our [sublunar] end certain wise men (magi) + saints participate In it, + at the other end, wise men + saints who have died (passed over to heaven or the supralunar) participate in it. The substantial structure is God-as-Holy-Spirit, bridging the two worlds. All right, the 2 worlds are bridged; we know that from the 1st Advent, + the appearance of the Paraclete (described in Acts). But that this spiritual mind or being could contain some living humans here, + some there who have died, as well as the God-component t Then I was in contact with Jim, Pinky, + tony This accounts for my postmortem experiences: I (solus) had not passed across, but a substantial part, even the greater part of that mind is on "the other side." imagine the subjective feelings of a living person taken over by that "pons Dei" mind! It would feel as if he had died + gone to heaven. God (the Abyus) would be there, So, too, would be dead friends of his. 122 + then, his sight enhanced by having been taken over by that mind, he sees it as a sentient externd entity mimicking objects + causal processes + affecting their outcome! An unbroken line of "Magi" have, while alive very secretly sought for -+ found- ways of entering this mind. It bestows absolute wisdom + immortality - the alchemists' goal! This is the rock-bottom secret goal + payoff of Xtianity, the Hermetics - the Mystery religions in general, the true acchemists, appolonius of tyanna, Simon Magus, Asklepios, Empedocles, para celsus, Bruno, etc. The link to the next world - i.e the Kingdom of God is participating in this polyence. phalic mind emanating from the other side. Its Wisdom works this way: the wise humans incorporated in it supply what they know, but a much greater knowledge that of Holy Wisdom (Christ) is exchanged back in response Now: let vs consider "Thomas. Although the Holy Spirit was involved, so was [at least] one specific human who had lived recently enough to drive a car + another specific human from the 1st century AD Rome. This is because this mens Dei includes good humans who have died, retaining their person alities + identies intact Erasmus could well have been one of them. Many do not join until after death. But I am positive that some living humans are involved; my own experience froves its 123 1) Living men of extraordinary wisdom +/or goodnesi 2) Dead men in is 3) The 2nd advocate, 4) Christ 5) God. In all, five palpable elements. But what is so extraordinary is the Pons effect - that God grants + has granted for some time to a few persons what amounts to a "bodily ascention" while still here "still alive). Certain men, including me, have not just c (sic) received the Holy Spirit but (for a time) were allowed - not to just see - but to mentally pass over into the next world. I am sure this was the esoteric goal - success. fully achieved - by Christ + the early Xtians "die Noch Keiner Kam Zerock" is wrong. But those whom entered this Pons Dei have kept their Mouthes shut about it. Gone over, + then returned with enormous, absolute knowledge, having seen things which as Paul said, "it would not be fitting to wrote about: not only is the existence of the afterlife proved. But a clear conception of it is obtained When you think about it, it makes sense. The pirit seizes you; its quelle is over there with God I Holy herefore you find yourself over there with God, the oly spirit, like or as Christ, spanned the 124. This is why Christ said "it is to your advantage that I leave," i.e. because then the 2nd advocate can come + do for the 12 what the incarnated Christ s could not do: take them across The "Kingdom of heaven" is on the other side. Since the Pons Dei is transtemporal, once init, you would see thousands of years evolve throug their change-processes, at a single glance, like stop action photography. How clearly I remember that! + the platonic forms becoming visible. + ZEBRA visible, too, what secrets, what Gnosis! But oh - the road to tribulation that brought me to that - to that day in 2-74 when the girl came to the door with the good news in "signal" form: the announcement which I, all my life, had been waiting tor... so I could at last throw off my partial identity + emerge to do what I was sent to do. There are two aspects to the "bending" (modulating) of causal processes by ZEBRA that I saw: 1) It caused me to wonder if perhaps our reality is in some literal way "projected"; it would have to be -i.e. be less than ontologically substantial; +: 2) that a very intelligent life form knows this + [hence] also knows how to "bend," "modulate, or "manipolate it. So I didn't merely discover either (1) that our world is irreal - which I've long suspected (those miracles were proof of my long-term suspicions) but also ➁2); something t someone, not human, knows this + knows how to invisibly infiltrate it + control it - + this I had not ever suspected - although given ➀1 as a pemise one might conjectured the existence of ➁). 125 It may well be that my long-term suspicions about (1 enabled me to - unexpectedly - see not only it but ➁ as well. After all, in much of my writing (e.g. 3 Stigmata) the irreal world is manipulated by some sentient entity - this is the vulnerability of a merely projected world. + it is not just the maker of it that can "bend" it obviously. Did I not at last see (grast) ZEBRA as an invader, utalizing memesis? the "bending" could be "futuristic" technology. or world as expression (soma) of God's psyche - or of Noos: the bending was merely thought (+ that which "bent" was in me, too "bending" me from within as well as