on page 30 is based on my own, as is the scene with Dr, Abernathy which begins on page 177, During my own experiences I was shown two worlds of unchange lying hidden beneath the veil ("Dokos" in Greek) that obscures reality; one of the visions was cf the iron Empire which is Rome, mentioned in the book of Daniel and in Revelation, and the other was the Holy Land or Garden of palm trees which Dr. Abernathy sees. At the time I saw them I was almost totally unfamiliar with the Bible, and did not recognize the Iron Empire as that which the two Biblical prophets saw. However, I did recognize the pastoral kingdom of the palm trees for what it was; it was the last thing shown me, and I walked about in it for several hours, enjoying it exactly as Dr. Abernathy does in DEUS IRAE. Evidently what I had been shown was, first, a vision of the obscure oppression dominating us, which God is relieving us of through the intervention of Christ, and then, second, the world which is to come when that obscure domination of evil is removed. The similarity to the Garden of Eden is obvious, but my vision pointed to the future, not the past — although in the hypertime or orthogonal time into which I had been taken the past and the future are the same; things do not cease to be, they only pass out of our sight (this was one of the mysteries which was revealed to me). Another mystery revealed to me, most vastly fascinating, was the continual game between the Wise Kind and the Dark Counterplayer, out of whose plays against each other all change comes The Dark Counterplayer has immense physical power, but it is blind; the Wise Hind sees everything, past present and future, and knows exactly how to play its hand. The goal of the game is a contest for the souls of living creatures; when the Wise (or Good) Mind acquires them —and it wins every trick-- they are, in the popular language of Christianity saved. It was made clear to me that in spite of the enormous power of the Dark Counterplayer, it never wins a trick; i.e. a living soul. We are sought for by the God of life, and he never lets us go. Whatever temporary circumstances seem to prevail, the God of Life, through his agents, always wins. By the absolute wisdom of his thoughts he is able to load the Dark Counterplayer into assisting in Sin evolving universe, playing an unwilling part in the continual creation which the logos is furiously weaving. The colors of the logos are red and gold. The color ox the Savior is blue. But all three members of the Trinity are one; they simply display one aspect at a time, with the other two always present. I saw this as the greatest mystery of all. And, I think, the most beautiful.