come at which it will cease to mimic + will separate itself from the ground via theolepsy + therefore theophany. Implicit in all this is the gradual phasing out or retirement of our holoverse + a return to the one, our true home. It is an evolutionary step, then, this point in a human's life when he is ready for 1) ZEBRA to disclose itself to him + 2) when ZEBRA can first introduce the human to the One. The road to this is through human creativity, not human thinking (artificer rather than noös), in essence, the causing of something new to arise within the universe. The one is more an artificer that a mind. ZEBRA is a mind; the one creates (makes). But on an "is-ness" (essence) level the human being discovers that he is higher on the scale that his teacher, ZEBRA, The servant will again become the servant + the master (man) the master (God). [Diagram] (A) man unaware of ZEBRA + human its servant (B) man aware of ZEBRA + its friend or equal (C) man nearing his isomorphism to the one + hence superior to his teacher ZEBRA [/Diagram] In state (A) man is unaware of the ZEBRA component in his reality + that ZEBRA is his tutor, in (B) man is conscious of ZEBRA as equal. In (C), the goal, man shows flashes of his isomorphism with the One. Fri 5th May speak 3:30 St Louis (314) 364-5322 Eugene Warren If ZEBRA is true (intrinsically) set to ground then a dead landscape has a living grid (or 2nd landscape) superimposed over it, forming - together, the 2 - what we call reality. With what cosmology, science or religion does this fit in? None that I know, with the possible exception of Teilhard de Chardin's Cosmic Christ, (point omega), of course, it fits my adaptation of the McKennas' 2-source hologram universe. One issue should be considered: is there any way that - or any indication that - the background giving rise to the set? No, I don't think so. Form, inc. geometrical form seems imposed on the ground; the set is independent of the ground + affects it, not vice verse (it modulates it like artisan to his materials). ("the workman is invisible within the workshop.") Set is to ground as workman is to shop or materials - does this suppest that I saw the platonic forms? vs plastic or inert matter? Noös vs Ananke? Very possibly an incising. But also an ontological infusion of ground by set. If anything the ground was ground because it was the recipient of set. ---------- [Financial Notes] In rereading my artifact cosmogony cosmologya two source hologramatic world with the artificial equal to hyperuniverse II + the Urgrund I. The interesting thing is that the divine, in this model (equal to Form I) does not descend from above but instead thrusts up from the "trash" layers - + since it is sacred + divine, this is the least likely place you'd expect to find it: + yet this fits in with the kind of life Jesus led + the ragged folk he associated with; he lived in the "trash" (bottom) striation. [Diagram] Artifact → Our World ← Urgrund In this model, as in the McKennas' the world (ours) is irreal + general [/Diagram] By two antithetical entities: one alive, one dead. [Diagram] Urgrund → Artifact → World ← Urgrund The Urgrund seems to press at its enemy the Artifact on two sides, one of which [..] trans the artifact's spurious creation, our world [/Diagram] ---------- There is really no mystery as to the steganographic information in "Tears." The cat is out of the bag; it is really only 50 to 70 AD - i.e. the space - time of Acts. Nothing new is said (i.e that isn't in the Bible) - but the impression is conveyed that this recap implies (obviously) that we are victims of a vast forgery by the powers of delusion (i.e. the lie). At the end of time the true landscape reveals itself as having been there all the time: but we "fell asleep" as Christ exhorted us not to do. (v. "Maze"). As in "Ubik" the sacred power speaks to us in unexpected places + ways. The artifact programs us ruthlessly; the urgrund interrupts this hold (a hold that reduces us to unknowing puppets with an "Astral" or deterministic inner / outer script: the artifact reaches into our very brains, engramming, imprinting, managing). But if true antithetical dualism is involved, the urgrund is higher, but all appearances are inverted: the higher manifests itself in "chance" arrangements of [trans;] the servant holds sway in regal pomp, in loftiness, +, ultimately, in terms or coercive power. Thus it is called enslaving. We are acted on by the artifact, as thinking objects. To escape from the power of the artifact the merest balking or noncompliance is needed. But can one balk? Isn't its power absolute? There must be some kind of humbug in its evident coercive power; de facto, it must be possible, in practice, to balk. There is a secret here. It's absolute power is figured to balk, even once, is to interrupt - to throw out of kilter, its orderly programming ➀ - like an ad lib throwing off the prepared script. After that the "sound + picture" are out of synch. The vast web is disordered. Also, the balking summons the invisible ally, the Paraclete. Curiously, the indwelling spirit (Christ) has suggested the balking in the first place, which means that, when summoned by the act, the spirit (Christ) is coming to its own aid, passing from latent to full actualization. It is a sort of feedback; 1) spirit suggest balking 2) the person balks 3) spirit manifests itself palbably; i.e. it is born: the 2nd or spiritual or "from above" birth. ➀ Because to work at all, it's orderly programming must be total. It is almost as if the individual human has acted as an amplifying instrument for an initially very faint signal. [Diagram] Spirit signal, a feedback loop (human), amplified signal through feed back loop. For the human this reception + amplification shatters (interrupts) the artifact's rigid (ossified) programming which had enslaved him. The tiny, lovely voice speaks to him of resisting one time thus breaking the head. It resembles the snake whispering in Eden. All is the opposite of what it seems. The inner whisper speaks of rebellion against the vast power of it which loudly proclaims itself YHWH. The Gnostics were right: regarding the true deity, true God, we must read the OT backward. Are we to worship power per se, confusing might with the sacred? All that is colossal is fraud. Out of the rejected trash speaks the little sane clear voice. We can ignore it + worship power, but the irony is that the worship of power robs us of our own power; it is all arrogated by YHWH. To worship external power is to lose it for oneself. The disparity becomes absolute. Ho On was right, the humble pot is the true holy one. + then, too, there is the teaching aspect - + the lesson is this: not to yield to power per se, not to worship it because it can destroy you. That is a false god - the false god. New theory: the dream material + the Acts material in "Tears" was a red herring crypto message, designed to satisfy the search for a hidden message. It establishes Xtian orthodoxy. The real message was the single word "Felix" as one of its meanings (e.g. prosperous, lucky, or happy). I select "happy" because it is the exact opposite of the ostensible message of tears + sorrow (i.e. Pentheus, king of tears: the world power + evil one). This one word code is like the one number code in "The Unteleported Man"; it is not intrinsic. What it signifies, who put it there (+ the longer spurious "real message") + for whom it was intended I have no idea. The religious material may all have been a red herring, the dream material served to locate for the correct (proper) receiver the true coded message, as if saying, "the next word you read is the (true, coded) message." Thus the dream notifies the receiver that the actual message is coming (as Mark Roogna's letter notified me that the Xerox letter was coming). The dream sequence, like Roogna's letter was a "cocking" device. If you speed up the frames of a movie you see motion. Somehow I speeded up the frames of reality + saw motion: i.e. ZEBRA at work. My perceptions synchronize with it. (i.e. didn't lag.) Consider this model again: [Diagram] ➀Urgrund → ➁Artifact → ➂World ← ➀Urgrund That which is the summa, the absolute highest above even the creator (2- the Artifact) enters our world (universe) at its lowest stratum. So it is not just a case of "what is above is the same (i.e. material, below); if a case of finding in the absolute lowest that which is absolutely highest - + it is found either nowhere else (in our world) or to a lesser + lessoning extent, as 3) ascends to 2), where it is not met at all. Again, this fits absolutely in with the strategem in which Jesus operated at the final [advent] it was certainly true then - + my model explaining why. [..] urgrund is a "secret agent" in this world, disguised, hidden, lowerly. It does not lay down the laws of this world. But, rather, modulates them, altering their outcome: melting or bending them ever so slightly - in camouglage from (i.e. it, here). My great discovery or conception of it months ago was that ZEBRA was an invader here. Camouflaging "itself", mimicking, things + [..] lesser of this world. In addition, this world is irreal., a copy of a copy, whereas ZEBRA is real (i.e this ➀). The archetype projected by the artifact is the BIP - what I had assigned to [..] Universe II. But BIP concealed by "gingerbread" accretions of linear change layers. Actually, it projects a frozen ([..] or "android") (BIP) image. It (i.e the artifact) deceived us [as] to the true nature of this world of its; however the authentic Xtians know the truth of our action in overthrowing the [..] BIP image; in this struggle they are aided by ZEBRA, who is their head. ZEBRA must be the corpus Christ; + they [..] this invisible body. So the godhead is not just present in the lowly, by in the lowliest (of all, + for logical reasons). It is as portrayed in "Ubik" exactly. esp if you add the BIP world of "Tears." The old king breaks through from outside into the world of "Tears" exactly the way UBIK breaks through "from the other side" in "Ubik." In "Tears" the epiphany is at the all night gas station. [The] lowly and the humble, the zone of transacted business with the [truly] divine. The further up you go the farther you get from the [true] divine. This is not transcendent God (althought he, as ➀, exists there, too, nor is it immanent God: it is God as invader, carrying with him reality + the ability to see through into truth, [i.e. the] BIP, it is because of the BIP nature of the frozen image + how the God (ZEBRA) has come here. As in "Fidelio" it knocks [down] the gates from outside. Nor is it merely here helping us: it confronts the artifact face-to-face, like Leo Bolero confronting Palmer Eldritch the Lord of the enslaving delusional world. [In a] real sense, the Godhead attacks the artifact from below [..] creating it + giving it power (authority?) From above - so the ZEBRA salient here bypassing the artifact is a problem to sample + judge the artifact's world first-hand. It is a great mystery. Not solvable in our rational terms that the urgrund should create