him (sufficiently) can fail to give birth (a transformation into) him. I don't just know this from the book "myth + reality"; I experienced this miracle when the girl came to the door wearing the fish sigh; enough elements of the situation resembled Rome c AD70 [fr?] it (in sacred time / to be (esse) AD70! As a result of the archetype lying at the absolute deepest core of pain, there comes into a personal life, when he reaches that core, that his pain is, by holy miracle, inexplicably transmuted into joy. This is the heart of the Christian Mystery - + the heart of the issue, "where is our GOD? (deus absconditus) where can he be found?" Again: it is at the moment when the ultimate blow (of pain, murderous injury, humiliation + death) is struck, it is Christ who is there, replacing the [????] victim + taken the blow himself. This is what happened to me in 3-74. But the there is a further mystery here: it is not just Christ as surrogate instead, but Christ with in syzygy Thus at the ultimate abyss of pain, one experiences one's creator. This wisdom says, "I will accompany you down even into the psalms." There is by miracle both a with + an is + an instead of) to understand how with, is + in place of are all one is to understand the fundamental miracle of God. The Q: "Who is there when the blow comes cannot be gone in mundane terms; instead, an entire sacred universe & entity is revealed. So when you see any creature humiliated & dying, you are seeing your own God + Savior, which I have sensed for some time. As it dies the creatre "comes to itself" & knows-experiences- who + what it really is (& perhaps has always been). But this probably can't be induced by artificially obtaining suffering; that is a trick against the true purpose of it all. 3850-5408 Care INC 4055 Wilshire blvd LA. 90010 [site] 526 I am simply not grasping the implications derived from the realization that the organism (Brahman) is extensive in time, not space). To view it properly its temporal extension must be comprehended as totaly all-present - but change (actively !) occurs within this organism, just as activity occurs if it is regarded as etension in space (as the Greeks did). Time is not real but change (sequential activity) is. There os a continual rhythm (viewed as growth stages). It is history + it -history - is alive. What we call "history" is a description of sequential actity wthin the organim. I'll bet is growing more intgeligent, it is co-extensive throughout its entire temporal history so nothing is ever lost (or in vain), all being parts of this unique one. since time is the true receptacle of being (for the organism)anamnesis euals awareness of the organism as such a seeing of the more or lesss complete entelechy; + amnesia equals blindness, since to be seen the organism must be seen under the aspect of time - in terms of temporal extension. Hence, only by understanding this can one comprehend the absolute value of memory comprehend it as a perception or organ of perception like occular vision, not metaphorically but literally an organ of percption. Ocular vision is perception of organism in space; memory (anamnesis) is percption of it in time, + if is in time (more than space) that its true nature (being) extends. Hence, in 3-74 I corecly declared that I had always been blind now could see. That sight was memory extending over thousands of years. This realization is a seminal breakthrough, to view anamnesis as an organ of perception, + the most important of them all. Through anamnesis I could, for the first time, perceive the organism, the one. + what did I see A living mind/body, inhaling + exhaling ( palintropos harmomie). Heralitus was correct - also Parmenide e/g. of what I saw on the TV drama "The awakening land" does no longer exist but is actually gone there is no meaning + no prpose to reality, Good & bad. But I say, it still exists (The world of 1790/1830 USA) - it is a segment of an organism; as much present as 1978. [Ach]- then I did Se AD7 Rome! it was Literal, real,+ present! QED + Chirst is transtemporal: always (ie everywhere ie ubiquitously) present. He, the Logos-[naqia] Sophia, is the "soul" pervading all spacial + temporal parts of the organism (of Paul in Euphasiens) +Why do we forget in the first place? The desire to escape from pain. Like it or not, the hallmark of the real is the infliction of + hence the experince of pain - physical + mental - because for activity (change) in the total organism to occur. Its "respiration" - there must be unceasing (+I do mean unceasing) breaking down of every form (or stasis) to make way for the next stasis it is unescapble that for each no eidos to come into existence the former eidos is reducted to a means by which it is given birth. Only the organism in toto has end-existence; all subparts are means + it is this experience of self as mere means, which give rise to ontological anguish. If there is to be happiness it must come in a volunary relinquishing of self in exchange for aware participation in the destiny of the total one. There can be no happiness for the subsection. So the search for it is doomed to fail. While existing (+ fruitlessly searching for intrinsic fulfillment) each subpart is used by the organism as a while remorselessly + relentlessly, that is their fates. What Christ offers is miraculous awareness of - + hence participation in (with joy) - the totality; totality - the only true joy Hence it is logical (sic) not merely ethical for me to transfer my money to such organizations as care, save the children, etc...; only insofar as I live in them + with them (the "other") do I live at all; intellect, not merely conscience, insists what we call "Conscience" is merely heightened intellect (noos). I must seek the handle of final other, + live through that - or else die. It is a matter of life + death. In seeking receiver (for what I have) I am seeking - + finding - life itself - + I know it. I am night. No sacrifice is involved. To buy an expensive car (e.g.) is to die - to sacrifice life itself in favor of a machine. The Gnostic Acts (or Gospel?) of John: Christ as child. Young man, old man, short + bald, tall, firm, soft - + he did not blink (his eyes). Christ can manifest himself to you or any form he chose, + someone else with you may not see what you see, but rather something - someone else entirely (eg Pinky). Somehow it all has to do with identity. There is no way by which any of us can assess his life as successful or meaningful. The kind of identity which confers meaning onto a given life is a gratuitous gift to the individual part by the whole (ie by the deity): objective meaning may exist, but the person in question will not know it unless this merciful +priceless insight is bestowed. You could, by your own efforts cause your life to have meaning but still not know it (ie that it had had meaning). Meaning + Knowledge of meaning are not usually correctly distinguished. I think perhaps all lives have meaning - even in a sense equal meaning - efforts is certain knowledge of it. Since pain is a ubiquitous condition, we cannot (successfully) seek to escape it; the pleasure-pain axis as a basis for life is hopeless - But we can endeavor to ascertain meaning - not acquire it. But be conscious of it. This leads us to a necessity of obtaining the free gift of knowledge of meaning from God. There is some connection here with immortality. - different times (+ the people + events of those times) "tears" love?, not depict Rome in the USA or any actual world as it is at all times + all places. A form of negative hallucination (as in "maze") world. The qrchetype (in sacred times) however is Rome, + the archetypal friend of man is Christ Christ. I did not go back in time, but entered a different kind of time: sacred or mythic time, in which everything everytime was present in the form of eternal a{tck?] [corcke?] - [vmiliated?], dying savior. This is a more real kind of time than profane or linear time in asking what characterized it? I would say everything of value was Preserved (present + immediate), + that the pluiform of reality (diverse things + [prousses?]) were coordinated into a single sacred drama, that of the death + rebirth of the savior. Time both expands (I recalled 1000s of years) but those 1000s of years shrank down into one immediate sequence, as if very short. The telescopicing of literally millenia disclosed a single underlying event - although spread out - seemingly elongated - in linear time. This collapsed view was the correct one. This was not just another way of seeing reality; it was the accurate way I was so clear in my mind as to the exact point in this drama at which we sttod: 1) the savior had died, but 2) we had passed over from grieving at the loss (ie looking back) but we were looking ahead to his return, + rejoicing already. Furious preperations were in order, as if to be ready when the Bridegroom appeared - it could happen any second (but that could be a long time in profane, linear time). Still, we were no longer involved in the loss (the Passion), that was over + 3) the Black Iron Prison had been successfully burst + 4) the Prisoners saved. Part of our joy stemmed from knowing that destruction of "Babylon / Rome" (the Prison) came before his return, + it had been accomplished. Now things were such that we could imminently expect him. He would take us by surprise - we did not, could not, know the "hour" of his return. But soon means soon. Any time now, we'd barely be prepared. When I think about it, this mood of eager anticipation + expectation + te trembling awe + excitement is exactly what the UFO people feel toward the approaching first overt contact. That Gnostic narration about Christ, seen simultaneously as a child, a man, a little old bald man, a short man, a vastly tall man - it resembles the "will o the wisp" UFO sightings + contacts. + Zebra has a little of that playful, mirthful, quality - very much so. "Look, I am here - no there. Look, I am this - no that" (eg from the past, the future, another planet, an alternate universe etc). Riddles + pranks - we are being charmed + beguiled + entranced. . . +, by this process, our fear of the unknown, the friend, abates; + malso, we become entrhalled children - absolutely fascinated by [the emerging pattern of] what we see. Continually, we are given the option of dismissing what we are shown by the master magician / prankster; it is allowed to remain merely a game. But some of these contacts are with the King himself; these are still lesser, anticipartory spirits. I wonder - will the King come here (as in the dream in "Tears") or will he be born here, again, as before? ie will he arrive with them or be with us greeting them? But they are not coming here; they are here: manifesting themselves ev even [with?] cooked RF signals. The "invasion" is not precisely in spacial terms: it is as much temporal - + a lot more. What is the next step,