fact is Sarapis or Hermes Tristogistos or Christ frees you from "Astrology determinism" or fate - obviously the immutable cause - + - effect world of yin. Then diminishing + even abolishing the (power of the) yin world is the main route for salvation; I am aiding in this by denying its authenticity. It is possible, too, that, as in "Ubik," the yin world can't review itself - it takes the yang (Ubik) for that. Thus again it can be said that the yin world is lifeless. With ground (Form II) analyzed as yin world it was evident that, from an a priori reasoning, there would have to be an interventive yang doing the exact kind of recontouring or "melting" which I saw. So there is no doubt that stigmatizing ground as yin world has to be accurate. + the presence of Zebra would follow of necessity; the yin world would run down like a clock eventually because nothing new could come into it or arise from it. So the interventive presence of Zebra is not electric (there can be no yin without yang, for they are complimentary antitheses. Therefore I claim that at last I can characterize the interventive presence of Zebra as necessarily implied by the whole structure. I rejoice in the knowledge that the interventive entity is alive (which can only be experientially known, not a priori known), + intervenes by sentient decisions in fact based on Holy Wisdom itself. I have no way to compute the frequency of intervention or extent, but it must of necessity be there (a priori) + I saw it in 3-74. Now we can properly appraise Christ's salvific role in human history + redefined the term "salvation" itself to yield some tangible meaning. UBIK is the entity known in Taoism as yang. So although Zebra has in one sense invaded the world (which is to say the yin world) it is necessary in order to complete the world; it could not continue without it. ([..] is well-portrayed in "Ubik"). ("Ubik" makes clear what would happen to a world composed only of yin: it would decay back along the platonic form-axis. The vast dialectic between the yin world + the yang entity drives the universe forward. What I know from my 3-74 experience is that yin is mindless (blind + without teleological purpose) whereas yang (e.g. Zebra, UBIK) is very much alive - it has distinct personality + views - i.e. it envisions clearly what it wants to achieve. It can achieve as objectives through (by means of) the vast machining (grinding world) of yin. So yin (resisting [..] inertia or not) is directed, incised, recontoured by the intelligent yang (the Logos as plan + conceiver of plan). The yin world that which is formed, shaped (the recepticle of being.) Yang is shaper; yin is thing shaped. Yang is not a being, a world; it is a force, an energy, an eidos. Look what I know by revelation: yang is alive. When you ponder it, it is logical that it would be alive. How could it have a plan otherwise? How can cosmos emerge out of change if no noös is involved? + the totality of the Godhead, embracing both its yin + yang sides, is the Tao, it dispenses first yin then yang: it decides on how the dark + light will alternate. This ratifies my schema in which despite its "evil" priorities, it serves the overall plan. There has to be a (yin) world for yang to regulate. (i.e. influence) cf Plato's "Timaeus" ananke as yin - noös as yang. We can redefine "salvation" as liberation from the deterministic programming of the yin world by the yang entity. Christ (in the gospels) expresses an antipathy toward the yin world which did not appear as a complimentary bipolarization but antipathetical. We now assume from this that at the yin-yang interaction there is antipathy, but that to the Godhead (Tao) which embraces them. Both - whatever the yang entity may feel toward his antagonist - the antagonism may be of a Zoroastrian nature. (v. Joseph Cambell + the "secret partnership behind the scenes, outside of time," etc) There is just no way that a creature embroiled in time could approve of the destructive machinery of the yin world (BIP). We are entitled, with Jesus, to oppose it wholly. It deals out our doom + destruction whereas the yang entity rescues us - + we are equally entitled to veneration + love that entity. The fact of the matter is that our only hope is extrication by the yang entity from the BIP, + we are supposed to be allied with Christ in maneuvering the BIP (back) into its proper servant status (yielding in all matters to the persuasion of yang). Nothing but total receptivity to the template of yang is envisioned. The ultimate triumph involves a total subordination of the yin world, a total subjugation: back in its proper place at last. The rebellion (which our Xtian religion teaches) overcome. That the yin world should enslave us is not a legitimate function of yin but an exceeding of its boundaries. Christ (yang) breaks this hold + restores the servant back to its proper status. He is our champion against this unjust encroachment on our freedom; we are enslaved + don't even know it. The top line of hex 2 pertains to the overall situation. In this system the yin world, in rebelling up out of its servant status, is equated with Satan, the greatest assault on this (Satan) yin world is to take Parmenides' route + go so far as to deny reality to it - in an effort to break its hold over creatures. The less ontological being attributed to it, the greater the dismissal of it as a counterfeit, the less its power over us. Possibly, the statement that, as Parmenides taught, it does not ever exist is a kind of strategic insult, that in fact it has value (the secret partnership) + does exist. But this is an "outside of time" consideration. From a practical standpoint we must assail it by withholding perceptual + conceptual assent to it. From the standpoint of affinity, a total, flat denial of the world is a total rebuttal of equals the reality of the (yin) world equals the power of him whom we call Satan: he who rebelled (hex 2 top line). Scenes such as appear in "Stigmata" are explicit depictments of a struggle against an onslaught of evil combined with delusion - evil creating counterfeit worlds, which welds terrific power + must be fought off. In "Ubik" a salvific force of a supernatural nature is introduced; likewise "Maze" again: the 3 Bantam novels read as a trilogy give a clear picture of the true cosmological situation. Form II (the yin world or BIP) changes. But Form I is changeless. Possibly this is why, when Form I (yang, Christ) took me over I was lifted to a supratemporal region + saw thousands of years of time as omnipresent. Form I spans over time (supra). It took over what it found here: the world of Acts, the world I depicted as our underlying reality, in "Tears" the exploded view of the yin world (BIP) in linear time was properly laminated into the one thing it is. A synthetic cosmology appears: 1) My 3-74 experience with Zebra (set/groung) 2) Taoism (the Godhead androgynous) 3) Zoroastrianism (yin + yang as antipithetical) 4) Gnosticism (the world as irreal + not good) 5) Christianity (yang as living, thinking savior) 6) Plato, Parmenides + Empedocles, etc (v "Timaeus" for instance. Many cross-connections with 1 through 5) 7) The mystery religions (God breaking the "astral" power over man; i.e. the hold of the yin world (Form II) ---------- I think I see how the changelessness of Form I imparts immortality. All times are equally present in a vast now. Crete in Minoan times, 1st century AD, 1974, etc. There is a relationship to time: it retrieves what seems lost to us, in the past + yet here in the future. By encompassing all time (ubiquitous in time as well as space) there is not a way it can change (as Form II does) + no way in can cease to be. It is possibly, but not certain, that the believing blustering JHWH of the O.T. was the voice of yin. But the "still small voice" heard by Elijah was indeed either yang (Christ) or the Godhead itself - I mean the yang part of the Godhead, hence Christ, - Spinoza says. This was actually demonstrated to me + in me when Thomas who lived 2000 years ago lived now (i.e. in 1974 AD) - now + here, + as much alive as ever, complete, as is his original life had been yesterday. So I do not just deduce this immortality. My system resembles "Timaeus" in that the yin world (ananke) is there first, + noös (yang) finds it + begins to "persuade" it. Yin is not supposed to generate (create) a world. It is possible that this Form II yin world (ground) is unreal (a counterfiet interpolation) + that out of Form I (yang, set) the PTG will be "the new heavens + the new earth" that God is creating? Then Parmenides would be right. I saw yang using the anticedent universe (yin world) as a stockpile to build his new world (I guess the PTG). It will be real, + is already partly assembled here; I entered it for several hours. This is what is meant by "the Kingdom of God" + it is right here, once we can jettison the spurious yin world. So then the recontouring effect of yang onto yin is to create a new world - out of yin? As stockpile? + the recontouring is a dismantling, an abolition not just of its half but of it qua "world"? Millennialists should take heart from this. So we are indeed living in a spurious interpolation, which will be phased out + replaced by reality. In this catagory writing is right on. The creating of this authentic world by yang (Christ) involves a skillful, selective infusing of the true essence in a crucial pattern imposed on the yin world (note: selectively). i.e. bits + pieces of it will be transubstantiated with essence, arriving at a different "shape" of world. This may be the admixture we see. As I said in my Metz speech, with each recontouring we acquire new, appropriate memories, that fit how it is, + forget how it was (it was worse). This interpolation view would fit in with the insight that no real time has passed since 70AD (the time of Acts). Like a computer sweeping out reality + reporting its findings. In "Tears" I made my report - despite it being contrary to empirical observations which fails to thrust back the spurious interpolations to ground (vs set). In this system, being "born again of the Spirit" implies a lot more than a prying loose of the person from the yin world. It implies a prying loose initially as a result of an influx of the spirit into the person - the Spirit now has him, + , indwelling, is a co-psyche with him. So being pryed loose from yin is only a preamble to a "lamination" with the Holy Spirit of domination in + by the yin world + into the relation with the indwelling spirit, to where you now belong. So it is a wresting loose + an acquiring of the person, away from the hold of yin + bonding to + with the yang principle: into the only authentic reality (Form I); taken from a counterfeit creation + placed in a real one (the PTG). (Or Kingdom of God.) The prison has let go + the garden has acquired. This is an antithetical contest truly for the soul of the man. ---------- My system is a fusion of the though of