merely, "I saw Rome CAD 45" but rather, "I saw the antithetical confrontation between Rome CAD 45 + the early secret Xtians." It was an activity, as well as a thing (Rome as thing). That this activity exists could explain why we don't see it: the thing uses a tactic of concealment to preserve itself. This fits the "replicating virus" theory of Burroughs - I would say as Gestalt, as shaping (+ certainly as functioning). It has a life cycle of sorts. It is an organism. But, again, is time spurious? The temporal accretions are somehow not quite there. Yet Rome is there, all right. Ah! It penetrates (pervades) the accretional layers, like electricity through iron. Now, I saw Zebra penetrating matter. Rome, too, penetrates matter. I call upon Berkeley + say, it (matter) is not truly substantial but a so-to-speak medium, through which the 2 antithetical realities (!) contend. Then both Rome + Zebra (my God!) are trans- or supratemporal; ie of a higher reality. Zoroastrianism. Qumrān. They are both transtemporal constants. Then the temporal accretions are simply "onion rings" penetrated by the constants locked in blow + counterblow. To neither of them is time experienced as linear. Then "Rome" is a living or quasi-living entity, more than a thing. Acts is the time at which the antithetical confrontation began. Rome had existed before that time, but it was then -the time of Acts- that its antagonist, the early + secret Xtian church, first breached into time + this world and appeared. The dialectic did not exist until then. It began - Rome now had a lethal enemy devoted to dismantling it. Christ in his lifetime specifically did not fight. But now, in discorporate form, he is the psychē of the organism pitted against Rome. The Bible does not make this change (of posture) clear. Christ (ie Jesus) did not fight, but the infant church will. It consists of a number of humans formed as parts into the mystical Corpus Christi, which does contend against Rome. Perhaps this was the strategy agreed on on the Mount of Ascention (Jesus, Moses + Elijah conferring). Not an incarnate but a transtemporal resurrected Messiah was needed. Ah! The 2 antagonists both occupy historic entities as "suits" or "incarnations" perpetually. A given historical entity (eg USA or USSR) can be fronts of first one, then the other. The two transtemporal entities infiltrate, take over, motivate, one entity -some large, some small- as psychoi, after another: like gloves. This explains my theolepsy in 3-74. Can I not personally witness to this supernatural "enthusiasm"? Here is the M.O. of the divine, as I personally know; now I infer that Rome qua "virus" does the same. This is an extraordinary realization. Centuries whizz by, + the 2 antagonisms continuously confront each other in a thousand forms. But the "receiving" polyforms don't always know (I didn't when I wrote "Tears"). This is very Zoroastrian, we are more chosen than choosing (sides). These transtemporal 2 entities are higher entities. They both are alive, + each is a unitary organism that can infiltrate objects, processes + people (I am herewith for the first time extrapolating from what Zebra does to what, perhaps, the antagonist can do; i.e. the same thing). This is very much like Burroughs' formulation (the Nova Mob vs the pursuing Nova police - + he has the latent message theory, too). Perhaps such messages as are produced by one portion of the divine entity are to keep all parts of it informed: it is one unitary entity but has divided up + must communicate (ie think) to all or other parts of itself. It is a sort of distributed brain. We act as nerve fibers within it, thus "Tears" speaks from one part of it - not to humans - but to other parts of it, which may have "enthused" various humans, as was done with me. (While inhabited I could see + read the vast flow of messages.) Zebra = streams of intelligent electrical impulses carrying information. + controlling what it enthused. So the Acts material in "Tears" would not be news to the receivers, but just establish that the book was the product of Zebra. The news, then, may well have been the "King Felix" linkage. The King of Tears -Nixon- had to go. "Felix" was like such terms as "Overlord" or "Barbarossa." I characterize the BIP as enslaving more than criminal; it has its inner/outer syched programming by which it drives us along like so many mechanical wheels. The bottom line is that the BIP has us, + the divine is out to break its hold. (We are reduced to an android, machine status.) Into this mechanical system has come (at the time of Acts) a vast brain capable of exerting control over people, objects + processes, pulling them out of the deterministic BIP system as/when it incorporates them: it is building a world inside a world, dismantling Form II, the BIP world as it itself (Form I) grows. When it "enthuses" an object, the object is thereupon alive with imminent mind. We can't distinguish the difference between Ananke processes + objects so enthused. It certainly like Timaeus - Noös vs Ananke, with Noös perpetually extending its persuasion. We are dealing with a capturing + a subduing, but I - well, okay; a higher, overruling realm over a nondiscretionary lower realm. But to me it implies a certain degree of the antithetical, although not dualistic; the BIP is blind + merely efficent-causal. Yet I think both proliferate, move about + replicate, leap about - + what about camouflage? Memesis by both entities; each capable of imminent controlling (annexing?). Anyhow there is a good side vs a bad side, so a real dialectic exists. BIP "proposes" and Noös beings at once to "contour" or "modulate" - ie to dispose; ie incorporate; ie annex. But it skips about. I guess they both do. Like DNA they take control. It's scary, the limiting control by the BIP which occludes + runs the person like a thing. Zebra deoccludes, but more than that; you can function as a circuit of it qua brain! I prefer the term "brain" to "mind" because it suggests something physical + real which can be the subject of empirical knowledge. Its memory was involved in my "pattern recognition based on memory [of Rome]" p.10. It is aware of its adversary. The parameters of the brain are actual; its "enthusing" is actual; its energy is actual + its messages (thoughts?) take an actualized form. It may be that rather than timeless (trans- or supra-temporal) its time rate is speeded up (like the phosphene activity) so that 2000 of our years are like a month or year to it. Its field of consciousness (ah!) spans thousands of years as its present. Hence it can see Rome with no difficulty as a temporal constant. I base this realization on my seeing aesthetic constants in the flash cut graphics of the phosphene period (experience). So you run 2000 years past in a present-field + out of the vast quantity of permutations what is visible? Rome, as a temporal constant, +, vs it, the secret Xtians who, I think, are stations of the divine brain; it is their psychē. This of course is what we know as the mystical (cosmic) body of Christ. I'm not sure it's incorporeal, except that, on the level at which it operates, the substantial, ie material, world is info + transfer + field + energy anyhow. The operated thing is slower -has to be- than the operator. The brain (in contrast to the physical world) operates -ratiocinates- very swiftly. This fast ratiocination may be the key to its identity - I saw it when my own neural firing was speeded up, + my field of consciousness vastly expanded in terms of the temporal present. Rome, the true temporal-constant Rome, is distributed over millenia. Its Gestalt only comes forward as set when so viewed. But it is an unchanging black prison, made of iron. + we are in it. Perhaps its time rate is very slow, + the brain's is the opposite; very fast. One too slow for us to see [it], the other too fast! But the brain is aware of Rome. Although concealed from us, the temporal constant Rome is visible to the brain. I conceive the brain as rapidly growing, evolving + changing - + Rome as inert. Rome is always the same: Rome in USA 1974, in "Tears" + in CAD 45 is unchanged. What it was it is, + what it is it will be. But in contrast the brain began CAD 45 (time of Acts) + permutates furiously ... + continually altering its swift messages that pass between + among its physical -distributed- parts, linking those many parts together. Rome, the BIP, constantly repeats; like a psychotic human mind, nothing new ever comes into it. So in a real sense it is dead; more precisely it is a reflex system of some kind, recirculating forever one (?) thought (?) {illustration of a spiral} warped into an orbitting circle - it has us, but the brain breaks that hold ("Salvation" - which equals growth which equals freedom - negentropic). The BIP's tug has no power over the brain at all (ie the upper realm, the brain, can overrule the lower, the BIP, but never vice versa). Hegel was very astute in seeing the unfolding operation of Divine Purpose in history. Taking the long view he saw, too, the dialectic interaction + the plan. Brain is unfolding in our actual historic world. In terms pertaining to us humans the unfolding consists of evolving homeostasis by individuals - Beethoven's contribution to what we conceive of as the person being the good example; the key term is freedom. Critical for this is what I call balking, which is in fact a fighting free of the BIP's reflex arc push-pull inner/outer determinism over us. There is no simple way to represent this limiting or control or dominion over us. Recent discoveries concerning DNA gene pool programming are an example of the discovery of this "obscure dominion," as pope Paul put it. Pascal's description of man as "a reed, but a thinking reed which when dying knows that he is dying" is a good example of a stage of human growth. History, although filled with war, ignorance + travail, can be read, also, in terms of this evolution of individuality. The establishment of America was an important step. Yet the BIP tugs us backward (here + in the USSR both - the Nixon period was a deadly roll back of human evolution, toward a fossil BIP prior form, but the brain burst it). Yes - this is why the brain interfered with recent US history: we were devolving along the axis of evolution which leads forward to greater homeostasis of the individual - ie greater self-programming. Thus the brain sponsored the "leaderless revolution" against the Viet Nam war. Perhaps the first successful totally leaderless revolution in human history. This is what was important, this evolution/revolution. The brain incited this advance in consciousness + awareness. Just to examine what was overthrown is to miss the point. I am -have been- missing the point. It was how it was overthrown. I was shown the divine power overthrowing (represented by the Sibyl). No amount of lies or force, fear or threat, could halt the collective consciousness: the manifestation of this moral collective Noös was one of the most important stages in all the millenia of human history. It was a physical expression (map) of the brain. I'm not theorizing. I know. The brain operated through me, e.g., at a conscious level. The establishment, with all its financial + industrial power, was opposed by a mind. The mind coordinated its parts. This is a miracle! Then the 60s + 70s represents a quantum leap by the brain. In a sense, it actually came forward into actualization (the