[..] upward through the BIP - ah: PTG does not encounter BIP as the last (antithetical) confrontation, but wages a 2 front war on yin, BIP, from above + below, with BIP as slice of ham in between. [/Diagram] [Diagram] yang,PTG,FormI / yin,BIP,FormII → Our World created by yin(Sophia) + BIP heavy (ruled) Yang (PTG) an emanation [..] into the lowest level of the yin world (BIP) + the return (inhalation) back up through the levels [..] until (as Son of Man, the suffering servant, humiliated + killed by the BIP, passes up entirely through the BIP (not knowing its our divine nature) + finally successfully encounters itself (PTG) at the top level. Here is the cardinal mystery: the lowest stratum is isomorphic with the highest, but they are separated from each other by the BIP. Also, the PTG yang principle in its descent to the lowest level of the BIP yin world has forgotten its own nature, + does not remember it until it has successfully fought its fight against the BIP - in my case, e.g., publishing "Tears" finally, (there "low" - "high" levels are not of course geographical strata ranked literally physically) (But have to do with heirarchical levels of ontological penetration. Interestingly, in the ascent to God, once one has passed "though" the BIP, one finds that one's guide (psychopomp) - Sophia herself, a yin or female companion - although the BIP appears yangish, once one has acquired (or perceives) the female guide, one has been successful; the fact that the psychopomp is female shows the secret partnership, that in an absolute sense the bipolarities are complimentary, not antithetical. This is a great secret. Our world + the Godhead are androgynies, topologically analogs of each other. In a certain real sense, then, Parmenides was right in denying absolute reality to Form II (yin - BIP). The BIP, from an absolute viewpoint is an illusion, a [..] barrier between man + God (God high + God low). The ultimate disobedience to the BIP is to refuse to admit that it even (truly) exists, even though it has the power to torment, humiliate + kill (on a less than absolute level). This is why it can truly be said that the (yin BIP) world is an illusion. Hence, it only seemed to kill Christ; in actuality it could not. Its power is only relative - a seeming. viz: stage 1: one does not perceive the BIP, but sees only a mixed world. stage 2: one detects the ruling BIP stage 3: one disobeys it stage 4: the BIP punishes one for the disobedience stage 5: one is led to safety by St Sophia➀ (an androgyny) ➀ Christ stage 6: the BIP is seen as illusory stage 7: one returns to God, the PTG, Kingdom of GOD stage 8: one realizes that he himself is God, that he descended voluntarily to the lowest level of the yin world. That he is home, "restored to himself" once more, + in a sense never left but only "forgot." + his forgetting was self-willed that he might enter the BIP world as a humble thing, [..] its mercy apparently - but in truth not. stage 9: + the purpose of this journey? "to empty hell" i.e. the world of the BIP, to reveal the BIP for what it is (at stage 2 evil; at stage 6 an illusion), reveals their truths - with 6 higher - i.e. more true than 2 - + so aids the prisoners of the BIP. The idea is to break from BIPs power by revealing more + more about it (v. stage 2 + 6 - ultimately that the BIP is not only evil - stage 2 - + must be resisted - stage 3 - but is, finally, a mere illusion - stage 6. But the yang part of the Godhead does not enter our BIP - dominated world only as humble victims: it has penetrated as set to ground with its invisible PTG[?] The PTG (Kingdom of God) can actually be found here, by God's grace (indwelling help). The BIP reality is an illusion (veiled by a palpable reality: viz [..] [Diagram] →Dokos (➀ →BIP (➁ → PTG (➂ ➀ is an easy illusion [..] to penetrate; the tough part is to pass through ➁, granted that it, too, is an illusion, + at last reach ➂, which is real. There is a final Zen paradox, here: if ➀ is not seen (correctly) as an illusion, the totally unenlightened would call ➁ "unreal"; i.e. he would deny its existence. But then more enlightenment would come, + he would see the reality of ➁. But the final enlightenment agrees with his initial, totally occluded judgement, that ➁ is an illusion. He was right the first time (a veil concealing a deeper veil - a kind of double negative. Like a fake fake.) Thus in a sense this system is a trap for the sophisticated. The utter fool is correct. He sees no BIP, + he is right. But: ➂ is far more wonderful than ➀. To find it is worth the quest, inc. the middle part where ➁ is taken as real, in other words when you pass beyond the power of the BIP yin world, you realize you were never in its power in the first place. This is very hard to believe when you feel in its power. But the truth is, we are not here (AD 1974/8) but are back in AD 70, + Christ is about to return. The BIP will have been destroyed almost 2000 years ago - i.e. the society (world) of "Tears." Had the BIP been real, I could not have had the anamnesis + refound the actual reality in which we defeated it. I saw ➀ no BIP, then ➁ the BIP, then ➂ the BIP overthrown, hence the PTG. So the invisible hole the BIP has on us is in a deep sense illusory, to break that hold we must wake up + "remember ourselves" as I did in 2-74, There is also the element of outwitting the BIP through absolute gnosis or Sophia. Perhaps if its "gravity" fails, it employs traps in which all roads lead to it (except one it never thought of). There is a peculiar sinister magic in this, like Klingsor's castle, the very heavy (dense) has no weight at all. The fiery or any yang PTG in actuality has more weight, since the BIP has none. Here, again, is paradox. The Salvider Salvandus. [Diagram] ☯ PTG → BIP ← PTG In this model, the upper arm of God initiates the salvific moves by which the Salvider Salvandus is saved, since he has forgotten. Between the upper + lower arms of God stands the BIP which must be bypassed. Outwitted or abolished; there are a variety of paths - through or around, etc. In addition to the Salvider Salvandus remembering his true identity. There is the attempt by the BIP to discern him (so as to avoid making the mistake it makes at the First Advent). ∴ His self-forgetfulness is a protected device; he will not remember until the proper moment came + the "a disciple by cryptic words + signs will restore his memory" this could well be upon the completion of his - the Salvider Salvandus' - work. Only then does he know (remember). Memory (anamnesis) is disinhibited by an external stimulus presented to him under certain very specific conditions, at a specific time (e.g. first day of the Jewish New Year, etc). This "two-armed" (by the PTG) model makes moot the question I've been unable to resolve; viz: did I make a quantum leap upward or was another, not-I, adventitious personality imposed on me? i.e. did I become divinity or did I encounter divinity? i.e was Thomas me or not me? (+ all other forms this fundamental puzzle takes.) Two forms of divinity are presented here: the macroform + the microform. It is the macroform which acheives the anamnesis. But the microform, which is totally ignorant of the situation + its own true nature, in regard to this it clearly is not-me but God; yet I have regained my true nature, which is divine. So in one respect it is me. God has saved me, but (unknown to me) I am a microform of God, reunited with myself, my source, where I originally started out in my journey of descent + forgetfulness (to carry the news to the bottom levels where it is most needed). (We are talking about those imprisoned + injured by the tyranny of the BIP, which they can't even see. Since its actions are evil, they are embroiled in evil when they unknowingly do its bidding; they must be stirred into disobeying it - as well as becoming aware of it + its nature. Otherwise they are damned + doomed with it: when it is abolished they will be abolished with it. They are not only victims but co-oppressors. What is the most important news that they can be told that they don't know? A ∴ that the evil one spins irreal pseudo interpolations for God's authentic creation + they must neither believe in nor collude with these spurious interpolations. Some glimpse of the BIP should be proffered, as well. [Diagram] unreal: ☯ → BIP (in comparison to this one) real [..] The yin creation is not real (as Parmenides was the first to realize - i.e. Form II). However, the true creative half of God, the yang half, is infusing real essence into our world. But not to the BIP aspects: the PTG will replace the BIP. We do not discern this metamorphosis because the BIP isn't perceptible to us in the first place: the great actions of salvation are invisible behind the scenes. All my writing, in which irreal, forgery universes are presented, are expressions of Parmenides' insight about the non reality of Form II. This sets me + Parmenides apart from Taoism. It prepares the war for Gnosticism + the concept of a botched, bungled world. Form II can be regarded as "false work," necessary but temporary. Yin was given the first try at copying the androgynous Godhead, + failed. The BIP resulted. So yang penetrates to add what is [missing], which is nothing less that reality itself. It is not just the BIP which is not real; it is the yin's world, no less. Of course, we do not inhabit purely yin world (ground). Set (yang) is here, [..] to a very large degree. Eventually the entire "reality" which I saw as ground will be either abolished or else changed into set. The "sheep" among us will become set; the "goats" ground. This is a mixed world - after all, Christ penetrated 2000 years ago, + the transmutation, like an alchemical one, began. (+ there were prefigurings of the Logos even before Jesus.) The yang principle is literally bombarding us with light (information). Meanwhile its [micro] polyforms appear - are born - as "cuckoo eggs" inserted into the indiginous "nests" (wombs). The awareness of sorrow is the first step in the encountering of God, as is laughter. Both are transmuted into an awesome silence, at the epiphany, as the divine other manifests itself: can be discerned. Parmenides says Form II is night, dense + heavy. It certainly sounds like the BIP, + Hussey himself equated it with yin, + Form I with yang. I did not derive my belief that Form II is not real from reading Parmenides; I've put the notion of its counterfeitness in my writing for decades. Odd, that he + I would agree on this, if he was wrong; it does not seem evident that that form which is heavy + dense would be irreal, if either form is. The "E. of Ph." on Parmenides points out that it is the phenomenal world which he is denying reality to. + it is precisely that world which my writing