are issuing forth into the obvious world, at this time, for this specific mission: to "smuggle" the immortal man" (perhaps as baby) into the obvious world, where he will eventually rule there (here), in the obvious world; the latent or upper realm will thus have conquered the obvious or lower; this is what is in progress right now, following the toppling of Nixon. Pansophiaism (St Sophia) will have been "born again" + this time successfully. To repeat, the upper or latent world has power "to make plastic" (i.e. to affect) the lower or obvious world but not vice versa; this is why they are called upper + lower. Upper = latent = inner = Form I Lower = obvious = outer = Form II Form II does not really {...} Folder 03 - 066 only the inner space world that really exists; i.e. level #3. Whereas level #1 is simulated, + a snare. (Dokos.) The true world is mainly hidden. Only the ajna eye (Dibba Cakkhu) can see it, + this must be opened by external disinhibition producing anamnesis (by the Pansophiaist Brotherhood). + Christ in the hidden, latent, inner, upper, Form I world (of "Tears") is not a hunted victim or fugitive; he is as depicted in "Tears": Lord + Judge + King. The wise old King. Here in the obvious world he is invisible, moving about in disguise, + his message concealed in the trash strata - to be disclosed finally as the p. heading the last chapter of "Ubik." + that which here is Caesar's great worldwide Iron Empire + imperial rule (for over 2000 years) is there (in the latent true world, which is the reverse of this) just a speck of heavy (poisonous) metal, nearly surrounded by Christ qua phagocyte! Bearing all this out, Thomas was completely involved in a Christ-drenched world (the latent world); Christ was everything there, + the hurrying Xtian agents. So the imperial empire is hollow, not just absorbed from outside but undermined from within (invisibly), at its very core. There is a "Yang into Yin + Yin pushed so far that it becomes Yang"! At its core the empire is covertly Xtian. Thus the attack is directed at its {...} Folder 03 - 067 Folder 03 - 067 which may never have been true before. So the smuggled in immortal man would be directed to the empire's core. Christ must sit down on the judgment seat, Caesar's seat (which seat I experienced in 3-74), where he will then judge the world. Perhaps what we can expect is a "flipping" of dark to light: the core of Yin suddenly become Yang. (Like in the game of Othello.) The master circuit will fall, will be reversed to what it is -not in level #1- but in the latent world; i.e. it will cease to be latent + manifest itself in an epiphany, just as I, in my small way, was taken over by the latent in me, at which point it (Thomas) was no longer latent but obvious as well. If it could happen in me, it could happen anywhere + everywhere. "In the twinkling of an eye" as Paul put it, without process or steps or increments or stages: without warning or preamble. So the latent has power to cease to be the latent + become manifest at the proper time, as if out of nowhere, reversing 180 {degrees} what now appears (this is the key word: appears) to be. One could imagine the latent world building up its potential until it discharges across + converts the obvious into its opposite, crucially. (As in the conversion of Buckman, out of nowhere.) __ If (as is the case) Christ is victor in the latent realm -level #3- it would de facto be his kingdom! How else could it then be defined (the "mode of Barbara" is not operative here, but rather an = sign cupola). Just as he emerges in "Tears" as victor - so "Tears" does depict level #3, + is true, but hidden from our eyes. + I have designated it real, in contrast to what we see, unaided. This explains why it's the world of Acts: that was the time + place the Kingdom was brought into being! There are many times + places outside the Kingdom, but only one {...} the PTG finally. Folder 03 - 068 Folder 03 - 068 It now becomes possible to identify the Kingdom level #3 with Kant's "Dinge-an-sich" in contrast to level #1, the phenomenal world! This is a teriffic step, for if (as it appears) Christ reigns in the Platonist real world, then it (the rule) has an absolute quality, + since, as is well known, we can't see the real world, this is why we can't see the Kingdom. But it "perturbates" our merely simulated #1 world: faint echoes, images + reflections, dimly seen, + in reverse (v. supra). This explains the mysterious answers Christ gives to everyone as to where his kingdom is: the laws of physics then as now (cosmology) could not explain it. Our Newtonian cosmology can't either -which is why I remain perplexed- e.g. as to the syntonic nature of level #3 with #1, etc. It is a mode of being-in-the-world, with "world" as function of psyche, in the push-pull system I envision. The latent + immortal (transtemporal or total present) psyche must manifest itself, replacing the normal limited-present temporal psyche. In "Tears" these shifting, syntonic "aspects" replace one another, + "Tears" winds up as a verbal description of the Kingdom, not just of Acts. Now it is possible absolutely to equate Zebra with Christ. I saw Zebra; I saw the mystical unincarnated Christ or Holy Wisdom itself: the Logos (Ubik). I have "triangulated" my fix. I had entered the latent world - but also I realized he is here, camouflaged, modulating people, processes + objects, just as all aspects of the latent worlds are hidden. He is the most important. __ Man as magic micro mirror of the macrocosm, reflects (+ hence contains) the map (or Logos) of the macrocosm replicated in miniature (cf. Bruno + Hussey on Heraclitus). He contains the cosmos by containing this map or plan or Logos of it; that's how it works! And since the cosmos is alive + thinks, the map is alive and thinks. Thus he finds the latent realm in him primarily, awareness of the latent realm is a form of self-awareness: of who he really is. (Citizen of Acts world.) Obviously he is able to see the latent world because of a change in him. Folder 03 - 069 Folder 03 - 069 But the change is induced in him by a signal from the latent world. ___ Then the immortal Xtians (inc the 16th + 17th century -+ present day- Hermetic pansophiaists) are consciously operating out of Christ's kingdom + are aware of Zebra (him); thus I was not only initiated into the brotherhood but into the kingdom + awareness + experience of the King himself - who is soon to return to this realm (level #1). Yet I can conceive of the kingdom open to only some, the peaceable kingdom my entrance into which was marked by the divine transfiguration of the animals, which was foretold; there lay my clue all the time. So level #3 may always be latent -+ has always been (hidden) here- + yet now redemption re-enters this, the fallen realm #1, to re-annex it, to regather the decomposing cosmos, under Christ. Admission into the Kingdom means triumph over death, as Thomas has; we will live on. This was experienced by me in 3-74 in a very real, literal + actual way: in grace freeing me from "karma" or "astral determinism" + a revitalization + freedom + newness, + a not-myself doing what I would never do. __ Then level #3 is the cosmos under the aspect of recomposition, i.e. under it proper aspect - + level #1 is a fallen-away decomposed aspect whose state is one of irreality. Level #1 is not the way it should be: level #3 is - Folder 03 - 070 Folder 03 - 070 when I saw it in 3-74 I was seeing reality as it should be seen. This fits in with my sense at the time that I was no longer blind. This fits in with Calvin's notion of (1) entirely lost faculties; + (2) deranged or debased faculties still partly there in us, but not working properly. This fits in with the notion of a Buddha as one who is "awake." (This, too, fits in with "Ubik" + Lem's paradigm based on "Ubik": the brain fed a spurious reality. Regarding this, a Buddha is one who has -a brain which has- awakened to the comprehension of the spuriousness of the "reality" fed it. Thus there arises in Buddhism methods of freeing oneself from the dominion of this counterfeit reality, a desire which would logically follow upon realizing (experiencing) its counterfeit nature). The freeing in 3-74 over "karma" or "astral determinism" was perhaps a being freed from the coercive power of this counterfeit reality as such. Coertion is the game of this simulation: "being convinced" equals "being able to coerce"; the two aspects are one. Thus the melting of causal processes (by Zebra) which I saw is the essence of the waning process of the simulation's 1) apparent reality; + 2) coercive power } one + the same! Call this "A" I was seeing "A" melt away! It was no longer there + it lost authority (substantiality being an aspect of coercion, + coercion being an aspect of substantiality). This also severed the tape or tapes, inner + outer, which locked me (locks us all) into the push-pull system of psyche + world. To see reality melt had conceptual implications, Folder 03 - 071 which is to say epistemological or theoretical implications (it isn't real) + applied on practical implications (it has altered in such a way that I am no longer helplessly subject to it, which represents a quantum leap in freedom or homeostasis - independence from it). Put another way, I altered: (1) I could see it wasn't real, + (2) I was more powerful vis-a-vis it than I had been: the master-servant relationship had reversed: it ceased to be master + I ceased to be its servant. This leads to a very bizarre + eerie notion as to how the coercive power of simulated reality came to be our master in the first place; broadly speaking, it was not always so (viz: (1) we were not deceived as to its reality, + (2) it could not coerce us). The paradigm for this is found in "Maze" except that - well, how it differs - that is unfathomable to me, if it differs at all. It will have coercive power over os -it will be the master- as long as it bears the indubitable hallmark of reality. (An analysis of the term "reality" yields this realization.) So breaking its power + breaking its ability to obtain our assent to its realness are one + the same. Viewed this way, 3-74 (actually an outgrowth of 2-74) takes on a wholly new aspect. In 2-74 upon seeing the Golden Fish I remembered that this reality is not real (this is a significantally different way of stating the situation, in contrast to, "I realized Rome CAD 45 is the true reality." What is now emphasized is the recollection (anamnesis) that this here + now reality is a fraud (without reference to what, in its place, is real). Let us start with what is {...} first. Actually, the two realizations Folder 03 - 072 Folder 03 - 072 are lockstepped: they are one simultaneous realization. But for my immediate purposes, I now view it as, I remembered that USA 1974 is not real - whereupon the disintegration of the "hologram" insidiously set in, with a full restitution of my real self + real world