the aid of a learned Jewish scholar learned in the mystic Hebrew Kabbala. "...Emerald tablet of Hermes Trismegistos, which begins, 'that which is above is like to that which is below, + that which is below is like that which is above'". Thus began the macro-microcosm worldview. {Note} Elixir of life: "thought to cure illnesses, prolong life, + bring about spiritual revitalization." {Note:} Actually the book was by Appolonius of Tyana ___ What I am developing here, regarding Paracelsus, is this: he was a foremost alchemist but he was no fraud; he was one of the great physicians of history, + fundamental to chemistry + esp chemotherapy. The E.B. speaks of him having -not claiming to have but having- paranormal powers. The Hermetic macro-microcosm cosmology (which shows up in "Ubik" + in 3-74) I have specifically located in time + space as that of Paracelsus + Bruno et al. It is not from the ancient world but from the Renaissance. P. was the first to use mercury medicinally, but he knew it was a "very poisonous poison." His natural tongue was German (when I'm abruptly awakened or Folder 03 - 014 Folder 03 - 014 under sharp stress I revert to Low German. He was tricked into doing something (by his enemies) which led to job-dismissal + arrest, + he died under mysterious circumstances in his late forties. Most of all, high-order alchemists such as himself were searching for the secret of life. Would they not be the most likely group (outside the original Xtians) to find immortality? I think P. found it, + my two mercury dreams -mercury as medicine- point precisely to P. - + since he was tricked into doing something that got him arrested, he'd be on guard for such a trap again (i.e. the Xerox Missive of 3-74). He died mysteriously at 48, + I was about to die c. that age myself. P. was a notable -a Great- physician, + much of what Thomas did was healing + showed so much medical knowledge that I once thought Thomas was Luke. I was looking for a physician. What I theorize is this: 1) Thomas is Paracelsus. 2) He was prepared to deal with the Xerox missive trap due to the trap he experienced. 3) My sense in my forties that death was close to me was due to P's death. 4) My macro-microcosm cosmology in "Ubik" + other themes in my writing (e.g. acosmic Gnosticism) emanated from P inside me. 5) P. solved the problem posed by death through recovery of the original Xtian "lost" oral Gnosis + he got this from a first century Xtian still alive in P's time, perhaps using a human host as P uses me (P. may have been the host, which would explain his paranormal powers). 6) This implies a continual existence of Thomas through P., e.g. + now to me. Appolonius of Tyana may be involved (Hermes Thristmegistos). Folder 03 - 015 Folder 03 - 015 7) The Hermetics may be the ones who carried the true secret Xtian Gnosis down through the ages. As Bruno knew, "magic memory" (anamnesis) is involved. I.e. the immortal apostolic Xtian is reborn but only latent in the person-host + still in his own age (CAD 45 Rome) until anamnesis is achieved. 8) This latter is precisely what the Renaissance adepts figured out how to do. Based on "occult" books from the Greco-Roman mystery religions, esp the Hermetics. 9) This was the real goal of alchemy (+ spiritual regeneration: individuation, in Jungian terms) + it was successful. 10) So we have a leap from apostolic times to the Renaissance alchemists + adepts. Jung found alchemical symbols in our collective unconsciousnesses, + may have guessed or known the truth. 11) Thus the Renaissance adepts, working out of their century, are able to influence future history, + they are operated on by the original true apostolic Xtians, to which all of this can be reduced. 12) So all the rumors about the Rosy Cross + illuminati in general misses (fails to know) the real truth, which is that in dealing with them we are actually dealing with immortal apostolic Xtians directly linked to Christ. 13) This explanation of Thomas explains why I felt the Rosy Cross was involved, + it explains the "Portugese States of America" + the two mercury dreams - +, of course, that which finally clued me in: the Hermetic macro-microcosmos worldview which I found in "Ubik". Folder 03 - 016 14) The time of Paracelsus + Bruno + Boehme was the time at which the monolithic tyranny of Rome (as Catholic church) was first -finally- broken. Here indeed were the true secret Xtians attacking Rome the BIP just as I noetically saw them - + this ratifies my revelation that they were responsible for toppling Nixon, it identifies these true secret Xtians with the Protestant cause (in the 30 Years War). What we are seeing is the evolving of man into higher + higher forms - Beethoven is the most impressive example of this, of what is possible: freedom equals a higher homeostasis, etc - see previous 100 pages, etc. 15) I can see God's cause (or plan) in history going back to Christ Himself vs Rome. I must regard myself as not just containing Thomas but in 3-74 having become him + hence one of the true secret Xtians myself. Again, this is something I must not tell, either how they work, that they live, or that I originally was host to one + became one (i.e. fused with Thomas temporarily into a unity). Someday I will reawaken, after my physical death, in a later person, literally physically resurrected, to continue our work. 16) But what we are really waiting + preparing for is Christ's (St. Sophia's) return. That is our Great Goal, + we know it will happen. +, since we are transtemporal (reborn again + again in host humans) we will be alive to see it + to greet him, with joy. Folder 03 - 017 Folder 03 - 017 However, this verification of their involvement in the 30 Years War, for the Protestant cause, indicates that their 1974 move against Nixon is not an anomaly + so does not point to the Parousia having come. They were active once before at least. They may be perpetually politically active. On the other hand, Thomas' epiphanizing in me does seem to point to big things afoot, at this time. There may be just a very few crucial junctions in history - certainly the 30 Years War is unparalled, in its importance. Then the Nixon matter may have been equally important - consider what the Sibyl said; it had to do with conspirators who had killed all the civil rights leaders - that must never be forgotten. I get the impression that far more was involved in the Nixon matter than we now know. It must have represented a vast take over (like the Nazis in 1932). I have never totally abandoned the idea that the USSR was involved. __ Colin Wilson on P. "'The first step in the operation of these sciences is to beget the spirit from the inner firmament by means of imagination.' Again + again there is this insistence on the power of imagination. He distinguishes it clearly from phantasy or mere daydreaming. Man is a small model of the universe, but seen as if in a mirror. Vast spaces stretch inside him -the 'inner firmament'- + he identifies imagination with this inner firmament. In a state of inspired imagination, these inner spaces seem to open up, giving rise to a sense of freedom, of other realities. Some centuries later, Aldous Huxley was to recommend the use of psychedelic drugs to explore these inner spaces. P. knew nothing of such things: but he believed that the inner firmament has its fixed laws, like the firmament of the heavens: not merely laws but meanings. (A law is something rigid and mechanical; a meaning is something put Folder 03 - 018 Folder 03 - 018 there.) Man's problem is to grasp these meanings by means of intellect guided by imagination. Imagination is the explosive flare that lights up the inner spaces, revealing meaning. So P. had my experience. What does this imply? 1) Based on the cosmology of "Ubik" I pinpointed Thomas as located among the Hermetic macro-microcosm alchemists of the Renaissance + not antiquity. 2) The "mercury" dreams further pinpointed P, who fits into that category (i.e. (1) supra). 3) I then researched P. Many elements fitted in. 4) I find that P had my "inner spaces, mirror of the universe" 3-74 experience in his lifetime. 5) No one else except P's pupil J. Boehme seems to have had my experience. 6) Therefore? It's too much for me. Here is a cross-corrolation. I zero in on P as being Thomas, i.e. the other person "inside my head not living in this century" + find he had my experience which consisted of (among other things) his coming here - to our time, my time. I never anticipated this. Can't be coincidence. What are the laws of this 'inner firmament' that P speaks of? Is it transtemporal? Then I am in touch with P alive at his time, as with a telephone, is that it? No, he is in my head. Okay - the omnitemporal matrix I wrote Pat about. Fuck! Did P. reach across to me - no, he was (or is) here; certainly he was in 3-74 when he literally took over. No - that was an apostolic Xtian. Oh shit. Fuck. I can't account for it; I have {...} answer but I don't understand it! Folder 03 - 019 Folder 03 - 019 1) P is Thomas. 2) Thomas is in my head with me but not in this century. 3) These inner spaces aren't bound by outer space + time, obviously. Perhaps T, the apostolic Xtian, took over P the way I was taken over. T then = P. + then P got reborn into me, but if I was host to P, P was host to T. Anyhow, what is certain is that it is P. with me in my head; the proof is "Ubik." It is P. placing the macro-microcosm cosmology forward in time past the age of Newtonian mechanics, to re-establish it into a world which has forgotten such a doctrine. This was his main -or a main- purpose. This makes me a sort of idiot savant, animated by a spirit f - Wait. the "vast inner spaces" opened around me only when Thomas was in control. So in a sense, these vast inner spaces weren't my experience; they were Thomas' spacial-sense. As if, since T. was in me, he was still having the inner space experience which during his lifetime he apparently was used to (as P - since he is P). This may seem like a small or even petty distinction but it is not. I inherited the other-person-in-my-head's inner spacial sense, + it is the one which Paracelsus (perhaps uniquely) had cultivated + achieved. (Or disciples or coworkers of his - other Hermetic adepts.) Wait. Don't - isn't my grand theme one dealing with inner space? That world exists inside us, so to speak. Haven't I pioneered this view in my novels? + in my "push-pull" model? Let me {...} (1) my view of world as subjective Folder 03 - 020 Folder 03 - 020 during my years of writing + (2) the push-pull model which I wrote out for Pat. Perhaps the general view about space is wrong, P. was right, + my theme is derived from his correct conception of inner space. He discovered it, not me - he discovered a whole new view about both space + time. (Inner space, inner time.) After all, T. or P. was in me back in high school. Where else do/could I be supposing world to be, if not