form knows this + [hence] also knows how to "bend," "modulate, or "manipolate it. So I didn't merely discover either (1) that our world is irreal - which I've long suspected (those miracles were proof of my long-term suspicions) but also ➁2); something t someone, not human, knows this + knows how to invisibly infiltrate it + control it - + this I had not ever suspected - although given ➀1 as a pemise one might conjectured the existence of ➁). 125 It may well be that my long-term suspicions about (1 enabled me to - unexpectedly - see not only it but ➁ as well. After all, in much of my writing (e.g. 3 Stigmata) the irreal world is manipulated by some sentient entity - this is the vulnerability of a merely projected world. + it is not just the maker of it that can "bend" it obviously. Did I not at last see (grast) ZEBRA as an invader, utalizing memesis? the "bending" could be "futuristic" technology. or world as expression (soma) of God's psyche - or of Noos: the bending was merely thought (+ that which "bent" was in me, too "bending" me from within as well as from without could it be said that [the enhanced, theoleptic) I did the "bending" around me? I with Bruno's "Magic universe -reflecting memory? This enhaned I extended beyond my body, out into the world around me. I say adamantly + definitely that (as swedenboroush sought for) what happened to me in 3-74 was that I (temporarily) regained the anima or soul lost knowledge (divine wisdom) which man lost in the fall. of this I am absolutely positive. Thrus anamnesis. I regained what I, as man, had lost. + I have known this to be the explanation of what happened in 3-74 ever since. This also represents the state of being saved (by divine intervention), the breaking of the power of the evil "God," + a recollection of innate hidden divinity isomorahism with the true God. a 126 I conceive the Fall as something which happened to us - not something we did. We fell under the mechanistic power of the servant artifact + its projected (irreal) world, losing our memories + hence accurate awareness of self (which is isomorphism with God). The savior (Christ) restores our memories. we recall who we are, + our history of coming (i.e. falling) here; + the power of what is variously called - over us astral influences or "the evil God" (is brokeng. The method of the savior is to penetrate the artifact's illusory world "from the bottom up" - ie. from the lowest stratum - gaining (invisibly) more + more influence over this world - unknown to the artifact since at the first Advent it detected + ejected the savior, not understanding who + what he was. The manifestation this time of the savior is both in us + external to us as modulates (takes control of) He causal chains. Has already attacked the citadol worldly power by deposing Nixon. These are the of end-times prophesiol in the N.T.: the promise of made is being kept. The entire 1974/78 world c the artifact) is delusional (Dokos); the only real stratum is that (or those strata) "invaded" by the Savior, + this stratum lies c. AD 70 in space-time I have had my lost knowledge, faculties + state (condition) restored to what it was before the Fall; I have seen God "as he is" (1JN3:2) + we are like him (mentally). (It would have to be mentally, as he is pure Noös, + affects the material world by thinking about it, + he is psychē to somen for usindividually. the cruel artifact is univientionally doing God's work (i.e. helping the savior) by subjectin us to so much pain that we rebel against its world, + remember our own divinity - inc. that we (as interpenetrating souls, reflections of God) builf the artifact, for it to construct a material universe which would reflect God back to himself hence making him conscious (of himself, his nature). Our remembering does this; the Savior is salvidor salvandus: saving us who are himself. The evolution (raising) of humans to God con‐ sciousness of themselves equals God becoming aware I of himself, (x) to the stoics, the Logos was material, but could penetrate matter "like a drop of wine in the Occan" is this Zebra, then? He was penetrating matter. N Something new just occured to me. "Breaking The [deterministc] power of the evil God" or "a-tral powers" could correctly be regarded as a quantum leap forward in evolution by man: the next step up (e.g.) in homeostasis. So it can be viewed in terms of the future of the race, rather than of the past. Zebra bent the universe. Does that not make him worthy to be called God? I have it. The Father (creator) ruled death for me in 3-74 or 4-74. But we have an advocate with the Father; the advocate intervened (ZebRA) No - not Zebra. The Holy Spirit was in me, + by reason of that I saw, externally, the cosmic s Christ "bending causality o 120 + that advocate is the Paraclete. I saw the universe as it is: Divine. With us in [the Cosmic] Christ, + Christ in us. This is not panpsychism or pantheism; Christ has transmuted + absorbed the universe (a la Palmer Eldritch); the Holy Spirit in me showed us living in the organism we call The Corpus Christi. the universe [of matter) now is alive + thinks - as the Cosmic Christ. 29 We're within the cosmic body of Christ. below the layer of illusionary ego, we are Christ. Therefore when the barriers of illusion both inner and outer are removed, Christ is within Christ. But in that case, like I saw in Pinky, in his death, his degredation and suffering -- in our suffering (all living creatures, not just humans) we are all Christ in suffering, and it is Christ, the cosmic Christ, who rescuens us, which is to say, himself (salvidor salvandus). just realized: tye First Advent is a supra- or trans‐ I This dove‐ tempralevent, like the second: always being enacted. tails with our all being Him. To see reality this way is to penetrate to the divine stratum, in which the first advent is perpetually happening (and the resurrection). It's not that I abreacted back to the First Advent; it is taking place here now. At a certain "point" without interruption it passes over into the Second Advent, in which the jurftiical power of Christ as Pantocrator blends in; this has al‐ ready happened (in 74). The "ballooning out bubble" of fake time has been evaporated already. My Metz speech was substantially correct; what I experienced was a montage of space-times, esp. times, as the barriers erected by partial perception vanished. I almost understood it (had it right) but not quite. The First Advent is an eternal template, an eidos superimposed perpetually. There are spurious accretions overlaying it. But the passion was only part of the first Advent; there was also death, the period in the tomb+ Then resurrection. I have (without realizing this) always fett as if I died in 3-74, + then was restored. but to a different, metamorphosed life like butterfly to worm. was my restored state not analogous to what Parl speaks of ("behold!.: we shall be changed."), but actually 7 it ut it doesn't seem sequentially distributed. 6- 3D [linear time But rather on the medieval model: e 30 So that all stages are simultaneusly always gone through - since not happening in linear time. But in anothe kind of time (orthogonal?) or no time at all, but superim‐ posed layers. Then, I reason, if suffering leads to (death +] resur‐ rection, suffering must be necessary as preresquite stages or otherwise the Godhead would not allow it. As to why It is necessary I do not know, but its purpose lies not in itself but what it leads to (joy), at least in the present system of things. The Christian must not seek suffering but he must see it - not intrinsically as the stoics did as something [merely] to be endured, but con‐ taining in itself the promise of future rebirth + joy. For The Christian to suffer is for him to know what no One else (but Christians) know - that he is in motion: through the stations. What may be hardest for him is that acclimatized to suffering he will not be able to fully experience the joyful outcome. What may puzzle him is that he expects it all to occur in linear fashion (A7B-6-3DeR), + it is not. This is what happened (e.g.) to me. I reached the omega "stage in '74 but in '76 returned to "Alpha" - since Then I'm [now] nearer omega than alpha gee - I experienced the "after life." All the stages including the divine abyss. But one says, these [all] who are suffering - they the innocent; they have done no wrong." Had Christ done wrong? He was accused (+ humiliated + punished] rongly. It is as if this is a (the) play, + there are just a certain number of roles; you can be proud 131 + powerful - + hence unjust - here or - but remember the (innocent] victim has a divine + mysterious dvo cate who comes + goes unpredictably. He can appear In the victim's place - any victim - at any time the trappers may find the ( divinely wise + eloquent] paraclete in their net at any given time-+-place. 1000 times not, I million, but the million. +-once time may be it, + then the ajna eye of Shiva is on them as judge + destroyer. It is our delusional involvement with linear time which tells us (incorrectly) that a multiplicity ar plurality of persons have undergone the Passion - deathresurrection; in truth (although we can't see it) it is the one (divine person) + the one process. This explains (would even predict) why I suddenly "remem bered" or saw that it's really c70 A.D. If there is just the one divine person (not a lot of us) + one passion-death - + resurrection, then there is one time + one space. Pascals remark: "all mankind is one man who continually learns" can here with be cited. within this "one vs the many" framework, not only is it possible to explain my seeing Rome o 70 AD but, to turn it around, what I saw not only confirms This model but can't be explained - would not occurn otherwise. I have empirical confirmation for this model. + without the model I sure had a puzzling experience! In fact, if you start with this model my AD70 experience is a once-in-onebillion-lifetimes confirmation. But I began with the experience + was led slowly + laberiously to the model. My writing - + the thinking behind. it helped one arrive at both experience + model, I 122 is I think this "the One" [in reality] vs "the Many" (in appearance) is it - cf Parmenides. The eidos or paradigm pertaining to all of us is depicted (in the Christ story) as follows: the urgrund sent a microform of itself here to restore us to our correct (complete) state. He does that by -not a sacrafice, but himself the model (archetype) of the restored man, what (the way) man ought to be (+ evidentally originally was. Jesus was the only human to not have falleng + hence he retained the faculties (etc) we lost. We, to be saved, are not only saved by him, but the form that salvation takes is isomor‐ phism with him. In him we see what we must become isomorphic with: he is the unfallen proto‐ type. So we must (to be saved) become - not like him - but him actually. This is something he is primarily the cause of. them too,