that world is set e the future. It is transtemporal: Rome past, USSR present, us a future. Now a relationship between "Ubik" + "Tears is disclosed: "Ubik" gave the cosmological structure, "Tear is the actual social archetype which is ubiquitous - hence the inclusion of parts of Acts, the most astounding retrieval y all "Tears" describes what we were ultimately fighting t the sixties: a police state; + the inclusion of material from Acts revealed that God was arrayed with us + against our adversary (the prototype Rome). ifi thay - that man is isomorphic with God tells us that man not be limited to what he seems to be, or even inwardly experiences himself to be. He must be more. As he passes from stage 1) to stage 2) + then to stage 3) he must undergo a change; he must rise toward God as God descends toward a "+ that mortal man must put on immortality hat him. He must rise in a very beautiful + dignified way to cause supreme moment when he + God, now isomorphic (b of man's ascent + God's gracious "stooping down to meet him meet each other, in a certain real extent as equals, but of course not ever equals. the human, in preparation for this moment, will feet tis himself changing, becoming something, someone else. the like previous growth changes: mysterious, frightening disinhibiting of circuits which have never fired, before. but were waiting. what is this time these circuits were waiting for? news that He is about to return + so we must make ourselves ready. As once before, he is descending to our world + we are now signalled to begin our ascent ne must begin to put on immortality, to meet his God. I JN2:3: "then we shall be like him for we shall see him as he really is," + John says, "we do not know what we shall be like," it has not yet been revealed. carl sage on the carson show: "one of the most important things we could expect from ETIs would be technical in areas information override where we're deficient." I think at once of Thomas' attitude toward spraycans + lead. My reception of that information might well be indicative that indeed I was in contact with ETIs. okery - then its not possible to move backward in time along the linear time-axis, but there is another time-axis, the form-axis as described in "Ubik" evidently an exchange of psyches from both time locations is involved (e.g. me + Thomas). The true secret Xtians know this. They use it. They can induce it, in others. My 3-74 experience didn't just happen; it was induced, 46 How could I possibly have known when I wrote "UBIK" that regression along a form-axis - i.e. travel backward in time - was possible - or even that there is such a thing as a "form axis"? Also, the inclusion of the entity Ubik + its via-trash salvific messages? What is the correction between these 2 themes: 1) time-regression along a form axis 2) Ubik (+ its messages) which stabilizes + hence negates form-regression. Form-regression, although moving backward in time, is regarded as entropic becom each prior -in-time form is regarded as inferior to the one following it. The advance up the linear manifold is regarded as if an entelechy were unfolding: i.e. progressing, perhaps even toward completion but under that is the idea of a living force driving the universe forward through linear time, i.e. evolution toward greater complexity, sophistication + perfection This view of the universe underlies "Ubik." The holling back of time is the undoing of form - identified with entropy. But entropy is supposed to lie ahead, not in the past. something deered is involved than entropy; we are h about the organizing force that thrusts the cosmos forwards toward a desired end. Decay is conceived of as the eradi cation of the imposition of form (cosmos, order) onto chaos (dis order). A thoroughly Platonistic world view is expressed. Form is incised. Entropy is an erosion, a kind of wearing down to diffusion (lack of precise image). But form can be lost not by the for forward wearing down but by a regres. sion to a time before the form was incised, + thus totally (in fact abruptly) lost. It could not be any more completed lost, nor more quickly. It's a kind of entropy never nor mally consided, being strictly theoretical or fictional since no such regressive form-axis is known to exist ( But if such a regressive form axis were known to exist, or even thought to exist, such a radically different type of form-loss would be as real a threat to form as the forward process of wearing down (or "off." In both instances the result is the same: what has been achieved is gone. but the forward-driving force is taken for granted because it is ubiquitous - never failing. If it is correct to regard the universe as a living, growing, evolving organism, form-regression cannot normat occur. Devolution must represent an exceptional event. on the other hand, suppose what we see is irreal, + the forward-driving entity is projecting it like a film or LP or tape, in which case to experience form-regression is to glimpse this merely - projected quality of reality it provides an invaluable clue to the actual state of The phenomenal world I offer herewith the notion that a reversion along the form axis, by virtue of its occurance, point that to a projected or holographic basis of empirical reality. fits in with what "Ubik" is declaring which is the unfailing message pervading most of my writing: the substantially irreal nature of what we experience. Surely This was what I intended to convey in "Ubik." I always intend to convey this. But never could I prove it only in 3-74 could I verify it, + even then only to myself my 3-74 experience, therefore, points to much more than the i the actual exiatence of a regressive form axis - it's what itself existence of the form axis + regression along it points to: which is The "movie film" nature of the universe. Well, then this shows the relatedness of the Ubik + its help ful messages theme: as clearly stipulated in "Ubik," there must be a living, sentient, powerful, purposeful entity normally driving the reality + us up the manifold, which is to say, imposing progressively more advanced forms onto it. (Q4 As regards the messages, we remain as unaware of them per se as we are unaware of Ubik + its activity of relent lessly driving the cosmos through its progressive sequential transformations. One reason is well-defined in "Ubik t Ubik + its activity + messages are ubiquitios. So the world did not regress to 70 AD - either I regressed (along the form axis) or I perceived a regressen subjectively (no one else saw it). of so support was taken away from me exactly as was taken away from the characters in "Ubik" in "Ubik" They died, + in some sense that I don't grasp clearly in early '74 I died (or became aware that we all are in mere "half-life," or partly asleep). did I fall deeper asleep in 3-74, or did I wake up (for the first time?). If I (for the first time, + uniquely) woke up, their it is not really 1974, but is really what I saw when I woke up: Rome c. AD 70, over which the projected layer of dokos lies reversion along the form axis is not so much some thing which [externally] happens, but a radical fluctua no tion of perception by a subjective observer. He is longer confounded by the projection. But what about the messages"? Do they bolster the projection + incite us to see past (through) it? Presumably it is a truthful + benign entity; it is our mentor. What is it telling us? well, what do the messages in "Ubik" tell them? Why, Their real situation: that they are half asleep or half dead, + cut off from reality, living out a polyencephalic delusion (al world), like in "Maze." The messages to not rality or shore up the delusion; they (+ Ubik) seek to bread Eye." its hold + rouse the sleepers (this theme shows up in in "Stigmata," in "Ubik" + in "Maze! 45 the to shore up the delusional world, no messages necessary; in itself it is convincing. Existence of "uncanny, intrusive messages from the other side" t (as Lem puts it) would - could - only serve to under they mine, not reinforce, the delusion. How could reinforce it? At the very least they'd be redundant. by their existence alone, irrespective of content, they'd give the show away. If "Eye? Joint," "Stigmata, "Ubik" + "Maze" are regarded as one landscape, the theme of messages appear ing or intruding always point to one thing + one thing only: the irreality of the empirical world. If what we see is real, I could not have experienced what I experienced. Like it or not, that happens to be the case. In a sense, my novels trained (i.e. prepared) me to have my 2-3-74 experience (+ to comprehend its significance t this aspect cannot be overstressed). One could regard my 27 Tears of writing as a kind of apprenticeship, leading up to the moment when I would be ready for the 2-3-74 experience The driving - forward of the changes must serve a God (benign) purpose, but a final or higher (ultimate) p surre (outcome? Emancipation?) is involved in the aboliti in of the perceived empirical "strip. It has a "low level" utility, probably a teaching or training ones it is possible that independently I began to grasp the true nature of things, + was subsequently relieved of The delusion, upon my penetration of it partially t 2 relieved by an "overruling" entity; which is to say the illusion is Good, but contact with the truth is the goal, is better or even best. I have a hunch its the "when I was a child I thought as a child, but now I have put aside childish things." The illusory world is a light show for children which will entrance us until the time comes when we gin put "aside childish things. 47 of. lifting of a rule or stricture that normally h dominion over us all? (+ the restoration of my lost primal self.) That this state was only temporary in no way invalidates it: the consequences of it, short as it was in temporal duration, was permanent, I think. what I think was accomplished was the breaking of the "orwellian horse" script. I would have worked + then died with no reward accruing from the work; I would have died + departed as a mere means, agent instrument for my writing + children, never truly having been free to choose a time for myself. talk about eman cipation! Even in the act (on me) of being liberated I construed what was happening as a further task, duty + mission, not as a reward (or salvation). I went on, then, to encumber myself even further, after that; I could not comprehend that I had been liberated + that my work was done. Now I could reap the rewards. Since then, my lessons have been ones of saying goodbye to obligations - to my career + family + friends - to duty as such. my legal responsibilities are meager + clearly defined. I am not required to take on any new ones in order to justify my existence; it's now a question of what I want to do, not what is imposed on me + what do I want to do? It has something to do with mexico. having The revelation about "them making lower-level responsion. whe which get overruled" is very important because it refuted a na fores' idea that noos initiated