+ Zebra has a little of that playful, mirthful, quality - very much so. "Look, I am here - no there. Look, I am this - no that" (eg from the past, the future, another planet, an alternate universe etc). Riddles + pranks - we are being charmed + beguiled + entranced. . . +, by this process, our fear of the unknown, the friend, abates; + malso, we become entrhalled children - absolutely fascinated by [the emerging pattern of] what we see. Continually, we are given the option of dismissing what we are shown by the master magician / prankster; it is allowed to remain merely a game. But some of these contacts are with the King himself; these are still lesser, anticipartory spirits. I wonder - will the King come here (as in the dream in "Tears") or will he be born here, again, as before? ie will he arrive with them or be with us greeting them? But they are not coming here; they are here: manifesting themselves ev even [with?] cooked RF signals. The "invasion" is not precisely in spacial terms: it is as much temporal - + a lot more. What is the next step, logically? A: For "them" to disclose [a part of] themselves within our human ranks. A throwing off of camouflage + "passing", this could be connected with anamnesis. Can it be the He ("St Sophia") will not be born extrenal to us, but of of -in- us? We will begin, one after another, to remember? (ie that we are Him?) I have detected the "with," or "instead" or "is" mystery - it is abalogous to the mystery of the eucharist. Just suppose, though, that my 3-74 experience when to happen to people - ie inner anamnesis - upon meeting -not a human girl- but them? They would disclose the disinhibiting sign, + we would remember - + it would involve them + reveal (certify) their relationship to us. Hence, perhaps, my anamnesis ("restoration") was a consequence of -not merely somehow connected with, related to or accompanied by - contact with them. I would then posit an aware (conscious) human secret group -conscious not only of Xtian origins + identity but also the true significances + nature of them, it all constellating around the ursatz: "St Sophia will be - "etc. If this be so, the girl with the Golden Fish necklace was preparing me for my imminent encounter with them, although (no small matter) for this to occur I had to be saved from my even more imminent death (by stroke or cardiac failure). Thus what was going on was very multiplex 1) Health matters for me + Christopher. 2) Handling of the Xerox letter (ie vis-a-vis the [soucets?] 3) Contact with them ("Zebra"). 4) Political action vis-a-vis the regime. When 2) + 4) are combined as one "move," + bipolarized with the stance of 3), you obtain a repudiation of all powers of the world equally, + a uniting with God What you have is a pulling of me out of the world, + into syzygy with the Redeemer. This is very mighty stuff. A break with worldly power + simultaneous alighment with the supernatural "invaders" as are presented in the "Tears" dream. ------ No it enhanced my faculties so that it could communicate with me (regarding my peril). Angel or holy spirit or both. Angels guard you externally. The Holy Spirit is inside you. But Zebra treated 1) me + the objects - + - processes around me as one single continuum. So, then, what is Zebra? Not angel. Not Holy Spirit. As the Cosmic Christ. 1)ie took over it, then, me, like Palmer Eldritch | That was a study of transubstantiation. (Christ's Body.) Or some kind of "God" But at the same time this epiphany told me something about empirical reality, for I was seeing it (+ myself) as we truly were. Its more like Xenophanes Noos. World as "moving dot" image with the artificer having entered it, like the spider its web, to make repairs (changes). + hence mimicking portions of his own artifact, including me? (This - the me - rules out panpsychism + even pantheism) Acosmic - image only the thinking (+ projecting?) entity is here. + (I just realized this ) he/it mimicked pinky as it did me + inanimate causal [moasses?] + objects. A take-over, somehow related to "3 Stigmata" + would s hallucinations. [???] it is not ["looking an?} to [worship?]; it is a very intelligent benign invader which has not only 131-3987 [B1)?] 22 invisibly invaded but is replicating or growing. It is an information plasma - vs an original info + faculty-destroying virus. It bears a very strong resemblance to Ubik, which I put forth as the Logos. It is sentience pervading a mechanical structure, perhaps as a furthering of the Ur creation, shcih was + still is its job. It recreated me, Pinky, + nature objects + events, weaving us all together (into cosmos, out of chaos - animating us by its mind. Am I saying that the basis of reality is words (or the word) (V John III), as in "Time out of Joint"? (eg. soft drink stand words = ideas = concepts, ideas in the mind (of God). What I must remember about my 3-74 experience is that it actually was a 2-74 experience, having nothing to do with the CIA +/or the USSR or even Zebra. But seeing the Golden Fish sign + remembering. Electronic hanky-panky certainly was not involved in that; what was involved was a restoration to a superhuman state lost 1000s of years ago, inc. supernatural faculties. Time is the key to the whole thing. + with it (ie its disappearance) there dissolves the illusary phenomenal world. Time + forgetfulness are somehow the same thing. Memory abolishes time (ie amamnesis) + hence abolishes illusion in some strange way. I don't understand, anamnesis actually restore (retrieves) the pas so that it is no longer the past - ie gone. This kind of memory has 23 x Nothing to do with normal memory, which by definition involves that which is past + gone. If AD70 becomes the present, then AD 1974 becomes the future + can be changed. I - you were placed (located) in the future (vis-a-vis 1974) how ould you go about changing 1974, which is for yhou the frozen past? You would have to go back prior to 1974. But certainly not back to AD70. So the emergence (unveiling) of AD70 is not a revelation of all linear time, past present + future. It is another kind of time, a platonic archetypal eidos (sacred time) which underlies all linear time - which the latter masks + obscures. Anamnesis has to do with recalling not where one was but where one is now, as in awakening in a strange room, being bewildered, + then "remembering" here "remember" = identifying or recognizing temporal-spacial coordinates: space-time fix. "I thought I was at fix A whereas now I 'remember' I am at Fix B," which is to say I recognize + identify Fix B. For this to occur, Fix B must be familiar on the face value, not deduced or inferred: otherwise the ambiguous term "remember" wouldn't be used. It must be a place one has been before + is now restored to. One has returned I sense AD70 as a kind of home base, as if we all started from here, +, instead of moving through space to preach the gospel, we [also] moved through time. but his is where the news comes from: these are the events proclaimed. This disclosed world is nothing less than the topic of the good news: that Christ died + Rose, + is to return (but hasn't yet) --------------------------------------->as the St Sophia Prophet said This "70AD Rome" is exactly where scripture cuts off - sacred time ends + secular time begins. This, too, is the "fix" of acts that somehow (sic) showed up in "Tears" ie you st stop projecting what you're accustomed to, + expect (through habit) to be there, + account (or [?} responsively) what is really there despite your expectations your barin is no longer generating a false reality based on expectation. Zebra was there to alter an historic event which had already happened once before ("Track A"). In a sense, Zebra was normally there but unseen by us. I had become like a little child again, seing the world freshly - without locked-in expectaions. + it was time reversion along the form axis, like in Ubik 3 to There is a corrolation here. (One) in 1970 I set about write about what is. I unknowingly describe temporal the spacial fix A out of trillions of possible fixes. Then, Thor same month the novel is published, 4 years later, the a it sees fix "A" + "remembers" it (recognizes it because o t is familiar). Why is it familiar? Because it is the we zim point he saw inwardly 4 years earlier without recog there or remembering it. + to nail it down even more, is the dream in "Tears." The Heavenly host breaks the hough into this world. Is this not "FixA" (70 AD Rome the world of Acts) breaking through into 1974? The divine has penetrated the mundane. The mundane did not just dissolve - it was penetrated + changed. Proof o not just intervention but change - perhaps even retr o "Thomas" active change - shows up re the Xerox letter. relives the incident + gets a second chance to handle t differently this time. The fabric of the original, previous encounter breaks through into me + my world, the second or "Pass" revealing me + my world as a 2nd pass - with altered crucial act + outcome. Thus I reason: God did not just breach through + depose Nixon; he (God) was remastering a second of history (linear time) which had already occured, + unintervened in previously. This i a very different matter, esp. in regard to what it revea i about the power of + world of God (+ about linear time This line of reasoning bolsters my Metz speech. There was a worse track here. But all tracks are really linear time obscurations of the space-time fix A of not (as a study of "Tears" shows). It's like a segment of tape onto which successive layers of sound -on-sound are seven tially overlaid 46 Gre could boil my 2-3-74 experience down to saying you can be made to see [experience] whatever time + whatever space we wish." To deliberately induce (as was done n me) the experience of another tim + space - that is obviousl based on an obvious conscious knowledge on the part of some one or -ones, + a knowledge of how to arouse this know se in others (as with the messages in "Ubik") its as if I suspected the true situation + finally someone who knew decided to let me see openly the ver e tion of my years of surmise. I certainly didn't crack it tn my own. I suppose that what happened with me con stituted an ultimate liberation, but I suspect that one is given This gift only after a long painful personal searc I have stressed frequently the point that havi t o seen what I saw I can never forget its meaning: that God exists, can intervene + does. Why he does not always intervene I can't explain. Why he need intervene at all f can't explain (a two-party dialectic is implied). My ne et "low level decisions which can be overruled" is perhaps the final truth. A structure has been set up which is from time to time corrected from without. There is a count of higher, final appeal. This dovetails with the "great assize is theme in our religion. The highest of powers audicates ma t here This matter of ajudication fits my subjective impress i of