of bread on the other side of the ham sandwich. First for years I did it in my writing, and then in 2-74 I did it in real life, showing that my writing is not fiction but a form (eg "Maze," "Tears," "Ubik," etc) of revelation expressed not by me but through me, by (St) Sophia in her salvific work. What is in my work that is important is precisely nothing less than the salvific Gnosis (or parts of it anyhow). 16 When I withdrew assent from this world in 2-74 it began with sudden knowing the truth on my part, the secret, revealed truth, + then later on, this world changed - became visible as a prison + then was gone (i.e. I had been extricated from it) fart of the attraction for me of Gnosticism its one of its major pts: that God cannot be discovered (found) in nature (i.e. the empirical world). I had already (well, at least recently) come to know - not just believe but know - that no natural theology is possible - despite 1000s of years of trying to establish it God must be disclosed by revelation + revelation alone. This pared the way for me being able to see a bipolario lation of God to the world, + I find this "the world hated me before it hated you" explicit in scripture (e.g St IChn). One reasonably asks, "why if He exists, can't he ever be discerned in the world?" (answer: He isn't there.) At first I thought VALIS was immanent deity, i.e. that I had found him in the world, But then last Janvary I suddenly for mulates the more accurate "Zebra" hypothesis which portrays him as a subtle, invisible world-mimicking invader - + then lately I got the "hav sandwiche" model going - the triune topology. Even my long held Brahman view was triune, the ham sandwich, with the empirical world as Maya, delusion, + deite being within, not in but inside, meaning "on the other for‐ side." Zebra counterfits the counterfit - which fits the Gnostic idea of the bumbling demiurge being helped out out of mercy, by the true God. This helping out, not just of us humans but of the whole fallen (fuckedup, not really real) Cosmos is the transubstantiation of objects + processes on an invisible ontological level which I saw the growing Corpus Christi achieving. A fake fake = something real The demiurge unsuccessfully counterfeited the pleroma, + now God / the savior is mimicking this ciunterfit cosmos with stealthily growing real one What this all adds up to is that God, through the Cosmic Christ, is assimilating our cosmos himself. to i His salvific mercy is not limiled just to + for us humans but extends to all creation. As Paul says in either Col. or Eoph - I think the latter. neither the so-called ontological proof of the existence of God (St Anselm's) nor the empiricall design - to- designer, etc - none hold op. Only revelation, initiated by God. He is indeed the Deus Absconditus. Gnosticism explains why; He is not found he nature because he is not there, + our reasoning cannot discern him because we are occluded. in God must reach down to us from "beyond" or "ouside" the cosmos. since + inasmuch as Christ died for our sins, he wiped the slate clean; as lther pointed out, when God sees [one of] us he sees his own spitless son. So, even by this orthodox reasoning, we are not [now, anyhow] sinful. From a Gnostic stand point; Christ "took the blow" aimed at us in retributive "Justice" by the Archon or demiurge; Christ intervened between us. Just as in my case in 3-74 when they sprung the trap, it was not me in it but him, + he burst the trap + defied the world, the trappers. I depart from Gnosticism + Mani in this regard: God does not just take the sparks of light out of the cosmos; he is infusing [good] ontology- his rule, i.e. the kingship of (the true] God onto, into this previously unreal cosmos - which is, why I say, he is saving the totality of creation, by transub‐ stantiation + assimilation + thus repairing the breach in the goe‐ head by operating through history, as Hegal saw. Besides rescuir us as individuals he rescues the species; besides the species, all life; besides all life all creation, But: when the cosmos is assimilated it will as such cease to exist (the slice of ham). There will be no world qua world - so in a sense the Gnostics are right. We will be parts of a cosmic living organism, not of dead matter. i.e. Zebra 12 I am thinking back. Sitting with my eyes shut I am listening to "Strawberry Fields." I get up. I open my eyes because the lyrics speak of "going through life with eyes closed." I look toward the window. Light blinds me; my head suddenly aches. My eyes close + I see that strange strawberry ice cream pink. At the same instant knowledge is transferred to me. I go into the bedroon where Tessa is changing Chrissy + I recite what has been conveyed to me: that he has an undetected birth defect + must be taken to the doctor at once + scheduled for surgery. This turns out to be true. What happened? What communicated with me? I could read + understand the secret messages "embedded within the interior bulk." I have been placed under God's protection. The advocate now represents me. I hear a far off quiet voice that is not a human voice; it - she - comforts me, in the dark of the night she tells me that "St Sophia is going to be born again; she was not acceptable before." A voice barely audible, in my head. Later she tells me she is a "tutulary spirit, + I don't know what that word means. Tutor? I look it up. It means "guardian. I dream that "Elias" is sunk in despair were I not to turn the monopoly play money + gold watch I found over to the Mexicans in Placeniua who is Elias? I look it up. It is the Greek form for Elijah. Monopoly money - gold watch. Code‐ Capitalism. Why should Elijah despair if I fail to return the watch + money to their proper ownees What is at stake here? After I give the watch + money to the Mexicans I realize they came from ( them in the first place. I go outdoors + no longer need hide from or be afraid of the cops. will I ever know why what I did was important? For several years I had sensed divine forces secretly at work guiding, protecting + helping me. But in 3-74 I saw them. So previously I had been right. My meeting Tessa - Christopher's birth. The secret sacraments I performed, hiding them - him?- from the Romans. Ich west. ny work ist getan. I never need fear again: because the work was brought to soccessful comple‐ There is no need to hide. They were looking for x, but did not find it. X got into print + on synch schedule. Alleluia! Marenatha: really, secretly, I know. The revolution was a success. There was no way they could keep x frm coming into print on schedule. "Nats" "pol" AMORC code words. The Knights Templar on the march against the man hiding in the darkness inside the building. Sentenced to death. The wise old King had passed judgment. I saw the final days. Time fulfilled itself. We are safe now from the world, which has been orr‐ come. I got to see God as he really is, + I saw what We are like. We shall be like him" 1 JN 3:2. Jeter pointed out that Christ did not take on man's sins; He took on the accusation, by the world, of sins - was accused tried, found guilty though he was innocent, sentenced, degraded + crucified - a contemptible death: as an example exhibited + mocked - literally spat on. What did this show? that the world could - would - not recognize God but mocked him. I know because I did it, not recognizing him - until after he died + was resurrected + then taken up to heaven to be with God - I mean Pinky of course. "But Lord - had we known - " and he said, "what you do to the least of you, you do to me." Alas, I am Guilty . But, as he said, "they do not know." But later they knew. I knew, with terrible shame. Oh, how I wept when I understood - what pain. I goading the dying savior. But at last I was brought to spiritual enlightenment. I saw the true vine and recognized myself as a living cutting from it, growing back into isomorphism with it - But after how long? How many lifetimes - 1000's of years it took to discover - re-find - my identity to it, to know it and myself. As I realized under the nitrous oxide: "At greatest depth of misery there comes [the greatest] joy." I reached that, can now rest. Alpha (image) Omega _ Premise: The right brain (hemisphere) gestalts combinations of items and correctly reads the informational messages so formed(?) - which the left, digital brain completely misses. Premise: We are therefore subliminally informed and controlled by these Gestalts, perceptible to the left or conscious brain only as discrete, separated non-related, non-informational entities arranged "at random." But Q: Who or what arranges these discrete elements into the informational Gestalts read by our right brains? If we are these being taught, trained, informed and controlled by deliberately juxtaposed objects (words, signs, etc.). A vast and powerful and sentient entity or entities exists here(?), and is invisible, manipulating us and our experience (perception) of (?). reality. I.e. being taught implies a teacher. But I think it's more than just taught; control or programming or management of us by it (Zebra) is involved. It has the power to arrange (join) objects (words) into subliminal messages + the mind to know what to convey. But why? For what purpose? V. "Ubik." Conclusion: all around us exists, mimicking normal "dead" objects and processes is an intelligent arranging entity, informing us subliminally at the very least -- and possibly -- in fact almost certainly -- controlling us. Is this the "astral" determinism or the wardens or archons or angels of this cosmos who Christ saves (frees) us from? As Paul writes, Christ is replacing this "Law" or power (fate) over us by his dominion. Zebra is Christ, but there was a blind controlling mechanism which I experienced him combatting and overcoming (it as reflex response to stimuli) re the Xerox missive. So I conclude that the informing messages free us, rather than imprison; they teach us salvific Gnosis, invisibly. Finally: I am led to the inescapable conclusion that, totally unknowingly, we are all constituents of a vast living organism, and that everything which occurs in it, our reality, happens due to its deliberate intention -- that of its own brain, Noos or psyche -- and, further, this vast living organism which governs and regulates our every move and experience resembles an AI system or computer, and that under certain exceptional circumstances it can and does speak to one or more of us, its members -- Finally, the organism -- or this part of it -- is in trouble -- has its "hand in a steel trap," as Jeter put it, and is extricating its members, ie us. {{20}} We must have partially fallen out of the organism -- or maybe it actually has -- like a great animal -- been snared by a titanic iron trap! It is in trouble. And is reclaimed, repairing, itself. It is, in the final analysis, a magnamind