too late. Up until they murdered the Christ, the dark forces of II must have been self-deluded about their own nature. But that nature was tested, + its actual eull quality revealed - just as I revealed my secret I quality by my reaction to the Xerox missive 9 Perhaps even we ourselves don't know which side were in until the test comes. The BIP II world is the only real world I've ever known, for I was born into it 1000s of years ago but born into it as an Xtian secret agent. Where I am really happy is the PTG I. But this why I write about counterfeit worlds (ours) + evil ones (BIP II); this is all I ever knew, until 3-74 or rather 2-75 "Tears" precisely describes the BIP II ending in an act of total transmutation (freedom) in the expression of love by Buckman toward the Black stranger. Buckman twe are leaving the BIP II universe, by a decisive act we extricate ourselves from its iron grip - + the contours of the PTGI hyperuniverse disclose themselves (v. the epilog). The oppression of the BIP II universe - culminating in its censtant end: death - has generated grief which is transmuted into love + hence escape from its power oppression to death to cred to love to escape from oppression. put another way (in terms of Acts) Xtianity (represented by the entry of agapÄ“) has penetrated to the inner citadel, Rome (i.e. to Felix Buckman, the embodiment of power - i.e. Rome the BIP II world) the final, crucial conversion (grief to love) is effected by the direct intervention of God himself (in the dream); + is death is swallowed up in victory" (agapÄ“). Hence the epiloy is essential to the narration: the BIP withers away (dies). This sequence was "printed out" in our world between 1964 + 1974. It would seem that the Logos (Zebra/Valis) wants us to 1) comprehend the holographic nature of our world, re coul from the power BIP II hyperuniverse + ally ourselves to Christ's PTG I universe my writing has been used mainly to bring to peoples' attention the irreal hologram nature of our universe, with the exception of "Tears" which goes farther - +, as tim points out, my analysis of myself as an unknowing "double agent" appears in the Bobifred schism in "Scanner" of course in "Deus Irae" the PTGI wins out of the power over our universe by the BIP II is experienced as the curse. Esp. in Nixon's reign there were BIP I. agents prowling about in our universe. re Then my perception of the Rome cAD70 confirms the McKennas' cos mology - or at any rate some kind of cosmology which posits another (or hyper) universe behind this one (or there may be several: in addition to our own, which I do not consider real. I counted 2, the exact number they give I do not think what I saw was/is just another section of our linear time universe (the "Coil" model), but was absolute. Or: my Metz speech model (paralled universes) could be correct + BIP II + PTG I are dipolar alternates competing for actualization - that our track will go (yield) one way or the other. Ours is the interface - but the McKennal are right, ours is either a hologram or like a hologram (irreal in contra‐ distinction to BIP II + PTGI). What points to my view (model) as the correct one is the backward time travel by Valis/Zebra: the future modulating the past obviously to actualize PTG I; their intervention will be) has been is decisive. What I saw that the McKennas did not was the medduing in human history c 1974. Yet - there is, as they say, a mere projected quality about our universe - is it yielding? I'm going to accept the McKenna model because it accounts for the projected (hologram) nature of our universe; my model doesn't. Also, in the BIP II (+ PTG I) the world (3) seemed exempt from linear time - it is still AD 70 in the BIP II world 2 thousand years of our universe later. In 1974 the incursion of II was deelsively reversed, but II still exists, but comprises a lessened portion of the admixture hologram, now Ay? Whoever sent the Xerox missive suspected, from reading "Tears" that I was a covert agent from I + wanted to test it out. If I did what I did, I verified I was (unknown even to me) not from II but from I, it would take a covert I agent to react as I did i the faculties + perception necessary would have to be paranormal to decode it; this is a more sophisticated view than that, upon read "Tears" the sender thought I was from II (despite the fact that "Tears" mainly deals with II. However, even if this be so, it does not make evident whether the sender was from I or II. Nonetheless, the Xerox missive was an absolutely infallable test by which to distinguish if I was I or II + I showed by my response to be I. Anyhow, I construe that by either the Metz model or the McKenna model, two universes are competing for a mutually exclusive actualiza tion, roughly analogous to Parmenides' Forms I + II + the yang us yin dipolarities interestingly, Parmenides maintained that Form II (the BIP world) does not really exist but only seems to; this fits in with the idea of Satan's spurious interpolations. So now irreality is transferred from our universe to one of the "hyperuniverses" - perhaps our universe is on admixture of the real (hyperuniverse I) + the totally irreal (hyperuniverse II). It possesses accidents but not ontology; it is just seeming, the way a movie film is. A counterfeit object is still an object in certain respects (I mean universe II, here, not our world. Parts of our world possess ontology, since they arise out of I). Then the collision between "hyperuniverses" is more 21 precisely stated a collision between the is + the is-not, but the is-not has qualities, attributes, features; all the accidents that the is possesses. It is Dokos: not just counterfeit but a cunning counterfeit, + tests to distinguish it from I are almost impossibly difficult, as with any good forgery. we are concerned with those spurious elements as they mani fest themselves inthwoven with the real in our universe. The only way they can be expunged is by expunging the BIP II hyer universe or track: one must am at the source. It is as if one of the two lasers is projecting "noise" + the other "signal." So hyperuniverse BIP II, to be defeated, must be invaded by a salient from I (which is Jesus Christ; v. John Chi). In projected form, the Hologramatic analog also enters our universe. Christ stealthily enters BIP II + is not found out until he has been humiliated + murdered, upon which like a gas (a plasma) he begins invisibly to expand + fill up the whole of BIP II - which in terms of time stands c. AD 70. At that point, Christ, returned as the "second advocate," blocks all change-process or the pseudo life (growth, change) of II. Both I + II stand at that eternal time point, while our admixture wobbles on through accellerating linear time, faster + faster toward the end, at which time Christ will manifest himself in II once more as King + annihilate it forever. What the first Advent accomplished was the complete acquisition of our universe by II, the assimilation to II completely. In a sense, the projections of II into our universe are ossified, mechanical, dead + slaying. (Chaos or ananke or even the irrational.) (incoherent.) Hence in "Ubik" the form-reversion, as II gains in the absence of I (Ubik). II, because it is mortified, represents devolved forms: the past: that is its hallmark (hence state or "dead" cigarettes: entropy but a time-regressive kind). Christ, upon his passion + resurrection literally slew II. But the deceitful corpse remains, aping life. Into our almixture world, Zebra pours renewed life (e.g. as with me). God lives on, the Kingdom (I), but it drags the Corpse of II which still simulates reality + life. One of the hyperuniverses has died (as if they once were indrogyny - twins, one good, one evil; the evil burst forth prematurely from the "egg" (whatever that might be), expanded its soma into II - which pre cates I which was born "full term" - thus evil always moves first, but, being dead is blind + without consciousness. It's androids populate our world unless it is ejected from our world we will die; we are nearing - or were nearing - death, but Valis/Zebra intervened + infused new creative life into our world while partially ejecting (diminishing) II here. The soul, female, of t I is here (St. Sophia, but still discorporate as after the resurrection as "ghost or spirit." The Platonic view of the universe as an animal or entelechy + I add: there are 2, + one has died, contaminating ours, the admixture in One might say it committed suicide when it killed Christ, for 1 Christ is the source or conduit of life (to individuals + kosmoi Had it (II) accepted him he could have revived or restored it (it must already have been infirm, having burst "from the egg" prematurely). It was the unhealthy twin. His mission, then was a mission of mercy: a healing mission, life-giving: eternal our universe as admixture of 2 dipolar worlds - that is a view I tried unsuccessfully to extract from Augustine's "city of God + s life city of the world" which separate at the end-times. I held that view, but Augustine didn't. Like land's radical new color theory our world is a "two source" world: one of which represents eternal life the other death; the admixture is short (finite) life (with illness + injury). Eros vs thanatos. Aphrodite vs Palmer Eldritch. Eigen etcunced I a mt or the hitheis I) ours s um s II i in some respects "Stigmata" + "time slip" + "pot healer" were more accurate + penetrating studies of II than was "Tears" "Ubik" studies Eros or Logos or I, espily Maze" is a mixture. its efforts to re invigorate + extricate II + those in II. It is as s if in "Ubik" I invades II - + in "Stigmata" II invades I. in "Maze" it is a Zoroastrian conflict. In "Eye" II invades I, + I in turn re-invades II. So, in summation, our world is neither evil (as the Gnostics believed, nor irreal as they believed). But it is also not YHWH's creation (as the Jews + Xtians believe); it is more like what Zoroaster believed (+ not what Mani believed). I is YHWH's world or soma; II Satan's. Gnostic fulminations against our world should be directed at hyperuniverse (or track) II. Jesus, in the Lord's prayer, specifically states that the Father's will, which is done in heaven (i.e. I) is not yet done on Earth (the admixture). It would seem that "blow + counterblow coming faster + faster do not allow us to assess whether I or II predominates here, but that at the end, I will absolutely triumph - by a vast invasion of II will all the hosts, whereupon the dead, the counterfeit will vanish. It is not really here in our composite world that the issue will be decided, but we will experience dis‐ ruptions, echoes, of the war in heaven between absolute good + absolute evil (I + II). Each of us must choose to become an instrument for one side or the other, inasmuch as control of our world is what the quaired concerns: it is our world which the contests rages over. In connection with this I reaffirm that whereas in the early