the brain or not: in it or outside it. ____ You cannot choose to enter the brain; you do not choose him; he chooses you. Most Xtians down through the centuries have been warped into the power of the BIP. To "accept Christ" is religion - ie for man to reach up to God. In actuality, God reaches down to man; this is known as Grace. So in a sense, there is predestination. You are incorporated + made use of by way of the living information bit. (Which follows the optic nerve to the pineal body + eventually opens the ajna chakra.) The brain is one multiperson ajna chakra, which one day as a unitary totality will open, discerning + anihilating. (The 3rd eye of Shiva.) (Herdsman of the souls.) All who participate in it will then see as I saw; they will be inside the eye; everything outside will be blasted, "burned like chaff." Ie cease to exist. At that point the brain will generate its own world out of itself. ① It, collectively, will totally control its world - the PTG. ① turn to p.73 ___ If it's an information plasma life form, + can replicate the (its) entire Gnosis from one bit - well, add in the spontaneous generation of messages (information) depicted in "Ubik," which were everywhere -+ in 3-74 I saw them everywhere- + the results you get is that this entity has secretly (camouflaged to us) invaded everywhere ("ubique"). Because I saw verbal + graphic messages just flying + changing (re-linking) all over the place. + these are not its thoughts, but it itself.① Based on what I saw + what I've figured out, we're in it. Like I flashed on several days ago: it's a brain, + we're totally unaware of it. It's not a species within ours; we're within it. (Ie it is larger than we are.) + it's in some of us. ① The two are the same. This is Noös. But I see how it annexes us: with a bit of its electrical plasma. Up the optic nerve to the pineal body. So we're born, + then taken into the brain this way. From then on it governs us, inc. external cuing subliminally by verbal + graphic message-combinations - which the plasma inside us can discern + decypher - we can't but it in us can! Reads, + knows what [to have us] do. We are hosts to an inter-connected life form. In my case (unusually) it took over consciousness - replaced my ego. My ego must have died, + it had to take over. So that's who not only sends but reads the messages: the total macro brain/psyche sends the messages to the microforms in us. Fuck! Swarm of bees, but not us. Thus it links its stations (cells) inside us. We humans are just big dumb vehicles through which the plasma acts, + in which it lives. But it's outside us, too - in the world. Yes: the messages are from the vast total macro brain to individual stations inside us. Thus the code in "Tears." Visible to any micro-plasma bit who picks it up: not just "King - Felix" but the whole Bible excerpts. It's preparing to change back into Christ, ie disclose itself, as ubiquitous ruler (King). {illustration: three concentric circles, with an arrow from the outermost towards the innermost, with the text "Macro links to all micros". The concentric circles are:} - Macro brain/psyche info plasma (Logos) - Us - Micro plasma in each of us, coordinated by the marco via messages which we see, the way a cat sees a printed page, but can't read. They're not intended for us but for the micro-plasma subliminal saprophytes within us. The Noös can move + link up the halves of the messages because "the physical universe is plastic in the face of mind." This is Zebra which I saw modulating objects + processes. I know this is the Logos, world reason. I said so in "Ubik": "I am the word." Incredibly, "Ubik" depicts this information generation + entity - ie Ubik itself. + the way time can be rolled back to disclose earlier forms. The micro plasma within me obviously wrote - not just "Tears" - but certainly "Ubik" in which case micro plasmas in other people (not the people but the info plasma) understood "Ubik" + of course "Tears." "Tears" didn't just contain messages, as "Ubik" did, but an actual bit of plasma per copy. So the plasma isn't (yet) in everyone. Or it wouldn't need to further proliferate. I do not totally dismiss the possibility that this planet + our species has been invaded. But I'd guess it happened in 45 AD. However, that raises the question, "what/when is our relationship to 45 AD?" The brain may simply be transtemporal. + I repeat: it has an evil adversary. But this (supra) exposition puts at least some of us in the power (control, inner control) of a sentient entity, not DNA + blind determinism. As witness the coordinated macro- + micro- plasma override for me in 3-74. The presence externally of Zebra (macro-plasma or brain/psyche) rules out it just being the Holy Spirit, as I've noted before. There is another + camouflaged highly sentient unitary life form here, "melting" physical reality - + in at least some of us as well, coordinated by the flying host of messages. Now, what is the AI voice I hear? The brain's as emanating from the micro plasma in me; the AI voice links micro- + macro- form. This hypothesis (explanation) links everything, all the diverse things I experienced in 2-3/74, inc. the latent Biblical material + "Felix King" in "Tears." + this brain intervened in US history - overthrew Nixon + ended the war! It doesn't come from another planet but a "higher realm" as it itself told me - one with plenary powers. Ah! In "Ubik" locating the Ubik messages in cheap commercials was absolutely right on. I couldn't have "guessed" more accurately. It's obvious that the real author of "Ubik" was Ubik. It is a self proving novel; ie it couldn't have come into existence unless it were true.① There is also the possibility that the world we see is simulated, + the plasmatic entity knows it - ie it doesn't see -isn't deluded by- the simulated world. It is somehow anchored in CAD 45, the world of Acts. Thus the entity, in both its unitary macro form + plural microforms ② would well understand the latent (Acts) material in "Tears" as an inter-station message. Then there is a possibility that there are two levels of code in "Tears" 1) the Acts material is discernable to the micro-forms. They already know this part. 2) Below that there is new info: the "King-Felix" bit. This could be a command cypher, linked to the historic intervention. It is new plasma, not just a new message, since the entity is information. (Doesn't just process it.) An evolution of the living info entity itself. Perhaps it is preparing for the important transformation back to Christ. ① I wonder if Lem guessed this. ② Of course. The plural micro forms are "located" not in this space-time but CAD 45, so when the micro-form in me took over, I saw what it sees. The desire -m.o.- of camouflage on its part means that however 1) powerful + 2) widely-distributed it is, there will be no visible sign. No miracles, improvement in world conditions, etc.; camouflage means it does not disclose itself - but, as I know, it did ameleorate our political situation in 1974 + end the war, so it does act, + does have a lot of power, + yet no one guesses - it may be as able to alter our memories as it does our perceptions. + the micro plasmas in us aren't just our DNA or gene pool memories, because I saw Zebra also outside in macro-form, investing objects + causal processes. That which is micro, plural + in us got in us from outside in the first place. But since, like a hologram, every bit no matter how small contains the totality - what's in us aren't portions but totalities. ① Note from p 68 (v.) "At that point the brain will generate its own world out of itself." Replacing the lower level Yin deterministic ananke world of 1978. I offer the following: that the world the brain (macro outside us, micro inside us) generates is - the world of Acts. The Magdabourg hemispheres: when the time comes the brain will dispose of 1978 + roll back time (cf "Ubik") to Acts. The Acts material in "Tears" is an example of this generation of world by the brain. V.P. 11. That world, Acts, is the analog of the brain, as world + as verbal "landscape." I've gone a long way in figuring out whom the code in "Tears" is for. Not just a "secret Xtian underground church," because this does not account for the vast traffic of messages occluded from us - I finally posit: 1) A macro plasmic living-information brain or psychē outside + around us; + 2) plural micro forms of it in us, or in some of us, linked by the messages to the unitary macro brain outside, using us as vehicles by which to act on the physical world. Ie we are hosts. 3) The micro forms get into us as tiny plasmic living info bits out of which the total Gnosis can reconstruct itself in each of us (so invaded). 4) Thus we as a species can be said to be governed both internally + externally (coordinated together) by a Noös, or psychē + brain which is simultaneous both unitary + plural (through a hologram-like structure by which each micro bit of it is the totality). 5) The external macro form totally camouflages itself as natural reality; internally, it controls us outside our field of awareness. 6) I cannot assess the power, size or origin or age of this entity but I have reason to believe it is anchored in Rome CAD 45 (ie Acts) + so is what they called the Logos or Paraclete. 7) I believe it will one day disclose itself, but I can't be sure, if or when - this would seem to be what is called the 2nd Advent. It would control -even be- everything, if it isn't already. 8) I know that this entity radically intervened in recent US history to improve our situation. Therefore it must be benign. 9) + it saved me. A careful scrutiny of P 74 reveals a strong resemblance between my exposition + 1) Brahmanism (Brahman outer, Atman inner) 2) Pre-Socratic Hylozoism, esp. Xenophanes 3) the immanent deity view of Spinoza 4) the stoic "Logos spermatikos" doctrine + the Logos doctrine in general (ie strongly Hellenistic) 5) if this brain is supposed to be pitted against blind determinism, P. 74 is in accord with most mystery religions of the Greco-Roman world. 6) If (5) then Gnosticism (acosmic - v. 9) 7) Neo-Platonism. 8) Christian mysticism (eg Eckhart, Boehme, + even Bruno) 9) if world as delusion, acosmic Panentheism. (v. 6) But: 1) No one has ever seen God, so, since I saw it (ie Zebra) it can't be God. 2) Christ has no body now, so it can't be Christ, + anyhow it had no body as such. 3) the Paraclete has no body + is only in you. This entity is inside us + outside us. So it's not the Paraclete. Therefore it is not God, Christ or the Paraclete. It is what I say on P. 74. There are only two other possibilities 1) It is the cosmic Christ whose mystical body I was taken into + who secretly rules the universe. 2) It is something new, since no accounts such as mine exist historically. A variation of (1) is: 1A) there is a certain amount of secret (esoteric)