form to each person, let alone each culture). That it should enjoy games - this is _so_ wonderful! We are closest to it when we are tender + mirthful. _Froh_, Bruder: sei froh. Gazing across the broad expanse of my 27 years of writing I can see how _I_ have melted away at the 1) idea of one world vs plural worlds; 2) the substantiality of world in favor of world as hallucination forced on us; 3) world behind world behind world; 4) A master conjurer; 5) a ubiquitous mysterious negentropic life-giving wisdom-entity penetrating our world (or our _hallucination_ of world) along a strictly one-way axis. (Note) "Ubik" comes closest - has the most correct elements of what I now feel to be a relatively adequate cosmological model. No wonder 3-74 seemed to resemble "Ubik". (Note) Its penetrating at "trash" strata + places may be a manifestation of its playfulness + love of paradox. The sacred + holy epiphanizing where _least_expected! folder 02 - 041 This is the paradox of, "where should you most expect to find God?" A.: "In the least likely place". I discern in this the following: "In point of fact you therefore cannot find God at all, he must -will- find you, + when + where you least expect it" - i.e. he will take you by surprise, like the still small voice which Elijah heard. Or like Oh Ho the ceramic pot. The oracle may speak to you from the gutter (whatever "gutter" might mean in this context). So my writing -itself part of the "gutter" +, as Lem says, "piling trash upon trash"- may serve as the sort of gadfly kind of thing that Socrates considered himself to act as. My writing is a very unlikely place to expect to encounter the Holy, the koinos, the message-processing, Ubik-like ultimate entity. This may be why I found such beauty, in 1971, in such people as Kathy + Stephanie - why I cherished them so. I had an intuition + it paid off. The plurality of push-pull worlds (psychoi to omni matrix) explains why Zebra could invade my world - + Tessa would see nothing. It (the breaking through) did not overlap into her world any more than Thomas did (or hence Acts). This B model shows not just what is, but why it (the various elements) must be as they are. There may be a specific task in the ratiocination of the brain: it may be at war -phagocyte-like- against a pathenogen. It is geared up for attack, combat + war. [Text to picture of Model B and Ubik] The two are identical, + I didn't realize it until tonight. In formulating Model B I have returned to "Ubik" + not just the paradigm based on "Ubik". folder 02 - 042 folder 02 - 042 This is very strong evidence that Model B - based on Lem's paradigm of the immobilized brain site-stimulated to experience a simulated world - is correct. 1) Lem's paradigm is based on "Ubik". 2) (3-74) (what I saw) seems to correspond to "Ubik" almost precisely. 3) Therefore 3-74 corresponds to Lem's paradigm. Ubik is the vast info-processing interface brain showing through, or rather invading, what I call the push-pull (simulated) worlds. In "Ubik" the traffic of messages (info) is thick + fast, + permeates the very communication media (e.g. as commercials) just as I saw later on in 3-74. Zebra's (or Ubik's) info enters ours + rides it (e.g. "Tears"). Likewise, instructions fire through into the closed systems of the simulated worlds "from the other side", except that they normally don't seem eerie or uncanny; this is because Zebra (unlike Ubik) camouflages itself + its info. We don't realize, normally, that they are breaking through on a unilateral basis. Beyond doubt, Zebra wrote "Ubik". folder 02 - 043 folder 02 - 043 Which is this, "Ubik" or Zebra: 1) one-way intrusions everywhere - 2) esp in the trash strata - 3) by a vast info processing entity - 4) which keeps a huge traffic of messages going; 5) time reversion which indicates: 6) our world(s) is/are simulated + 7) we are immobilized brains fed our "worlds" 8) the vast brain is benign - it aids us 9) it is negentropic - fights entropy 10) it is very wise. 11) you cannot merely see it but hear it 12) it maintains their reality for them. But 13) the true reality is _it_. Modern Romans [?] 1-800362-7070 In "Ubik" the spuriousness of their world (world as mere simulation) is revealed to them by the one-way intrusion of Runciter-Ubik. Had there been no such one-way intrusion, they would not have known their world was simulated. For me in 3-74, Zebra + its intrusions - recognized later by me as an _invasion_ of this world - stand/serve as a precise analog of Runciter-Ubik's. Thus I was correct in assigning a high value to the fact that Zebra's presence here constituted an _invasion_: I recognized this as perhaps the most important fact + realization of all. So it is, it reveals our world as exactly what the world in "Ubik" is: _simulated_. _Spacially_ speaking there is no "other folder 02 - 044 folder 02 - 044 side" from which Zebra could have originated, so space is irreal - our space (appears to) extend forever. However, in _our_ case, the intrusions are camouflaged, so that normally there is no uncanny quality, since the intrusions are not detected _at_all_. It is precisely the set/ground discrimination which I had briefly in 3-74 which is, for us, totally lacking. Now the importance - + the logic - of that at-the-time-surprising set/ground discrimination can be appreciated. Yellow cabs 542-1133 7:45 - It is the crosshatching (interaction) of _all_ the plural worlds which constitutes the magnificent master system or structure ("vine") which we correctly call God's plan or providence. In each life this plan individually fulfills itself (in each of the billions of push-pull psyche-worlds) + this is agreeable enough, but the stupendous complexity of the crossovers - no human could ever successfully contemplate the totality, this flux which interlocks vertically, diagonally, horizontally, etc very much like the switchboard of brain cells connected in so many ways. Each of us (by my theoretical model) is more or less locked into merely _one_ push-pull psyche-world + so can only dimly see the totality, if at all; also, the totality is trans- or supratemporal + must be read in a simultaneous _present_ matrix (my omniworld matrix _plus_ the psychoi). So the many pushpull worlds inter- + intra-act in designated (purposed) ways - integrated + harmonized, so to speak. They affect one another meaningfully, + any given push-pull psyche-world is subsumed by the interaction within the total number - not by the total number but by the interaction. Thus other worlds break into any given world as unexpected newness - folder 02 - 045 folder 02 - 045 thus for any given world/psyche all other world/psyche integers can be utilized by God as revitalizing, energizing, adventitious sources. This does not mean they always are; it means they _can_ be. The coherence of the total system depends on a master plan which I identify with the logos; the master plan itself is alive + thinks; the totality is (like) a God itself ("Kai theos en ho logos"). That the logos or crosshatched master plan could itself be sentient - if misunderstood this leads to the view of panpsychism, but it is not the things - discrete objects or processes in themselves - which have life, but rather the plan (altering arrangement), which is to say a kind of growth, flux energy wielding them - this is what i saw + called VALIS or Zebra. It has attacked the physical or natural world, assuming increasing jurisdiction (rule) over it. We have a life form growing within something which itself is less than a life form exhibiting (the latter) mere blind causality + chance - i.e. Chaos (c.f. Empedocles + the idea of krasis). This life form or plan invades the natural world + structures it by progressing increments. This is the programmer which generates our simulated realities in the first place, it contests with its own antecedent (fossil remnant) self, perpetually superseding it in organizational complexity, homeostasis + sentience, + efficiency (negentropy). I can see how, if all the push-pull psyche-worlds are to successfully interact they _all_ must contain _clocks_ synchronized each with the others. This adds to my explanation of the curious inner-outer synchronized tapes which initially so puzzled me. What still puzzles me is the issue folder 02 - 046 of the 3-74 xerox missive response being (1) an _abrogation_ of a normal (mainly subliminal) mechanism or (2) an _intensification_ of a normal mechanism lifting it into consciousness due to a unique great importance of the specificly correct response. If my theoretical model is correct, I'd say that a response was programmed on the synchronized inner-outer tapes (which operate mechanically, which is to say inflexibly) but that a more sentient factor overruled it. This corroborates the _invading_ nature which I sense in Zebra, the attack by a higher life form on something which in itself is not truly a life form (not plan or sentience or purpose), but only a sort of law. Perhaps this was an extension of the jurisdiction of - something lying outside our universe (multiple worlds). Another, a higher, realm is attacking this one + melting it - the invader, pure mind, makes of some of the constituents _here_ an interface brain + through it operates on the rest of our universe. As I've said before, it is an _organizing_ principle. Suppose it is the _BIP_ which has yoked us into our billions of simulated push-pull 2-tape psyche-worlds: this is a tyranny + an enslaving system, with spurious worlds - all of which is under attack by an adventitious salvific mind bent on breaking this "astral deterministic" system which obtains. Then the immobilized brains undergoing selective site stimulation are imprisoned + deceived as it stands. I can presume neither monism nor monotheism, but I can presume - I have seen - rescue (freedom). I am right about model B, but it is more complex than I had realized, + a fierce dialectic fight is involved. folder 02 - 047 folder 02 - 047 The brain is new - dating from Acts. Parole: it liberates us by incorporating us. What my formulation of model B lacks is awareness of this fierce contention by the liberating new life form over the old law - over religion as such: instead of seeking God we are sought for _by_ God (Zebra). The old worship was of the power or powers of the deterministic system which became a prison upon having served its historical purpose; viz: growth stages are involved. The brain is not simulated (as are the push-pull 2-tape worlds but is _real_). The real has invaded the irreal. We have a process universe. It is perhaps the "secret partnership"; within time the two powers are antithetical, but outside of time their dialectic strike becomes yin + yang of one tao - except, I would add, form II, the lower realm, _is_simulated_, it is (as Parmenides realized) not real (this perfectly fits my B model: we have here the "false work" which I saw abolished - even retroactively - in 3-74 - v. my Metz speech). In fact - to appreciate the irreality of form II is to grasp one of the inner secrets, a major one. All my "site stimulation" theory merely elaborates Parmenides' insight. Also, this ratifies the truth + value of the grand theme of my writing. Although I often write about the irreal (or hallucinated) world crowding out the real, the facts are exactly opposite: the real has irrupted into the irreal, literally broken through into it, like Ubik + Runciter into the cold-pac world of "Ubik". (Or the way the real thrusts itself into the irreal world in "Maze"