maybe Zebra/UBIK would have protected me-even did- against anyone who read the book and knew what I didnt and who this to net me may be to try to see how I knew and I knew more, and if so what Zebra/UBIK may consider nightly that I got into trouble due to what it influences me to say, so: the answer to the question, why did Zebra disclose itself to me is: it caused me to unite Ubik, I got into trouble because It's based on a [great] secret hidden truth, so it wishes to protect me. the missing piece in Gnosticism is the "imprisionment [spark?] of the divine" and loss of memory as to [publish?] identity , but this is exaclty the anamnesis and [navigation?] I had in 3-74: regaining memory and sense of divinity, the [after?] being a staggering discovery about my self. 24 I certainly got that, + only Gnosticism + neoplatonism contain that. In fact it was that most of all that I experienced A new schema: the Lord of the universe (Brahman God) saw the crail "dead" (prechanistic) world that YHWH had greated here + sent his son, Zebra, to do battle for us against our own creator + world. That is why although our world has been here much longer, Zebra only appeared C. 600 be + later to heep. The dialectic interaction I saw is Zebra fighting the greator demiurge. But Zebra is not infinite in power or knowledge; he is divine + not God - + K.W. is right; he mimiced being a man while here as Jesus; that's why he was resurrected. Zebra is not just our savior; he is our champion, doing battle on our behalt as advocate champion ("the sign of man) + comforter. The structure is Taoistic: Yang (3-7), yim (Zebra) + Tao (Brahman a God). God's stasis is achieved by the interaction of the 2 adversaries ("the secret partnership it Vishnu + Shiva). But the Gnostics are wrong: no mistake occured. God deliberately get J-J start, since J-) is yang the creat God (fire + ice, maybe), knowing he must after a period of proto creation send the son of man to balance J-5. Thus Christ says, "Before Abraham was, I am." most of what I know came directly by revelation (3-74 on), but I has alread, discerned that the reality of our world was not as it seemed, + that we had blocked of f memories as to our origin + purpose ("Impostor"). However the proof if Zebris success at mimicing is shown by the fact that it wasn't until Ubik that I even guessed his existence it wasn't until tears that I clearly saw the nature of this world (i.e. prison + us as slaves). not only are we prisons here but due to maya (wizardry) we have been deprived of our long term memories + identity. 25 but Zebra is gentle (li, sun) - is female (a secret) + does to battle lovingly, collecting us all up inside her him it guide, advial + shield unn: "I am the good shepond + I know the flock" Zebra = Christ - Zebra is here - Christ is here. the Parousiahas come, did come + - (when I saw Zebra) he was/is not in one spot but every where. It wasn't the holy Spirit, for I saw Zebra outside me everywhen. + it is said. I will not be found here or over there when I return but everywhere." + Christ is the "uncut stone" which I know was ruled in '74. Also this fits with the bells, the date (March is) + the "St Sophia "prophecy the latter indicates a forthcoming further stage - perhaps one in which what I saw eddyone will see note supra: "Zebra is gentle." It is our king. The King has returned changed the Jews to this day deny the first Advent; maybe only his sheep" will see the 2nd. I saw because of special needs (historic role to play, great doagee, + Chrissy) saw earlier he others. Maybe he returned in this invisible form a long time ago (even in the apostolic age, "to some stics living." + it has been a long-kept secret - a Gnostic one? That He has long been back + is already here with us, the true cherred, the orga nism of which he is the head, may be few in number - + picked by him or: it may be that the Holy Spirit was that which entered me so that I was given my original faculties back + so saw Zebra external to me (6) I can see an identity (trinitarian) between the inner entity + the external one + an identity by the both, fused as nothing less than God - the true God which, by being both inner + outer is everywhere it is to me as if only that which lives is real - + because of Zebra reality itself lives as his body. I 3-74 reality (ontologically speaking) poured back into the world, but it was a reality it had never [previously] had. The Q: "is what I see real?" was answered. "It is even more real than it seems but real only because what you see is an outward manifes tation of divinity. What is real about it is the divinity + not it in itself as seen." Dokos, the veil, starting out as copy - counterfect - is given ontological reality later on by Christ (which is pure Gnosticism). Christ has turned the faulty demiurge's feeble fake into authentic substance - a great miracle - just as He takes us who are perishable + doomed to die + gives us an imperishable eternal life this famous transformation of men, much discussed by pared, has its counterpart in the whole universe (as object or series of ob jects, not alive) which would explain what is referred to by the statement in the Bible "the entire univered groans in Birth pains" (& labors to bring forth [new] life) more than a process involving us as human individuals is involved; all creation seems to be meant. Again, this seems to conform to the Gnostic idea of true life being breathed into the feeble (demiurges] copy (a Platonistic - + accurate-conception). This must be why I sensed reality as irreal; I was experience the aspect of it being mere copy. Not the real thing. What I did not see is that God in her graciousness is transforming it by stages into the real thing, a process which has progressed far. On the surface nothing seems changed. As people did not perceive the feeble copy as such, so they do not see the great ontological newer presence) they did not see the lack + so can hardly be granted a vision of the gain. I was lucky; I first saw the look (original state) + then saw the replacement of copy by essence s that essence could be added later, without disturbing the phenomenal surface, is an [extraordinary insight], & exactly what Gnosticism teaches, rather than abolish the 587 9 be seen as a constant on-going process taking place at all times + regardily all things. This is so far the only explanation I have found for the fact that for me apparently alone, the Parousia, day of Judgment + translatin into immortality - i.e. into the Kingdom of God - could take place leaving the koinos unaffected. According to this theory I was a part granted substance (for the first tre) as I was incorporated into the permanent struc ture. What I don't understand at all is how come I experienced the after life while still alive, except that I continually feel that somehow in 3-74 I died - + then, I guess experience all the bard thoded after life events + changes during which time as continuing living human here I received a new personality upon the demise of the old, durce which time the old moved through the afterlife changes t ine secret I just remembered is the system of prefiguring the elements in a form prior to its actual manfestation - i.e. in dim to clear ways it presents itself to the person, prepared badward inture, so that at eache stage the next can't be anticipated (what, whered or when) + so finally when the final, teleologically - anticated for does appen. The subjet person is already engrammed onto it by is, dimmer predhecessons. This is a major system by which we are taught (progrownal) or ted. This is Zebra doing this, (e.g. first I saw the bare- cheated one wearing a sharki teeth necklace in that banish but on toland man, then I pasted the watchtower banner + visarstle reproach over (above) the bare bre, I girl picture, not noticing her necklace, + then the pharmain God ane to the door, with her Golden Fish necklace. I was already joined the apocalyptic religing them to necklacets fich death to bure- chasted girl - + the stranglis, time". dream added the Roman element) 29 realizing this, about the successiver clarified pre¬ figuring I realize once again that I did not merel see better; I saw behind the sienes (the what) to how the entire cosmic mechanism (system) works, + who else has - who even talked about it? I was not let in on a secret or even severed, but the secret of how the entire cosmos works, esp. regoring us. This anticipatory process in itself, with nothing else considered, demonstrates teleological force at work" previous are thrust up to encounter the person - very deliberately evidently. Thus the teleological force prepares the person in advance to respond to the later, completed stimulus in a specific way - fitting, I'm sure, into the overall plan. To be aware + this is to wonder just how much "freewill" we have. But at the same time one sees this as an assisting, benign control over the person so led. This perception (realization) perhaps only comes with other perceptions - perhaps only with the total one. Since evidently we not only don't see this mechanism - we cart. It follow, from this that only if + when Zebra itself desired to reveal all this does it get revealed; I didn't achieve anything - it was a true revelation laid onto me. it is a sobering thought - not just that this goes on continually but that it has been made impossible that we discern it. How has it been made impossible? The "why" is easier to understand; it is virtually implied by this process itself. We are not to know that we are continually helped The block (veil) is not really laid over reality; it is laid on our percept systems... or Tess would have seen it when I did Either we once saw these things + dont now or in the future, in a further state of evolution we later on will. Or both. But the capability is there. It is an insult to intelligence to believe that it would never be used, past present or future. I believe we will be restored - I was restored - to an original higher condition 30 An important point; there is a coherence to all - absolutely all - that I saw + understood. We are programmed in a regular way - I was in 3-74, de-or counter programmed against dosm what must be a/the regular programming. In effect it was an interruption, an override, of the normal. How + why could this happen? Fallabilit, in the regular syste core this) is implied here - timely implied if not thr contesting forces. Either a mistake was made + corrected, on else another force intervened. Either explanation runs con¬ trary to Christianity as generally construed. The implications ot this intervention are simply enormous. Finite (although powerful) forces are implical. Unless, of course, the breaching "through into the historic process by God, the