of my awareness I also glimpsed Zebra, the teacher it/him/herself. For if one reasons that reality is actually a teaching machine, + the change-process is the sequence of lessons, one infers a priori two further entities: pupils (whom it teaches - how could it be 1) teaching machine were there no pupils?) + a 2) the teacher - for who would arrange the lessons in their sequences? but none of these 3 (Teacher, machine, pupils) were merely inferrential to me: 1) I saw myself being taught 2) I saw sequences of lessons 3) Lastly, I saw the teacher (Zebra) itself. final note at 4:00 am: the cosmos resembles a great computer-like (AI system?) entity, illusory re how it appears - to our mere consciousness left hemispheres. But unbe knownst to the left hemispheres. We are in dialog with it it as sentient + didactic. + patient. We do not always draw the right inferences (become properly changed) by/from our lessons. Patiently, then, it sends us back down the ladder + repeats, till we get it right Thus free will enters in - we can + do err. Which means (very importantly!) that it is not a closed, rogidly, deterministic, mechanical (total) structure. [72?] This (the existence of variables) then fully explains what happened to me in 3-74. In that unusual (for me unique?) case, the teacher over‐ ruled the freewill, variable factor; it was required that I exactly "learn," i.e. get that sequence precisely right (synchronized in the big historical modulation which He (Hom) was achieving] exactitude of response - action - by me took primity over all usual methodology. + so, to me, the teacher, machine, + us as pupils were dis‐ closed, we are, then, talking about a very high priority - perhaps unique in history. If this be so, I say, it was the Parousia normally we are free not to learn. But in this case something took precedence over my learning or not learning. This implies a plan overvalent vis-a-vis the construct as teaching machine: a Logos of the cosmos. Hence I infer: I witnessed, + participated in (here be daring leap of intuition) the goal (purpose) of our learning. Our being taught - for there must be some purpose for it, outside the process itself, + sub‐ suming it as end to means. What 3-74 was was not a lesson (means) but the payoff; our word for that is - apocalypse to sum up: teaching (us) is what it (the cosmos, modulated be Ho on) does, but it does it for a reason (goal). The teaching (such as the dream sequence in Tears) is not the end in itself. Some master plan used that as a constituent means, one of myriads. But 3-74 was not means: it was lock-in payoff: success of the means process, brought to a victorious end. At which point, teaching (at least for me) was suspended + actual control of me, without the option to tail, (73) was directly exercised over me by the teacher, evidently bypassing the teaching machine construct. This is indeed momentous kosmos (man) 3 teaching Teacher machine changed to an teache viewed this way, the universe is not seen as [true] reality, but an artifact of [made by] reality: the teacher. This would explain my 25 years of sensing the universe's irreality, of seeking (+ at last finding, or being found by) true reality. This molding-teaching of us points to life "beyond the grave," as my 3-74 anamnesis disclosed: we are dealing with 1000s of years of individual life (pan, in which this molding - teaching goes on. in evaluating the total reality as the triune "ham sandwich" I can see that the "ham" between sentient teacher (teaching machine) + pupils serves several purposes: (1) The "ham" Acts as a recepticle (hologram-like) for information But also it hides the sentient teacher, as well as the teaching + The what taught, presenting us with a kind of game - a guessing game, as if we are to guess where we are + what is going on - Deus ludens. talking with Jeter tonight about "Scanner" + the odd tendency for readers, reviewers + the publishers, too, to assume that substance D was secretly being produced by the government This presumably to make people into literal slave laborers, as well as for the direct financial profit of selling 5D to the users. We finally agreed that this can be properly inferred from the novel, although it's explicitly stated to be otherwise. This recalls to me my whole basic revelation 74 that (1) this world is a prison; (2) we are unknowingly slave laborers; + (3) Christ intervenes to free (referred to as saving) us. The deeper layer of this imprison ment is not physical but mental, not what we must do but what we are is determined by enslaving program ming consisting of a vast interacting web of lies which corrupt both the in-power liars + the oppressed who are lied to If this element is added to the triune teacher - artifact world - pupils model, we perceive in the middle realm a counter enlightening mass or inertia factor (expressed as hysteresis) through which the divine messages penetrate like darts. Time +/or change becomes the visible form which the learning, improving growth toward freedom) process or principle takes. The entelechy model enters here; time, change, growth, improvement would all be interrelated if the "ham slice" artifact is regarded as a living organism. I refer back to the vine pruned by the Gardener. what if the "cuttings" are thought of as a way of propagat. [the vine)? Thus the vine replicates - + recapitulates - itself in miniature. This thought occured supra. Such a view would (if correct) reveal the goal (end) of our being taught (means). The term "Christ" refers to a specific growth state: as the source, the parent vine, he was the Alpha state/entity - each of us must grow back up to that state as end or omega state, which is the "Christ. ification" or transubstantiation of the universe which Tilhard de Chardin spoke of. the leaching + molding are identical to the force of evolution, + the sentient entity moving us along is Ho on Hierarchies of development equal levels of freedom which qual levels of homeostasis: self-actualizing vs mere ingrammed response to stimuli. choice becomes an increas ogly greater factor what, then, of my 3-74 theolepsy when I lost all freedom + was operated through? The entity which ook me over was free of [coercive] influenced which, 28) without my previously ever having realized it, had controlled me. "Thomas" was impervious to suggestion, which was the whole issue involved in the Xerox missive matter. I could not have chosen my res ponse to it: I would have been limited to the sole one dictated from outside me. That event evidently was my crucial life-crisis moment - the throwing off of the chains which invisibly had bound me. Although to some entent I can accept a jungian psychological explanation about "individua tion + the birth of the self" I know (by some instinct) that my emancipation was deliberately triggered off by the 2-74 Golden Fish sign, in view of my teacher - info artifact world - pot. of "ham sandwich" model, I can + will cite this unveiling + The fish sign at that time + for that purpose as proof t good example of my model + how it functions. is significant that during '71 + 72, the worst it period of my whole life I sensed the guardianship + aid of an invisible benign force - even organization or society or group - keeping me going. It had to do with "Tears." The danger as well had to do with "Tears." Recall how I knew that hid my copy in the "lathe" dustjacket? I the evil power wanted that novel shredded - then later I found + read - but did not understand - the "Sophia" or "Teacher" (1) message in it. The existence of that bot of information (+ how, during the theolepsy, it looked to me) bears out my "ham sandwich" model of the universe; there is help + helpful information penetrating into our (this) world from outside it. Therefore some vast wise benign entity exists outside it. Therefore vis-a-vis this entity this world is dead weight - its growth force does not arise from within it, but from outside it. Vide "Ubik" - the uncanny manifestations + apperitions which invade it + cannot be reconciled with it - + which disturb - i.e. tend toward waking up the sleepers (in cold pac). That this - thes penetrations of information from outside our world t This cannot be doubted + are a known, a given in my whole corpus of theology/cosmology. It is 0 perhaps an arranging of constituents of this world, but at the very least the act of the arranging impinges on + into our world from outside - + I think this minimal hypothesis is too minimal, + that actual elements break through into our world, as in "Ubik" About this am positive. It is another world or an entity I external to our world thrusting through - to us, as in Ubik. therefore I now assign absolutely outrageous importance - as patrice + Lem do - to "Ubik," when it is regarded from that angle: a story about everyone being in a semi sleep state in a spurious world into which true information breaks through from a life-giving entity outside, in which case the unmistakeable conclu sion must be drawn that the world - our world - is in fact no world at all, + we are being roused to this recognition + so freed from the bondage imposed by giving assent to its illusions (counterfeit nature). Thus freedom involves a denial - a withdrawal of assent to the empirical world, at which point true reality, + our condition - the Black Iron prison in which we are confined swins into view for the first time seeing it as it is, we polarize against it + hence align ourselves with its antagonist on the other side: God If freedom (esp of the mind - soul) us slavery is The real issue-why, "Scanner" deals exactly with that situation! + logically follows upon "Tears" where the fieced labor camps are mentioned but never part of the book - only alluded to - yet appear in "Scanner" (new path). It makes no difference whether the Government is (falsely perhaps) assumed to row new path or not - new path facilities are prisons, + info in the book describes the federal prisons as terrible. Mank seems even to suggest succide before that, + there is the floor‐ naxing info parallelling the toilet cleaning. 7 So the federal "neural Ophasia" clinics, it is implies are ( worse; + ➁ they put you to work there. Arctor is a loser but it is the federal authorities (via Donna + mike westaway) who put him there. Donna supplied him + others (e.g. Freck) the 5D As I realized about the cover of the paperback of "Scanner" it really shows the dealer + law officer as the two halves of one person, with no hint of "warring" personalities: visually, they Gestalt into a syzygy, two sides of the same coin. Your dealer is a cop. Your cop is a dealer. I feel as if the scales have fallen from my eyes, + Jam seeing lucidly. From "Frolix 8" to "Tears" to "Scanner": a logically progression of an indepth study of Jail, tyranny, dope, slave labor camps, + irreality related to lies (this last point mostly in "Scanner"). Something of this seems hinted at in "Faith. of our Fathers," too: lies, delusions (induced by drugs), tyranny. What is shown in "Scanner" as the lies - enslaving- tyranny axis is not simplystically identified as "the Government" as it is in "Tears" + "Frolix I" - in