September 15, 1976 Dear Dorothy, I wanted to add a footnote to my earlier letter about my religious discoveries: new light shed on them through an interview with a lady reporter who came to see me yesterday. I mentioned to her that 36 of my novels asked the question, What is real? which is the basic question of all Greek philosophy, starting with Parmenides who felt that what we see is "dokos" or a kind of counterfeit reality, behind which lies a real or absolute reality; this distinction is later found in Kant. I told the lady reporter that my newest novel, VALISYSTEM A, is not this question repeated but the answer given, and she pointed out that after 25 years I seem to have arrived at an answer. For the first time I realized that my religious experience of 1974 was indeed an answer to a 25 year seeking, and not mere happeenstance, and I saw it in perspective for the first time. That my answer should be the Christian answer did not appear to disturb the lady reporter, but she pointed out that those fans who had grumbled at my asking the question, "What is real?" repeatedly would probably now grumble at the answer which I had found, which was a blend of Platonism, Neoplatonism, Gnosticism and Christianity, with nothing really new in it. Later I got to thinking of how many factors had gone into my finding this answer. I had just had several teeth removed, and was still under the influence of sodium pentathol, for one thing. As a second major factor, I was experimenting with the orthomolecular vitamin formula, and had accidentally taken 7 grams of vitamin C, much more than is indicated. Thirdly, a girl had come to my door with a gold fish necklace, which had fascinated me, and she had said, "This is a sign used by the early Christians." Also, I own a very old wooden saint figure, and for some reason had been moved to burn a votive candle before it perpetually. Too, it was the time of the vernal equinox, which is near Easter and the Jewish Passover. All these factors were causal in producing what happened; neural firing took place in the right hemisphere of my brain for the first time, and there was a radical drop in GABA fluid, which is the inhibiting fluid, allowing metasystems to fire for the first time (I use Maslow's terms here). The experience did not come easily, and, as I mentioned in my earlier letter, I was in a unique state of fear and dread. My first stage of the experience was to undergo the Bardo Thodol journey, and was then suddenly surprised to find myself confronting Aphrodite, who Empedocles believed to be the generative principle of all life, of all love and the formation of krasis or gestalts in the universe, as opposed to the principle of strife. What this meant I did not know at the time. Soon thereafter I was treated to 8 hours of violent phosphene activity, resembling modern nonobjective graphics such as those by Klee and Kandinsky; at this point I was aware that another mind was reaching out to my own, but I thought it human, perhaps a Soviet telepathic experiment. The sense impressions were overwhelming. When the phosphene activity ended, I felt that I had regained my sight, that I had been blind all my life ana could see for the first time. What I saw, then, were the mysteries of the universe; and at the same time a theophany took place, the mani¬ festation of a divine entity which passed into my own mind, displacing my ego and becoming a theolepsy. From there on, in visions, dialog and dreams, it informed me of all things which were: the actual or absolute reality I had been seeking for 25 years. One of the first actions this -2- entity controlling me performed was to administer to Christopher the sacraments, but (I learned this from the Britannica) in the highly archaic form known only to the early Christian Church. At the same time the entity was wary —even frightened— of Rome and its agents, and seemed to feel Rome's tyranical presence. In a vision, as I mentioned, it showed me that Rome still exists as twin arms, one in the west and the other in the east, and that the western one would soon be brought to ruin for its crimes. This did take place, as we know. What the lady reporter made me realize was that this extraordinary experience, written up in my new novel VALISYSTEM A, was the answer to all my years of seeking to know what is real, related to a life-long journey, and that now my books would not ask but tell. Perhaps, she suggested, I would write no more. I have seen that the cosmic clock stopped about 70 A.D., that the Second Coming lies directly before us, that each of us is judged and the books on each person closed during his lifetime. Aristotle divided the cosmos into the sublunar realm, our own, and the supralunar realm of the Gods, but he believed the two never came in contact. Plotinus later on taught that the two realms do impinge on each other; roughly, they equal Earth and Heaven, and he taught that man could rise from the sublunar to the supralunar realm, see it and know it, although briefly; and of course the Christians teach that God, througl his initiative (which is what I feel) can bring the supralunar realm down here to impinge on man — which is called God's grace, and which I feel is what happened in my case. That the supralunar realm exists I have no doubt, having experienced it, and having been saved by that grace from certain destruction. That a wise heavenly father watches over us I have no doubt; and that we are judged I have no doubt; also, I believe that the second advent is coming, probably soon — that the first stages, which are the overthrow of wickedness, I have seen, first as prophecy and then as reality; as the Bible says, Elijah is preparing the way of the Lord, and the Lord, the Rightful King, who I have seen, will return soon and claim his peaceful kingdom. I have even witnessed the changes in the animals, in the form of a vision for a short while; I did not, at the time, understand why I saw the animals change, but the changes I saw are the ones predicted by the Bible, so the time cannot be far off. The gospel, which technically is not the godspell or good news, but the news of Christ arisen and to return — I have been shown that, and know that he was Holy Wisdom or the logos incarnate, and that the second incarna¬ tion either lies directly ahead or has already taken place. I'm sure, in my writing, that I will lose a lot of fans, in particular the Marxist fans in Europe, but I have been given the answer I sought for, and rejoice in it. I admit that when that answer came, that revelation of the absolute reality lying beneath the veil, it was a complete surprise to me, but I can think of no other so joyful, so wonderful. In my mind the picture of the Rightful King is so clear and so beautiful, and I have heard the voices of the host, and I know what a beautiful world lies ahead of us here and for us when we pass over into the supralunar realm, as all of us will. The Lord of the Universe, Jesus Christ, is beginning to assimilate our sublunar world to his father's universe; the end time has begun. I had the most extraordinary dream in which the duel nature of Christ was revealed. It took the form of a Medieval diptych, (sp) in which, on the right, the inner nature of Christ was shown in a picture, nebulous, but resembling Michelancelo's painting of the Delphic sibyl. Under that right-hand picture was written the word SHE and then the word SECRET. The left-hand picture was shown clearly: it was the puppet Pinocheo, as a string puppet, which is to say, worked (animated) from above. The picture of the puppet was one of a mere model of a human, very wooden, very without intrinsic life; it even had heavy shoes to weight it down, to give it the semblence of substance. In the very center of the frame, below the two pictures and equidistant from both, appeared the three unbroken lines of the trigram Ch'ien, that of creative masculinity; this lay outside the dyptich, thereby showing an outward presentation, to the world (outside), of pure unadulterated absolute mas¬ culinity. Bearing in mind that the female (and I think superior) part —called SHE— was identified also as SECRET, I understand from this dream that the female component's presence in the duel nature is a secret, probably is to be kept secret; also, it does not reveal itself in Christ's actions or manner, which guards the secret of course. That the masculine nature is "worked" by an inner feminine one is never stated anywhere, or it would cease to be a secret. I can conclude that it is Haggia Sophia that is represented here. What I also am beginning to think, as I recall THE WISDOM OF SOLOMON and Proverbs 8, is that the Holy Spirit is that same Haggia Sophia, since, as the EB says, the Paraclete contains a gnosis or knowledge, which is undoubtedly the same as wisdom. We are talking about One Emanation, Holy Wisdom, which built the universe, is the logos, was incarnated in the body of the man Jesus of Nazerith. If Christ is also the Holy Spirit, we ask immediately, What is Christ? and the answer comes, He is the incarnationof Holy Wisdom or the Logos, which is feminine; It was feminine before its incarnation, and is perhaps feminine again. No other emanation but Holy Wisdom was or is necessary. And as was revealed to me, St. Sophia will be born (incarnated) again; she (sicl) was not acceptable before, referring to the First Advent; this dream agrees with the revelation given me in early »75. We are speaking here of the Spirit of God as depicted in Joel. I get a lot from this diptych representation; one thing I get is the impression that although gently given, the word "SECRET" is an injunction to me to keep my mouth shut. This is the first evidence I have had that there is indeed, as Paul calls it, the element of sacred secrets in esoteric Christianity (cf what the ICC says). I was initiated into at least one of these sacred secrets; i.e. that Christ's deepest nature is feminine, which is to say, Holy Wisdom. That He will return is not a secret. Another secret is the relationship between the shamans of Greek culture and Christ/the Holy Spirit, which is to say the theolepsy induced by Dionysos. Specifically, though, I am told to cool it re Christ's feminine nature. Secret means secret. (I presume the early Christians, who underwent theolepsy by this spirit, knew this; and they did not tell. That it is also the Cumaean sibyl, and Delphic, shows a continuity from Greek mystery religions, and Greek culture, also not told.) -2- So several cultures (3) are involved: Hebrew, Greek and Roman. I suspect also Iranian: the wise or good mind, Ahura Mazd. Anyhow, in the dream (p. 1) there was cautionary material, I think, because nothing new was given except the word SECRET; the rest I already had been told. Question is, Why should it be kept secret? Probably for the obvious reason, that people would not not, and wouldn’t have in ancient times or Medieval times, accepted it. I am thinking of what Wilhelm Reik said about the maternal religions