infiltrated into the domain of darknes, to pull its citadel down; this is a micro- savior version of the advent, since Christ kept his identity secret as long as possible. Am I onto a great secret here? Jesus Christ was not here alone. Lesser beings from the supralunar world - could they (we!) have descended too? There is something really strange about this. The prisoner in The B. I, prison is an infiltrator; like "impostor" he does not know (1) who he is; (2) that he is from another world; (3) that he has a destroy mission. A disinhibiting signal when it occure. will trigger recollection (+ mission activation). But the othere here are prisoners. We are a very small revolutionary group. - I found the "Acts of Thomas" mention in the EB; it is under "mystery religions." This passage also include 13) The first mention I ever came across of the purpose of believing in such a God as sarapis (Zeus - Dionysos YHWH): that Sarapis was above the planets (which determine man's fate) + can inter‐ vene + free him from the prison of this planetary determinism, + that this prefigures the Xtian concept of God's grace. It is in the "Acts of Thomas" that the letter comes (from his parents) which bring back his memory as to who he is + as to his mission (task). It seems to me that the assistance (inter‐ ventive grace) which the believed- in God can offer could well begin with the restoration of memory, thus combining the two things: help + restoration of self-knowledge, with recollection of the mission being recollection of something which will not merely save or help extricate the believer but will go beyond that + achieve something which will also help others (or the general historic situation) the letter, then, triggers off something more than the somewhat negative quality of extrication; this leads me to the Zoroastrian concept of us as warriors (of light). We did not fall here in any sense for either moral or intellectual reasons. We were sent here as "sleepers" until the moment for action came (exactly as in the "Acts of Thomas." Our mission is avatar like; it would be regarded by the tyrannical regime as an invading infiltration for sinister purposes It certainly couldn't be supposed that a large number of persons had been so programmed (missioned). Again, I think: my being this accounts fore the basic themes of my writing. They bear out the prior - to-3-74 existence of the material as being in my mind at a subliminal - latent - level. Viewing it all this way, I think now of The 3 eyed people + the healer whom I identified as Asklepios. Just for fun, let me imagine that they sent me. The supralunar, the band of fixed stars, above the planets - another star system + sentient race? Ah - if my intentions are representative of the mission of Christ + the desciples - haven't I through my retrieved knowledge relearned something which casts a new + hidden light on the nature + purpose of the savior (+ their mission? Although emanating "from the heavens" it seems to have a distinctly political purposes the overthrow of tyranny - a fight for freedom emanating from outside ( We are talking about something very simple but very startling. An ETI intelligence represented here by - not avatars - but - what should we (they-no-we) be called? Agents of the ETI (singular or plural) operating over a time span of thousands of our years. Christ was/is the conscious total intellegence - the rest of us followers possessing only as much knowledge as we need to know. The statement about st Sophia not having been acceptable before suggests to me a failure of the mission at that time, + a fore knowledge by Christ that only a limited success (a beach head) could at that time be achieved; specifically, the B. I. Prison + its tyrant couldn't be overthrown. Christ, who is immortal, would return + the next time take over, those such as I - we are agents-sleepers" as the spy people say. my main clue of the fact that in 3-74 I brought my buried memories to consciousness (i.e. they were there for at least 27 years, not just implanted in 3-74) is the total corpus of my writing, a kind of exalted secular explanation for everything I knew, remembered + experienced can thus be given what does that make Zebra? The invisible Parousia: the now enormous metamorphosing insect like organism not native to this planet, who originally incarnated here 2000 years ago. We were invaded. They failed to kill him because he can't be killed. As the gloss in the J. Bible says. He didn't want anyone to know who or what he was, They still don't know. Do they know yet? The true Christians are overridden by the ETI entity, called the Holy Spirit, + they act on his instructions (promptings). Now back to the roll back of time. more, it is a roll-aside or roll-away. The real conflict is exposed: The prison vs the agents of the Garden. Our world is a battle ground. The incumbant power is evil it probably always was. We are prisoners - slaves. Gnosticism is correct. The kind stranged "God" intervened. He is hated - fought off. I think the true (esotered) "Church" then went underground + still is underground, directed directly by the touls supernatural Zebra) holy Spirit / Christ. specifically, we are prisoners of a "DNA" [like] programming which eventually uses us up + kills is off - this matrix can be tis broken by Zebra when it wishes to. 8 I in a sense the true reality is timeless, but the degree of victory by the Christians grows. From our standpoint there is a linear progesion, a sequence, of battles, but to both contending forces it is a battle (armageddon). I recall my inner vision of "stations" on a grid board (another proof that my utilization began long ago + not just in 3-74 is my anamnesis; those were not spurious grafted-on memories but rather my real, previously inhibited long term memories. They led all the way back to my origin in the stars (take for instance the dream of the little boy Philip floating on the raft toward condon, evading the notice - awareness of "Scotland Yard" - i.e. the defensive authorities intelligence apparatus. In reality it was not an ocean I crossed, but an immense distance between stars. "London" symbolized the city of Earth, "Scotland Yard" all defensive shields. The shields were penetrated, + then I rose up higher + higher (in the Elevator) until at last I broke the eggshell cup: which symbolized my hatching - not as a child but while an adult However, there is a more fundamental imprisonment than that of mere human authority; it has to do with the original intellectual error of supposing this phenomenal world to be real - + hence subjegating ourselves to its "planetary" determinism ("DNA"). More fundamental than breaking the power if the authorities is the breaking of the power of the phenomenal world itself, its immutable cause - + - effect; Thus the struggle is transcendent + involves a gnosis of vast proportion, far beyond any social or political knowledge. They must be a withdrawal of assent to the empirical world as such. In regard to this, in view of this, my corpus of writing assumes in itself actual salvific importance. It paves the way for the work of the redeemer who brings the message of the Kingdom by preparing disciples via the "birth from the Spirit" which, upon possessing the disciples, in forms them of the true nature of things so that they can spread the word. He tells then the hidden truth. There is another better world which will be establ lished as (when) this order is overthrown + linear time as abolished, linear time being a delusional power over us, the force of Mayan (s Sarapis was consident to be Zeus. Dionysos, Helios, Asklepios + YHWH. (Mystery religion.) + he was the one who triumphed - set you free-from the deterministic planetary powers - set free his believers. The dream in which it was explained to me why God does not manifest himself to several people - a theo‐ phany which would prove his existence + presence: because then the wicked would draw the correct conclusion - that their deeds were under scruting + hence would blend themselves into inconspicuousness with the good people + so the goats could not be divided off from the sheep - in fact judgment could not be rendered at all: everyone would merge - it now occurs to me that since I was presented with a theophany, judgment (favorable, probably) must already have been passed on me - the books on me closed. Probably a most important aspect of this revelation is that there exists among us an absolutely different + evil race (of fallen angels) who must be detected + judged out of the Kingdom - the whole matter is very serious because we are not talking about mere degrees or gradations of good + bad but rather the presence of true ontological evil among us which must be allowed to express itself (so as to be detected + judged); an extra‐ ordinarily important insight, then, would be that this would fully explain why God allows evil to take place unhindered in our world. Detection of these fallen angels is a matter of such grave importance that the unfortunate consequences of allowing them to perpetrate their evil deeds at the expense of the rest of us - someday we will understand all this. As victims of their evil we serve a vast cosmic purpose. It cannot be otherwise. By theophanies, by proving his presence, God could - would abolish the acting out of all evil, but Then the evil ones themselves would remain hidden + safe from his detection, judgment + subsequent destruction. Further, if via amnesin could prevent me from remembering my identity + history + mission as a soldier of Light, it is also possible that the fallen angels are themselves protected by similar forgetfulness. "By their fruits you shall know them." Christ said. Perhaps a pattern of action by persons on both sides done in forgetfulness + ignorance must emerge As in my case: my actions preceeded knowledge of my identity dven to + by myself. It is as if we are all put in the position of having to act without knowledge of our own natures so as to act thoroughly spontaneously. Many parables seem to point to this i t is it possible that a really fundamental sacred secret was revealed to me (why God must remain the deus Absconditus)? In other words, do I now understand why God stands aside + permits evil to floorish? If the fallen angels remain (are, go) undetected, then evil will never end. God could repress all their evil in this world, simply by theophanies to large numbers of people, + then the fallen angels would live on. They must be allowed to act out their natures - at least up to a point, to where it becomes clear as to who of us are those self same angels + who are not; then, as in '74, God can act. Let us say that the fallen angels have obliterated their own memories in order to protect themselves from his discovery. They (may] have forgotten, have no knowledge of, why they are here - i.e. who they are. The only way for them to be known is in the arena of action which is this mixed world. All this can be cast in ETI terms, if desired. If all this is correct then I can speculate anew on my own per‐ sonal role. In a sense I was bait (as I've previously thought) -