through to me here, so it was not the Parousia, although there is still the historic overthrow of the tyrant. That would be the angelic host at work, commanded by their leader, Holy Wisdom, the cosmic Christ. What I must keep in mind is that there is a true element in (in fact the whole experience was) the miraculous, that no intellectual exegesis will exhaust or explain it. Transubstantiation and ananmesis were cardinal, but the human mind cannot fathom what those terms point to — the reality they point to, even when that reality is experienced. Nor can the nature of the cosmic Christ, which is to say to Trinity, be comprehended, as Augustine pointed out. Did I enncounter another universe or extended and nominally unseen levels of our own? I can’t say? Did it break through to me, or me to it? I can't say. What I do know is who was present: the cosmic Christ/St. Sophia/the logos, weaver of the universe. -6- The Playboy articles on the Hughes-CIA connection with Nixon agree with the RS piece that Nixon was thrown to the wolves to save the cover of the deeper conspiracy; it does not mention the Mafia except in passing, but if both the Playboy articles and the RS piece are put together we learn that a titanic conglomerate, industrial, financial, political, police and technological exists, compared to which a mere president is a sop easily disposed of; he is bought in the first place and a pawn of the conglamorate, which is the true conspiracy, with the president no more than a figurehead or puppet (Playboy's point). Then there has been a takeover and the removal of Nixon ended no more than the figurehead front, saving the real conspirators. I write this using the purely socio-political terms both articles used, but I personally have in my possession the knowledge that supernatural/divine forces opposed this tyranny and that the worst crime of this tyranny was the murder of all other political contenders (who could not be bought or intimidated). Still, the truth is emerging, as witness these articles. What, however, is the true bottom line? The murders? The takeover? The buying of a president? This nation run by the conglomerate? What comes to my mind is that the spirit Holy Wisdom would know, and also would know how to deal with this. I add here my convictions about the "capacatator" failing when Jimmy Carter was answering the question about the intelligence community. I have a deep hunch that this verifies what I wrote in TEARS, and by doing so, verifies much that I suspected previously about the interest by the authorities in TEARS, and the truth of TEARS literally. Let us add Jimmy Carter's evangelical Christianity as a factor, and say, is this not Armageddon? The only powerful force confronting the conglomerate appears to be divine forces, Christ Himself; has, then, the King, as depicted in TEARS, entered the battle on our side? If not, then we are doomed, since I see no other force, no secular power, strong enough to help us. What could it consist of? Is it not possible that I know a great fact, that the King has begun battle against the beast already, that my personal theolepsy or conversion or mystical experience is primarily significant in that it revealed to me that the divine host, led by the King, has begun the counter battle against the Prince of this earth? What I had was not a conversion or even a mystical experience, but revelation (as by the prophets). These must not be confused. Christ is not saving me merely; he is the King fighting for mankind, and this is what I saw as early as 1970. As I read more L more about the true extent of the conspiracy, the truth, purpose and magnitude of what the revelation showed me makes more and more sense. And always, in this, TEARS is involved, as if it in its own meager way is an apocalyptic book, a revelation passed through me. * * The golden rectangle gate showed through, not to ancient Greece, but to Arcady, or the Elesium fields. For God did not make death + takes no pleasure in the destruction of any living thing: he created all things that they might have being the creative forces of the wold make for life, there is no deadly poisons in them. Death is not king on Earth. For justice is immortal. But the good man, even if he dies an untimely death. Will be at rest. For it is not length of life + number of years which bring the human due to age; if men have understanding, they have gray brains enough + an unspoiled life the true ripenings of age. There was once a man who pleased God + God accepted him + took him while still living from among, sinful men. He was snatched away before his mind could be perverted by witchcraft or his soul deceived by falsehood... in a short time became to the perfection of a full span of years. His Soul was pleasing to the Lord, who removed him from a wicked world. The mass of men see this + give it no thought; they do not lay to Heart this TRUTH, that those whom God have chosen enjoy his Grace + mercy, + that He comes to the help of his holy people. Even after his death the just man grown old in sin. Men see the wise man'ss end without understanding: the Lord has purposed for him + why he took him into safe keeping. ...then the just man shall take his stand, full of assurance to confront those who oppressed him + made light of his sufferings at the sight of him there will be terror + confusion,+ they will be beside themselves to see him unexpectedly safe home. -1- All those written pages and great important books I saw in dreams: the) contained sacred wisdom, which is to say, Haggia Sopnia, the Wisdom of God, which is returning# We rejected it before; this could either refer to Jesus, or even back, all the way to the beginning, in the Old Testament, where our ancestors wouldn't take God's advice (i.e. His sacred wisdom). Evidently we will now get a second chance. (Perhaps the Greek medical advice I received is an example of this.) In fact, all the assisting I received in 3 74 consist of Haggia Sophia. Those were examples of St. Sophia, a code word for God's Sacred Wisdom which man has been deprived of, because man a long time and rejected it, according to our myths. So it was withdrawn and we were on our own, with disasterous results. If I ask what possessed me and guided me in actions, the answer is, Saint Sophia (we are told this is also the Logos). We are also told that Christ is/was the Losos. I have repeatedly said, "Some said: possessed me, but which saint?" Santa Sophia, evidently. (Again: hence the endless written pages and books, as well as what was spoken.) Well, then; I have a pretty good idea of what's in store for the world: what I experienced. A thirst for truth, justice, righteousness, and health. And understanding (wisdom in general). And, most of all, a direct colloquy with the Creator. Again. This agrees with the "3 ages" view: age of the Creator, age of Christ, and now we are in the age of the Holy Spirit which mean an internal relationship. Of great value in this realization is to understand that, as in my case, St. Sophia need not be born as an infant (human) physically and then mature over fifteen or twenty years; we're talking about an internal rebirth, as when we say, "Hope was reborn in him," there being no need of it progressing through growth stages finally to reach maturity; what is meant is that hope returned, as it once had been. Now, I am to my own certain personal firsthand knowledge the only person to whom this St. Sophia has come, it does not stand to reason that out of the 3 billion (?) people in the world it would come to me alone. I can reasonably assume (although it is just an assumption) that if it came to me (has come) then it came (has come) to others and probably a fair number of others. This, also, fits in with my conviction that the tyranny here in 74 and therefore the war in 75 was ended by the group action of people responding to divine prompting, in fact possibly the same as mine; these would be St. Sophia inspired and directed persons acting individually but in concert, which is reasonable, once the concept of St. Sophia "being reborn" is advanced. Would th_s not be what you would expect? Alone, even with this help, I, could not do much; joint human interaction is called for. The action assumes a social quality. Let's assume person A is motivated ("on impulse") to write to person B whom he'd ordinarily never think of writing to (e.g. me to the Wall Street Journal, or to Wiggins). Person B is then, "on impulse," seized with the next step directive. What if this explains the Xerox letter? That person was seized "on impulse" before I was; I was the person B to her/his A. We mean here a concerted network of activity, but toward ends none of the individuals can see. -2- I must never forget that I did not fire in response to the Xerox letter, but was programmed slightly in anticipation of its arrival, i.e. in advance, by an evidently thinking entity. (Living.) But I must never forget or overlook that the graphics came as a result (were proceeded by) the girl with the gold fish-necklace at the door, which was the actual disinhibiting or anamnesis-inducing first step. I saw the gold fish, then the graphics came, and what followed. Her own statement was about early Christianity, which agrees with the experience of 3 74 intrinsically right down to the "St. Sophia" message at the end, this year. Thus the Sons of Light are identified, by her and by her gold fish necklace, as "early Christians," meaning authentic Christians, which is Hellanized, Iranian Hebrew religion. The process, I say, did not begin with the graphics but with the recognition of the golden fish sign. What it meant. Then I began to remember (anamnesis). And this remembering specifically included: what my duty was, my task, vis-a-vis the Xerox letter. I would say I was temporarily given back all my faculties in order to deal with the Xerox-letter situation ("God's grace"). I take this to mean, es¬ pecially in view of the girl with the gold fish necklace, that they or he or she or it, the VALIS A, is right here with us. They never left, or anyhow they are back; we don't see them because we are occluded, and they/he/she/it has/have the power to de-occlude us when desired. My sensation of anamnesis suggests restored powers, faculties, rather than me being raised to superhuman or divine levels new m to roe and not mine, so to speak. It was, as Calvin says, a restoration of what I once had. If "VALIS" placed material (e.g. from "Acts" in TEARS, plus stuff in UBIKO in my work, then "VALIS" would have no intention of allow¬ ing me to fall into the vector of another force (i.e. the Reds) who would insert their ideas instead of his. Thus, beyond the benevolent motive, "VALIS" would be motivated for practical reasons to prevent me from being snared. What I put into DEUS IRAE, for instance, makes me think this now, which I hadn't thought before. Under Red influence, I wouldn't be writing any more theological novels, such as DEUS IRAE. Put another way, there are two forces contending to influence my work, that which has in the