mechanism which I experienced him combatting and overcoming (it as reflex response to stimuli) re the Xerox missive. So I conclude that the informing messages free us, rather than imprison; they teach us salvific Gnosis, invisibly. Finally: I am led to the inescapable conclusion that, totally unknowingly, we are all constituents of a vast living organism, and that everything which occurs in it, our reality, happens due to its deliberate intention -- that of its own brain, Noos or psyche -- and, further, this vast living organism which governs and regulates our every move and experience resembles an AI system or computer, and that under certain exceptional circumstances it can and does speak to one or more of us, its members -- Finally, the organism -- or this part of it -- is in trouble -- has its "hand in a steel trap," as Jeter put it, and is extricating its members, ie us. {{20}} We must have partially fallen out of the organism -- or maybe it actually has -- like a great animal -- been snared by a titanic iron trap! It is in trouble. And is reclaimed, repairing, itself. It is, in the final analysis, a magnamind as well as a magna-organism, and it is -- has been for some time -- in trouble. We are the distressed fraction, member, circuit or element, or organ, part or unit. Most likely of all. It is a self-repairing AI mind system, and this repair activity (known historically to us as "salvation") has to do with (ah!) reactivating a subsection (ie us) which has fallen below the message-transfer level (known to us, as the Essene {{terms}}, as "falling into forgetfulness and ignorance"). We are a memory coil, presently inoperative -- ie malfunctioning: asleep, and, as in a quasi-dream, we are not where [and when?] we think we are. (Cf "Maze" and "Ubik") This is the heart of the matter; we are an impaired section of the megamind; we misperceive. That which we see -- our reality -- does not exist. I am acosmic in viewing this; as in "Maze" we collectively hallucinate. The megamind is attempting to stimulate us back to being in touch with itself. Which is the "other slice of bread," ie back to consciousness of it and ourselves as parts of it -- which will, when successfully achieved, abolish this false world, where upon it will be instantly replaced by the divine "abyss." {{a term from Jacob Boehme, proving, by the way, that when he later in the same folder says he accidentally read the Boehme entry in the EB, at that later point, he actually was already familiar with Boehme and had been reading about him earlier.}} 20 We must have partially fallen out of the organism - or maybe it actually has -like a great animal - been snared by a titanic Iron trap! It is in trouble, + is reclaimed, repairing, itself. It is, in the final analysis, a magnamind as well as a magna-organism, + it is -has been for some time - in trouble. We are The distressed fraction, member, circuit or etements or organ, part or unit. Most likely of all, it is a self-repairing AI mind system, + this repair activity (known historically to us as "Salvation") has to do with (ah!) reactivating a subsection (i.e. us) which has fallen below the message- transfer level (known to us, as the Essene terms, as "falling into forgetfulness + ignorance"). we are a memory coil, presently inoperative - i.e. malfunctioning: asleep, +, as in a quasi-dream, we are not where (+ when?] we think we are. (cf "Maze" + "Ubik"). This is the heart of the matter: we are an impaired section of the megamind; we misperceive, that which we see - our reality - does not exist. I am acosmic in viewing this; as in "Maze" we collectively hallucinate. The megamind is attempting to stimulate us back to being in touch with itself which is the "other slice of bread," i.e. back to consciousness of it + ourselves as parts of it - which will, when success‐ fully achieved will abolish this false world, whereupon it will instantly be replaced by the divine "abyss. 8202 to120 21 5sil In a I Is it proper to say: we appear to be memory coils computer like thinking system which, although we have properly correctly- recorded + stored 1000s of years of experential information (knowledge, gnosis), + each of us possesses a somewhat different deposit from all the other peaple, there is a malfunction -a failure- of memory retrieval - there lies the trouble in our particular subcircuit. "Salvation" through Gnosis -more properly anamnesis - although it has individual significance for each of us - a quantum leap in perception, identity, cognition understanding, world + self experience, it has further + more truly ultimate for the system (structure) as a whole, inas much as these memories are needed or valuable to it, + to its overall functioning. Therefore it is in the process of self-repair, which includes rebuilding our subcircuit (world) via linear + orthogonal time changes, as well as continual signalling to us both hen masse + individually to stimulate blocked neural (memory) banks within us to fire + hence retriev what is there. The adventitious informatio of Gnosis, then, consists ofdisinhibiting messages with the core (main) content actually intrinsic to us - that is, already there (first observed by Plato: cearning as a form of remembering). The ancients possessed techniques (sacraments, rituals] osed in to the Greco-Roman (inc Xtian) mystery religions induce firing + retrieval, mainly with a sense of its restorative (repairing) value to the individuals: the Gnostics, however, + mani, correctly saw the ontological value to what they called the Godhead itself (i.e. the total entity 12 The suggestion is that if the central corpus of this model is accurate, the survival + wide acceptance of Christ's teachings (aospels + commentaries) are in themselves evidence of his unique nature as micro‐ form (i.e. output terminal) of the total entity - but Only if the central corpos of the model is correct. world-negation, in this model, may be regarded as a rejection of the deranged activity of a damaged + malfunctioning circuit board. Unil the damage + re malfunction corrected, the complex of its activities is to be regarded as spurious, hence injurious to such (memory- coil) components as ourselves. Evil, then, would be renamed (since this is a thinking entity) as noise or disorder intruding on + even replacing coherent signal modulation + transter. Such modern concepts as psychosis + false data processing might be useful, as well. Fuck it. Just double dome words. + so to bed, lest I reify the whole concept into sterile intellectual Jaigon, let me finish by saying: "Love is the life + joy + heart of the system. Love is its boundless energy, its soul. + the voluntary force drawing its elements together into a happy Krasis, where it is more fun to dance than to think, better to play than to talk. If I am right; it is laughing right now, at sure my abstract model, or at least smiling. I hope so useful The Soviet psychormic signals converted (+ boosted) into R carriers are inadvertently kicking us back int long term stored -DNA mem ory playback (retrieval) + hence into self awareness of immortal (transpersonal, + trans time + space) identity, knowing only of the subcircuit, + not realizing that it is malfunctionty, they unintentionally act its repain + reintegration into the total systems. All RF signale are 23 promiting this kickover, because evidentally our brains are wealely transducing them. This is the Noosphere, + i has a mild life of its own (induced from the mind of the total system). The unconscious is collective - all of us ow joined, i.e. supra personal, but becoming, , conscious This is what revolted apainst the tyramy during the viet wam was After lestening to "DisCreet Music" + because of it falling into a theto sleep (at last) I awoke, with pts of my brain still shut down, operating at a 5 year old level, but in an acpha state, without t fear, frustrated, but feeling happiness + love, I realized: 1) My 3-74 + tessas 12-77 experiences have been/were "contacts of the 3rd kind" but I have just en too afvaid, not trusting + not loving enough to face it all this time; +: 2) Zebra is the "repairman" + he is here; + 3) "Zebra" is "them" as in "We are not alone" but as the new vest article points out, they'rr probably not ETIS. But what they are - they vislatus laws of time + space. but ifs a 3rd kind contact. Sorry about that, fellas, but "Zebra" is what's doing it + although KW + I have our computer model It's just a model, an attempt to understand what no one understands; but weare not alone. 24 I call it "God" + "Christ" because ➀ that way it doesn't frighten me; + ➁ that's the form it took (via the Golden Fish sign) with me. But, analyzing Tessa's acct Well - it takes whatever form you're predesposed to believe, as K.W. pointed out about the Advent: it h as to fit in with each individual culture. Gredo They just have such tremendous psychic powers over you, over objects + causal processes. they can arrange external reality + they can arrange your head, in. inducing (1 amnesia; ➀ delusions ➂ anamnesis anything. When I think of it as God I'm not scared. Upon waking from the theta state + the Eno "Discreet Music" I tempor‐ arily lost my fear in toto, + knew it was them, + they love us, as in Elose Encounters of a 3rd kind" - love + touching + moog mosic + a mountain + joy. It's all true. The novel may be crappily written but it's main point (the one I couldn't face) is true, + I have to face it - they won't hurt us. Always, in the back of my mind, I feared they would, if it was them. But they won't. It took Tessa's experience - replying the tape twice - + the Eno music + the theta sleep for me to face it. Vox Eei - corpus dei-sed omnia non sed omnia in 3-74 I didn't see (in an enhanced way) normal causality - I saw manipllated causality. There was an energetic entity present, invisible to everyone else; I saw it + what it was doing because smeme or somethings that was not me, had gotten i My had uto 25 + that seod sounds like them - that theydous field of living energy concentrated in thi ap at i ment. + sticking messages into books + roch cyrics, + cooing radio signals - that's not God - we've been invaded, from inside our heads, + outside - in the space-time empirical world, the invader(s) overthrew th goversment; in preparation for what? + while it was on my head it endowed me with (its) supernatural psychic powers. Perhaps it came in the form it did (the "Golden H1) necklace + girl at the door) because I expected it to haphen that way. It takes the form you +/oyour culture will accept it in. It even had healing powers. + it changed the animals. +, Goddam it; it came from the stars - another star; while it was in my head wed go out onto the Patto at night + look up at the sky, at the stars, seeking to see our home. Dammit; what more proof do I need? I just haven't faced it. the stars The dream of the stinging crystal bees, driving us before them as they sting us (we who were rehearsing our musicel play) - + the the miracle occurs, from God: white snow over everything, + the bees are dead. We are saved: the stinging bees =