of familiar things + the presence behind them of another order entirely" (Platonism) Hegel: "It is not maintained that mind alone exists (as in Berkeley + all thorough Idealis) a universe most be astrated material things are, in me way, taken to be as real as minds. The thesis advanced is rather that the by it. universe must be seen as penetrated by mind, indeed as constituted Spirit is the fundamental reality + everything that exists must be understood reference not lither as directs explicine in spiritual terms or as prefiguring or pointing forward to spirit Hegel had little or nothing to say about epistomology. ( + was not concernal to put forward an ontology. What he wanted to urge was a doctrine of first principles a thesis about the terms in which to understand the world, The Hegelian "reduction" of matter to mind was thus reduction in a somewhat attenuated sense, it is impor - tant to get this point clears"! ED: "Whitehead thought of "the primordial nature of God! as a general ordering of the process of the world the ulti mate basis of all induction + assertion of can, a "conceptual prehension: that functions in the selection of this "eternal objects, or repeatable patterns that are enacted in the world. God, however, does not create actual entities. It provides them with initial impetus, in the form of they subjective aim to self-creation. Even God is the outcome of creativity, the process by which the events of the world are synthesized into new unities, it is the creative, not fully predictable, advance into novelty of a pluralistic process. Thus the arranging which I perceived Zebra (cccomplishing is precisely what such sophistocated views as whitehead's would hold to be the actual way God works, in contrast to popular conception, + ratified - even verifies at least for me sub jectively, that indeed He whom I saw was God, as this fits w's description (theory, view, analysis, insight, etc), + is far superior to any view I myself ever knew of or entertained. It was for beyond my education + mental powers to impune intellectually this of God - yet I saw it, + have spens 3 years explicating it, to find it here in whitehead (+ in Hegel). The supra tevote he whole head's view as a stunning perfect verbal account of what I saw in 3-74, eclipsing any + all my own attempt to so account. I literally saw what whitehead holds in a theoretical sense (likewise Hegel). Yes, phil, you did see God - exactly as described by whitehead (+ Hegel). experien eligion, phy t vol is 39) Thus my 3-74 perception of the world does not, it turns out. yield new theories about reality (metaphysics) + God, but rather verifies Hegel + more precisely whitehead. only ignorance has kept me unaware of this until the cast 2 days. EB! Whitehead: "The universe consists entirely of becomings, eace of them a process of appropriating + integrating the infinity of items ("reality) provided by the antecedent universe (Eureka! The parts-pile I saw!] + by God (the abiding source of novel possibilities... fundamentally, the human being is engaged in absorbing the past + in making himself different from it by actualizing some value poten tialities + rejecting others, on a larger scale, both of the contrasting priciples tradition + novelty are prominent in human societies whereas tradition lends to dominate the lifeless portions of nature. Whitehead conceived of God as existing with all of reality not prior to it, + as growing by absorb ing + transforming what is done in the temporal world.) (B "whitehead in the reading of the Timaeus (got his concept of mof a God who does not timelessly transcent process but is in some way involved in it." Didn't I figure out t 14 54se t speculate - that what Zebra was assembling t tfute was itself? EB: "Hegel came to regard the universe, + its cultural social + political progress as but manifestations in time of B an unchanging absolute spirit ... it regarded particular religions as no more than visual aids toward understanding Hegelian truths, a "ultimate reality is mobile + dynamic, like a river." (Ws process view) EB "whitehead identified the presence of the divine with an apprehension of a permanent rightned; in the scheme of things + based the validity of the [R.] experience on the claim that an adequate cosmology regerers God as a principle of selection aiming at the realization of the good in the world process." EB: "on this view, the arguments for the reality of God are not wholly formal demonstrations but rother the 4 tracing out of intelligible patterns in experiences" which precisely describes what I saw Zebra doing. all this philosophizing about God (Zebra) is truly wonderful + accurate, but I must never forget two aspects I experienced not covered by philosophy: 1) Zebra (St Sophia) spoke to one 2) A divine personality overcame one 3) Zebra (God) deliberately brought me into use in accord with his historic plan (in flegell sense of history, + whitehead's sense of arranging + process) + so t I actually experienced him internally (+ externally) as motivating me, wo says God does not greate actual entities. which I'm willing to agree with (J-I does that), but we says "He provides entities with initial impetus, in the form of their subjective aim to self-creation," which I call "realization or perfection or fulfillment of the entelechy" - but in my case in 3-74 he took me over - not for any initial impetus, but a latter-time later impetus whose goal seemed not to be any sat of entelechy fulfillment, as I understand the term, meaning an intrinsic fulfillment, but rather a fulfillment of purpose, even a divine adventitious purpose vis-a-vis the historic, general process - recalling to me the vision I had of the totality as an organic entity with each of us as a "cell, subsystem or monad within it the being drawn into the historical process certainly fits with Hegel - boy, does it ever. âž€ Also - the divine taking me over to achieve that. But us to : it implies the personality (if God) being there in a non-philosophical sense - but certainly it fits with the Christian view of God possessing person ality. That this 3-74 experience was revelation initiated by God, puts it in the class of religion, too, rather than cosmological metaphysical philosophy - i.e. how the know reage I have was attained. If indeed the universe is an organism, then the mind (Nous) of that totality-organism selected me, accupied me, directed me (or rather acted out What it wanted done by [] me, & finally, spike (inwardly) to me. Not only is the universe alive (in Hegel’s sense, animated by spirit) but that spirit is alive& sentient in the way We ( humans) are, It must have been macrocosm speaking to microcosm. I guess the fact that it (God, Mind, Spirit) talked to me shows that this a[], & selecting out of the antecedent universe is not mere activity by a mere force:it knows what it is doing, & does it deliberately: this transcendsthe mere limited Nature of mere teleology or purpose: it is conscious purpose. it consciously selected me & showed me reality (& therefore [], since it permeated reality). It even showed me the historicalreality. It did notseem to me that everything in the antecedent universewas used (or used at any one Given time). What became of the not used items? allowed to perish- to pass away? Then this is what is meant vis-a-vis humans: to be used, rather than discarded, means Eternal life, rather than perishing (in death). Well, [], in 3-74 I was used, & not discarded to perish( & I saw my reward- next place- & tall pure 547 5537 (28 we can't see the form either in processs or the finished parts extenderly out of time into eternity (already). This is precisely what our God + savior can offer us - but just "the sheep": a permanent place in the "new earth" he is building now This 3-74 experience is precisely what the early Xtians correctly sought: incorporated into the Kingdom - corpus Christi - while still alive. e qvidenly now it is rare, the knowledge + tech niques - the way - lost. He will return to restore that, which is lost. I deduce he is alreati here now, to have done it for me. My graving been brought in in 3-74 is evidence that he must be back. or if God did it it is at least proof that the "Kingdom of his dear son" does exist. of course he's back : he spoke to me we are Leibnitz: colonies of monads who perceive others "with blurred vision as materially existing, whereas in reality only monads (minds) exist, God being the highest monad who harmonizes + integrates the other monads. The concept "coloncer of monads" being what humans really are, but due to "blurred vision" we see bodies - this is much like my own vision of the great "organism" with what I called "subsections." Viz: "Leibnitz viewed Descartes minds as the only ultimate existents So that even material things were colonies of souls. God was als + viewed as the supreme monad that establishes coherence and harmony among all the other monads. What appears to men as the external world is so to speak, the result of blurred vision on the part of those groups of monads that are human beings" (EB a io Karl Barth regards "the Word (i.e. God's self-revelation as concretely manifested in Christ + in preaching) as separate from religion. EB: "Hegel saw human history as a vast dialectical moisment toward the realization of freedom. The reality of history, he held, is spirit + the story of religion or the process by which (pirit - true to its own internal logical character + following The dialectical pattern of thesis, ante thesis, + synthesis (the reconciliation of the tension of opposite position, in a new unity that forms the basis of a further tensing (i.e. the new synthesis generater its own opposite] - comes to full consciousness - of itself. Endividual religion. Thus repre sent stages in a process of evolution (i.e. progressive steps in the unfolding of Spirit) directed toward the great God 9 at which all history aims EB "lleged placed the historical religions into 3 great divisions t âž€ religions of nature, or religions based principally upon the im mediate consciousness deriving from sense - experience. Next, the religions of spiritual individuality (Judiasm, the religion of sublimity; ancient Greek, the religing of beauty, + Roman, the religion of utility) At the highest level is absolute religion, or the religion of complete spirituality: Christianity. The progression thus proceeds from man immersed in nature + functioning only at the level of sensual animal consciousness, to man becoming conscious of himself in his individuality a distinct from nature, + beyond that to a grand awareness in which the opposition of individ rality + nature is overcome in the realization of the absolute spirit." like for me in 3-74; I saw Zebra outside, + also experienced it inside me as well. + the evolution Hegel gives in evactly the direction I already knew through my revelation that the progression toward greater human freedom is taking us. ( Again what I saw (i.e. was revealed) agrees with Hegel, + also I saw this progression happening by the very same dialectic process Hegel posits Ath: the final state (supra) would be tat tvam ast realizing the identity of Atman within + Brahman with out I have a strong feeling that the Spirit active in history is the same one that was (+ maybe still is) active in biological evolution. In a very literal sense, evolution has passed ove from the area of biological evolution to the evolution of man within his social context