what "Felix" meant.) "Let them all play again, in some other way, + let them be happy." I showed the unfair punishment for playing. "Scanner" is a study of what the BIP does to you (punishes you) + what for (playing, not growing up, "not toiling"). Like the Christ story, it simply (as I point out) just lays forth cause + effect. I don't wind up deploring playing - just that particular way of playing. So in a way, "Scanner" is a study of the punishment (too great) for playing instead of toiling, not drugs. Thus the secret (encoded) theme of "Tears" is carried further. Amazing, since when I wrote "Scanner" I had not yet figured out "Tears"! Knowing what I know now after 4 years of exegesis re "Tears", what I'd write on the basis of it would be "Scanner." How do you explain that? "Scanner" logically follows "Tears" if you know what "Tears" is. really about.➁ play is one of the antiphonal themes in "Scanner" - play + punishment. What an insight! You playt - + are punished + far too severely; as I say, "the punishment was far too great": it opens (the postscript): "This has been a novel about some people who were punished entirely too much for what they did. They wanted to have a good time -" etc The expectation of punishment is a knowledge about playing. You have been taught to expect it, this goes beyond mere worthlessness; this is sin, + God will get you (in all his mundane polyforms. Both communist + capitalist (+ fascism) societies -+ theocracies - teach this. It's called theodicy. It's fucked, like when merry Lu threw my snuff in the garbage. No wonder the more $ I get the more morose I get. I enjoyed paying the IRS - shit! The BIP really has me by the balls. Finally I began to rebell vis-a-vis Nancy + her too obvious scam. The $4,000 to Laura had already strained my slavish credulity➀ to its breaking point. ➀To the BIP's warping messages. ➁ + its about intoxication (Dionysos) the BIP gets to me through what passes as conscience, but is really guilt. Doris has cancer. Joan is going blind. Tessa + Nancy are poor. + I - I have a new car + $23,000! I deserve prison. (+ consider my poor Mother - let's not forget that.) Yes, the BIP has been getting "die" messages to me marked "conscience." Poor Nancy. Poor Tessa + Joan + Doris + Dorothy + et al. [..] +, worst of all, I don't have to work to get all this money. I'm a parasite, like the Russian Girl. Five years in a FLC. + I'd feel good, because it would ease my conscience. Masochism, pure + simple. Even if you believe in man's sinfulness, the doctrine of vicarious atonement makes no sense. The crucifixion story says, "they punish you - they kill even spotless God who couldn't be in any way sinful - + that is wrong." The story proves you don't have to be sinful to get maximum punishment (death). (+ humiliation.) (Disgrace.) It shows there is no connection between sin (or imagined sin) + punishment this is the lesson of Calvary. God himself proved it for our benefit, this absolute lack of connection. The proof was immediately the victim of BIP warpage - right off the bat. So the true message has to be smuggled in subversively in code. See, Christ came back + is breaking the BIP - not just its power over us but it itself. Hosanna! (Shout of joy.) The Goldie Hahn film + "Scanner" show what happens to you if you play instead of toil, but it doesn't say it's right, this punishment now, how can we fix it so that mirth + play do not result in punishment? Do we (73) overthrow the Gov? No; the next one will be just as bad - as Christ knew. God (Christ/ Dionysos) will take care of it by bursting the BIP. (In 1974 he did it partially - one vital stage in the historic plan of salvation.) (I must never forget this: Christ's help unfold historically - i.e. in human history: in linear time.) What's left of the BIP (esp in the USSR - as witness Lem + the Xerox Missive) still Yammers away at us, + the remnant here it's not the final total war. I must never forget that I am one of the few who know that Christ/Dionysos himself arranged the overthrow of the tyranny here. This is a stunning piece of knowledge. Where is the BIP? We - the whole human race - is inside it. There is an indiginous Xtian secret church ('partisans") but Christ/ Zebra, the head of it comes here - invades - from another (free) reality (or space i.e. off Earth). So the answer to the Q: "Where is it, this BIP!" is, "it is here, but a negative hallucination generated by it occludes, so we don't see it, except thru Zebra's lifting the occlusion. (74) I see in the crucifixion story the message "punishment must end." In my schema, revealed to be, punishment is one of the key words, tied to the key word sin. This whole sin - punishment system is a [smoke]- stream for our enslavement. The solution to the equation sin-punishment➀ is innocence-joy, ➁ this is what the secret Kerygma in "Tears" reveals, + "Scanner" goes on to study the issue further. ➀ work ➁ play. Then, by my theory, the last thing we should do is imitate Christ's passion. It was to liberate us from this that he came: to relieve us of the belief that suffering is natural + somehow proves or is tied to "sin." As Lord of the universe it is his desire + mission to extricate us from -+ finally destroy - the Tears world. + a lof of the Tears world is psychological - i.e. a spiritual matter. I am very sleepy, so this statement maybe already (+ frequently) stated, but - could the encoded message in "Tears" be Zebra's notification to the true sectet Xtian church that he is here? (there now, here again) not telling them what to do, or promulgating a true narrative (joy, innocence) but announcing his presence? The joy - innocence narrative points to him (Christ/Dionysos). (75) Such a thematic narrative could point nowhere else but to him. In a sense it not only tells us he is here but who he is. So by decoding the message in "Tears" I learn who Zebra is for sure: Christ / Dionysos In a nutshell, in 3-74 it has punishment which Zebra saved me from - which tends to prove I'm on the right track, in the above pages. ---------- the voice: "Guilty but not wrong." (What the crucifixion proved.) i.e. the judicial + the moral bipolarized - but in apostasy rejoined with God as Caesar. ---------- My God - talk about "Scanner" being right on. The real purpose of substance D is to create a slave labor force. Take the people who just want to play. Give them "poisoned candy" + they wind up in the tin mines. + several reviews have said it's the authorities who are producing it. They are all put to work - with a vengence. + the game, which destroys your last shred of self respect (esteem) + makes you outer-directed + totally dependent on group approval. Q.E.D. "Frolix 8" to "Tears" to "Scanner" The game: die messages. (76) If it is really AD45 Rome, + Christ was reallyu exculpated, not crucified, then he could still be alive via a normal life span. Maybe my memory of him leaving us was not his crucifixion. But just going into hiding - he never died, + will return - we know he will soon return - after the power of the BIP is burst - + we did burst it; I remember our running away in glee. So it is safe for him to return. So we know it'll be any time. Then what is Zebra? ➁Christ/Dionysos in his true supernatural deity form?➀ that would be UBIK, the Logos. From Form I. Irreal Form II, the BIP, is being abolished, made irreal. Christ's return is equal to Form I, the upper realm, taking over completely the inferior bulk of Form II banished. (i.e. trans temporal Rome.) Zebra is reweaving Form II into Form I (annexing it). Which in a way is the abolition of the non-God world (" the end of the world"). The "Gravity" ("Mass") of the BIP is so great that it warps all info ("light") about its existence around it in a circle, so no sense impressions of it reach us. + it warps us, too, with its die messages. ➀ the paraclete or 2nd comforter. ➁ Maybe Zebra is him returned! After all, I saw Zebra 4 years after "Tears" was written. The release of the Bork was to be synchronized with the return its appearance would notify the tru Xtians that it had - not would soon - happen. But the negative hallucionation persists, so the coded message is needed. (77) If I'm just imagining a coded message in "Tears" why does it just happen to be the news we've been told to expect? + it collates ➀ exactly with my 3-74 experience, which in turn as an experience collates with the Kerygma? +, oddly the secret message is carried further in "Scanner"? Again I put forth the theory that the second Advent laminated over the First draws the two time periods together into one (Rome cAD45 + USA1974) + changes Tears - + - crucifixion exculpation - + - joy. Conversely, the news of exculpatoin is the news of the second Advent; they equal each other - tell one + you tell the other. + all this corresponds with the historical events in the USA in 1974, which certainly weren't imaginary + certainly hadn't happened in 1970 when I wrote "Tears." + the Acts material's. The news in "Tears" is the news we've been waiting for. The negative hallucination prevents us from seeing it [..] ➀ My anamnesis was of the exact time + place of the encoded material in "Tears," inc the mood. I just can't repeat this enough - it is so important, as I said earlier in my notes, "I fell into my own book"- more precisely, I fell into the secret narrative encoded in it that I did not even know about. So, in summation, the message is that he has returned but we can't see him because of the (residual?) power of the BIP + its sense - impression warping. The testimony of our senses is false. Hence my 27 years of writing. the world we see is not real. There is another, different real world behind it (a 3layer schema as in "Precious Artifact"). (78) I need no proof of the Kerygma encoded in "Tears" - I got that in 2-74/3-74. We are not able to identify Zebra (Christ/Dionysos). My guess that that which I saw + called Zebra had not (just as I guessed by the total lack of previous reports of such an experience as mine in 2000 years) been previously here. But had returned - otherwise, why the message in "Tears"? You do - well, it's less likely you'd smuggle in an encoded message about a static long term stable condition than re an event (a current one). The message in "Tears" was news that something had happened, + that happening was his return. Amazed at what I saw I named it Zebra, not knowing what or who it was. I presume he now (still) invisibly works behind the scenes of world history as it unfolds, but the true hidden Xtian church knows. I, ahem, helped tell them. The age of the curse (Tears, suffering + enslavement + crucifixion + punishment) is ending; joy, freedom, mercy + innocence