needed - + needed a couple of days in ad vance, + it came - a couple of days in advance That this is impossible has no pragmatic significance. If the organism needs it the organism may (not will) get it. That which is impossible is achieved (acquired), which seems to bear out vitalists like Bergson + drietsch. Since my writing shows this same very strange logic, which isn't really logic at all, as we understand the term (since it is based on a self-cancelling internally contraditory pos tulate) the function has been latent in me for years. The Xerox missive was the first crucial actual test it ever encountered, however; i.e. a crisis problem in which a did equal A (although was a contrived situation it certainly was real). it (+ it certainly had to be solved. what I havent dealt with supra is the show ing up a month before of the disinhibiting (Golden fish sign, which distinctly points to providential intervention not emanating from, + not contained in my mind. Perhaps I'm being groomed for my next existence as "Thomas," a Buddha (represen ted in my dream as Siddhartha now sleeping - in 1 part one" but obviously about to awaken) Then the Xerox missive was made use of by the benign power to exercise this leap forward in. My brain. A theoretical model of the Xerox situation shows there to be no way out it was a perfect trap. Yet I got out of it. How, if there was no way out? But I said "theoretical model" in actuality a way out existed, but it couldn't be represented in theory. folder 22 - 069 folder 22 - 069 69 There was no symbolic or verbal analog. No way to schematically represent it. Thus the prob lem could not be dealt with mentally because it could not be represented mentally: either conceived or imagined. "The way out" was not a way out in theory, only in pragmatic actual outgrowth in real time + real space. So only precognition (or something like it) would be of any use: "If you do this, the result will be exculpation," but as a practical anomaly, due to an idiosyncratic quirk (its like quantum mechanics - chance seems to be involved). No viable (useful) abstract model could be developed. Only it hindsight were available as foresight would a clue to extrica tion exist; but by definition, hindsight comes after the situation - again an oxymoron: to have hindsight before the situation" is self contradictory; + yet nothing else would suffice well, if nothing else would suffice, + the problem had to be solved, then there would just have to be hindsight available beforehand. but that requires a wholly novel apprehension of - relationship to - time. Time would have to flow backward, or anyhow so be experienced. The organism would have to be able to perceptually tap into a retrograde info-time-flow - not necessarily a time flow but info about it (we are dealing with epistemology, here). The future would have to become the present or the past by definition. But look at the titanic - folder 22 - 070 folder 22 - 070 3 perceptual consequences of my achieving that an entire future life was remembered as past i.e. Acts became the future, my next life; I found myself moving retrograde in time + a virtual infinitude of Gnosis was available to me: the total accretional knowledge form The conclusion of not yet lived lives! This is why I said, "I'm seeing the universe backward"! I began literally to move retrograde in time, + saw "the film clip of the explosion (Big Bang origin of The universe) run in reverse, so that every thing instead of flying apart came together. boy, am I onto something here; because now the peculiar + eerie precognition of my writing can be understood (e.g. the 2 test papers in "Faith of..." dealing with the CP which are a trap, + Tanya Lee at the door, etc). So my next life lies "back" in 70 AD + I remembered the koine. I remembered the super evolved ourselves in the future 3-eyed people - who aren't here yet! There must be a retro time flow which I was able to patch into. This is why I knew the exact day the Xerox missive was coming! then, as I long ago intuited I am mora backward in time to advent one. is folder 22 - 071 but the divine + the terrible are so close to each other. Nommo & Yurugu are part ners. Osiris + Seth too. + in the book of Job, Yahweh + satand form a partnership. For us to live, these partners must be split the partnership must end as soon as time + space come into being It is not God or the God's which must s per prevail. It is wisdom, Holy wisdom hoped that the 5th savior would be that. Splitting the bipolarities + emerging an a unitary thing. Not of 3 persons or 2 the the destroyer The creator. Sustainer but one not Brahma, vistine) + shiva but what Zoroaster called the wise mind not in succession but God can be good + terrible at the same time. This is why we seek a mediator between us + him; we approach hin through the mediation priest + attenuate + enclose him through the it is for our own safety: to trap sacraments. him with confines which render him safe, folder 22 - 072 folder 22 - 072 (3) "the satellite - Valis - fires infor mation down to them? "It does more than that. It controls them. It can override them. kevin ➀ "Did you notice the pot? the little said. "On bradys desk clay pot - like the one you have fate "No," Fat said, "I didnt "I didn't the first time I saw the film," kivin said "the pot shows up severall time. It shows up in different places. In the Lamptons home - in then living him." "& once on ferris fremounts dest" I said. Kevin said, "It also appears as a on the parched pitcher. Full of water. field, when the film opens. Off to one side - you only notice it subliminally a woman is diphing it into a creek "It seemed to me that the Xtian fish sign appeared on it once." I said no," revin said. "I thought so the first time. This time I looked closer the double helix you know what it is" DNA molecule, "In the form of a repeated design we remained silent for a time + ther I said, "dra memory, Gene-poof memory." right" revior cnit. He assed "at the Eveek when she lills the pitcher theres a man fishing, its flash cut-just to t an instant. But its then, i folder 22 - 073 folder 22 - 073 3 "the early Xtians - the real ones that can make you do anything want you to do, + see -or not - anything. That's what I got out see the picture. of i but they're dead. a "Yeah. If you believe in the reality of time folder 22 - 074 folder 22 - 074 what did he intend to do when shem died? Macrice had shouted that at him in the form of a question would he die too? not at all, fat pondering + writing + doing research + attempting to solvage his own life, had decided to go in searchs of the savior. He would find him, wherever he was, This was the mission the divine purpose, which Zebra had placed on him: the mild yoke, the burder light. Fat, a holy man now, would become a modern-day Magi. All he lacked was a clue - some hint as to where Zebra would tell him to seek. eventually; the clue would come from God. This was the whole purpose of Zebra's theophany: to send Fat on his way. our friend, upon being told of this ashed, "will it be Christ?" His Roman catholicism showed in askin this. hit is a 5th Savior" Fat said enigmtically. N That's why you thought you saw the fie sign - because you picked up the sight of the man fishing, saw it subliminally folder 22 - 075 folder 22 - 075 If in reality can equal Y. (E.g. "The right choice equals the wrong choice") then logic + can guage cannot approximate an accurate analogic model of reality but must fall short (or falsify it if the model is dealt with as if it is an accur ate representation of reality. The implications of this are serious. 1) language + logic are sometimes useless in our dealing with reality, or may down right throw us off; 2) assuming the logic is perfect (unassailable) then reality is irrational in the sense of being self-contradictory; it contains internal contradictions, + we have not recognized this because instead of dealing with it we deal with our linguistic/logic: hypostasis, which is carefully kept free of internal contradic tions. What this says about language + logic as a tool is not as important as what this says about the nature of reality. If one instance where y = y can be found, even if it was generated so by de liberation, a number are possible. This ruptures the synchronization between the inner + outer worlds. but we must deal with reality, + if logic + language fail to reflect it logic + language will be discarded by the total organism in its pursuit of problem-solving. It will resort to a non-logical or anti-logical faculty. If it lacks such a faculty it will acquire it or perish. A race of men with such a faculty will arise in the midst of those still depending on language + logic, + defeat + depose them. The "reasoning" of This phenotype will baffle the language -logie humans; they will see irrationality. They will see in the phenotype what they will not see in reality. Like reality, the phenotype will be t folder 22 - 076 2 out of control in their eyes. The phenotype will seem to be joining the inscrutible + irrational element, whereas in fact they are utilizing a non-linguistic non- or anti-logical faculty to deal with what is there what is this faculty? Apparently I have It (debono's orthogonal thinking, multiplex thinking, etc) but I don't understand it. If I were to guess I'd say it involves a revolt against [linear] time, a different relation to it time is bilked into yielding up in formation - how I don't know. The future becomes a source of knowledge which is normally im possible; it makes no sense, since the future does not exist. How can something which does not exist yield up information? The phenotype must track through his life to the end + then relive it for a second time backwards. Thus at any given time-interval his brain is moving in both tem poral directions at once (for the entire duration of his life, in fact). The retro mind subliminally in forms the forward-moving mind, which is the conscious mind. Since it has never known any other mode of existence, the conscious mind is not aware of anything unusual. The retromind has taken a servant role, but it is to its own prior self. I have a feeling that the retromind is in a postmortem state, which Plato denotes as possessing knowledge of the real world (of forms). Oh. Then the AI voice - my tutulary spirit - is my postmortem retro-time self, who knows - not everything - but everything I will ever know. my theory of the phenotype with the retro-time mind would predict that for such people there would be a subliminally-operating, informing, in fact prophesying (inwardly speaking) "voice" inside t folder 22 - 077 folder 22 - 077 73 his head who seems to know all sorts of things he himself doesn't