im portant of all, it was revealed to me in a dream that his evil had been seen, + "all the conspirators would be destroyed," which they were. The court sat - the books were opened tonight on the anx-FM news someone was quited as saying that the USSR "is one great prison." So was the USA until 3-74 when the transformation began (cf Tears). Thus my vision of the black Iron prison as our reality, breached from without (as shown in my James-James dream). (The Palm tree people - i.e. Christ + the heavenly host out of the "Holy land -- entered from outside + we appealed to them "for medical assistance"; i.e. Christ as healers of the injuries done to us in violence: symbolized in the dream by tessa as a lamb (the innocent ones) hurled down by James-James. I never realized this before: medical assistance not for sickness but for violent injurydone to the innocent + not only that: the violent injury was done to some innocent who merely tried to see more clearly what J-5 was doing - i.e. trying to see what was really going on, +, by doing so, got "out line" + conspicuous by standing up ("stand up, stand up, for Jesus sake etc., Just read (2/22/77) the Ebonfich on pauthicind Panentheism, God develops himself toward perfection through history, dialectically, + the goal of history: the growth of human freedom. Thus I learn to my delight that most of what I superienced, saw + learned in 3-74 confirms Hegel + I am Thus a Hegelian - which is 23 what we call "history" is God (imminent) ful filling himself. Since (if) a man (men) particis pates in history - the direction toward greate human (Hegel). freedom over lover - he partakes of God. This is exactly what I comprehened + did thus participatest in God/history) in 3-74, + (i.e. the toward freeene, away from slavery. saw comprehension of God was of God-in-history. a also, history as the fulfilling of God toward final state called "The Kingdom. In fact the entire revelation was a revelaten of God-as-noperating-in-history + for the very ends which Hegel saw; next, my own sense of my own personal role vis-a-vis God + vis-a-vis the world as a role in the same contest as Gods: i.e. in history + the whole urgency to act, in The 3-74 experience, was to act within the contest + reality of history for the ends legel saw. Thus, our God is one of nature + nations Here is the key: when I was taken over by God. I threw myself into as affecting the historic process as greatly as possible. Reasoning backward, that I was so motivated, I can be sure that indeed it was God - the Hebrew God of the desert + desert an - possessing me - the God who spoke to Moses + Eligate, saving my own hide vis-auss the Xerox letter, can only be properly understood in historical terms - terms of historical process value, + in no otherway, 29 Thus I say now, upon reading head, if God intervened to save line it was purely for - in live with - gistorical volves (perhaps tears had some historical purpose). I my "wiggens" + "wallst journal" letters, + what I due re Lem etal. But if saved it was me same as an integer of - in - history, + my historic identity + pepose (obviobly as one of writer) This is why beefhibeehive + fidelio have figure so prominently in my exegesis. My tax act was not so much antiwar or political but Pat of the sat of growing beethover type freed which Hegel saw as developing evolution steps in history. Lide me entire lancouversheece, to, as well as teaks I saw the Hegelian dialectic, even but the continual promotion of humor freedom us the black Iron Prison - this promotion, as so well understood i German Romanticism (e.g. Goetle, schiller, beethoven, evolves the higher + higher individual who decides for him self; which is to say, he is more rational, less tradi - timalistic - he has more internalized moral values, et, + listens more to the inward light (voice), + knows on his own what is right (vs the law). He is in a direct relationship with God. History is creating him. Beethover was the Paradigm (cf the EB), the individual as genius (Ubermensch) producing that which is now, I never satisfied with older formulation. The consummation of the spiritual in philosophy, theology + art. (Hegel), moving toward absolute states of being with God (such as 3-74). My failure to understand why me" re 3-74 was my not seeing my self as politically active creative (now forms artist, ala Beethoven. The direct antecedent to 3-74 was my reading + responding to schiller. My fight against both the us + struct authoriter has to do with myself as artist. 30 the freedom + vision of the artist to see reality (the wrld, universe) in new (+ "dangerous to society") ways, + to fight for the [political, right to such a vision. (Qu. My vi speech, Vancouver speech, letters). The God I saw is the God expressing himself in the historic change, process (he came out of the desect (the God of Moses) + entered history at that point. Continuous creation now goes on in history not nature; the historical process + the process. Whit is fashioning (by God's design-Logos) the next new man. the "Romans" represent the old, the imprisoning, the antiquite the holding free individual back imprisoned in "approved" categories + (limited) ways of thinking. My influences (in me) are (erman Romantic, Greek philosophic + theological - the new political German protestants (+ Drking, Jim Pike barth May + tillich, + the exist. P psychologists). The view of me held in Germany + france + the up is the correct one; the issue is the individual creative new vision + man vs traditional autherity + the lesser man constrained - hell back in the historic change process- by it. This includes Christianity as an authoritarian fissilized structure my vast fear + paranoia prior to 3-74 was my total (Berkeley - sprung) awareness of (the) evil historic processes at work, + my (correct) sense of being passive: a victim to + of then. in 3-74 I achieved (was given) a vision of the absolute forces at work shaping (controlling) history behind the malign apparent oes, whereupon I switched over from bein victim of the evil apparent forces + became master of - in active relation to - + in harmony with - the absolute real benign ones - an agent of them Wha appeared in my mind in 3-74 was the certitude, the absolute knowledge. That we could win. That I was not a Romantic tragic hero who had commuted - brave but hopeless gesture + was doomed for it. The forces whom I had opposed - + the equally repressive reactionary authorities of the USSR. they our enemy. were the ones who were doomed. Our time (for victory) had come. What we are dealing with here is an entire evolutionary step upward (forward) + against slavery. 31 ( God (as Hegel, "God fulfilling himself in history" no longer in biological evolution) was on our side - wis in fact our leaded, who guided, ruled + governed us into coordination. We (men such as I) were the activist vanguard of a new tefpe of mem (q.v. my "non linear" thinking de Bono) our vision, our weltsicht of reality was coming into existence to replace the old linear, fossil one in this respect, as Phil purser saw (+ fitting saw) my writing has played its role as expression of this new type. It is a whole mew way of perceiving + a new way of thinking about what is perceived as real + not-real. Thus we (our new) type exists within a new (perceived/experienced) reality as well; it is not just the perceives who has evolved. My 3-74 experience (revelation) disclosed that I was an agent choser by progressive God-driven evolutionary historic change against the prison-like old. What I have been doing for 25 years in my thinking + writing is becomine: shaping a new vision (which is why all my books are "one book or "one new landscape" with wholly new preconceptions evicting the old as with my theology, which I have at least tried to world out for myself, it is a self-generated non-rote process, evolved out of myself + not a greed religion accepted from others; this; is how this new mind works, evidently. The person is more the artificer of his own values (welt sicht) than those before him. Above + beyond the literal vaue of my writing (by any accepted standard) is the value of book as view or vision (seme philosophical + seme theological + semi psychological + sens political). Man findet eme nsue welt dahin nicht not bekannt. In it the world is shaded as I is were plastic, its objectivity overridden by "projection," an almost pre-socratic Hylozoists world, almost welt we traum but there is a shaving of it, this common dream, + again + again I define + redefine authentic man vs the reflex machine (i.e. the new us the old slave) 36 the ultimate point in this historical process which is generating the new man will be the (secons) incarnation of "the son of man" whom I see in his aspect as divine wisdom; ulti mate obermenech der weisst. He as paradigm + goal for us all will be able to perceive absolute reality by virtue of absolutely knowing, + since only God absolutes knows, he this must be an incarnation of the very God who is fulfilling himself through the very same historic process bringing this 2nd perfected (successful) incarnation about. (I.e. all histor moves toward it.) It is the role of phenotypes like me to pave - make ready - the way for his arrival on the scene I that is a definition of our historic purpose + goal. We are directly related to altering processes to promote his arrival; it is even possible that in the fashion of the "pre-figuring" I saw in 3-74 we prefigure (slightly or briefly) him. What we are cannot be understood without 1) knowing we lead (+ help lead historic events) to him; + 2) seeing what is in us in terms of it - not intrinsically - but (later, retrospectively) how we resemble him (but this won't be perceptible unted he does come, chereupon what we are + believe, think + act, how we view the world - then all of that will be comprehensible at last (intrinsically, without him, the com pleted eidos, we are mysteries, even to ourselves) recall what Paul williams wrote: "His multiplex view may (someday) be essential for survival. Look at the many theories t cane up with to explain now it loil at the even greater number of theories I've come up with the explain 3-74 (almost as if any one of them would do as well as any other, + all are regarded as equally true, although intrinsically very often mutually exclusive). ("A thing can be both A + to as the same time, depending on Either the context or the V.P.) (E.g.: the world is real/the world is not real, "change is real/it is not real" etc.) An interesting thought comes if one starts with the Hegelian view of God, history, human freedom + evolution + 83 Then believing all that to be true, goes from there to my 3-74 experience + not the other way. Immediately we as a find what seems to be a confirmation of Hegel's view literally true: we have an epiphany (theophany) occurric to someone (me) who represents the new but lives in oppression by the entrenched old. The theophany occurs, in which the oppressed van, and of the new is fold in so man words