"Paul is imprisoned and sent to Rome where Acts leaves him witnessing openly and unhindered in the capital of Ethiopia." There has been a move from Jerusalem to Rome. Then after AD49 Payl become the spokesperson for the whole [Dr?] mission. "After Peter healed a lame man, he made a speech (ch 3) in which Jesus is proclaimed as the one appointed but who is now in heaven and who will come as the Christ at the Parousia (2nd coming). In his Pentecost speech (ch 2) Peter preached that God made Jesus Lord and Christ in his ressurection. "The titles used for Jesus show... a clear differentiation made by the write between Jesus in his earthly life (in Lu of) and reflection on him in Acts. Christ (mission)" is consciously used as the title of Jesus; the title son of man used frequently in Luke is used only once in Acts... The Hellenic term savior is used... In Acts part, on his way to Damascus to persecute the church, is dramatically stuped by a viscona experience or Jesus and is later investigated. In his 6 revs, however, P and stated that he was called by Christ revelation. of the risen Lord and given a vocatin for which he had been born and was instructed by no man. "Roman authorities are depicted as [dr?], Paul and other christians in a just manner... while in Corinth... the Roman proconsul refused to hear the charges brought against Paul because according to Roman Law, they were extra-legal... later Paul was protected from local antagonisms and a riot by Romn authorities toward the end of his career after having been in the protection of the custody of the Judaean procurater Felix, etc. "The doctrine of the Holy Spirit is a dominant theme in Acts... in Acts the new age of the spirit began at Pentecost which is viewed as the fulfillment of the prophecy of Joel that in the new age the spirit would be poured on all men, that [Dr?] from many nations heard in their own tongues that mighty works of God has been viewed as a reversal of the tower of Babel narrative. With Lan' gugages no more confused and people no longer scattered. "The interest in Acts is not in the Fates of Peter and Paul; the gospel had finally reached Rome, the center of "the inhabited world" and thus the ending is suitable to the book- Paul is left 'preaching the Kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ quite openly and unhindered." What first strikes mea bout htis is that the drama in Acts begins with the small persecuted church at Jerusalem and ends quite differently: and this resembles the vastly important turning point in "Tears" centers around black man's grief over his sister's death and continuing this amelenation into the epilots where the novel ends very deliberately with the word "love": and what is more, the tyranny in power in 1970 when the novel was written reached its final higher stage in 2-74 when the novel was published and then after 8-74 declared and was gone- as in the books epilogue. So "Tears" the period of Acts and out world underwent corresponding transformations which are roughly similar, especially if christians are equals with the anti-war country culture (which is mentioned in "tears"- the students and forced labor camps, etc). The critical moment comes; the critical moment goes- things do not stand at the end of Acts as they start at the beginning. An orderly revolution, under the jurisdiction of the spirit (anticipated in John), has taken place: the inner citadel has in a literal, real sense been penetrated. Look what I just said. From Judeah, the outer lands, the center has been penetrated: in a sense Rome as adversary has fallen, or at least a prefiguring of its fall has taken place. Rome has fallen- in Acts, in "Tears" and in our "B" (1974) worl. The persecuted can now step forth and speak unhindered. After his confrontation with the authorities as represented by Felix, Jason is allowed to resume his work. He has even more followers than ever (viewers). The juridical process has proven fair. The persecuting authorities are in retreat; sorrow and loss has fallen over them and because of this they (ie Felix) are changed. The success of the persecuted innocent is assured. What has been done. The changes which have set in, cannot be revered. This was all done under the tutulary guidary of the spirit. The initial structure of the new church has been established and the gospel has pierced Rome itself, never to leave. In essence there has been a successful invasion of the mundane world (of power) by the divine as judge: the outcome is grief (of King Pentheus) to agape. Which reveals the inauguration of the reign of the spirit. Love even excells wisdom. But what I infer from this is that Christ invisibly returned. The greatest gnosis of all, the final revelation, is that despite all empirical evidence (i.e. world "B") to the contrary, the second coming has taken place. It must be the case that we are literally blinded to this by a spurious interpolation by the evil power, who maintains an occluding grip over us (over our senses). Reminds me of the star trek Episode where they couldn't blast the door in the rock open - + then it turned out that a deliberate hallucination had deceived them: although they couldn't see it, they had been successful. This reminds me of Runciter trying to get word His mess ages through to his employees re their true state. or come through only in trash, as if at unquarded, unexpected weak (least resisting or defended, i.e. peripheral) points. He must outwit the archon of this world + smuggle his messages into the prison disguised as trash. Which is how the novel "Ubik" Acts as message to/in/into this world: the true state of affairs in the trappings of trash. R's messages to that world in "Ubik"/as "Ubik" the novel itself into this world. Message not on gum wrapper but as gum wrapper However, something went wrong; the "archon" or "Prince" of this world noticed, which is why my house was hit 11/17/71 the real conspiracy goes much deeper than conspiracy buffs (such as Bob Wilson) suspect, although he almost had it in the theory that our universe is a hologram created by the intersection of 2 hyperuniverses. Fact is, our reality is hologram like: a spurious Satanic interpolation by the artifact con stituting a prison which shuts out information that Like Runciter; messages would reveal our true situation. It’s Klingsore’s Castle: apparently sub-stantial but actually irreal. All the pranks, Marx-Bros qagr, Joke information, etc which “they” (Valis/Zebra) are bombardingus with are for the purpose ofunlocking us from the from the hold this mere Hologram-like Fake universe has over us. Valis isn’t telling us it’s Fake; he’s showing (demonstrating) it By “Melting” it into silly putty tricks. The consensual-validation hold by the phenomenal worldover us - the gloomy spell - must be broken. alis is makingno sense ofour “real” world. He’s showing us that we can be compelledto see & give assent to anything. Finally we’ll do what I did in 2-74 when I saw the Golden Fish sign: realize it; all Fake & were really living cad 70 in the Roman Empire(probably Syria)& the 1974 world is a trick. & St. Sophia, the Savior, is just about to return, as promised. The evil poweralso has tampered with our memory, (cf “Maze”) so that not onlydo we notsee what’s there - & do seewhat isn’t - but(& by obvious logic rhis wouldhave to be included) we have forgotten we were just now in Rome AD 70 - thus we have spurious analogousmemories to match our Fucked - over perceptions. At this pointI am happy to constue my “All night Gas station” experience as proof of the authentic reality. Also, this highly stepped up “ elting “ of the counter-feit reality is evidence of Christ’s return: it is he as Game player & gangster - Like Glimmung in “Pot Healer”: of course he would manifest himself as Jester in this serious world where everything is backward. His tricks may seem senseless to us, the Prisoners. But the Satanic powers well understand the implications; they are being taunted from “Beyond.” It must be maddening to them. He is here, not here, there, not there. Our whole reality is a hologram-like Fake, & into & onto it in the Guise of Fakery, he substitutes the (tfuly) real. So the nonsensephenomena are real, & the substantial & normal & expected & sensible are not. Our criteria for distinguishingthe real From the irreal are totally reversed: to us, the real is solid, the heavy, the serious; & th irreal is St. Elmo’s fire, will-o-the- wisps. Amazing! If this be so, then my writing has been of value. Beyond the obvious contribution of indicating the universe as a forgery ( & our memories also). & present the most accurate & stringent - rigorous- revised criteria to pull the trulyreal as set outof Ground ( Love, making Exceptions, humor, determination, etc. the little virtues). &, asLem says, I somehow pile trash on trash until it”compresses” into somethingelse: the mirror-opposite, “universe- seen - backward” insight is complete, as in “Pot Healer.”. I believethe saying is here. But distinguished as- well, that’s the hard part, isn’t it? To say how he; disguised- how he appearsin contrast to how we expect him to appear, He may resemble Runciter. My Memory, which had been tampered with but unoccluded, & I could remember back to apostoloc Roman times. How longago was it? Right now & righthere. The genuine outer landscapebroke through& so did the inner moving analog & this was deliberately triggered off, uponthe release of “Tears.”. They knew I’d be set up by theauthorities- that & [] thingwas a forgery. I’m sure of it 14 So according to my view, Christ is breaking through into our counterfeit world in ways designed to attract our attention, startle us, undermine our assent to the spurious start to work in us a mysterious alchemy of spiritual regeration to what we should be - + to serore notice to the satanic powers that he is returning. As in my case, these mysterious gestalts visual, auditory + informational, no doubt disinhibit higher metasystem neural circuits we didn't know we had. He is playing games with us, as if we are children; in fact by means of wonder + magic he is turning us back into amazed children - who, paradoxically, true aducts for the first time. He is taking us become back to the beginnings. where is he? Everywhere: ubiquitous. The next scrap of paper you randomly look at may contain a crucial bit of message from him. There is one other possibility about the [growing] reality of the world of Acts. In my 3rd letter to sydny ween berg I state that Valis sees us as a "dying race on a dying world, wishes to extricate us, + may do so by a time dysfunction that is retroactive, + which will actualize a more viable universe in contradis it tinction to this one." Suppose - reasoning along these lines, he is in the process of expunging linear time back to "A": AD70. 1974 -1974 ( Well, even if this is the case, step one is for us to with draw assent from "B" + restore it to "A" Yes - that is the word: restoration (of what is lost). 18 the invisible landscape" - terrance L. + Dennis I McKenna. "+ the presence of an "alien insectoid entity which seemed to be an anthropologist from the future. 20th century history appeared as a frantic (although unconscious) effort to build a craft to escape Earth + return to Galactic center. is, the McKennas regard our universe as a hologram as created by the interaction of two