what are gnostic, but gnostic Christianity; after all, it was the fish sign "used by the early Christians," as the girl said, which triggered it all off. Never can I desert Christianity, and this includes not just the hope but the knowledge (gnosis) that Christ (St. Sophia) is going to return. This, and Zebra's intervention in history, on a vast scale, both indicate that the gnostics were wrong about the pneumatics and their inner divine sparks being withdrawn from the world, and the world lost; clearly, both the intervention in human history and the prophecy (the other prophecy; both came as prophecies) point to a claiming of this world by God as his own just kingdom. In this respect, orthodox Christianity is correct. This is crucial. Even Augustine abandoned hope (because of having once been a Manichean) that God would establish a just kingdom in this world. There is an irony here, which I hadn't noticed: the esoteric saving gnosis contains the information that pistis orthodox doctrine is correct...which is very very Zen! I could say, "It was revealed to me by a special divine interventive revelation that special esoteric revelation is not necessary for salvation," or some such paradoxical thing. The answer is found in the notes in the Catholic J. Bible, as to what the Paraclete does for man; among much else, it explains the mystery of Christ; in fact it clears up everything, making all things clear. Too, I must remember the vision in which the term JESUS was shown to be cypher for ZEUS-ZAGREUS, which linked early Christianity, for me, to the mystery religions of Greek origin. I really don't doubt that this is so, as mediated through Orpheus. I go on Dionysos' hatred of traps and love for "the little things of the forest," as well as the root, flock and star metaphors. In reading over the preceding 8 pages what strikes me most is the fascinating notion that if a sick demiurge created this world, and it is chaos labeled as cosmos, then Dionysos, who is called "mad," is really sane, just as the alleged cosmos is really chaos (anomie). It goes with my impression in (3-74) that I had been seeing the universe backward in some sense (this was especially pronounced in my perception of the flow of time). Also I am struck by the triune divisions: man and God vs the world (that's triune), and the triune layers of reality: (1) Mass-hallucinated good world, under which lies (2) the black iron prison; under which lies the final layer (3) the Kingdom of God, the palm tree garden world. One might speculate that what we see as (1) is an amalgam of (2) and (3); if so, the city of God and the city of the world are, as Augustine predicted, beginning to pull apart -- this would indicate that the end days are indeed here. In this case, I would suppose the Gnostics right in that (2), the black iron prison world is doomed to destruction. Or maybe it is --always has been, always will be-- the hell which is discussed, and of course the palm tree garden world is heaven. Then it could be speculated that our world is a fusion of heaven and hell, folder 32 - 011 --10-- which in pulling apart consign some of us to one, some of us to another. In that case the Great Assize is taking place or will be; probably has already begun. This brings me to my theory of orthogonal time as I discussed it in my Metz speech. What normally are post partem experiences happened to me in (3-74), lasting almost a year. As soon as you have anyone, even one single person, experiencing post partem reality before death you know, you can be positive, that the eschotological fulfillment Parousia has begun; the Apocalypse is here indeed: Christ said that the Kingdom would begin, like a mustard seed, as very small; it would enter the world virtually unnoticed, and then grow to infinite size ("until birds can roost in it"). The mystery and miracle of that kingdom, beginning as the smallest of the small but stealthily growing -- where? Among us? In us? In this world but not part of this world -- it is still a mystery to me, bringing me to the point I made in a previous note, that we must deal at least with something which simultaneously is and is not. The Parousia has come and yet it has not come; I must realize that. Only the vigilant will see it -- do see it. I saw it. I am a witness to it, as I am a witness to the reality of the Holy Spirit and the Cosmic Christ and to God's intervention in history. These 10 pages of notes return me finally to my first sentence: I see that by seizing me the Holy Spirit caused a playing out to the end, for me, of linear time, so that for me the End Days came, and all the events (including the Great Assize) took place during my lifetime. If it could not occur during my lifetime, and when I saw the golden fish I knew that this was really apostolic times, AD 70 not AD 1974 -- the prophecy, "Some of you will still be alive when the Kingdom comes, when Christ returns" -- that promise has proved true. I am still alive, and witnessed --experienced-- it. Other people did not. But they do not remember; I experienced anamnesis, the necessary condition for experiencing the reality of the Kingdom. Anamnesis and salvific knowledge are one and the same: what is remembered is our divine origin, and what is comprehended is that we will return to our lost home, as part of the True Vine. As time passes I tend to evaluate the perception of Zebra as the greatest miracle of all, overshadowing the gnosis -- which is to say: the perception of the actual Presence of the Deity must of necessity impinge above all that is merely understood or known. "Oh, that I might come before His presence," to quote from "Elijah." Jesus said, "No one has seen the Father but me." He did not say that no one would ever see God. If indeed what I call VALIS or Zebra is God, then -- as in the dream in TEARS the barrier between realities has been shattered and the godless cosmos has been invaded (as Palmer Eldritch invaded Earth both externally, in others, and internally as well) -- the cosmos which I deem to have been built by a sick god and to have lacked the Real presence -- that cosmos, as in STIGMATA, has been transubstantiated. The entire world is now what is called the Temple, which means all of us and each of us. And our world has been replaced by the One saying of HImself, "I am He Who causes to be." It is accomplished. Or begun. 32 - Notes 32 - Notes Folder 32 Brief—single 11-page entry. Undated (1977?) Toying with gnostic ideas—refers to an intuition/revelation (related to nitrous oxide) of our universe as a “lopped off vine” set to grow in a godless cosmos. Boils down his epistemological puzzle to the base question of theodicy, i.e. “why is there evil?” He is struggling against the gnostic answer, i.e. that the god of this cosmos is evil. The demiurge might be sick, or up to an unfathomable but good purpose, but not evil. Balking as the basis for seeing true nature of reality—rehashing old territory, albeit clearly and concisely. Quite a bit on the “three elements” he sees in gnostic cosmology—humanity and God, separated by the world. p. 5 – good description of the ham sandwich model (and possibly the first one, given the way he describes it). p. 6 “The Gnostics even believed that for salvific purposes, Sophia slipped messages into “the inferior bulk” of human information.” Pot Healer had it mixed up, but Ubik had it right on. Focus of p. 6-7 is on the information flow of 3-74 – was information coming up? Through? From above? From behind? A few references to the OCCP = ?? Contextually, it seems to mean Soviet scientists (Kozyrev et al.). It’s possibly a (repeated) typo for CCCP, i.e. USSR. Nice section on Ubik on p. 7—“one must extrapolate from Runciter to whatever Runciter represents.” Also on p. 7 –“… until I recently studied the E of Philo article on Gnosticism so thoroughly …” which explains a lot. Also “… if one knows very much about Gnosticism (which I didn’t until a few days ago) …” Brings in Stigmata (and transubstantiation), Maze as well. p. 8-9 are in Sutin, and with good reason. Selections: p. 1-6, from the beginning of para. 2 to “… Runciter’s messages manifesting themselves in Ubik”. Main reasons: the “lopped-off vine” vision/idea, which I haven’t seen elsewhere, on p. 2; the well-described ham sandwich model on p. 5. If we have those elsewhere, then there’s not terribly much reason to include this section. p. 8-9 (from “One fascinating aspect…” to the end of p 9) Word Doc of Notes EB: "Jesus, the revealer, tells his disciples that the secret of the kingdom of God is Given to them But that to the outside everything is in parable in order that they may not hear and understand." "The question in the synoptic Gospels concerns the extent to which the divine reality Broke into history in Jesus' coming." "The creator of the world enters anew with creative power." [illustration A] "Such (ie Gnostic) enthusiasts prized eloquent or secret wisdom; they sought a revealer who had come into the world hidden from the eveil powers and known only to those, the pneumatikoi, or the spiritual elite, who recognize him. A pollonius of tyana: "He was depicted as being possessed of divine cosmic power not as an exception But as an example to men wo have the possibility of sharing such power (cf Matt 9:8 : "Q: ...a christology in which Jesus is viewed as a teacher of wisdom, an envoy of wisdom, or as wisdom herself" (sic) "There is a constant campaign against satan from the temptation after Jesus' Baptism until the death on the cross, and, in each act of healing, or exocism, there is anticiapted the ultimate defeat of Satan and the manifestation of the power of the new age. In all this Marlt stresses the need for secrecy and Peter's confession of Jesus as the christ is told in Mark as the opportunity to motivate an acceptance of the admontition not to tell, by reference to the necessity of suffering "the strong emphasis on the necessity of suffering In the life of Jesus and in the use of the disciples - Be fire the hour of victory Gives the Best explanation to what Scholars have called the secrecy Motif in Mark - ie the constant stress on not telling the whole world about Jesus' Messianic power." "In the thought world of Jewish Gnosticism, there is a Mythological descending and ascending envoy of God." "The christian can lve in faith int he world looking for the Kingdom but already sure he can draw on the power thereof (ie the spirit as "down payment") without an imminent epectation of the end time. "Incipient on actual Gnosticism on the church could account Both for the assertion that the fulfillment has already come..." etc. In 1 John 2:1-2 Jesus is referred to as the paraclete. E ph: "Although mainly inspired by the Demiurge, [the prophets] are sometimes (and unbeknown to him) used by his mother Sophia, for her own messages. Which thus are interspensed in the inferin Bulk" (article on Gnosticism) There certainly is, in all this, Both in canonical texts and Gnostics, the idea that Jesus "was the divine breaking into history" secretly, and that he was the Creator of this Universe secretly re=entering it to this new age not come?