causes us to forget the upper, inner. (Pain is one one of its powers.) Art, then, is a transfer of the inner realm of a given person -his ontology- to others through the outer, but it isn't part of the outer (it is an inner brain print; esp. Beethoven's + Wagner's + Mahler's music), the more "subjective" art is, the more real it is. S-F, then, is potentially a higher art than is generally realized since it can be highly "subjective" (more accurately inner.) (The inner landscape.) (+ the greatest novels would be "Remembrance of Things Past" + most of all "Ulysses.") Well, this analysis confers very high value to my writing, esp "Stigmata" + "Ubik" + "MITHC" The inference of all this is that Caesar is going to appear -externally, obviously, evidentally- to be in charge, but in a latent, subtle way in this inner-outer dialectic (which may be the dialectic I saw in 3-74!) his victories are losses + his power defeated - not at the end of time but during the course of the dialectic itself, during the process. He is undermined somehow. Folder 03 - 053 Folder 03 - 053 But this can't be seen unless latent form itself is seen, + this is what I saw in 3-74 + realized in 2-74 - i.e. anamnesis was a "recollection" of latent form "within" or "below" or "behind" the obvious, which in my 9-level schema I reduced to mere simulation - which I saw it to be in contrast to level #3. Level #3 (Rome CAD 45) is the inner (or upper) analog to level #1, USA 1974. This is the push-pull coupling in terms of world(s). USA 1974 is a sort of husk concealing an authentic kernel. There is vast significance in this inner-outer realization, with Thomas' world as inner or latent + PKD's outer + obvious - just as Thomas is latent + inner in me (as psyche). In psyche + world, it is outer compared to inner. This is a whole new way of comprehending my 2-3/74 anamnesis: it is a looking-beneath-the-surface, both in my psyche + in my world. It is the unveiling of the Great Secret which leads ultimately to encounter with Christ himself, in macro- + micro form, the immortal man as macro-body or -brain + as innermost self. However, world (the external) appears to be under the jurisdiction of Caesar, the BIP, + yet, since it is made up of humans, if Christ rules latently in each human, Christ has penetrated + undermined the BIP itself: it is as if each + every human is a double agent with false memories, unknown even to himself (v. "Impostor" + "We Can Remember It..." esp. the first). Thus the cuckoo's egg image, the dream about the raft, the child, England + Scotland Yard. This is the paradigm. Even if it isn't true of everyone, if it can be true of some, the harm as constant potential is there, anywhere, any time. Folder 03 - 054 Folder 03 - 054 I would guess that the BIP which I personally penetrated as an unknowing double agent was the CP establishment, which watched me ripen + considered me theirs. But at the exact moment of plucking I lost my husk + became what I always secretly was, much to their consternation + anger + bafflement. + not only was I not in their pocket but I could discern the design of their plan which involved me (taking over US S-F). Thus more than just the loss of me intrisically was involved; the plan was jeopardized. I demonstrated energy + cunning in dismantling their plan - which may have been a purpose central to my existence (in terms of political acts, i.e. acts affecting history). Here again was an ostensible victory situation for Caesar undermined at the critical moment. I don't say the US BIP was not my enemy, but in terms of what I appeared to be + what I did harm to it was the East, not the West, with which I was more importantly involved. The "elevator rise" in social levels shown in the raft dream almost surely signifies the East, not the West. Perhaps the inner latent realm (both as psyche + as world) does not lie in (+ hence do not progress or change in) linear time, but stays constant: is supra- or non-temporal, revealing the constants (which I experienced as Thomas + as Rome CAD 45). It is eternity vs the counterfeit of eternity: linear time... Or it possesses a rotary time which always re{...} of constants.{...} Folder 03 - 055 Folder 03 - 055 sacred drama; the transcendent encounter (dialectic). All of "Ubik" is a study of this notion of latency - of latent forms, world, + finally the last, most powerful latency concealed by the obvious (the trash); Ubik itself. This is the ur-idea in "Ubik," the several forms of latency culminating in the absolute macromind. "Ubik" depicts the benign transtemporal constant, + "Tears" its evil enemy. __ So when I saw the world of Acts I saw the latent world. Which is latent, too, in "Tears". In "Tears" I successfully penetrated to latent reality. The whole corpus of my writing can be said to be a search for this latent world (+ analogous inner person), + in "Tears" I found it. (Based on knowledge latent in me!) Thus "Tears" is of great epistemological value, + was so recognized by the Brotherhood. In "Tears" the BIP is certainly there. Is Christ also there (he would have to be, if "Tears" indeed is the latent world)? Yes, Christ is: in the dream + in the "King Felix" cypher. Without that, he would not be. The conversion of Buckman signifies the victory of Christ. In this (latent) world - a secret victory. There is {...} is done. Folder 03 - 056 This is the dialectic between "Caesar" + Christ. Buckman has become a lost straggler, + is picked up by Christ who has now won the battle, which was not for Taverner after all but for Buckman. Thus the whole true direction of the game has baffled us from the beginning. What the Brotherhood might have spied in "Ubik" is confirmed in "Tears" + so rescue for me was dispatched: "Tears" was my plea to them for help, which came just in time, I had penetrated to -+ published- the truth + so was in danger. "Caesar" does not allow the narrative of his defeat (the paradigm of it) to get published without his response. Well, this is speculation. But "Tears" is the latent (true) world of Acts, + in it Christ secretly wins, which is also true of that world. The breaking through of the divine King + Judge is a perpetual -not one time- event in the latent world, but in 1974 it was to spread out into the obvious world, although disguised. In other words, the victory in the latent world was so great that there were evident perturbations in the obvious world as well. This points to a major (unusual) victory (resolution) in the latent world, which is recorded in "Tears" in advance. + also a bit of the Brain's living info traffic was carried in/by "Tears". Perhaps a tag to identify explicitly the old wise king as Christ + maybe to say he was now going to act in obvious history. "No crime had in fact been committed" is a significant part of the Ursatz narrative. It is evident to me that Christ is + has been covertly alive -active but totally concealed- Folder 03 - 057 Folder 03 - 057 during all these centuries. It cannot be otherwise; he could not desert us, + to be with us he must be alive, not just a memory. This fits in with the fact that in the true, latent, inner realm it is still the time + place of Acts; these facts fit together. I wonder how many people have (1) known through actual encounter with him (Zebra) or (2) have figured it out without actual contact. Also, it is a great secret that he confers immortality on those he treasures. (I.e. uses as "hosts".) (Or "fronts" for him, such as Paracelsus.) Christ not as hope but as reality - just as Caesar is always visible he is always invisible: the first is obvious, the second always purely latent (crypte). The thrust of his actions is to skilfully direct history a specific goal. Since he never left, he does not need to return as such; put another way, he is always returning, it is an unending, unbroken process. In my case, even after -+ during 2-3/74- it has taken years for me to come to the realization of who I was in contact with + who is my latent self. There is only one immortal man. All who he confers immortality on become him, in a way we cannot comprehend. It is the mystical cosmic body. Christ is both a person + a state or degree of evolution + consciousness. We are assimilated to him, which is represented by the image of the good shepherd + the sheep who know his voice. Thus immortality spreads out + advances. The sole immortal man is progressively encompassing more + more "hosts" or "fronts," i.e. people lifted to that stage to become him. They become him because He becomes them. Yet Folder 03 - 058 Folder 03 - 058 this brotherhood, in which each added member once created never dies, is totally latent, totally unsuspected; there are just hints + rumors which do not ever touch on the truth that it is Christ in pluriform, that it is (or they are) the real, original, immortal Christians under other names + guises, + yet, all of them are in the space-time latent (matrix or real) world of Acts; once you are taken into the brotherhood, that world (Acts) is your real world: Acts (via anamnesis) is disclosed to you as the true + real + eternal world - which no one else can know + experience - or even suspect. This is the transtemporal-constant basis of it all. So the true locus of reality is in inner space (in our heads) + this is where Christ really is; the objective world is mere synchronization of multiple projections, a simulation: in fact a delusion. + the clock stopped on the real, the inner, the latent world in CAD 45, where the battle between Caesar + Christ is being fought out, not with Christ as victim but as Lord + Judge: Pantocrator. I am glad to learn what value my corpus of writing has: the promotion of the Pan-Sophiasm of the brotherhood of Hermetics - this in preparation of the revelation (in the obvious world) of Christ's pluriform presence. What a good feeling, to have played a valuable part in this Pansophiasm! + to know {...} Christ on to {...} Folder 03 - 059 Folder 03 - 059 against the BIP (Caesar). So the basic context that my writing must be seen in is the Pansophiasm of the Hermetics (who are very much still with us), + my 2-3/74 anamnesis a sort of supernatural initiation into the brotherhood, in which the full + true situation was revealed to me - including the presence in me of the immortal man (who masterminded my writing with the hylozoic macro-micro-cosm cosmology). Thus, unknown to me, I have undermined the "Age of Reason" Newtonian mechanistic cosmology in favor of a mystical "man the little mirror of the macrocosm" - a cosmology in which a macromind (world soul, Ubik) must exist. (+ I have experienced -not just been told- the truth of this Hermetic cosmology). I know that our authority comes directly from Christ himself, in an unbroken line, + that we as parts (or "hosts" of him, the sole immortal man) are made immortal, + physically so, exactly as Paul taught. I know how it's done: