read scrambler - read parasite on us B is destroyed, not Taverner). The trapper trapped: core of the (NT) manual. This is why I have the (correct) impression that in 3-74 I 1) died + 2) came to a second new life. I was just following our instruction manual (known to my disassociated self "Thomas"). B) Buckman: King Pentheus, king who suffers final ruin. A/C) Taverner: the stranger, who effects that ruin The old king = Dionysos, the hidden C side of what appears to be an A. Maybe the B life form is plural + poses as As to prey on them. The Cs prey on the Bs, + do so successfully by posing as As in order to draw the Bs passing as As into revealing their true B nature. To understand this you must conceive of Cs as predators stalking the Bs who are here preying on As + hence posing as them. {illustration:} A) Jesus / B) Pilate (Rome) / C) Christ } all parties either A or posing as A The Cs have started Kosmos into being: Cs are the seed stage of Kosmos (Valis, or the cosmic Christ who/which we could call D. So: A human B predator on A C seed predator on B D mature unitary macro form of C, with the plasmate info interlinking it, its thoughts unavailable to As + Bs alike. So the Cs hatch in the world of B + consume it - the rational consuming the irrational. We're really seeing a war between Bs and Cs. The Bs are always watching for any sign of A C, but in killing it they get D which eats their acosmos. Humans don't have the foggiest notion of what's going on, the B life form preying on them + the C life forms burrowing into the omphalos of B + becoming kosmos - Valis D. When life form A is put to death (by B) it dies. But when life form C, mimicking A, is put to death by B, it grows from C (seed) into kosmos / Valis / cosmic Christ D. This is what the N.T. tells us, it therefore is lethal to B to mistake C for A. So in 2-74 I remembered I was C, not A; in 3-74 I was killed by B, + joined/became D - saw + joined Valis (in me, "Thomas"). The NT makes clear that D is an aggregate complex life form of all the Cs. A: originally we had a real cosmos B came here + turned it into a fake (the Fall). C came here + starting at the center of B the fake transmutes it back to real. We see neither the fake B nor the real C, but see only A which is long gone. + the TETRAKTYS (fourness: justice) symbolizes the divine justice of the C/D lifeforms preying on the Bs who have enslaved us. This is the meaning of the tetraktys. This is what the 3-eyed (C) Sibyl was talking about vis-a-vis the conspirators (Bs). Thus the "father" who sent the "son" here is essentially a moral order (ma'at). The B life form overstepped (atelos) in preying on us. The B life form is my android vs the authentic human; they wield power instead of love. They are the goats whom "Christ" divides from the sheep. Then the "Acts" world seen in 3-74 by Thomas is this (planet) world now + always as seen by a C, under that permanent aspect (as is "Tears" qua world, including the unfolding of the proto-story - the trap + Buckman (a B) against Taverner (a C mimicking an A )). It (this world) is seen by someone from off this planet, which is why I kept gazing at the stars + feeling vast spaces. The different perception of USA 1974 is due to an ontological difference in the percipient. This is the Bible as window on the world. So the NT proto-narrative tells about an invasion (of this world as BIP), + not one in the past but perpetually. It is a viewpoint, + a series of actions by a specific group, ontologically different from everyone else. Why do I keep thinking of Ds as 4s? Then the Xerox missive is to be understood as the flushing into view of B, its quarry. Buckman, in "Tears," is a portrait, synthetic or real, of that quarry, that "intelligence officer in the army," pitted against me, "Jason Taverner"! "Firebright" is the C seed placed in me, a micro version of telos inserted into atelos to start harmonia + kosmos growing. Like logos spermatika. C is a two-stage life form: seed + plant. __ To boil it down, C (which is rational) hunts its victim B (which is irrational) by mimicing B's victim A, then, when "caught," C enters part two of its seed-plant life cycle, {Note} plant growing within the female irrational infinitude body of B. This rational plant D is Pyth's Kosmos, + what I call Valis. The only thing I see wrong with this is that I have the distinct impression that Valis (D) (kosmos) planted a telos seed C in me ("Firebright") + that's what happened in 3-74, a micro-form of Pyth's telos placed in atelos to form kosmos. {Note:} Becomes D, kosmos but not in B. But it itself - "Christ resurrected." It's as if being caught + killed by B is a necessary fertilization or outside catalyst which starts its second part of the cycle. Why? B is necessary to transfigure it: the Christ story is instruction manual. My being trapped in 3-74 accomplished this: caused telos to be planted as seed in me as atelos, to grow into inner microcosmos. The seed isn't inserted by B but by D, Valis, the macrocosmos. Killed (ie crushed) the seed rises to a new kind of life (the mustard tree). B has been tricked into being an agent which immortalizes C, its victim. There is a mystery here. B is evil + necessary. Telos doesn't get deposited + start growing into cosmos otherwise. Okay. C has two-part cycle: + 2nd part needs B to trigger it off. This also results in the destruction of B. B the trapper is destroyed, + the victim C enters the D part of its 2 part cycle. C is converted into its opposite (victim to immortality). B is converted into its opposite (powerful trapper into the destroyed). Overstepping a crucial limit is involved; this summons ma'at. Is Valis the cause of all this? The macrocosm which is alive? Is a ma'at moral order pointed to? Or some kind of law we can't fathom? Something like Tao {illustration: Yin and Yang}? Conversion to opposite "proposition"? The dialectic? In other words the "Xtians" analyzed how the dialectic works (the Tao), + learned how to make use of this conversion to opposites? Valis, then, is the Tao. But two conversions are accomplished: C into D, + B destroyed (cf "Tears"). The mighty is humbled (B destroyed), the humble exalted (C converted into D). C must enter the fortress as a victim + be destroyed by B, accomplishing two goals. What acts is what I call Valis which is the Tao. What C gains is taken from B. So an outside force -the Tao- is drawn on. A law of the Tao, maybe its basic law. This suggests the Pythagoreans to me; they figured out this telos placed in the atelos to start kosmos growing. B is bilked into so overstepping its limit that not only is its own future reversed but so is its victim's (which is more important). This is the "bait of humanity + the barb of divinity," but that's not the full explanation; some kind of deep law is involved which Taoism + Pythagoreanism + ma'at hint at. “Full made empty; empty made full.” Both are converted into their opposites. You might say, the total energy in the total system remains constant: ah - the Tao itself (whatever it is - divine, eternal, wise) enters the humbled crushed killed "seed" C, at the seed's lowest point; this is an alchemical verklärung. Just intrinsic misery + misfortune is not enough; there must be a powerful oppressor from which the energy is taken - transferred. This is all depicted in "Tears" with Buckman: {illustration:} Power => Ruin / Alys' death => Entry of wise old king => Conversion on the Road Overstepping is the key - ie atelos is deliberately set up which attracts telos + hence extends kosmos to assimilate this extreme instance of atelos. Kosmos (Valis) is divine -I equate Valis with God in "Valis"- it pours into the extreme atelos created. The death (passion) + resurrection is supposed to occur in this life - as it did with me. My experience was not a misfiring; Christ's death is to be regarded symbolically in a journey of the soul to the underworld (Orphism and Pyth). Like with Buckman, the Orphics + Pythagoreans had figured out the atelos overstepping, Valis (the Tao or kosmos) + telos. Thomas was implanted in me; he didn't surface! He was born. This is how a new soul is created: ex nihilo. "Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep but we shall be changed, in an instant - " etc. But B ("Rome") is necessary to do the overstepping + so to attract Kosmos into assimilation. So I was right in "Valis"! The mysterious entity Valis (Ubik) is the main element revealed (Pyth's cosmos, also the cosmic Christ), + my "irrational" equals overstepping (atelos), + assimilation into Valis (kosmos or God) is, as I say, permanent (into the Tao). Now it can be seen why hubris was regarded by Paul as the worst "sin" of all - it absolutely prevented being assimilated into the Tao. I was right! Under all else the moral order of ma'at exists. The laws of this mysterious moral (justice) entity must be understood (to the extent possible). Then the "Roman Empire" is a dramatic symbol for that which oversteps. Then it must always exist; it is atelos or what I call the irrational. It is yin. Hence I see it as being cold, hard, dark, moist, rigid, cruel, implacable. It is form II. Being rigid it must be burst like a husk by the seed placed in the center. It is also thanatos. What I saw Valis doing was making a correction. I've realized this for years, but I understand now that an infringement was involved; an overstepping. It has to do with proportion + balance. It has to do with a cosmic order for which we have no name. Suppose there is a geometric model of structure which is like the forms of Plato, or like the Logos: blueprint, to which empirical reality has to conform. What interests me is that this discloses empirical reality as a copy of an original model that cannot be departed from for long, but can be departed from long enough + far enough for the correction to be observed. Perhaps kosmos extended its structure to include something formerly lying outside it, + in assimilating it, adjusted if. Valis expanding (transubstantiating). This is the impression I had: an invisible advancing by the camouflaged entity. ____ Reading supra. B (atelos) is lured into so great an overstepping against a victim that Valis (kosmos, Tao) is induced to counter by including the victim in it (in Valis) + thus divinizing it + making it immortal, + depleting energy from B in "heat" exchange. This is a calculated strategy by Pythagoreans, Orphics, Taoist mystics, Hermetic alchemists, onto which I stumbled accidentally. Knowing the proportion, balance, Harmonia, justice, + structure system of Valis, certain mystery religions etc. have acted as magicians {...} use of these inevitable laws to become (themselves) divine + immortal. The only party bilked is B, the atelos "Roman Empire" which is induced to massively overstep against a victim made innocent to a