primal divine identity: alpha & omega are identical. There was a fall, & the climb back up is long & painful— one seeks to regain the ancestral home, & recognize it as not something new but something remembered (again: anamnesis). Now, when Harvey fell, like Hefestus, he could not on his own find his way back in; he could on his own get only so far — not quite enough. I was essential in returning him. He waited for my return — he did not know how long that would be. All he could do was faithfully wait in faith, & call to me. I finally after a very long time returned & restored him. A relationship & a place are involved. I can't help recalling Christ's saying, "You did not choose me: I chose you." This is what distinguishes my experience from ritual or magic: I did not summon God; He selected me. JOhn 5:22: Christ says "For the Father Judges no one he has entrusted all judgment to the son (footnote: "Power over says, He life + death express the highest judicial function"]. Will fact -in "I tell you most solemnly, the hour his come It is already here - when the [spiritually] dead will hear the voice of the son of God, + all wh hear ix will live. The J Bible says "the Kingdom of God" is Johns equirulent for "life" or "eternal life." Note on John 15: Jam the true vine.": "In the the syniptics Jesus used the vine as a symbol of Kingdom of God. Jesus says: "My choice [of you withdrew you from the world. Therefore the world hates you. If the world hates you, remember that it hated me before you. The Holy Spirit reveals the hidden mysteries of the sor who in turn reveals the mysteries of God. Thus thereis I, not 3, revelations The "true vine" is the Kingdom of God which equals [eternal] life, + Christ exercises the highest judicial function possible in his power over life + death. He has been given this, an ultimate, power by the Father, whom Christ hears as he judger. Footnote: "the resurrection + the coming of the spirit inaugurate the period of more perfect instruction which is to end in the vision of God 'as He is'" 1 JN 3:2: "We are already the children of God but what we are to be in the future has not yet been revealed; all we know is, that when it is revealed we shall be like him because we shall see him as he really is. Here in 3 scripture is stated the point I came to understand: that We + God are isomorphic, + this is a cardinal point - a major revelation. Until this time comes we do not see him as he really is. could that time have now come, in my actually seeing Zebra? In my triune "ham sandwich" cosmology I guessed that ➀ (God) + (3) man were isomorphic - I forget now how I arrived at this. But I did, + it's written down. 1JN 3:2 confirms my surmise. This is very important. We (3) are not isomorphic with (, the world. It would seem from the J. Bible footnote "... more perfect instruction which is to end in a vision of God 'as he really is:" + "it shall be revealed that we will be like him" - my whole exegesis has moved toward this realization that God + man are [secretly] isomorphic but separated from each other (+ so this knowledge hidden thereby), + eventually (, the world, will be abolished. the 'Kingdom of God," more properly (v E.B) "Kingship of God" refers to eternal life as fruit of the vine. Parts which bear fruit + hence are "pruned" in the sense of purified or cleaned, whereas those parts not bearing Fruit are cut off to wither + are "cast into the fire" + "consumed" - i.e the first live, the latter die (perish). Christ, then, is the source (given) of life. His is judgment is as to who will live + who won't - this not this current life span but the lifespan I retrieved memory of. The issue is nothing less than being vs non being; Christ + God ("us") in a human + he in them eternally: built into the evolving cosmic organism (the "moth") Sohn i5/16: the world literally hates, condemns + punishes God. But this is in a sense an illusory reversal of actual reality: the world (as the Gnostics realized) cannot do that, but the equation can be reversed, + suddenly true: it is the world which God disavons - i.e 5 1 hates, condemns + punishes (i.e. kills). Thus, as the so Gnostics saw, God is pitted against the world, + f the are his disciples, + although it appears as if world hates, condemns + punishes those disciples this is all a mirror-image: backward (cf "Scanner" on seeing. By reflection in the bottom of a metal pan") The disciples, when reunified with the risen Christ, sit down in the judgment seat (sacred throme, ancient of Days) + judge the world. This is one of the things I experienced (did) + saw. The judgment which is passed on the world is condemnatory. This abolishes it. Here I revert to my seminal conviction: the world is not real. God + man, isomorphic, are. Now, as to the black Iron Prison, which is what this world really is - plus the wardens (our oppressors are the jailers, + the real oppression is this incarceration. The graphic is: intervention from outside at the gates-wales - of this prison world - i.e. (3) - man - is inside ➁, the world, but beyond ( lies ➀1, God. ➀ Thrusts through into this world with information (the Gnosis which in itself is salvific, since, as the E, of Philo points out. The original fall consisted of the loss (fall into ignorance) of this (ontological] knowledge. To know is (in itself) to reverse, to rectify, the fall + head the original split between man + God. So this crucial "defallifying" information intrudes into this world exactly as Runciter: info (esp. re Ubik) intrudes into the cold pac world in "Ubik." In "Scanner" the final revelation is that enslave ment is the goal of those who produce substance D. Not financial profit but a debasing punishment: + that is the opening sentence of the afterword: "This is a novel about some people who were punished entirely too much for what they did, this punishment consisting of imprisonment, forced cabor. slavery - "By the Government," as has been repeatedly said about the book. 5 "they" produce the drug + then punish by enslavement who take the drug. First, there is enslavement to the those itself. This is followed by a trade off into what is pa drug pably worse - but legal - enslavement - of an history i all t familiar sort: the whole ancient world was based on The drug is a new means to an old end. Drug addiction it. + rehabilitation is an establishment plot to recruit slave labor. It is very sophistocated + convoluted but it works. The "Synanon game" is the exact analog of CP brainwashing - it makes you completely dependent on outer Authority, not inner The worst part about drugs is that it turns you into a slave labore - mire westaway reflects that those who didn't die are worse off than those who did (from drugs). the name "mors ontologica" tells it all. The brain damage is a means to an end: utilized to promote the system of slave labor farms, shops, industries. Federal "clinics" are obviously jails: "For people who can't talk" (which is what the name implies (i.e. neuro-Aphasia clinics). Deprived of the power of speech. They now are told [what to do], + themselves they tell (order) no one look what you get if you meld "Tears" + "Scanner" into a joined Gestalt, which, as I know by revelation, How ZebrA gets his/her/its saving messages to us. Already is We add "Scanner" parallels between "MITHC" + "Tears" have been noticed; now ancient But, unknown to the tyrants. the a n eye has opened + seen, passed judgment, sentenced + carried out its (Christ's or + the God's) judgment - within which the situation is reversed, "hated, condemned + punished" of -by - the world find themselves participating in judgment on the world as parts of Christ - just as in "Scannen," bruce, the victim of the [worlds] system starts its destruction in motion when he places the blue flower - evidence - in his shoes + bruce has told new path: "I am an eye." 6 t "I am an eye," Bruce says at the exact moment in which new path's satanically malignant game is unleashed at him. This is his reply to, "what are you?" the answer should have been "nothing." Is "the Eye" which he is which later sees the mors ontologica, the ajna eye? Interesting - consciously I was just thinking of "private eeye "equals cop equals Scanner. Not eyes plural but eye. I think a new idea - genuinely new - has occurred to me vis-a-vis the "theolepsy" of 3-74. Let's take two possibilities considered from the start: 1) "Thomas" was a former me, from a past life (circa 70 AD). Hence the Black Iron Prison, Rome, the koine, etc. 2) People (evolved to ovidhead deaf mutes) came backward in time or sent holo-like info back okay. New idea. My anamnesis worked both ways in time. I retrieved at least one former self (supra) but also myself in (from) a future life. "Thomas, from the past, wouldn't have known the Xerox Missive was going to come precisely on wed 3/20/74. My future self would remember - it, like me, it, in the future experienced anamnesis, + just as I traveled back to Rome to my prior life, it (he from the future; me) traveled back into its/his/my own past (1974), from I'd guess 100s or 1000s of years hence in other words, all my incarnations fused, were unified, my person. ality suddenly included itself to come + itself as it once had been. It was outside of time. This explains my sense of backward moving time So my help came from an evolved higher intelligence 5th + 6th chokra me who deliberately 7) traved backward in time, along the genepool axis. + I could see ZEBRA + read the apocalyptic stegene‐ graphic "Sophia" messages because my future self is so far up the evolutionar, scale from What I am. seeing the Golden Fish reawoke "Thomas," the past me. But he who handled the Xerox letter was not a past me but a future me. Hint then, as to what the computer like near‐ female "St Sophia" voice is. A computer in the future. like the postscript in "Cosmic Trigger" mentions, into which my future self is plugged. To sum up: it wasn't me from the past or people from the future: it was me from the future. Then the higher intelligence which was the actual secret force which ousted Nixon was for sure evolved us from the future. They will have found a way to travel back in time mentally, using the Gene pool memory-link between incarnations. My future self possessing this technique, has deliberately traveled even farther back than back to 1974; he's been back to Rome c. AD70 + to mycenean crete! + to the star of origin before that. The 3eyed ovoid-headed persons moved retrograde along an inner axis, in my head. Not outside, as, say, via tachyons, etc. The "theolepsic" personality was my future evolved self changing what happened to him/ me back here in '74 - as part of a larger rebellion against the tyranny. (of Nixon.) So I can say not "I've been in contact with God" or "with an eTI" but with myself in