him. for the first time I clearly see this a reenactment of Christ's humiliation, dea + resurrection + a penetration to the heart an evil world (Form II). The idea that the church really consists of living + dead saved (as a body) fascinates me. pecially when this is combined with the concept predestination, which is a restatement of the se that we are saved through God's unmerited grace not good works - saved (picked) from the be ning of all eternity. (as part of the sequenti plan or growing entelechy). I have always the feeling that God planned for my 3-74 perience from the start of my life, esp. the even of my infancy contributing. 16 101 Up50 G: that is the magic of good Friday, sin P: Alas, the greatest day of (gain) on wh everything that blooms, breaches, c lives anew should it seems, but (mourn) + well G: you see, it is not so. They are the repea tears) of the sinner that drop today with h dew upon both field + meadow; thus the Flourish. Now all the creatures rejoice) at Redeemer's gracious sign, + dedicate their praye him. Him upon the cross they cannot see: + so t they look up to man redeemed, who feels (free his burden of sin + shame) made (pure + hate the loving sacrifice of God. Now blades + fle of the meadows perceive that this day no to man shall crush them, but just as God wi heavenly patience took (mercy) on him + suffered him, so man today with pious grace (spares, with gentle tread. For this, all creation the gives thanks - all that blooms + shortly wither for nature cleansed has gained this day hero (nor cente The theme of tears + love + guilt turned i innocence. "Now all the creatures rejoice" Felix Tears to love to innocence to joy - the se s in "Tears" + this is the Xtian salvific magi (note: love characterized the new age of the spirit 10: after carefully reading will Durants history of the Reformation. I see All Xtian factions a total perversion the authentic Kerygma. I must either a s 2000 years of apostasy or (as I prefer) a year satanic spurious interpolation. I do see Tears" still the true Kerygma: 1) exculpation (innocence) (freedom) 2) love 3) Joy out of: 1) "Tears 2) condemnation as sinful (enslavement 3) pain, so ffering Wagner presents this as the magic of good Friday. I do not understand how the tra formation occurs to but in "Tears" it doe death to grief to tears to love to exculpa (innocence) +, implied, joy, in Tears" the magic transformation occurs by reason o the dream which I have always seen as the in-breaking (into history) of God we are indeed down to essentials, + the Kerygma agrees with the prophecy: "St Soph will be born again..." etc ➀ It is bought by Christs blood being shed. Blood : tears, smehow (the eucharist "This is my blood (+ body). m t 15 w we do not understand the eucharist. The be is the alchemical, magic transmuting as I feel it without knowing why, but I (intuit) a connection between his bl + our tears. Baptism? Something washe away, + nourishing as well. The "Holy t + "Tears of the repentant sinner" cause fro + meadow + fields to flourish - i.e. to live t grow. Christ (corpus Christi) is a source of eternal) life; it is drunk + eaten. The lour a mystery here. ancestors ate mana the wilderness + they are all dead, but I offer you -" etc. The essence of it is here Wagner correctly alludes to. perhaps it is not symbolic but liter like the Aton, what if the lower + upper realms are in volved in the transformation? From Form to Form I My 2-source cosmogony / cos in Form II the "Tears w t blind causal nic encin tral powers" re prete e I pain through the m of Christ's shed bot Form I o Form II we are extricated worl PTG BIP (saved) from form II taken to form I. w conceive of Christ as breaking the power (wil of Form II over us. 10 The way it may work is: in form II i are programmed "androids" controlled non-sentient nature forces. But in for we are taken into the "mystical body Christ which has him - divine wisdom as its psyche (head). This we become guided by sentience, not blind causal forces. Both the living + dead are comm in this mystical body, +, together, are the actual (i.e. true) church - whose existen I have suspected. In 3-74 I was tak into it (+ freed of Form II coercive con trol). + the beautiful "AI" voice that I hear is the psyche's - i.e. Christ's. (The Logos - divine wisdom). Form I then, is a living organism. completing itself by using the old ce form II) as a stockpile, a source for "parts"! Form I is constantly growing (at the expense of not-it i.e. form II). Bei saved - being incorporated into place in th mystical body; this usually occurs when dead, but in my case I was still phys alive (but almost across). Mentally so 0 The only explanation I can give of The crucifixion was necessary wa that the Logos by incarnating dec berately made itself subject to the be causal laws of form II - its victim, once subject to those laws could be he which it was - like any of us. Howeve in contrast to all of us, it came ba life, + a different + eternal life, thus starting the mystical body into bei which it was not (i.e. did not exist before. + at once began, as the "Holy Spirit," gathering the disciples into its to make the lower realm into the it to - a stockpile for it, it had to con down here into form II - invade it, exa i as I saw it as Zebra doing. It has invade + they permeate Form II ubiquitin "Timaeus" helps make this clear: this in t is how noös gets the decisive ("persua edge over ananke (i.e. over form II). not only are the 2 realms I envision (Forms I + II) Noos + ananke - but also the ages: guilt + sin + pain + tears + damn equal ananke (being lost or enslaved), + in t exculpation, freedom, Joy = the age of nor victorious t I 66 So we are talking about a growing evolving process of form I (Noos) linear time, using ananke (form II) a stockpile. This process taking pla time, is totally invisible to us norm but I got to see it in progress. Perh i in 1974 noos gained a crucial ed + "Tears" proclaims this. God wants form II (the ananke world totally abolished (absorbed) by the my t growing sentient body, form I. To this I properly write about our world (format as irreal that is my job. It is being systematically dismantled. Zebra, the lin thinking dismantler, has come into it + assimilating it - but we can't distin Zebra as entity or realm. There is no way occluded eye can discern this. Thus the but form II powers are totally ignorant of what is being done (to them). This is Zoroastrian : light (yang) v darkness (immutable world of yin). it is almost as if organism I penetr The body of Form II + laid an egg there (here which "hatches" + now feeds on Form b as it (form I) grows. I, as a microcosm of this felt this impregnation - Firebring this depositing an eg Form II, on its own, is dying. Form I = life. 107 It could be regarded as a superior organi invading an inferior one, a mechanical ( mechanistic) one. This mechanistic one is i Paul knew as "the law" & the control by thrones, dominions powers, etc - ie angels, who i their being stripped of those powers by Christ perhaps originally the 2 realms were united, + form II was not submens. But ther Form II slipped down ("fell"). To repair the situation, form I followed after it - i.e. Chris (divine wisdom) came down here, after it to its very bottom. It was a mechanistic world, + the life fo it generated were stamped with that same mechanistic quality it had (has). They were not fully alive but don't realize it, having basis of comparison - + the very mechanical gene itself occluding them by its very nature. I.e. if o could see their world as it is + themselves, they would split off from the world, back (Bipolarize against it, + begin to live. our world: hex 2: rising 2- + sinking standst i.e. pulling apart. Stagnation. os Genesis (in which Adam is said to caused the Fall by disobedience - i.e. sin was already writter in a fallen world hence warped -occluded; i.e. wrong. faller (i.e. occluded) men write the so despite its divine inspiration, muc it is warped, like all else in form garbled by the BIPs "noise"). As with Plato's realm of forms. I was supposed to imprint on = : but the lower realm fell away The fall of our realm out of the ple 1) deprived our realm of reality, + 2) points to crisis in the Godhead (Bohme?). Man did no into a lower realm; the realm itself fell. (Altho it may have been the lowest level of the pleroma the first place). relationship par The instability of the = the way for a decomposition in very nature of the structure. This risk was incurred voluntarily wit complete knowledge of what would happen: the yin (Form II) so to speak escaped, + became its own cen was let go, to be reannexed, at a later time. it the moth descending. Noos, if Plato was righ depends on "persuasion" + so allowed it to go. we lost our memories/identities... we lost the Godhe only on its initiative could reannexation occur But the notion of "Adam's fall" ushers i the lie of the BIP warpage. The tale is deliberate yarbled to indite us. There is a purpose in i e 109 this. The die messages began from the center fallen (Tears) realm. The establishment of itself warping center is typical of it, so to speak its " to be a center, not a part of a greater whole. experiencing its aspects - its dominion - we understand why it fell, we experience its + death-dealing lies, its egocentricity. Yammer BIP. the cybernetics model still appeals to me: the deranged circuitboard replicated through us w i The effects of its tyranny. It's stamp is on us is any way we can exist + not wind up serving Look how it took the Reformers over. Is there hope? will Durant says, "the history of Christian t salvation by faith + good works to faith (luther inner divine illumination (the quakers." If is indeed an evolutionary sequence, then my 3 experience is of a modern sort - of recent origin not comprehensible to the earlier religious types. t read his entry on quakers, + their experience is min + the possibility of the Holy Spirit coming i heaven to enlighten + ennoble the individual s to perceive + feel this inner light, to welcome guidance, was to the quaker the essence of relig if a man followed that light he needed no p r or priest, + no church. The light was superior th human reason, even to the Holy Bible itself it was the direct voice of God to the soul. Fox is as I was walking in the fields, the Lord sain unto me: "thy name is written in the Lamb's B t life which was before the foundation of the world He felt" he was among that minority of