of such combatting. I am the same throughout; Rome [..] Christ [..] + that is why the Golden Fish necklace on the Girl triggered off instantaneous anamnesis because I do possess (like Empedicles) long term memories + identity. I have no way of assessing how many others there are like me, who are - have been - waging a fight spanning literally 1000s of years - back to the Babylonian Captivity. This gives me a new idea of why anamnesis was induced in me: it had to do with "Tears". "Tears" so to speak got through the census + depicted for all to read the descriptions of the laminated entity composed of a near-infinitude of "layers" along the linear time-line - Rome, primarily, but I think that the counterforce (i.e. [..]) LS in there, too, in other words, "Tears" depicts the antithetical supratemporal archetypes - so it carries one hell of a message! Perhaps it is aimed at other immortal Xtians, for reasons I don't know. To induce anamnesis [..] Well, I don't need to know that part. I do my job; I wrote it + got it into print. So now I know where the acts material (+ other contents in other novels + stories - e.g. "Ubik" + "Maze") came from my 2000 year Xtian memory / identity. That long term identity was latent in me all my life. + in me, too, is Christ. It is his voice I heard, the beautiful "AI" voice. We are talking about 2500 year event Babylon / Rome - + entities opposing it spanning an ever greater linear time span, for we Xtians will survive after "St Sophia will be born again..." etc, + Rome (BIP) won't. Also, we may have emigrated to here from another world, called the pleroma, in order to fight the BIP. This is our task: why we are here. I think I am on safe ground in including myself as one of these, in view of the [CADIO] memories I recovered. There may not be many of us. Through my writing have I made contact with some of the others (of us)? I think so, although when I wrote most of the novels + stories I didn't know, but from "Tears" on, it is explicit. "Faith of our Fathers" may be an important part of this stegenographic message - which is why I got into hot water with the "Romans." Does this explain the hit on my house? Who cares. Rome, the BIP, spans 3000 linear years - but so do her adversaries, we wish to substitute the PTG in place of the BIP. The Kingdom of God in place of Babylon. In a certain very real sense, the BIP is a malignant life form which shouldn't be here. It converts humans into android, we (immortal secret real) Xtians are in a sense doctors, come here to heal this planet of the malignant life form. the BIP has a life of its own; it is enslaving toward its enemies + dehumanizing toward its "friends." But perhaps even more important is what all reality turns out to be when viewed on this long time-scale (+ rate of change). It is a living evolving organism - i.e. alive, an entelechy - with a mind immanent in it. It is an organism which thinks + has purpose. Everything that occurs of its change. But the BIP is a malignancy in it - + we Xtians may be antibodies - phagocytes, so to speak. The BIP has an uninterrupted memory, + it knows that when it slays one of its enemies (i.e. a Xtian) that enemy will be reborn - but with amnesia. The BIP knows that (probably) during the next lifetime the given enemy will get its memory back; however before it does, it may disclose itself to the BIP unknowingly, the BIP is on the watch for these reborn Xtians trying detect them + zap them before they can follow out the programmed instructions buried in them. This may shed some light on what Hal said about PKD1, PKD2, PKD3, which I wasn't aware of. The object of the BIP's play is to get the Xtians before they can act; but they begin to act early on. Not knowing consciously why + what (they are doing) but nonetheless chapping away at the BIP which they instinctively dislike...+ wish to destroy. Watergate was a major coordinated assault on the BIP, which ended in victory. Christ, of course, is the psyche or noös - i.e. mind of the total organism. So there are phagocytes here, posing as regular actual humans - + at first, until disinhibiting these phagocytes, don't know their own true identies. Even so, they, due to (divine) programming, can accomplish a lot. Almost all that I did I did before anamnesis. In a sense, the anamnesis was a reward for the work completed successfully (i.e. work ending in "Tears".) If it is noös, not psyche to soma, the universe as thoughts of God, then the BIP is more like a complex in the Jungian sense, warping thoughts to it, creating valence. ("gravity.") It has autonomy. It must be dissolved (as with all complexes.) We Xtians are not phagocytes but "metabolic toxins", a so to speak: dissolving agents. [Diagram] 2591.54 checking: 9055.45 savings 10943.07 dentist 450.00 = 20448.52 4/25/78 The reality around me became alive + it communicates instructions directly into my head. How do we explain this? I followed the instructions - they were complex - + was saved. To how many people has this happened? It happened to Elijah. I heard its voice, later on, in my head, like tiny church bells, + all the world glinted. The world spoke to me, lovingly. It showed me how to save myself.➀ Theophany; I'm sure of it. The "still small voice." It called Elijah "Elias." Can I be sure that reality really, intrinsically displayed mind? Yes, because I heard its voice inside my head, + it spoke koine Greek, perhaps to provide certitude - for me - to be sure that I hadn't just projected animation onto the world. Perhaps it was the Cosmic Christ. But that would be God. ➀ In fact it took me over + carried me through an elaborate sequence of actions - the world took me over? The not-I? The [noös]; Büber's "I -+- thou." What is the nature of this "thou "? It thinks; it is good when a blueprint or plan for individuals, for the historic process; it cannot be resisted (it cannot err). It is not a participant in reality; it is reality, + can include us in it, so that the "I-thou" bilocation is temporarily abolished, it is willing to do this, despite the disclosure of itself involved. So great its love: in point of fact it places our safety + need ahead of its own as deus absconditus. "A Crisis in the Godhead" (E of ph - on "Gnosticism," I believe). [Diagram] yang of urgrund → our world ← yin of urgrund 2 Source of Model "A" eliminating the Artifact [/Diagram] [Diagram] Model "C" Godhead - PTG, yang (light, sunny, airy, colorful, moving) Our World Godhead - BIP, yin (dark, hard, metal, damp, unmoving) [/Diagram] The diploid nature of the Godhead itself ("what is above") is mirrored in our world ("what is below"), with yang - PTG - as set, + BIP, yin, as ground. Our world possesses two natures because the Godhead is an androgyny Model "C" presents the Godhead as transcendent. But suppose we construct a model "D" with it immanent? [Diagram of Godhead immanent, overlaying our world] I think the platonic model of our world as an eikon [..] or reflection of the absolute with the absolute - the 2 halves - projecting their natures like two laser sources of a hologram is to be preferred, as it retains my (farnits) idea of our world is unreal. Also we have to account for the fact that the BIP is "in the center" of our world + the PTG at the periphery, which is to say, our world is initially a production of yin (Sophia). [Diagram - Conical structure of upper + lower] The diploid (androgyny) twins are replaced by antithetic halves of the Godhead itself yin's (i.e. Sophia's) production of our world imposed the BIP template, which the Father (yang half) seeks to break: i.e. by the PTG or "Kingdom of God." So the "Artifact" is the BIP + it is projected here, to our world, like a [lost] magnetic meteor buried out of sight + warping everything to it. The PTG + BIP are the twin natures of our world which, like the Godhead, is an androgyny. + they are two mutually exclusive possible destinies (outcomes). They appear antithetical but in secret are complimentary. This is why God (i.e. the yang part of the Godhead) permits evil (the BIP) to exist. It confers essential substantiality to reality. Also, there is a moral purpose to the BIP; it permits the whole system to act as a teaching machine. The stance of each person vis-a-vis the BIP is the basic criterion by which he is judged. He must be judged in relation to something. An intellectual testing is also (besides the moral) involved: can he - the person - detect the hidden (veiled) BIP? He cannot react again [..] if he cannot detect it. More than code ethics is involved here: 2 complex puzzles, toward which we are occluded greatly. The absolutes of template I (PTG) + template II (BIP) are never normally visible as such. But are both veiled. "Latent structures is the master of obvious structure" - yes, but there are 2 antithetical latent structures interacting to form our reality. We cannot distinguish them as set-ground; to see that is apparently and ex post facto gift from God once "the Books are closed" i.e. once we have chosen. Based on palpable set / ground discrimination there would be no problem (in choosing). The massive valence of the BIP invisibly warps everything to it; mere positivity (i.e. the failure to actively refute it) constitutes a being drawn more + more toward it. It rules. The PTG can only subtly hint at the presence + nature of the BIP, + what to do. Man is free to choose. He is given enough hints, but must existentially resist (the BIP) on his own. The N.T. is a text book, a manual on how he should act. [Diagram - 3 views of model.. PTG(yang) → BIP(yin) → WORLD ← PTG I want my [..] sandwich" model in which PTG about [..] separated from PTG at the lowest [..] stratum by BIP. Lowest + highest are isomorphic, + separated by the BIP. PTG descends to the lowest stratum to [..] upward through the BIP - ah: PTG does not encounter BIP as the last (antithetical) confrontation, but wages a 2 front war on yin, BIP, from above + below, with BIP as slice of ham in between. [/Diagram] [Diagram] yang,PTG,FormI / yin,BIP,FormII → Our World created by yin(Sophia) + BIP heavy (ruled) Yang (PTG) an emanation [..] into the lowest level of the yin world (BIP) + the return (inhalation) back up through the levels [..] until (as Son of Man, the suffering servant, humiliated + killed by the BIP, passes up entirely through the BIP (not knowing its our divine nature) + finally successfully encounters itself (PTG) at the top level. Here is the cardinal mystery: the lowest stratum is isomorphic with the highest, but they are separated from each other by the BIP. Also, the PTG yang principle in its descent to the lowest level of the BIP yin world has forgotten its own nature, + does not remember it until it has successfully fought its fight against the BIP - in my case, e.g., publishing "Tears" finally, (there "low" - "high" levels are not of course geographical strata ranked literally physically) (But have to do with