of objective hierarcha cal essence, but in 2) he is absolutely we were mage 2) world, alive dwarfed by what he sees. This o is (+ deliberate well-expressed in "Job" sur denly the ratio is dramatically reversed. The next step is for the amazed man to learn that he is, incredibly, isom t phic with this vast sentient "world" which perceives him + aide thim man in other words, God is larger 3) 0-1 God) than man but congruent with h im we are identical; whereas in 1) t his is not the case: man + "low level" reality are not is morphic + in point of fact man is the "crown of creati t te + stands above it imagine his stupifaction when 1) turns into a But they, before man expires from terror at this switch of ratio, 3) is disclosed to him, by God, who desires to reass the. in this process, step.) Initiates as its goge, not 2) But 3); were it to end in 2), man would collapse, being confronted, so to speak by rocks + stones wiser than he! This is why it is (correctly) said that the ultimate - + real - purpose of a miracle is not to accomplish the act accomplished by it (which, obviously, could have been accomplished "normally") but to reveal God + his nature to the person or persons involved. ➀ + being perceived by it 36 true miracle, then, points not at its results (a cance miraculously abolished) but at the staggeringly vast power. Wisdom (i.e. mind) controlling at an ultimate level. Thus most unexpected + unexplained events tail the true crition of miracle; if the person is left marveling at what was accomplished + is led to no deeper understanding (which is to say revelation or theophany) it has not been authenticated. by this reasoning (which I am confident of) my 3-74 experience was true miracle; I was extricated, + aware of it But I saw what it pointed to: I either perceived or intuited Zebra, + ultimately marveled at that - the cause, not the mesult, the entity, not the act - the controller (the "shaker of all things") not the result of the interventive control. So the overruling (miracle) of 3-74 disclosed an entity behind it, +, in doing so, lifted aside - detonated into atoms of nonbeing - the veil of dokos. I did not penetrate the veil + see beyond it; rather, he who is behind it obliterated it (the "slice of ham" between me + him), + allowed us then to merget. Merging (i.e. 3)) at that point could + did occur naturally - without effort, once He had atomized the "slice of ham" separating us. inasmuch as this was the final (+ most significant) step of the three, I assume intentionality; you cannot degrade t as a mere spinoff. A tremendous process began in 3t(actually 2-74), the ultimate teleological purpose lying far bey id my extrication - important as that was, I will even go so far as to say: "He reserved This disclosure - step 3 in particular - or fusion for those in the extremily of desperation + peril. ("At the absolute core of misery lies the greatest joy." My revelations are beginning to dovetail; the full Gestalt is emerging - but not based on insight revealed he linear order. The whole thing is a vast puzzle which, because of the help. I am working out. -If man is isomorphic with God, he (man) must re-evaluate + discover as not what he thought his own natures stage") (1) is characterized as causing pain, ) is char fear + stress on D. Stage 2) (O [ acterized by amazement, fear + incomprehension. Stage 3) is characterized by bliss - beyond the alling s or imagining of it. in reviewing this, I see that the 3 steps can be viewed as a way - or path - by which the "slice of ham," the irreal world, which separates man from God (the world I continually write about as being irreal) - the real point to it all is the putting to death (odd phrase I ke it the veil separating man from God. Perhaps the en process, including the stages (+ causes) leading toward the fear, pain, stress + desperation, the suffering in 1), w as s the foreseen as a means to 3) + calculated engineered ( way the dokos is destroyed... inasmuch as the human o involved must be destroyed during the final 2 stages to this process - must be broken + scattered like burned cha t t) The hold, by the empirical world, was broker, by God, at the precise instant that that world seemed to have wor over me entirely (i.e. destroyed me). But what came of This destruction of me were steps 2) + 3) + the "secons birth" renewal of life, better + stronger than ever, in me. God's victory a in which he not only rescued me from he opardy harm but - what is more important - reacquired me: the + ultimate purpose + goal of what probably was a life time process. I had to experience the world as totally hostile beene its hold over me could be broken if one stops at stage 2), one experiences panpsychism or pantheism - which I sort of did in 2) the empirical world remains as corpus Dei but at i the ultimate stage, 3). God is seen breaking throu th into from "behind" or beyond the world, + the world 38 ceases to be experienced as corpus dei but as irreal (Dokos) A point re 2). Here the world is seen to be more like man than in 1), because as he is aware of is; it is aware of him - but only in 3) does the heightened similarily over 1) become true isomorphism, which is the true state of things (this includes, supra, the abolishing of the world, leaving only man + God i ho are now one Evil (+ evil God) + irreal worlds are correctly shown in "Stigmata" the invading of an evil 68 + irreality into actuality. but in "Ubik" it is reversed: the a world is already irreal, + the good deity invades it; + the good deity is related to reality in the same way that in "Stigmata" the evil one is related to irreality. So "Ubik," not "stigmata," describes the i rue nature of our actual condition: an irreal world in a del by a good God. The turning point in this exegesi i came when I recognized Zebra as an invader into this world, from beyond. Thus ends pantheism, + of cou te I have long recognized the quondam world as delusionary. one could again meld "Stigmata" + "Ubik" w to I a cosmogony of our irreal world; origin: a Palmer E (ahitch sort of entity spun it out, + now a Ubik entity is n vading it. This is very Gnostic; but to reconcile my cosmology + cosmogony with my "lower level decision s t revelation, I cannot posit evil being in charge, but only a lesser - i.e. imperfect - good. God's overruling, then, adds good + presses it from imperfect or relat ore or partial good (a dialectic?) into total absolute goo t the arena for this being space + time. 29 A point - in stage 1) the world is real. In stage 2) al though animate, the world is real (real to the observers in fact its reality, as corpus Dei, in heightened). Only in stage 3) does it "become" (for the person) irreal So in a sense my writing has all along been a per ception of the ultimate stage - a perception ("the world is irreal) makes no sense even for those at stage 2, let alone!). perhaps the whole Q is: "irreal in relation to what? it is certainly real in relation to man + to itself; it is only in relation to God that it is irreal. (Bipolarized to God.) t to the reversion to AD 70 (in 3-74) was exactly the reversion along the form-axis which I described in "Ubik," + this was what patrice believed to be "the first revision in Plato in 2000 years" + which made "Ubik" "one of the 5 most important books ever writter." Then proved indeed to be such an orthogonal axis, + reversion along it turned out to be possible, as in the novel. How did I know - + how did I do it? The explanation lies in the novel. You have to die first (or virtually die), + so I did am I the first human ever to transverse it? No the book "myth + reality" shows it as reversion from profane to secret (! What? I meant sacred.) "secret time is It is a secret known only to the initiate, never writted of back to Rome, + from there to Babylon. he My dream last night: prove book, searching through it, but defeated by my memones being systematically erased. Could wit keep in mind what I had found in connectives already. was why the trail petered out; I continued to forgot, + so tat retried the same material repeatedly 40 The knowing about the regressive form axis in 1968 + the transversing it in '74 stem from a common root. I de Holy this because it is in "Ubik" that other info exists as to our true situation (e.g., the good deity intruding throug the t very trash of the gutter, esp the written gutter - mat a the folders, etc - to inform us of our real situation - + then many depiction of Ubik the entity itself. There are just too to correct aspects of the latent actuality disclosed for it have been a hit or miss invention. te the marxists (CF) are aware of this. They have solved it it information-as-basis-of-reality problem. Clearly, or suspe that but time travel back along the form axis? Do they suspect this this really exists? I posit: someone or -ones who knows read "Ubik" somewhere in "Ubik" when the world reverted (to 1939) Joe Chip i his head, acquired appropriated "reverted" language - just t 5 "retrieved" the koine, + recognized (not identified but reconized) my surroundings. I was no mere spectator. I did no t merely perceive but was a part of the AD 70 Rome world - just as they were in "Ubik" But what I experienced was not just a time - reversin but a reversion to essence, essence was found back along a vast linear leap to the origins. This was not mentioned in "Ubik" it is clear that we are dealing with archetype t as temporal prototype. In "Tears" that world is set e the future. It is transtemporal: Rome past, USSR present, us a future. Now a relationship between "Ubik" + "Tears is disclosed: "Ubik" gave the cosmological structure, "Tear is the actual social archetype which is ubiquitous - hence the inclusion of parts of Acts, the most astounding retrieval y all "Tears" describes what we were ultimately fighting t the sixties: a police state; + the inclusion of material from Acts revealed that God was arrayed with us + against our adversary (the prototype Rome). ifi thay - that man is isomorphic with God tells us that man not be limited to what he seems to be, or even inwardly experiences himself to be. He must be more. As he passes from stage 1) to stage 2) + then to stage 3) he must undergo a change; he must rise toward God as God descends toward a "+ that mortal man must put on immortality hat him. He must rise in a very beautiful + dignified way to cause supreme moment when he + God, now isomorphic (b of man's ascent + God's gracious "stooping down to meet him meet each other, in a certain real extent