same life, making the same errors, suffering the same afflictions; only "Sarapis" can break this, as he did with on 3-74. This also explains my calling Ginger "Georgie," and how I knew I would been Tessa. Plus precog stuff in my writting. Yes, the xerox letter had come at least once before, & I had fallen victim to it. But it was part of the prison (Delusional) world, in a sense unreal; the only realy world is c. AD 70, & we the faithful joyfully await his return. It exactly resembles the situation in "Maze" with our world being Delmak-O: computer printed - out for us again and again. Viewed this way, no wonder my anticipatory anxiety out out of hand in the 2 or 3 months before 3-74. However, we don't printout this delusional world; a sort of Palmer Eldritch does. If you tho take the 1) information breaking through in Ubik, 2) Palmer Eldritch creating false worlds in 3 Stigmata, 3) & the computer repeat printout in Maze - You know it all, with "Tempunauts" & "Electric Ant" thrown in for good measure (& "Impostor," etc). But in the 3 Bantam books it's all there. I have already revealed the Gnosis (facts of the matter - i.e. truth) in my writing: & then in Tears God breaks through & abolishes it by changing history. This circular time, as it sp sweeps out again & again, must differ in details, & this, these accum[ulative] bits of change, give rise to the idea of [...] (3) These layers laid down are construed as the past, but in fact are not: and I am in each cylce - reliving it again & again - those cycles are always there for me, not prior to me, not the true past at all but slightly changing versions of the past present, the now. {diagram} Xerox letter Again & again, hence never "past" - The true sense - it is equally future, too, will come again, until I am released. As I was this last time. How can I construe an event (e.g. the Xerox letter) as something happening in the past when in fact it is also happening now (i.e. in the present) & will (until God intervenes) will again happen in the future? Obviously our [lincon?] concept of time is a false concept. Of course God could accomplish the same thing by making the apostolic [KH aus?] immortal: the 2nd advent would then occur in this life their lifteimes, but it wouldn't be same, though. & this solution (explanation) doesn't appeal to me because it involves no radical epistomological considerations (i.e. it doesn't make use of my impression that the phenomenal world is not quite real). {diagram} Thursday Sept. 8th Oak 6:25 *256 OC 7:30 Thurs Sept 15th Oak 6:25 OC 7:30 256 The EB Macro article on time says that the rate of acceleration of change is speeding up. But my Ency. of Philo. [simply?] says we can't know what time is; all we can be sure that exists is change. Then change (rate of) is speeding up in relation to what? i Rome I wonder if I can make a case (vis-a-vis viewing CAD 70 superimposed on Fullerton 1974) not for retrieval of the past but an expanded present - as in how Avicenna envisions the way God sees time. But that which is revealed when all these layers (like the phosphene graphics) are [rapidly] superimposed is Rome: as if by flipping the pages past out of the many [frames] emerges the one - the underlying force. That would mean that what I saw as Rome c. 70 AD was not an earlier frame, but the form revealed within all the [historie frames, right up to now. In which case it is not a "wass surfacing in the "is" but the underlying is throughing, which is to say, it is as true (real) now as it ever was. This would point to "Rome C. AD 70" as not being a former time. But the real time now - only visible via an extended - present perspection. It's like stop action photogry this makes it clearly an essence -to-accidents situation. Or "latent form the master of obvious form." + Rome, the latent form, doesn't become visible except unde "high speed forward" frame - runs. This is the how. Long term memory retrieval - anamnesis - produces by its very nature, this many-frame, "fast forward" within which (id within its enormously expanded slot-like present) the enduring form is visible - with the eternal Xtian opposition as well. These are the lower inner layers of reality as presented in "Ubik." So "Ubik" contains two truths. 1) previous time layers lie within present phenomena, + can be retrieved; + (2) information drifts "up" to us from some kind of substratua beneath. This means that what we normally see, with our narrow time-slot (restricted presen) are merely epiphenomena the whole thing has to do with time, with an overwhelming of normal linear time by some other kind of time or no time of all hidden s But not only does real time move slowly on, but in ychronizature with it we have real, hidden selves locked into that world, as latent as that world. It, inside, lives the thousands of years which that external reality lives out - they are on the same - identical - time scales. How can this be? When the external mask (veil) is removed, the inner one is too the true inner experiences the true outer. The epiphenomenal world + self are simultaneously extinguished. Real time, real in world + real self appear; false appearances fall away 3 areas all This must be a pseudo world whose energy (time) is nearly played out; as the rate of change accelerates, it grows thinner (weaker). This accounts for the sense I've had for decades of the insubstantiality of our empirical world. Meanwhile, the state we call "conscious" is not a true consciousness at all but some kind of hypnoidal dream state within which external stimula control us continually. We can't break free, but, of its own nature, that empirical world + its stimuli will soon fade out as if the projector had been turned off - probably suddenly: + we awake How do we abolish the epiphenomenal world + self, + see/be the real one? All I know is how I did it in 2-74: momen tarily I withdrew assent from the epiphenomenal world in an act of remembering. To see the truth = to remember the truth. We must have once known the truth +, inwardly, been authentic; it was not a discovery but a recognition on my part. Somewhere, sometime, somehow, we were persuaded away from what the N.T. calls wakefulness + vigilence; i.e. watching for his return. We fell asleep at our posts: it will therefore not be day for us when he returns but night. This is not a it should be. The decoden got to us. The basic delusion is that a great deal of time has passed. All the events + things (processes) we see are there for the purpose of rein. forcing this purposeful delusion; they flood in like the visual halluciations during sensory deprivation, automaticall there in the abeyence of real stimuli. The dream world is ( abolished by the person waking up. But he can't wake himself up, since he does not know he is asleep. This is where the savior comes in: he wakes us, exactly as Runciter speaks to those in cold-pak. So there is a third truth in "Ubik". 1) The retreivability of the past; (2) information intruding into this world; + (3) the nature (content) of the information: that it is designed to inform + awaken us to our true state, meanwhile conveying to us something of the nature of the awakened (compare the cold-pak state in Ubik" to the polyencephalic fusion in "Maze": the same basis situation is represented - + it is our true one maybe this is exactly what I was: one of those waiting + watdin who fell asleep, into the wald of the cydes of birth + death which the Hindies believe in What about my "Rome AD70 perception + inner anotes personality being a cyclic return to Rome c. 70 AD + therefore the perception? Cyclic time? Conditions are again as they were once, hence a kind of fusion - aw fuck Joee on the phone: "When I played with my kids after years, it was as if no time (i.e. the 6 years) had passed"; i.e o the 6 year interval became an ellipsis because of the identity Philo between the 1st + 2nd plaging- with. If change determines time (v. the macro on "time") then if the matrix of all significant changes are identical to a previous matrix, the fan time must of necessity become one (i.e. the first time returns). There would be a sort of psychic short circuit across from time to time 2 obviating the intervening time. This explanation would indicate why the element of my remembering is the crucial. factor I the key to understanding it. What I saw reminded me (I.e. once before): of 70 AD + hence reminded me that I had lived at that time 1974 levent is Could king o were the buried memory of having trips off I memory lived in 70 AD not there, there of 70 AD would have been no possibility trips ot 1974 recognition G of recognizing 1974 as same as identity 70 35as Unless you remembered to AD you could not recognize 70 AD. + you could not remember unless you had been there. But what has to be realized is that a deliberate, mysterious, miraculous process is at work, deliberately intended - these are not accidental or chance events. It must have to do with the promise of restoration of all things (at the end times) The other night as I was going to sleep I was wondering who could "de-stegenographice" the hidden material in my writing - + the spirit responded with (those who are) conscious? This makes me remember what Josephus said of the Essenes "they believe that we are souls who drifted down + became entangled with matter, + so became unconscious (se) of thei real origin + real nature. How many people have had their memory restored? (it isn't something they or we achieve; it's bestowed on us by e savior). Are they in touch with one another) the I see exactly what the orthogonal intervention in I it did. First, our 3-D reality must be conceived as a totally closed system, with the past determining the present, + one's reaction to future events thus totally determined in advance within this strip in which events pop into existence + to which we mechanically are forced to respond, or cued to as signal to system to disinhibit prese pist moving mexorably ive counter clockwise c Even The key change of course was my altered responde to the Xerox letter. After that I simply misfired for awhile, + was also aware of the "deterministic strip unfolding": stimuli + response. {Note this is grace. new future was set up by this orthogonal interventio of from one dimension (level) above + beyond - outside - unfolding strip. This is, in fact, the only way true the newness could be introduced. "seepl 6 Hence Thomas; not reacting as I would. Although of priceless value to me (it saved my life) the actual orthogonal intervention per se is not the most important Pat: which is, that the intervention discloses another reality or level above ours down from which helps comes a to wit a general (historic) intervention in 3-74 of which I was only a small part. What is even a further extraording realization is that long ago (probably several thousand years) I came down here from that world +, as the Essenes etc teach, was trapped by