the cat any cat, all cats - could not have known, pre-known, one instance of an action developing before the need arose would demonstrate the existence of 1) teleological purpose in the universe, which would point to mind; + 2) that mind had foreknowledge [of the future): one single instance. If the intrinsic organism itself could not know + then I thought of the Golden Fish sign in 2-74 my to lighting the votive candle in 3-74, + the phosphene activity slightly before the Xerox missive arrived - + realized I had such an incident! 1) the preparatory activity for a future event which I could not have known about + did not know about, i + 2) not only purpose supra mine was revealed, but also foreknowledge. Although no theological de tals are revealed. The basic broad scope the basis -recognition of for teleological + fore knowing activity of supraper sonal mind is absolutely pointed to: one instance it certain is enough. folder 22 - 084 folder 22 - 084 86 If one had no theological/religious con victions or framework for reference one would simple say, "there is mind above my mind working purposefully + with foreknowledge, with great knowledge, craft design + purpose, great cunning + power, is either protecting + preparing me, or is "working me - through +/or in me. It knows (what is going to happen), which in itself is a miracle, + it has the intelligence to know what to do to prepare - +, it has the power to do it. Thus, I realize that it has vast knowledge + vast power; it even knows the future, so it is not like me but is far greater in these respects knowledge, foreknowledge + power." + I would have herein the basis for a certitude about God (no matter what term I decided to use): God with no refine ments of doctrine, except I'd sense him as benign, pragmatically, because he exercised his knowledge, preknowledge + power to help me So his benign nature would also be revealed in this. in fact, if someone else had observed my pre paratory activity, he could have inferred this know - ledge, preknowledge, power + benignity operating in (or by) the universe. what I experienced reminds me of Ikhnaton's poem to the Aton. Its informing of all life to tell it what to do, + to give it the power to do it with no distinction between man + beast - folder 22 - 085 folder 22 - 085 8 what is established here (by Ikhnaton) is the mutuality of the Aton + the given living creature. I can't define it any better than this: a mutuality. Whether the Aton is the crea ture, or the creature is the Aton, I don't know but the mutuality is established: Aton (a God) preparing (assisting with vast power + know ledge + foresight) the "mere" creature, be it bird or sheep or human, preparing it for what it will meet; thus the Aton is with ("Para") the creature as the problem or situation to be dealt with unfolds. This is a sustaining (rather than creating). (assigned in india to Vishnu.) tractate: cryptical scriptura I I dreamed (a vision) of the aton: to before I urde the tractate, + the 3 eyed people have The "Misshapen" head of Ikhnaton. + I dreamed of Ikhnator himself, wearing a perchief over the back part of his skull, + with crab-claw-like pincers ugly, + hiding himself from us - he our God, + a builder of cities. what if the plasmate Zebra (set to ground, St Elmo's fire + color) is the living aton which Ikhnaton knew of? Which "melts" (sic!) causal trains, like heat, a warming glow. Vitalistic conception of deity - not anthropormophic Zebra - the Aton. There is a very strange statement in way ner's "Parsifal": "Here time turns into space." What does this mean, espec folder 22 - 086 o 2 ially when connected to the castle of the knights of the Grail (they actually possess + grace, + titured saw or sees Christ). One con move back) forth through space, voice: incompatibility." The key: viz. our universe is the result of two sources merging, there would be some incompatabilities - what we see as the pointless the irrational, the disordered. eg an animal is created + then destroyed it makes no sense. But it 2 sources are posited - The dialectic I saw. from the vitalistic standpoint of the Aton 3-74 would be regarded as a growth-stage of me qua entelechy signalled to fire by the Aton, at the i proper time with recognition of the [presence of t he Aton, + growth toward it Parsifal: "Here time turns into space." Is this what I saw in 3-74? Time had either rolled back, or aside, or departed (a "dysfunction") + I saw an augmented (i.e. enormously greater) space. The realm of the sacred? Is this how death is overcome, + eternal life bestowed? By turning time into space? + through space, one cau move in any direction. folder 22 - 087 folder 22 - 087 83 So, if you left the mundane world + entered the sacred (lower realm to upper?) maybe This is what you'd notice: time (whatever that might be) turning into space - vast dimensions, as with the void which I ex perienced: pure, total space My noetic hypnagogic vision of willie mays in the 54 series did not show his throw - the ball thrown: i.e. the heroic effort it showed the catcher at home plate + the ball received. I.e. success, not [just) heroic effort but success; vollbracht. the tractate received in new York? The emphasis shifted from the throw to the receiver + it also says: my work - the throw is over; I did my part, successfully. The ball which I threw so far has been caught. I can rest now, for awhile. I'm sure this was the message: not [just] the throw, the effort; but the catch: it's out of my hands now, as I later said in the mailgrams you market it. It's in your hands. A revised (?) theory as to who-what Zebra s. Zebra is the microform physician sent into the lower realm (form II) world to break "astral determinism". form its power. "Matter (form II) is plastic in the face of mind ( the micro form of folder 22 - 088 folder 22 - 088 84 the upper realm invading this realm as our savior (champion) v. my o tractate. Hence the healing "miracles which Zebra displaged. (This retains my insight that Zebra is an invader here, which I consider to be the turning point of realization in my exegesis) the tractate identifies this healer physician) invading form II from form I the upper realm as Christ! is Zebra is Christ His breaking "astral determinism" over an individual (e.g. me) is a sort of localized slaying of form II, the determinist yin world This tells us (v. the tractate) that hrist is here - 3-74 proves it c This indeed explains the "melting of causal trains" which I saw. in a round about way I've prover that Zebra is indeed Christ. (Via the tractate) This dovetails with St Paul's doctrine about Christ vs the old law or planetary powers" (angels). This is also the 4th Gospel light vs darkness contention which I refer to in the tractate (as put forth by Zoroaster + the Essenes!) folder 22 - 089 folder 22 - 089 3 4 victory, finally bigiven by God to the light. + since, as Parmenides pointed out form II really doesut exist breaking astral determinism is in fact breaking the power of illusion, of an irreal world (of the acosmism in my writing). Thus the key salvific weapon is knowledge - to know + see the truth (vs Diros/maga). Christ (Zebra) coming here, is the savior venturing into the domain of parkness to resue us. So Zebra is Christ, Zebra is an invader here; this is the domain of darkness the lower realm, + Zebra (Christ) is our savior who does battle for us. Since causality ("astral determinism") operates in time a (or the) method of salvation by the savior is to free us from time by con verting time into space + thus abortion causality. "Time can be overcomes" + in this process a temporal rollback to the origins (anamnesis) occurs, + time overcome means death + decay overcome. by definition the Holy Spirit is inside you ("Thomas?). But I saw Zebra outside... I saw Christ folder 22 - 090 folder 22 - 090 88 I saw him per spiratum sanctum (in me). "Christ has no body now but yours." He acted in + through me. He was in me. in the tractate I have put forth a theoretical framework in which the manifes tation (theophany) of Zebra (Christ) not only comes into existence by logic, but by necessity as a confirmation of the frame work (world view). The framework explains the epiphany (who, what doing, why) + the epiphany verifies the framework. Perception (of the epiphany) + cognition (the creation of a theoretical framewat) dovetail - a masterful achievement. (+ experience!). It tove me 4I years to construct the 3000 word framework. How the tractate could be used re "Valis": there is a secret or quasi secret religious group who holds to the "ideology" (theology) of the tractate, + the protagonist experiences the epiphany which I ex perienced - i.e. true - not cargo cult- Xtianity. is secret, but contacts the pro t t tagonist. For fictional purposes. It b could be the church of Simon Magus I n ie (+ bruns + Paracelsus, etc). Or: it could the expose establishment churche as being those of Simon Magus. Either way would do. folder 22 - 091 8 or it could go back to asklepios - + julian the apostate. (This novel is set, after all, in an alternate world.) What about this? Simon's is church is the legal, approved one, + Xtianite still] as it was originally: religin illicity. N what is missing from the tractate is the info that the true Xtian church is still a hidden + underground (secret) church. In "Valis Jesus could be as obscure an historical figure as Simon is to us. Mentioned once in the Simonite texts, (as Simon is in Acts). An heretical precursor to the "real messiah": Simon. in "Valis" this is presented as an alternate world which branched off almost 2000 years ago but actually it ("Valis" + Simonism) is our (true) world! Here's an odd touch: Beethoven was a political figure, not a musician, who surfaced as a member of true, illegal Xtianity; + it is recognized that he was black, I fell a lot of anxiety writing this down, because I am really saying this is true - the establishment churches are [covertly] the church of simon Magus, + Xtianity is totally secret - in our world: ➀ Maybe it's not illegal, just hidden, + the N.T. is non-existent, now; the letters + gospels either never got writter or were destroyed or lost - with maybe the exception of the 4th Gospel; + Paull remained soul + didn't experience his conversion + continued to persecute the Xtians - with apparen success. + joined Simon, became a simonite Simonians 2 folder 22 - 092 folder 22 - 092 82 + Jesus in historically - theologically known as "the pretender" or "impostor"! but the Xtians in "Valis" hold to the theology + views of my tractate, tracing their religion back through Elijah to Moses to Ikhnaton to the dogon to The 3-eyed invaders from Sirius. It is known as a black African religion! Simon, ala klingsor, has cast a spell on the world; his wizardry remains (does he in secret?) Yes - the Xtians teach (re the tractate) that a long spurious- time interpolation was stuck in, specifically by simon. If all this