as the source of light. Rescue, then, in the final analysis, is a healing, a reuniting of that which ( was originally one but which somehow broke apart when bits or a piece of it fell down here + was forthwith imprisoned. The sparks which fell were coated by layer upon layer of the inert the opaque. The dead + death- dealing - rinds which caused forgetting + loss of identity. Suppose we take This forward from Gnostic terms into the strictly modern world: we say then, that a vast proto organism existed (embracing at the least several star systems) + ours fell out - was severed from - the giant proto organism, which I saw in my nitrous oxide revelation as a vast vine (Christ) pruned by the Father as gardener. Many cuttings feel no loss, but some do, + these latter the savior (the original cosmic organism) seeks reunification with, upon his initiative, his "growing downward," so to speak, into the otherwise lightless realm into which we, cut off into bits, descended thousands of years ago. The keystone is restored memory, which is a recollection of ourselves not as seperate entities but as "stations" in a quasi-computer. like proto organism, a vast incorporeal energy which thinks, + whose thoughts are the physical cosmos - we are, each of us, microanalogs of it: just as each cell of our bodies contains all the information to retrieve the whole human, each whole human psyche contains the aggregate information - is the information - topologically congruent with the macro proto organism (in other word. The macro proto organish can be - is - contained within each of us as tore individual human psyche, just as each individued human cell contains complete information from which that human can be retrieved. 60 This is a great cardinal secret - + methout of survival - of the proto organism, the macrocosmic entity. It contains an infinitude of "stations" or microcosmic entities throught out itself, any one of which contains all the bits of coded information from which the macro organism can be reconstituted; + each micro station (creature) contains billions (?) of cells, each one of which can yield the information necessary to reconstruct the full organism. Logic they telles us: each human cell can, through successive stages, permutate hierarchically so as to finally retrieve the unique proto macro organism which in the form of its thought-contents comprises the physical universe + which in itself as mentating entity, is the total corpus of reality both physical, energetic + mental (Noos, or psyche- + - soma) viewed this way, we can say that as individual cell is to our total body, each human is to the macro‐ organism. A new theory now intrudes in my exegesis. I saw us as proned from the great vine as cuttings - which, severed into many individualities, were "planted," to grow from small to large on their own, separate from the parent vine. Then the vine has replicated. It is the teleo‐ logical goal (+ successful fate, if achieved) for the cuttings to develop [back, forward) into counterparts of the original parent (source] vine. Surely these growth - stages are what We properly identify as evolution. Now our physical mental evolution has brought us to the advanced stage at which mental (brain] metasystems - the morphology being there - begin to fire at a new + higher level, + what is N This level? We can see analogous firings in less advanced life forms; it is the stage at which comprehension of final purpose (end goal) begins. I say, these neural firing's just now beginning are final purpose systems: they will, through recovered memory, lead us to what might well be termed "vine identity" or "vine correspondence" - which is to say, recognition of ourselves as seedlings growing into clusters of added stations. The vine does not merely grow larger + larger, as a single unique macro entity but "sporifies," so to speak. Bits are snipped off - separated from the macro entity + placed on their own (many N.T. parables allude to this: those of seeds falling onto various stones + soils, etc), beyond the macro entity. exterior to its boundaries. Some cuttings grow; some do not. Jesus described a variety of outcomes. What interests me (of course) is the implication in all this of my 3-74 experience. Viewed herewith I say, I experienced a new growth-state, with the first-time firing of previously inhibited neural meta-circuits; these circuits added to my psyche a formerly dormant ("crypte") form-delinea nor contour which shaped me into a state iso morphic with my divine progenitor. One sees this all the time in terrestrial life forms: the offspring hopefully, if all goes well - through (perhaps a long] ts progression of growth-stages until it is isomorphic with parents. Usually it does not realize what is going respecially if it is - has been - separated from is parents. It progressively recapitulates all the growth tages its parents previously passed through, + ends up as one of them" - no different from them All I am claiming at this point is not an 6 end-product (final stage) state, identical to the proto‐ entity. But rather a retreival of the inner image of what my parents are + therefore what (if all goes well) I will ultimately become. The goal has not been reached, the goal of growth, but the mental conception of the goal: what they" are/were + what I am growing toward. In terms of the vine image, the successful cuttings grow back into intermingling with the parent vine, but this does not necessarily imply a physical expansion into proximity; what may be t involved is a mental (Noos) synchronization, an affinity through isomorphic shape-identity. There is no information in my vine revelation as to how the "successful cutting which pines for a return to its source" does in fact return to its source. I have a strong hunch that growth stage evolution to sufficient approximation of isomorphic parity is in utself enough; a comity of equals is the passage way. the proto entity (vine) initiates disclosure of its ➀) existence + (2) isomorphic relatedness to the "cotting by disinhibiting the "cutting's metacircuits. This is a sort of ritual of initiation (again suggesting the secret mystical societies). New - + yet very old - layers of of knowledge are unveiled. What the initiate learns is not new, but rather something he once knew 69 But forgot. It is species memory - but more than that it is the "cell-to-body, body to macro entity" discharge: analogous to the print out of one human cell to revive the total human, the human, qua cell, becomes information (or perhaps rather a vehicle for information which he always carried - as each cell carries its information - but now has himself experienced the very information of which + for which he has from birth been the vehicle. His role, to him, is now understood. He is, was, has from the start been, a recepticle for stored information. The information consists of an image of (1) his parent, + (2) himself as he will finally be, when all is done. The two are the same. Further, the information contains instructions (imperitives) which trigger sequences of actions on his part designed to lead to the next growth stages. Primarily these apper to consist of a deprogramming from more primitive stimulus response patterns, freeing him to better (or for the first time) self-program himself; he is now a quantum jump upward in homeostasis. Freed from "astral" determinism, he now truly has the power to decide his own fate (outcome). Since the end-state image (eidos) has been shown to him he will fortunately tend to make choices which will lead him toward it + a becoming of it. It will be his goals his model, his ideal morphosis. 70 in brief, meta-system firings activated (from outside) in his own brain have erased former engramming, (which lead backward in evolutionary development). t + have now, instead, engrammed him teleologically on his previously unsuspected end-state form time-wise, growth-wise, he is no longer pushed from behind, but pulled from in from. The critical mid point has been reached + successfully passed, as Dr. Buck realized. The individual is no longer the Sum. the product, of all that has happened to him during his life so far, but in truth is now shaped by What is yet to happen - what will, later on, per‐ haps 100s or 1000s of years later on happen. As he was formerly the product of 3 billion years of past evolution, he is now the recipient of tropisms of an indeterminate length of future time + the forces. events + entities situated there. They call backward to him, summoning him forward to a chosen in his mind. destiny, a fulfillment based on factors now conscious So much for the Bavarian illuminati. The true secret masters of the world - by "true" I mean the who are they? Us. rightful ones - are only just now gaining control. 71 The universe not only functions as it (als ob) it were a teaching machine, but also. Each permutation of new Gestalts formed by The joining process of previously separated bits are new sequences of bits (constituents) of information: as bit is to joined together new (but temporary) Gestalt, words are to sentences. obviously, if the bits ("words") + sequences of changing (emerging) new Gestalts ("sentences") are a -or the - primary quality of reality (causal processes), there must exist something sentient informed (taught) by these sequence. of sentences. From all the evidence I have, we humans (+ animals too) are the students; in which case the as if (als ob) gives way to is (i.e. is a teaching machine, + volitionally sentient purposeful + wise.) We are only subliminally + right brain) aware of this; so perhaps this is c the use - purpose - of the right brain: to (outside our ego consciousness) absorb + learn as the total human is exposed to the contrived progression of lessons. To view the universe this way is not just a way (among many) of viewing - subjectively - it: this is a revelation of what it is primarily objectively designed For. So in 3-74 I abruptly achieved conscious awareness of these lessons + the "Teacher" ordering (i.e. arranging) them. I did not merely perceive the progression of lessons as lessons, but perceived (1) my t self as pupil; + (2) the teacher - Zebra - within on behind the lessons. 72 I submit that the proof that my evalvation of reality as a teaching machine primarily (+ not just as an offshoot function) lies in the fact that briefly, at the peak of my awareness I also glimpsed Zebra, the teacher it/him/herself. For if one reasons that reality is actually a teaching machine, + the change-process is the sequence of lessons, one infers a priori two further entities: pupils (whom it teaches - how could it be 1) teaching machine were there no pupils?) + a 2) the teacher - for who would arrange the lessons in their sequences? but none of these 3 (Teacher, machine, pupils) were merely inferrential to me: 1) I saw myself being taught 2) I saw sequences of lessons 3) Lastly, I saw the teacher (Zebra) itself. final note at 4:00 am: the cosmos resembles a great computer-like (AI system?) entity, illusory re how it appears - to our mere consciousness left hemispheres. But unbe knownst to the left hemispheres. We are in dialog with it it as sentient + didactic. + patient. We do not always draw the right inferences (become properly changed) by/from our lessons. Patiently, then, it sends us back down the ladder + repeats, till we get it right Thus free will enters in - we can + do err. Which means (very importantly!) that it is not a closed, rogidly, deterministic, mechanical