or Florestan languishing in the dungeon, in chains, who was rescued by the supernatural aid in 3-74. I, imprisoned there in that bedroom, as in the Rome dream in the underground cage, waiting for them to swoop down + get me. Viewing myself as being that (prisoner) in the "Babylon" archetype, I can see better why, when the general historic intervention occured in 3-74, I specifically was rescued: in the archetype I [was one who] held that [to be rescued] role as prisoner [of the tyrant]. For the print out to be complete, those such as me had to be rescued: we-I were an essential part of the situation. In Tears it was Jason Taverner - + he was (after the king + knights dream) found innocent. + the tyrant, represented by Buckman, fell. The whole system fell. Now, with [better] clarity, I can see why, in Tears, the dream had to be there: it marked the intervention by God, signalling the fall of the prison; i.e. the breaching through, the intervention, the change - exactly as was to occur here in our world 3 or 4 years later. Tears is a depictment of all which was very soon actually to occur in our own world, + the book was an accurate analog for our own world. All the archetypal aspects were in the book (Felix Buckman as Roman procuratrator). (This facet of the book linked it to Rome - the dream to Daniel + hence Babylon - thus the book links all the manifestations of the archetype. The Q: 'Why me + not others?' is partially answered by the simple fact that at the moment of intervention I was down there in the dungeon - for most of the others their captivity had come earlier; i.e. before the moment of intervention. (Like Florestan, it was a woman "dressed as a man" - i.e. disguised as a man, who saved me: Santa Sofia. Sophia, i.e. the King in his unincarnated Wisdom (hence female) form. But an ever more accurate (+ precise) depiction of the "Babylon" archetype is found in Frolix 8: the one prisoner, the tyranny, + the sudden (utterly unexpected) intervention from outside. + the prisoner is compared explicitly to Christ. +, as Paul pointed out, the 3 eyed "ETIs" I saw resembled the humanoids on the book club edition of Frolix 8. Obviously, when I wrote it ('69?) I was beginning to see the US in those terms, but did not know of the Babylon-Rome archetype lying underneath - at least I didn't know (remember) consciously. Help came from another civilization. Not terran. Sometimes I think that's what the 3-eyed entities were. Is it possible that in Frolix 8 I guessed the literal truth, that help was on the way from ETIs? + - could the authorities have known, + this was why that after Frolix 8 came out they hit my house? My scenario in Frolix 8 wasn't fiction? They knew this, but I didn't. (But did know later - 4 or 5 years later). + in Frolix 8 there was the [Xtian] underground which I later (in 3-74) saw in a vision. - The whole sphere of "astral influence" (determinism) was signified, to me, by the materialistic CP., the "Olive Holt" programming which ran back to my early childhood. It was this that the salvific spirit broke! Thus, for a short time, I perceived myself performing automata actions - + so they were: slavelike + mechanical, not free, not voluntary; + it was against this that I rose up - this is what via the spirit I overthrew. So when I ask how communism + the USSR + the KGB come into the theological picture, this was their role - which was broken by Christ (v. Ephesians + Paul's cosmology). (Also v. Gnosticism: the role of the redeemer is breaking the power of Fate.) For a short while (hours, days) in 3-74 I correctly perceived myself as nothing more than a programmed automaton responding blindly to key stimuli - disinhibited by signals from a rigid structure. This is the primary thing that was done for me, the freeing me from this deterministic prison of which we are all unaware. You can only become aware when/if you are lifted out of it, + this only comes via outside intervention - you can't save yourself because you have the total + perfect delusion of being free + making voluntary choices. But, in this sphere, it is all blind cause + effect - stimulus + response. We can't understand what is meant by Christ saving us because delusion keeps us totally oblivious to this imprisoning mechanism - this "Pavlovian" world. Im not emphasizing the real vocal. My primordial (original) facultus was restored, & I could [once again) see God, as is described in Genesis: when man walked and talked with God. I could hear him, too. Isnt this the most important aspect of the 3-74 transformation? (God, which is to say Zebra, transubstantiation within the-our-world.) I've realized this from the start, but not the magnitude of it. Also, it does fit in with what said about our primordial, original ancestors. In me & with me, that state (as well as the place) was restored, although temporary - I simply dont seem to have realized the significance of this (seeing him, ie Zebra). Mostly I concentrated on seeing him being proof of his existance, but if you postulate his existance, then seeing him ascends in importance, to the level of of being indication of restoration of our original start, which, from reading Calvin, I had conjectured was the case with me in 3-74; this new grasp of the meaning of what I saw seems to confirm it. The palm tree garden is the original garden; is this the same as the kingdom of God? If Milton is right in "Paradise Lost" & "P. Regained" this is exactly what Christ intended to achieve! It (if Calvin) can all be boiled down to a lost [higher] state restored, by the lifting of the curse - or occlusion ... was it a punishment? Yes. I must have served my sentence, over 1000's of years - worked my way back. The cardinal asked if the blindness (visual) is to no longer be about to see God. Hence the cardinal sign of restoration is to see him (once more). & to remember the Lost State. Now I see the logic of my anamnesis: the remebering the wonderful high state I (we) fell from - & now I had back (for a while anyhow). (of the "Book of Adam & Eve".) This, then, is what is really meant by being "saved" or "born from above" "or from/by the spirit" and this ushes one into perception of the mysterious Kingdom of God which is both here & not here. By God, I am atleast inclined to see it as a punishment for a moral transgression. Angels mated with the daughters of men - there are evil angels here. We must work our way back up - but the miracle of salvation is extended (or achieved) to/for us by Christ, not by our efforts. We do not even know we are enlightneded - nor do we remember & the eve says, that, more accurately, it is the kingship of God - an assimilation to him. Corpus Christi? Which is the means of reassimilation?Yes; v. Jerusalem bible notes. Metamorphosis - but my big contribution is analysis of the reality we see normally as a sort of projected "hologram" which, when one of us is redeemed, it "disolves" to the garden or to B-I. prismate: le the epistomological asked of the salvific mechanism.I think I finally know what the vision of the B-I Prism is. Unlike the palm tree garden. It is not another world burn. Then our world - where we care now - as it really looks. It is precisely this that we are & must be redeemed from. The element of memory proves it to be a past state restored, & not an evolution from where we are now. Up the ladder to the next stage. It can be said that "the Fall" consisted of us falling downward & becoming enslaved by the closed system deformities "[Dr?] powers," from which salvation Must and will extricate us. Prior to salvation we are ruled only by these blind forces, not the wise mind whose effort it is to reach [down to] us, inform us, restore us, extricate us. They bring us news of our origin and nature. I seem to be missing the whole point. If it is really 70 AD (right now) then "thomas" is not a past personality. He is the authentic inner self bonded to Rome C. AD 70 the real reality outside. He is recollected but not as someone or some thing past: rather. He is within or below ontologically. It all has to do with time: what it is (if it is anything) & how it funtions. Really, what seems to be involved are deeper & deeper layers. More and more real: degree of essence. 1974 is a thin skin stretched over 70 - as PKD is stretched over Thomas - Masks, so to speak. This must lie at the heart of the true Gnosis. The revealed secret knowledge. The world is a delusion, probably the product of - not of God - but of something or someone evil, to deceive us. The purpose: a great lie to cause us to lose faith in Christ's promise to come back soon. The evil web spinner couldn't - can't - conceal his nature when he returns. But the evil one can so-to-speak attenuate time - stretch it out, so that 2000 years pass in a matter of actual decades. We are our own ancestors. We repeat these few decades again & again, like an LP played and replayed. But to see this, one must see the world as being not only in the grip of, but spun by, the evil one - a world which Christ pierced (just recently, for the first time). All truth, knowledge, love, wisdom, break through into this world exactly as Runciter's "Ubik" messages do! From another [real] world. Rather than saying the real world is within the delusional one, is it more correct (as my 3-part- reality dream showed), to say that the real world is behind or under: {see diagram} human nature --- (i.e. delusional - i.e. 1974 real - (i.e. AD 70 I will go on to say: the Xerox letter has come before. We do reincarnation: this life over and over again. Thus I know can certainly say what the deterministic "astral" power condems us to (until God's grace breaks it forever): Living over and over again the same life, making the same errors, suffering the same afflictions; only "Sarapis" can break this, as he did with on 3-74. This also explains my calling Ginger "Georgie," and how I knew I would been Tessa. Plus precog stuff in my writting. Yes, the xerox letter had come at least once before, & I had fallen victim to it. But it was part of the prison (Delusional) world, in a sense unreal; the only realy world is c. AD 70, & we the faithful joyfully await his return. It exactly resembles the situation in "Maze" with our world being Delmak-O: computer printed - out for us again and again. Viewed this way, no wonder my anticipatory anxiety out out of hand in the 2 or 3 months before 3-74. However, we don't printout this delusional world; a sort of Palmer Eldritch does. If you tho take the 1) information breaking through in Ubik, 2) Palmer Eldritch creating false worlds in 3 Stigmata, 3) & the computer repeat printout in Maze - You know it all, with "Tempunauts" & "Electric Ant" thrown in for good measure (& "Impostor," etc). But in the 3 Bantam books it's all there. I have already