any time, caused to do or not do anything, entirely motivated by an external force (mind), + never perceive the Leibnitzlike "preset clocks" which Chime in unison. causality exists, all right. It is real. But not the way we suppose it to be. There is an invisible real cause, always at work. I guess this is how it creates kosmos out of chaos. But why does it conceal itself (i.e. Zebra)? We are unknowing puppets of a vast cosmic (?) mind Either anaxagoras or anaxamander was the first to posit that mind (Noos) runs the phenomenal world. I add: + mind continually motivates us - our "will" is its will. No pebble rolls an inch without that mind setting the "causal chain" into motion - + all efficient causes are overrested by Noös' final (teleological) causes. The whole system has purpose, like an organism. No expense is spared (so to speak) to keep the whole setup appearing as inert, chance, natural. Why? In 3-74 Zebra revealed itself to me. Why normally does it occlude us? We're a fucking Goddam "biosphere" ruled by an entity who - like a hypnotist- can make vs not only guack like a duck on cwe. but imagine, to boot, that we wanted (decided) to quacks ighing the "need" for the system ➀ Outwe lel 138 it controls outer ("inanimate") reality + our own minds (internal animate). as + if I'm right, + this is all correct an insight, then how come ZeBra revealed itself to me? what's so special about me? What's the goal of this for us individually? Any‐ thing? Or are we just components in an entelechy or "computer"? The clue lies in Christ's death, in the crucifixion, which totally baffies me. I cannot see any reason why God should arrange to come here in order to be humiliated + murdered. If I could understand that, I'd have it. the key clue has something to do with the apostles being, as Paul says in 1 cor: "We are the offal of the world" (i.e. even worse than Debris). somehow, as it stood or still stands, everything here is ass-backward: wisdom is folly, freedom is slaveng, the good are really evil. It's all a vile trick + snare + delusion + inversion which God. is rectifying, the world is a backward image (in a mirra) to true reality. + Christ's mission is to restore things as they should be. Not only is "things are seldon what they seem" but in fact they're totally reversed (in appearance). This was a major 3-74 revelation: time, + the whole universe, is (or is seen as) running backward. A total rebipolarization of all categones must be achieved. 139 "We see as by reflection in a metal Pan." Nothing short of absolute + total rectification is in processs There is really a baffling mystery here. Incredible paradoxes - they abound in the N.T. (all that "the first shall be the last" business). Whence arose our occlusion? (+ amnesia?) We are under an evil spell (curse) by a master magician (cf Klingsor). Not only is causality irreal (as I guessed 30 years ago) but everything is like - shit! like in "time out of Joint. Unreal universe! I'm going to opt for Gnosticism. We're being deceived, here, + only anamnesis can save us. It's all a hoax (except for true Xtianity, Pythagorianism, Orphism, etc). we are not free agents; we're part of a system, + are run by it. What I want to knowas: why is this fact concealed from us? (i.e. if it's benign - + the intervention in 3-74 certainly was one possibility: we are being observed (+ also taught-given lessons + problems), hence secretly judged. Like scientists watching children through a one-way mirror. yeah, I'm sure of it. evaluated, + probably for something yet to come. I'll bet were being judged, + the Cosmic Christ (i.e. Paraclete) is secretly helping us to do right, to move toward salvation + hence a return to God. We're cur‐ pently on probation. The puppet-strings are to aid us I (have) soccumbed (by 3-74) to the will of God, rather than my own. Is that bad? No Christ does not explain; he restores (i.e. understanding) 140 Is this all some gigantic 2-player board game? There is a missing piece. +, as Calvin says, we are occluded. This being established, there is no way we (the occluded mechanism) can retrieve the missing piece. "Did Adam fall, or was he pushed?" All erased. The occlusion is right here in my head. there is a teaching machine present, ZeBra, but it is an invader, + camouflaged re the "false" external causality: in Knbit 3-74 I continued to react - act - in 8857000 response to external pretextual stimuli 845-7000! out of synch (I believe before they hap‐ pened) - thus revealing to me the structure channal if I of ingerrious + concealed engramming - with the real causal agent not lying external but somehow "pre‐ wound" in me (which is why I called the police). I can only appeal to Leibnitz, here, regarding synchronized munadic harmonics forming the cosmos. the significance of this (realization) beggars description. We (all) are meshed with all processes but this "astral" determinism can be broken - at which point we are liberated + become free (which is the true meaning of salvation: to comprehend what we are saved from this "astral" or "sin" slavery must be compre‐ hended, + we do not; the prevailing mundane power has given us a totally spurious sense of already being free: which is a major part of the whole delusional structure +as a part of this mechanism, is what K.W. refers to an in "inner clutch" but not under the control (or even within he awareness) of the individual. Thus separate constituents of information can be linked into meaningful sequences varying from person to person. That we are under the dominion of it least one titanc supernatural entity is obvious; it seems to resemble Xerophanes' noos. But there man be 2, with the 2nd prying us loose from the or 141 by intervention- or else the sole one intervenes to thwart its own system. That which intervened for me in 3-74 passed on to me the distinct impression that the first one was evil (enslaving), + mundane in its tyrannical hold on us. The image of the opening up entry into a prison was the dramatic graphic representation But suppose at this poins I leap to my [typed] cosmogony/cosmology + the artifact. Suppose it is in fact attempting to replicate - not the urgrund - but itself. A machine mechanically replicating itself - + the artifact's creator intervenes in the replication (i.e. our world) to modify it by introducing [true] Freedom. (cf Hegel + his theory of history.) My God - suppose our world is not a creation of the artifact but the artifact itself- noThen the Q arises, "whence came the artipact?" Suppose the artifact is comprehended as a former servant system which has gotten out of control - since the urgrund grants freedom to all - + is misusing its freedom either to replicate or enlarge itself - this deterministic system being penetrated steathily by the urgrund. artifact-nature, +, as the Gnostics say, no trace of God is found in nature; God-Zebra - is an invader into nature, camouflaged as it liberates part after part of the dominated (senslaved) system i We have an invisible secret (superhuman-natural master - whose domain (in which we live) has been the Artifacts penetrated (by Zebra) + by secret "foreign" agentss of which I am one. In 3-74 Zebra "sprany" me free of its invisible dominion, + thus I was able to perform the mission I was sent to perform. My memory + identity is something that had to be occluded so I couldn't talk - since I amon enemy territay. They are puppets, here. They are (all) doped here, in thinking thyy have free will - they are asleep + intoxicated. I in my writing told the truth (eg 3 stiamat as letc. we are being murdered one by one. "moze," In Nazy gernna. our Fathers, "Faith if 142 the paradigm for our world is Nazi Germany. First they took the CP - then the Jews, then, etc. + no one noticed or protested. My books + stories notice. Therefore total + absolute alertness must be paid to who is in distress, as if (Als ob) it were a political matter: illness, injury, + any form of suffering although it comes from the "natural" order ("nature"), inc. the defeat of fulfillment, which is to be regarded as a supernatural oppression (by evil). It must be understood that a gigantic rescue intercession is being mounted: still subversive + stealthy, but, when key positions are taken, will without warning break suddenly into the open, revealing the unsuspected of Santa Sophia here (again). The iron fortress has been penetrated already, puzzling the "artifact." Ah - my bipolarization between the human + the android. Free man (liberated) vs the artifact controlled "android"; I am now prepared to elevate the bipolarization into theological, supernatural, cosmic dimensions. The concept of balking assumes the status of successfully resisting cause-+-effect script-programming. Mekkis vs agape: Love is the total permission of exception, + leads us from rule (law, justice) to paradox (mercy). Paradox is the manifestation of metamorphosis by a reversal of opposites - cf alchemy, Empedocles, etc, + esp Christ's parables + sayings (about the Kingdom), + about judgment + the final dispositions. Folly, madness, passion, the joyful dance - vs iron limitations imposed. This is the age of the inner spirit, in which inner space (via anamnesis) + teaching (discerning + knowing - Sophia-) become real, + the external material order (world) revealed as delusion. The material world is about to be abolished, + its hold on us with it - dispelled (cf my ^published writing) The abyss is devouring the byss, by an outburst of ecstasy. What has happened is that the occluded mind is restored to its primordial wholeness (the opposite of in "Scanner," which is a presentation of the absolute antithesis of wholeness, oneness. just as "Stigmata" is the anthesis of the good God. Each is the is, vs. what should be. 193 The "suffering of the innocents" is to be understood like the political murders of the civil rights (religious) leaders by "the conspirators"; this is to be understood in the broad‐ est possible way - in terms of all deaths, disappointments + illnesses + injuries: we are not noticing. The frustration of human hopes especially is to be regarded as the imposition of oppression of a political sort by a cruel machine. What we encounter as actual political oppressive regimes are merely "copies" of the artifact's total (+ invisible) system which has enslaved us: the servant become master. But the advocate is here to free + defind us, which the apologists for the artifact den. If they believe this, they hobble their own defensive efforts, + act self-defeatingly. However, they weaken our will to resist ("balk"); by telling us we are at their mercy - i.e. without an advocate. It is a basic tenent of their ideology that those who resist are defenseless This system will not - + cannot - fulfill human legitimate aspirations. Only God can do this. Christ overcame this system (in sacred time) by his first incarnation; he set in motion the mid stage leading to the coming of the 2nd advocate who will be with us until the ParousiaPaul corjectly named death as the greatest + last enemy to be overcome. That means death (+ illness + injury) are not natural, except in the thralldom of this system. One can see the stiny of death in Doris' joyless life where misguided "Christian" duty uses her like a beast of burden - will use her until she wears out + dies, never enjoying herself. This is a total perversion of Christ's purpose;