we have now is a conflict-le t consolidation - of vast silence - as we await The coming of the King? Yes, this is so 30 we are waiting in a silence; the enemy i been eradicated. The dialectic interchange of c concluded in victory for God. Right - I said to KW last night "there's something wrong, but not in terms of what, b ut rather in what is lacking. A spiritual quality has gone out - our material wealth does not quench our yearnings." What do we yearn for? Why, the rightful king. The material from Acts in "Tears" proves that my 2-74/3-74 vision anamnesis + experience with the "Romans" are correct: I can't speak for anyone ale. but I (at least) am really living c. 70 AD as a secret Xtian in pagan Rome - despite what my w naide senses report. This is the nitty grity of it all. that is really some discovery to make. + I (+ the i there of us - there are others) are awaiting Christs imminen return. + not waiting in vain, as proved by the St. Sophia" prophecy I heard. + the dream in "Tears" is a preview vision of that return. So it is all there in "Tears" written in '70 + actually seen in '74. No wonder I see in all my writing the empiri i world as irreal. It is irreal. "Tears" + my perception im 2-74 + 3-74 show what really is there - which, in "Tears." is what I wanted to show. inasmuch as I was able to describe the r the CAD 70 world of Acts in "Tears" before (4 years before; I had my 2-74/3-74 anamnesis-perception, then in t io I already knew the truth on some level. + if I knew it on some level in '70 then 1) the Golden Fish merely caused the anamnesis - perception to enter consciousness; + 2) almost certainly I knew it before 70, in fact probably e The time, which explains why my writing 31 has always depicted memories as false + empirical world as false. like I say, maybe everyone else is really here (s 1974 USA) But I am really in Rome c AD 70, + it didn't begin in 2-74. Does that indicate that I am actually a time traveler? Because a whole lit of evidence points to "them" (e.g. Zebra) as time travelers (the 3 eyed people, eg). But I perhaps did not come here actually, in a sense I am still in AD 70. No - I came here from There; cf the child on the raft floating toward London + evading Scotland Yard. of course my mission involved the historic intervention afo The concept that I'm a time-traveler from 70 a o completely explains thomas. The PKD personality a memory-less mask, + Thomas is the authentic personality of the time-traveler, + hence Thomas is really myself t the actual me who was sent here: like a cuckoo's egg. I am not PKD; I am Thomas - there was no therensy; only anamnesis No wonder I could read + write latin under LSD that was not - I repeat not - a former life but my real we + real time, place, self. It anticipated the Xerox missive; that was no incidental matter but the crux of my miss here h No - the crut of the mission was the writing; more re cisely "Tears." Thomas' emergence vis-a-vis the Xerox thing was defensive response to attack because of what was i h "Tears" I probably still don't know all of what i t Tears" revealed + communicated + served as, + for whom, But ill bet it has to do with the end-time, perse. But also, due to its cryptic content, it unmasked me to someone evil. Perhaps it confirmed earlier suspicions. in ancient times, Xtianity did not conquer Rome (i.e. when constantinge was converted). Instead Rome assimilated Xtianity. But in 1974, the secret gen ne 38 Xtian church threw (resar (as Nixon) out of offict, + hence did conquer Rome. This then is the start of the end-times; "Babylon" this time did fall, creating i vacuum into which the King will move to fill. But in discorporate form (Zebra) the King has already ben here - is + was here, controlling + leading the assau t on the world power center: as head of the Corpus Christo its may be that the innovative "Form axis" which I he picted in "Ubik" presents the ultimate solution as to h t Calif AD 1974 could (underneath) be Rome CAD 70 - in which case patrice is correct about the importance of "Ubik i.e. in the novel it is shown that each eidos contains ta some actual sense related to + involved with time) ee prior versions/manifestations of that eidos. This might be a kind of orthogonal time-axis which normally accrues rather than divests. Now, you add this theme in "Ubik" to the "trash hes sages + Ubik itself, + you have a new + original cosmology. Also, the "other side intruding" theme, related to the messages but not confined to them (the figure of Runciter who is believed to have been murdered is also involved) e has become an agent for the mentating + ubiquitous entity Ubik - his relationship to Ubik is mysterious. There is also the entropic force posited in a bipolarized stance vis-a-vis Ubik. Ubik is obviously the Logos of the stoa: the world te in terms of reason (Sophia). Runciter seems to be an n carnation of it, now. The Gnostic concept of us being half asleep is alie included. the book is very important in terms of Platonistic mology + a new revision thereof. s 3) two elements distinguish "Ubik": 1) It is original (as a cosmology) 2) it perhaps is correct (or more correct than any previous cosmology. the Q. arises: how did it come into being? On what source did I draw? I don't know - except that by the info mation-projecting entity described in the novel itself the arising in my mind of this knowledge (gnosis. Sophias can be accounted for. In other words, the explanation i as to the source of the concepts in "Ubik" is presented nowhere else but in "Ubik" itself. Would this, then, the existence of "Ubik," not constitute an indirect proof of its truthful ness? Were the cosmological concepts in it false, "Ubik" could/would not have come into being - at least not in i the way it did - by automatic writing, so to speak s in other words, Ubik wrote "Ubik," which makes the novel a form of scripture (which may be also somewhat true for "Maze" + certainly, as I well know, "Tears"). Again, the 3 Bantam novels assume a puzzling t perhaps unique importance as vehicles of revelation. the interesting point that strikes me is that the total message extends (+ requires the inclusion of) a fairly large number of my novels + stories (e.g. "Clans," "Joint" "Eye "time Slip" + the 3 Bantam ones, + "TMITHC" + "Tears"). Reality (the phenomenal world) + our memories are irreal, but a gene ine divine assisting + informing power or entity is pressing through the irreal to us, as if to wake us to our actual state (time place + condition) which is quite different from what we per ceive + remember. Even our identities are irreal (e.g. "imposters "Electric Ant" "wholesale." "Maze" etc). There are incursions t irreal worlds into the real (simulating the real), + the real into the irreal. The private, too into the shared, + alternate worlds into each other. My 2/74 to 2/75 experience is quite in keeping i to my writing. Again: if I ask, "what is the entity which is using me as a scribe?" I need only look to "Ubik. 30 so among the elements which are true in "Ubik" is Ubik itself. "I am the word + my [true, unknown) name is never spoken." It's all there: creator, maintained informing Logos. are the intruding messages in German t "Scanner" related to the intruding - + equally mysterious - messages in "Ubik"? + the words n it joint" which are seen as the objects they are verbal analogs for? + in "Zap gun" weapons ideas are received from a mysterious, unknown source. let's not forget "Pot Healer. (they are) . hypnogogic: responsible for low-level decisions which can be overruled" for the first time in months the Spirit speaks to me. This sentence - remembered because the phone woke me - refers to 3-74 + (short as it is) it explains it. admittedly, the "they" are not identified - named - but the structure can be ascertained. Low level decision are the normal + routine business of the world - the way It customarily functions. But sometimes decisions made at low levels are overruled - it is not stated by whom, but, again. the function is clear: that entity which has the legitimate wisdom, authority + power to over rule, which therefore is the ultimate court of appeal. God is certainly meant. The "they" are not God, are less than God, are good but not infallible (as He is). This would be the Pauline cosmology of Christ assuming authoric over the angels (powers, thrones, etc.) as he ascends through the spheres. it is not a dialectic between good + bad which was enacted in the pre-emptive move of 3-74, but ultimate Good overruling a lesser good. The power of the normal course of things was - well, I certainly know what happened; we re talking about divine providence + authority, + miracle (the latter term herewith clarified: there is a court of final appeal which sees, understands, +, if it judges that it should, Acts. + 33 I suppose this overruling to be staggering in its mpact + implication, its irruption into the "horizontal" cau he flow. Spinoza + Hume could not even conceive it. to conceive it, let alone witness it - a vast understand pot a correct one, of the nature of reality, is required. i is awesome. In a sense it is even terrifying (shock, hex st ). the core-entity has manifested itself. The inanimate t blind has been rolled aside, like the stone covering Christ he fomb, by the living God. One is perceiving the animate the purposeful, the aware to the normal relationship between man + reality is reversed; instead of the sentient human view in the unliving world, suddenly world is alive + sentient, + in relation to this by comparison, man is dwarfel t down to the level of object. 1) Normal situation. in), that which observes o entient world) (i.e. man) is superior to what he man sees, in terms of objective hierarcha cal essence, but in 2) he is absolutely we were mage 2) world, alive dwarfed by what he sees. This o is (+ deliberate well-expressed in "Job" sur denly the ratio is dramatically reversed. The next step is for the amazed man to learn that he is, incredibly, isom t phic with this vast sentient "world" which perceives him + aide thim man in other words, God is larger 3) 0-1 God) than man but congruent with h im we are identical; whereas in 1) t his is not the case: man + "low level" reality are not is morphic + in point of fact man is the "crown of creati t te + stands above it imagine his stupifaction when 1) turns into a But they, before man expires from terror at this switch of ratio, 3) is disclosed to him, by God, who desires to reass the. in this process, step.) Initiates as its goge, not 2) But 3); were it to end in 2), man would collapse, being confronted, so to speak by rocks + stones wiser than he! This is why it is (correctly) said that the ultimate - + real - purpose