Logos: blueprint, to which empirical reality has to conform. What interests me is that this discloses empirical reality as a copy of an original model that cannot be departed from for long, but can be departed from long enough + far enough for the correction to be observed. Perhaps kosmos extended its structure to include something formerly lying outside it, + in assimilating it, adjusted if. Valis expanding (transubstantiating). This is the impression I had: an invisible advancing by the camouflaged entity. ____ Reading supra. B (atelos) is lured into so great an overstepping against a victim that Valis (kosmos, Tao) is induced to counter by including the victim in it (in Valis) + thus divinizing it + making it immortal, + depleting energy from B in "heat" exchange. This is a calculated strategy by Pythagoreans, Orphics, Taoist mystics, Hermetic alchemists, onto which I stumbled accidentally. Knowing the proportion, balance, Harmonia, justice, + structure system of Valis, certain mystery religions etc. have acted as magicians {...} use of these inevitable laws to become (themselves) divine + immortal. The only party bilked is B, the atelos "Roman Empire" which is induced to massively overstep against a victim made innocent to a sufficient degree by the excessiveness (unmeritedness) of B's overstepping. Situation imagined by B (atelos, irrational): {illustration:} B => C Actual situation: {illustration:} 1) VALIS B => C 2) VALIS / C => B These are absolute laws, hence predictable. If B oversteps far enough, Valis will correct. Pressed far enough, Valis' correction will include assimilation of C into itself as well as dealing B a mortal blow. Result: the oppressor destroyed + the real pay off: the victim made immortal + divine as a permanent part of Valis. The Christ story illustrates this, wherein B (Rome) is an instrument by which a mortal (human) victim is converted into God; this is a paradigm + not an actual history. Without this interpretation the passion part of the Christ story, the crucifixion, makes no sense (the doctrine of vicarious atonement is nonsense, concocted either to conceal the true meaning from outsiders or by persons unaware of the true meaning - ie purpose of the crucifixion). The fact that it is stated that Jesus was already God or the son of God or the Messiah merely tells us that he is innocent. The absolute injustice of the crucifixion must be grasped: Jesus is not relatively innocent but [rendered] absolutely innocent. Thereupon Valis "justifies" [as with right hand type margin]. Evil has been made an unwitting instrument for the elevation of a human soul to the Godhead (apotheosis, + liberation from reincarnation). If any human can maneuver B into this role {Note}, + so render himself made absolutely innocent, he will, like Jesus, be "resurrected" - ie apotheosis will occur due to the impartial theodicy of Valis which is Tao, kosmos + ma'at. As kosmos grows to include this person the ratio between coherent structure to atelos or irrationality slightly changes in favor of the former, so the cosmic balance shifts toward the rational. {Note:} "Maneuver" may not be the right word. B is snared, however, lured by bait which conceals a hook. My God, I've worked out a system by which the use of evil for divine purpose (as part of a plan) is presented. This wasn't my intention, but I was 1) led to posit Valis / kosmos / Tao / ma'at {Note} + then 2) show how its mechanism of justification could be systematically availed of (it being totally dependable) by someone who understood its workings -as expressed in paradigm form in the Christ crucifixion story- to obtain apotheosis - which required me to decode the N.T.! To view it as an encoded instruction manual by which to become part of Valis. {Note:} Based on experience (3-74), + knowledge based on 5 years of research concerning this extraordinary experience + its consequences. The early Xtians who understood this could actually rejoice in their sufferings, being able to see the catalytic (alchemical) effect they -the unmerited suffering- had. Thus atelos (evil) actually brings more good into existence than the amount of harm it does: the suffering is finite but the transformation permanent. Also, as I did, the early Xtians could experience this "birth from above" or "second birth" rather than just hold it as an article of faith. But soon the stegenographic secret was lost; Xtians began just to believe that Christ had died to "atone for their sins," etc like the paschal lamb; vicarious sacrifice (a widespread belief system of those times). (An offering to God.) The mysterious dynamism of Valis -even awareness of Valis itself- was no longer understood. The Xtian was no better off than anyone else. But it is stated in the N.T. that "Christ" (ie the true Xtians) wished to keep the gnosis of 1) Valis' existence; 2) its dynamisms; 3) how to avail oneself of them to obtain release from rebirth, + obtain apotheosis restricted to a few, so only perplexing parables were disclosed. One could regard the human as a two-stage organism, with certain specific factors or events necessary to kick over to the second stage. Evil had to be bilked into acting in a certain clear cut way to [trigger the intervention of the justification of telos or kosmos or ma'at or Tao or Valis to] cause the transformation from stage one to stage two, or else the person simply died still at stage one + was reborn. This is why the work of the second comforter is called "greater than mine" by Christ, + why the term paraclete meaning advocate is used. The intervention of this advocate is essential to kick the person over to stage two. This is Valis intervening. Looking all this over I realize that the Ramparts petition + then my failure to fill until the war ended was not just an antiwar act, a dissenting, or even civil disobedience but an outright sacrifice of my freedom + career; the punishment was inevitable, as was Jesus' when he entered Jerusalem. + I knew it. By '74 I lived in terms of them arresting me, then 2-3-74, the Xerox missive + what I now believe to be the correction or justification by Valis on my behalf. I had unintentionally, accurately followed the instruction manual (NT), including all the elements necessary. For the first time I can see logic, not caprice, in the advocate coming to me in 2-74 as soon as "Tears" was published. __ It can't be said that evil B causes apotheosis, the kicking over to stage two by its victim; the cause is Valis' justification. This justification can legally render the person spotless + (to think in Pythagorean/Orphic terms) unsullied by earthly existence; put in Indian terms, karma is burned up, + further earthly life (by which karma works itself out) is irrelevant. This fits my own impression that my programmed tape "played itself out at high speed in a vacuum" in 3-74. The future events to which it had been synchronized were not events necessary for me to live through; Valis short circuited the cosmic machinery when it justified me. It's as if the judge (ma'at) has now seen enough to have her basis by which to render judgment. The facts are in. To allow the person to be exposed to further injury would just be cruel. Another view could be that B + Valis are in contention for the person's soul. {But if B} destroys the body of the person it loses the soul. The body is the bait of humanity + the soul is the hook of divinity. B cannot torment the person -make him its victim- + still claim him; B has chosen poorly - irrationally. B's cruel + oppressive nature has cost it a prize. B is unmasked regarding its real nature (its overstepping shows unfitness to govern). C's true nature is not so much revealed but created, by Valis: bestowed. Conferred (the "heat transfer" I spoke of). B is rendered entropic; C negentropic. Then I basically conceive of Valis in terms of a regulatory entity whose structure is based on proportion + harmony + limit, from which, although primarily beautiful, stems a moral order based on an ordering of reality into fitted-together parts; ie the Pythagorean kosmos. This is a physical arrangement, a structuring of + within this world, which is unitary, eternal, divine, + has mind: a creature. __ The ostensible (phenomenal) realm is irreal. But within it (immanent) exists a moral structure which is real, unitary, structured, divine, just + sentient. Christ is Valis. As world (Kosmos). Inside me he is Thomas. I saw us gray-robed Xtians hurrying away in glee after blowing up part of the fortress - it's not the past or the present but the future, as in "Joint." Q: Why does it look like the 20th century? A: A weapon of war in the future. Disformer of reality. A mind-control device by the enemy. {illustration: A cube} Cube BIP protecting scramble generator. We're trying to reach it {surrounded by concentric rings} Kosmos / Acts / 1974 {entered by an arrow} Secret Xtians searching for the scrambler to blow it up, with explosive seed (telos). It's all set in a technologically hype sophisticated future. Our world is really future slave state Acts. Valis is the seed grown into Pyth kosmos replacing Acts + irreal world. The kingdom of God. {illustration: Core seed} Xtian seed producing Kosmos which preys on Acts + irreal world {surrounded by circle} Scramble generator {surrounded by square} BIP {surrounded by concentric circles} Kosmos / Acts / Irreal world USA 1974 (scramble world + in each of us) The ultimate vision is of the Kosmos as the body of Christ, + the plasmate his blood. An organism, alive + divine + eternal. At the time + place of Acts as now. Jesus was the seed (telos) placed at the center of atelos, + started Kosmos growing. Okay "Tears" contains Acts because Acts is now + the actual world we're living in, we Christs overthrew it in 1974. Or at least part of it. No, all. The obscure dominion of Satan was overthrown; Satan was killed. Now St Sophia (Christ) will emerge everywhere: all of us. We control this world. This is why I can now write openly. Only the religious/beauty domain is real. We have brought it into being: generated it, as when I melted the causal trains in 3-74; that was world-creation. We created the world of Acts which is both tyranny + religion. The workshop of us Xtians. Where we perform our transactions. This is the key: Q: Acts - where/when is/was Acts? A: Acts is where we true Xtians perform our transactions with evil in our 2-position game. There, we are in direct touch with the enemy. Q: + the Xerox missive? A: I was in direct touch with the enemy therefore I was -had to have been- in Acts - only there do the 2 sides directly engage each other openly, to each other. In USA the enemy could not approach me directly. Q: But who are we? + who is the enemy? A: We vs the enemy. It's a war + there are two sides, us + them. That's all I need to know. The republic vs the empire: it's in the future, like in “Star Wars.” This is it. In the Bible isn't about the past; it's code to describe our world (as is "Tears"). Then "Christ" has to do with a certain class of people in our world (I am one of them). The Bible is how we spread the news (gospel) as to what this world is really like (really is). Acts isn't 45 AD; it's now. These are onion layers like time in "Ubik." No time passes. The world does not change. We're permanently in a modern slave state honey combed by Xtians. Acts, in the Bible, is a future (to us) slave state. They've