inasmuch as the God who created this cosmos is in no sense evil, and there was the classic fall from the Golden Age (of being part of the vine with Him), but what is new is the explanation of why he is the deux absconditus, why we see no sign of him (he is waiting to see which of us need to return or want to return, those who grieve for him). This would account for the Gnostic sense of alienation, of being a stranger in this world, of God and man vs the world -- without positing an evil god. Also, it would well fit into my personal epistemology that this world is in some sense not real, which is not a Gnostic intuition. If the "lopped of cuttings from the vine is added to my radical epistemology, we have, do we not, a new cosmogony/cosmology, which in a sense reconciles Gnosticism with orthodox Christianity. Perhaps the True God did not create this cosmos, but consigned its creation to "James-James," which would make my view more toward the Gnostic view. I can easily fit this in with my "lopped-off cuttings from the vine" revelation. Unless we can sense the sickness of this cosmos, if instead it feels natural to us, then we are equated to it, will remain in it and deserve to. But if we (among the longing and nostalgia and grieving) can discern the sickness in this cosmos, then we are becoming sane, or are the sane ones, and return to the sane god (who, in this sick cosmos, is, as Dionysos, regarded as mad which in fact he alone is not). In a cosmos created by a sick god, a penetration by the sane God would seem the penetration by a sick one; the labels are all backward. In other words, perhaps this cosmos (world) was mad --is-- deliberately alien for a good (benign) reason; the supreme Wise Mind, God, could have deliberately allowed the cosmos where the cuttings went to be a sick cosmos, the more to stimulate them to long to return to him. This is not punishment; this is a set of clues, a mystery and a puzzle, which we must solve, the essence of the puzzle being, "If God is good, why is there evil?" As Gnosticism intuits, the evil demiurge does not know of the existence of the One True benign God in the pleroma above him. The demiurge cannot fathom (like Joe Chip in UBIK) these incursions into his cosmos; naturally he would regard them, folder 32 - 002 folder 32 - 002 as Lem says about UBIK, as uncanny, unnatural and wrong. Nor is this James-James god evil; he is merely fevered, sick. (As I saw in James-James, who created for the mere creative restlessness of creativity itself, with no thought to what would become of his creations.) Basically what is wrong with this cosmos is that it is in fact no cosmos; it lacks the regulatory hand of justice. The lack of that hand, the hand of what Plato calls "the steersman," allows for anomie. James-James just tosses each new creation out into the void, where it collides with whatever else is there. A disorderly universe where everything crashes into everything else (ananke as chance) is no cosmos at all. So a deep insight into our world is that it fails to meet the criteria that apply to a cosmos in contrast to anomie. To perceive this, one must compare it with something. Again, memory is involved. The grieving soul longs for the true cosmos, where justice reigned, that it had once and lost. Now, it is possible that as in Plato's Timaeus, the true God (the steersman) is overcoming the anomie of this world with order (or justice), and will eventually infuse it and overcome it. Messengers are sent here to provide assistance (as the Gnostics believed), but also the Christian eschatological expectations could be finally fulfilled by an ontological transubstantiation of this world by the real god; however, the Gnostics are correct in assigning the creation of this world to a sick god, and experiencing intervention "from outside." This goes back to my really top-notch idea of the universe functioning like nothing so much as a teaching machine. Our universe (world) is a puzzle. We must figure it out. The divine messenger(s) assist us. It is essential that we penetrate the mystery, first by realizing that there is a mystery, that, in point of fact, something is wrong. And then we have to follow the path of figuring out what is wrong, why, and how, if it is to be solved (altered) it be solved. Somewhere along the line, if we have figured out that a sick god must have created our world, we have thereupon an even greater puzzle than at first, because the problem does not end there but only deepens: if there is a good, benign, superior God, a true God, to the creator, why does this True Good God permit the evil of this cosmos to exist? We could stop with the realization that a sick god created our world, but even the Gnostics do not stop there; even the Manichaeans don't stop there. All systems posit some good. The mystery, such as I experienced in (3-74), of divine (benign) intervention at first deepens the mystery, but leads eventually to an untangling of it. Only two elements allow one to unravel the mystery (providing one has gotten far enough along to see that there is a mystery in the first place): (1) the divine intervention itself, qua intervention; and (2) the content of what the intercessor reveals. The fact of intervention alone provides much information, even if, within the intervention, there were no content. However, the content answers the puzzle which the intervention qua intervention poses, although not at first. One confuses the two: divine intervention qua intervention. and the information - revelation - conveyed by the intercessor; the two are not the same. I think that if there were divine intervention without revelatory content, one would burn one's circuits out trying to figure out what it signified. The question, unanswerable, would arise as: "How come it would be necessary for God to intervene in his own cosmos?" folder 32 - 003 folder 32 - 003 Spinoza, in his monism, foundered at this point and had to the deny the existence of miracles (intervention) altogether. Intervention signifies the existence of a powerful, all-knowing, all-caring (loving) divine deity, but then how did evil arise (as well as the above problem of explaining how we would come to intervene in his own world). The two questions derive from the same issue, and one answer handles both which is the Gnostic answer: the creator god is not the same God who intervenes. But I split with the Gnostics wherein I say, "The true divine good deity allowed or even encouraged the 'James-James' sick demiurge to create his tacky quasi-cosmos, his ersatz, counterfeit cosmos." We are graded, which is to say emancipated, according to what we find (if we do find anything) objectionable about this world. Thus we are not only confronted by a skillful teaching machine but one which grades our responses and thus either repeats an unlearned lesson or carries us upward to be the next in order. I think that in the final analysis, ethical considerations are salient. This involves ethical choices on our parts (existential view) and the perception of ethical disfigurement not of our own doing but not acceptable to us. The two interlink, the observation (analysis) that there is something wrong ethically with our world, and the ethical imperitives [sic] we feel to act or not act and in what way. Proper observation and action alienates us from the world, and puts us in the man and God vs the world situation of the Gnostic system. The fact is, this world presents us with ethical problems which for all intents and purposes admit to no solution; as Father Reed said to me when I was taking religious instruction, "We do not have a choice between good and evil but between greater and lesser evils." Thereby one knows this to be either a fallen world or a bungled (or even evil) world, since, as Father Reed pointed out, we are forced to do evil. I think, though that we fell before there was a cosmos here, that we rebelled against the True Vine and claimed we could get by on our own. Perhaps the demiurge who created this cosmos was our leader, the highest of us all. Anyhow, here we are, trying to determine which is the lesser of the evils presented to us. If the true benign God allowed creation to fall, then he obviously erred, and orthodoxy cannot give an adequate explanation of this, as the dualistic religions can. But if we, as parts of the true vine, revolted and were then lopped off, and our leader was permitted to create this world for us -- no questions remain, if the fall is presumed to be cosmic, and to precede creation. THe good God's role is (1) to extricate us from this world; (2) to transmute this world into a true cosmos, which is exactly what it has never been. In Feb of 1974 I momentarily withdrew assent to the reality of this world; a month later this world underwent visible changes, and its true nature became perceptible to me: it is, as the Gnostics said, a prison. It is there, but it is not as it appears to be. The immediate reaction to the anomie in the world is to say simply that it is out of control. If it is there in the world is to say simply that it is out of control. If it is there to reawaken us to our divine origins, however, its malign aspects serve a good purpose. What each of us must do is repudiate the world, which is to say, deny it while at the same time affirming a sanctified alternate reality, which I did vis-a-vis the golden fish sign; the false quasi-cosmos was denied and the true sacred reality was affirmed. It was a single act, a movement away from the first to the second. I think I've figured out the basic move necessary: an ethical balking. That is how the world-denying begins. That is the first step in folder 32 - 004 folder 32 - 004 unraveling the counterfeit quality of the world. The Gnostics stressed such a "metaphysical strike" and pointed out that the archons (who rule this prison world, the wardens) can only harm the body and mind but not the divine spark. It is a refusal to cooperate with a harmful world, which, once one has balked against it, reveals its ersatz quality. The process does not work by (1) first discerning to be ersatz and then, on the basis of that, balking, but always (2) one balks, and then the ersatz --counterfeit-- quality is exposed; what is undoubtedly more important is the manifestation of the Advocate, once the initial balk done without knowledge of the counterfeit quality of the world. I perceive the crucial existential act as a volitional rupture with the world, which according to the Gnostic structure, throws the person back to God. The man must determine that this repudiation, this rupture, this crisis (which mirrors perhaps an ancient analogous crisis in which he broke with God, the true vine) this crisis must take place; what he does not know is that this rupture heals the primordial rupture with God -- that which started the cosmos into being in the first place. If the man were aware that this rupture would start the machinery into motion which would restore him to God, he would probably have little hesitation in doing it; everyone would do it; but he must enact the rupture without knowing the joyful consequences will result; he does it for