writing. the world we see is not real. There is another, different real world behind it (a 3layer schema as in "Precious Artifact"). (78) I need no proof of the Kerygma encoded in "Tears" - I got that in 2-74/3-74. We are not able to identify Zebra (Christ/Dionysos). My guess that that which I saw + called Zebra had not (just as I guessed by the total lack of previous reports of such an experience as mine in 2000 years) been previously here. But had returned - otherwise, why the message in "Tears"? You do - well, it's less likely you'd smuggle in an encoded message about a static long term stable condition than re an event (a current one). The message in "Tears" was news that something had happened, + that happening was his return. Amazed at what I saw I named it Zebra, not knowing what or who it was. I presume he now (still) invisibly works behind the scenes of world history as it unfolds, but the true hidden Xtian church knows. I, ahem, helped tell them. The age of the curse (Tears, suffering + enslavement + crucifixion + punishment) is ending; joy, freedom, mercy + innocence + exculpation is beginning... as Form II is rendered irreal by annexation to Form I. That in a very real sense the world is coming to an end - which justifies my grand them in 27 years of writing: this realization is what I've been preparing people for (without my knowing it - in a sense I was looking ahead), in being annexed to Form I we are annexed to God (Corpus Christi). (79) So our world is invisibly being transubstantiated, as the BIP + its power is ended. I experienced this in the breaking of the "Astral determinism" over, the nemesis which was beginning to arrive in 3-74, following the correct schema in "Scanner." It is precisely that schema ("they played, + were punished far too much") which Christ is abolishing (we know this as "salvation" - saving us from hell - not a bad description!) (i.e. what I call "Nemesis" = hell.) (Just as Jason Taverner was declared innocent; i.e. not punished; i.e. not sent to hell; i.e. saved by divine grace.) (The salvific power of God; Love expressed judicially - i.e. justification.) Gee - the trial of Jason Taverner = the dies Irie! + the verdict isn't what the serious white haired old king decrees, because this trial, which is the great assize, is supernaturally made into a trial of "the pure, innocent, spotless son who stands in the place of judgement for us, where by there is a verdict of innocent + we are saved"! Viewed this way I can understand the "vicarious atonement + perfect sacrifice" theme for the first time. Fascinating that I should name the titular policeman who cries "happy" without realizing it's the supernatural enters right there. (80) Of course Zebra is the Cosmic Christ. The Cosmic Christ certainly doesn't + wouldn't have a human or humanoid body, now, would he? He is interpenetrating the universe - just as I saw. This realization is important. Also, in addition to the external Cosmic Christ, the paraclete may have entered me enabling me to see true reality including the Cosmic Christ at work - so both forms of the deity were present. + the Holy Spirit put the material in "Tears" etc. Once Christ is resurrected + becomes Cosmic - Pantocrator - he isn't ever going to shrink back down to a mere human body - that's absurd, + I've missed that point. He will be ubique (sic). ---------- The TV drama tonight about the Little Boy Peter - the girl he saw was a polyform of the Savior sent to rescue him, an invasion of the Form II by I. She appeared to him at the low point in his life (transmute from the ferocious dogs) + then at the end reappeared + took him away, this is very much like the AI voice I heard in 3-74 + will hear again when I am dying, as was shown to me. The drama rekindled my memories + hence [helps]. ---------- The Age of Guilt giving way to the Age of Innocence (which I specify as happening) is precisely a return to + restoration of our primordial lost state. Odd that my system would collate with orthodoxy again, + again on a major point. (81) But all I am proclaiming is nothing more than that which the First Advent inaugurated (But which is deliberately concealed from us, the power of Darkness). I merely proclaim the truth, the real world hidden by the counterfeit world. In my writing I insist that we abolish false world + false memories (identities). The kingdom is already here but the dark powers, which are in control, blind us to it. Yet, beyond their blinding, is a secret: the Kingdom is camouflaged, as Zebra is - not just due to the powers of darkness. A riddle is put to us - a puzzle which we must solve. God allows this Satanic occlusion to serve as a problem for us to solve. (The "Balking" which I speck of viz: can we discern that epistemologically it isn't real + morally it isn't good?) Thus a judicial dividing of mankind is accomplished. It is more of a learning + evolving that a moral exercise, a being "good." Something closer to intellectual acuity is involved, or required. In a sense it is true that salvation is a free gift of grace unconnected to merit; it can't be "brought" by merit in a cause - + - effect way. That would be the old Law once again. Grace flows not from man's merit but God's love, God's decision is not compelled by what man has done good; conversely, God can justify (Give Grace anyhow) where there is a lack of merit. The disparity is filled in by God (without man deserving it in a strictly judicial sense). So Grace is not earned. (82) + no man can point to a deed or deeds + say "this is why salvation was bestowed." A criticism of unfairness (person A got it,, but B didn't, + both are equal in merit) is answered thusly: neither deserves it on merit; no merit is enough. When all is said + done God; Love remains. This shows up as illustrated in many parables. The concept of free gift (of Grace) must be comprehended - mercy above justice. Justice in the strict judicial sense would exclude too many people. (asa with the old Law as Paul explains.) The idea is, you are not entitled to demand salvation as a reward for your merit. The power of God's Love is Greater that the system of merit + reward. It is a titanic step forward in the relation in between God + man, in reconciling them. It is a way of miraculously restoring man to his lost innocent state - so to speak by [great] decree of absolution (exculpation). This fits "Tears" once again. The conception I have is that God loves man + assists him out of that love. Man cannot demand that love as his due, but he can count on it by faith. He would be completely wrong to think himself excluded from that love (+ hence from grace). Man's failings are finite + God's love is infinite. I really do have an "adoptionist" sense of one gaining God's approved (support) by certain decisive acts...which I see as one correctly solving intellectual/moral choice problems - i.e. going one way vs the alternative. (83) "+ gained from heaven a friend." I feel that God takes note + is interested. That, most of all, he understands (what other people can't + so is sympathetic (" he sees even the fallen sparrow"). In a sense I would even define God that way" "as the sentience in the cosmos which understand." But all this is not a way of saying man is a sinner (deficient in merits). What it says is, God's Love is for the desperate + the damned, not for the goody-goody, who you see all righteous. All the piety can't make it - God reaches down into the gutter, the people like in "Scanner." In a sense the Kerygma is: a suspension of punishment (+ a restoration of innocence). (The gift of innocence. Love + assistance + rescue is not a judicial matter. In "Tears" the serious old King's verdict (Justice) is death. But Buckman turns grief over death into love; so love triumphs - not over death - but over the judicial verdict of death - + Taverner goes free. Within this sequence, the culmination of the book, the essential miracle of the Not is disclosed: the holy mystery + victory of love issuing out of greif + turning a sentence of guilty into innocence. I simply do not see this as judicial. I see it as - a freeing man of the curse, a releasing him from his enslaved state. The court sat, the books were opened, + (84) what prevailed was a saving, overriding love. In a way, the problem is, we can't figure out God's basis of selection. Code ethics did not provide an index. Whim probably is not the answer; some plan, purpose or pattern is involved, but we're too dumb to discern it. It goes back to my concept of him posing us a problem to solve. Naturally we're not to develop a solution formula - that would defeat the purpose. In a nutshell, my book announces the ushering in of the age of man's (restored) innocence, which is to say, Christ Returned the final Kerygma. ---------- Voice:"What my book (secretly) teaches is what w3e must teach in order to be Xtians." Wow. ---------- That TV drama about the little boy shows how the Form I mystical, spiritual, salvific + sublime penetrates Form II at its most desperate point + [extrelates] the beleagered victim. --------- My perception of Rome cAD45 proves that Parmenides is right + our realor, Form II, does not really exist, except insofar as we give is assent. Time + causality always in which our brains store sequential information. This can be made the subsect of dysfunction. But the right exciter factors are required. (85) When you consider the clear + precise way that the authentic Xtian Kerygma is presented in "Tears" - then my 3-74 experience becomes only one part, a completing part, of the Miracle. I received the gift of innocence, the suspension of punishment, awareness of the presence of Christ - i.e. proof of the truth of the presence of Christ - i.e. proof of the truth of the proclamation buried in the actual dramatic context (not just encoded textually) of the novel. The serious white haired old King is perhaps YHWH, overruled by the new covanent of love issuing out of the age of grief (i.e. Tears) into the age of joy + innocence. The 3-74 experience without the encoded Kerygma in "Tears" is the full miracle. The encoded Kerygma is a full miracle. One is a verbal dramatizations + proclamation (analog) of the other. The two together are like the pleroma, Forms I + II combined (message + the reality that message describes). I wonder when I knew that book was true, it always was so important to me. I feared so much for its safety. No wonder in my 3-74 experience I saw Rome cAD45. The Kerygma proclaimed it: the Death + Resurrection of Christ! So when I ask. why did I see Rome cAD45 (World of Acts) - Look to the stegenographic Kerygma in "Tears"! Given the Kerygma, the vision of Rome cAD45 is airtight logical. There is a push-pull verification, when all is known (i.e. the encoded material discerned is clear). In toto, the magnitude of the revelation is beyond my capacity to grasp to see what I saw, to know what was told me!