with the gold fish necklace, that they or he or she or it, the VALIS A, is right here with us. They never left, or anyhow they are back; we don't see them because we are occluded, and they/he/she/it has/have the power to de-occlude us when desired. My sensation of anamnesis suggests restored powers, faculties, rather than me being raised to superhuman or divine levels new m to roe and not mine, so to speak. It was, as Calvin says, a restoration of what I once had. If "VALIS" placed material (e.g. from "Acts" in TEARS, plus stuff in UBIKO in my work, then "VALIS" would have no intention of allow¬ ing me to fall into the vector of another force (i.e. the Reds) who would insert their ideas instead of his. Thus, beyond the benevolent motive, "VALIS" would be motivated for practical reasons to prevent me from being snared. What I put into DEUS IRAE, for instance, makes me think this now, which I hadn't thought before. Under Red influence, I wouldn't be writing any more theological novels, such as DEUS IRAE. Put another way, there are two forces contending to influence my work, that which has in the past ("VALIS") and that which tried in 74, i.e. the Reds. "VALIS" intervened. He is identified with the early Christians. -5- Within the total structure are two opposite motions, which may be the same as the two players which I saw, the total system not moving or gaining-losing or changing, etc. Yes, I think the motions in time in these two directions are indeed the two players, pitted against each other in this twin direction loop assembly (the two rotors). The two opposed systems mutually influence each other beneficially constantly ("The bad refines the good and the good refines the bad," by refines read "improve toward better"). It is a great dialectic (v. Empedocles). There is an energy-accumulating time ana an energy-losing time, but the sum is always the same at any given moment (cross section of both). * * * Life forms in the reverse strip of the loop bleed across to us, across a barrier into our universe (or section therefore), with ability to inspire us to prophecy because they know our future as their past. They can be of vast assistance to us...viewed by us as gods. In dreams, by telepathy. We could be rapidly approaching the "Time of Reversal." And this Time of Reversal could be the Parousia: when the graves open to issue up their dead...the Hobart Effect, you see. Time reversed. Entropic time turns into accumulative time. No wonder the Parousia are called the Time of Restoration of All Things. I myself already got into enough of that to know it is real. Also, this moment could arrive without warning; no wonder Paul spoke of it as being like the thief in the night. This backtracking, now, in finding the Kingdo or — in individual death, a disollution layer by layer? Like the Bardo Thödol; rewinding...geez. Again I have the "individual versus the collective" problem, as in the coming of the Kingdom. This reversal — maybe it sets in for each of us upon death. In 3 74, then, I penetrated the "mysteries of the grave," die noch keiner kam züruck. Whatever. I went over and then retracked back to here. A parabolic orbit into the beyond: a two way trip. Time, by its ubiquity, becomes a veil. To penetrate the veil is to penetrate time. In UBIK, the desire of Ubik to return is the desire of time to return. At the end of the novel, there is a Great Reversal, a turning insideout...so this is there, too, this element. I'm proud of what is in UBIK; this, too. The portraint incisin on the imam money is from the "other universe," by invisible ghosts: "We are served by organic ghosts," as is said in the novel; this is all there! -1- The Logos came into our world (as Christ), into the idios kosmos of Heraclitus, to draw us into his/her/its world, the koinos kosmos, or corpus christi. First move: the Logos created the koinos. Then men fell from it into idioi kosmoi. How does one restore them, get them back to the koinos kosmos (to wake up)? The Logos is born in the flesh here as The Way. (The path.) By a process of opening men's eyes, an intricate process which takes place through God's Grace (which means man can't achieve it; it must come to man as a gift). What came to me was St. Sophia, the Logos, Christ. Where it took me was into the koinos, or the Kingdom of God (which I think is also the Garden, and from where we originaly fell out of and down from and into drowsy slumber). As Bruce showed, this is all put forth in UBIK. My Nazi, porno, underground cartoon, homosexuals, etc. dream last night suggests that it is how one views reality which determines which reality (idios or koinos) one experiences. Would the koinos be a group mind, like the noosphere? Yes it would. This is what we would notice most in entering it: that's what "koinos," the word itself means: shared. Bead shared mind instead of shared physical world. And this is what I felt (the noosphere) I entered back in 3 74. In fact I felt the material world cease to be material but pellucid, a glimmering through. The material substantiality which we perceive is a symptom of the idios. But I cannot achieve entry into this but rather God or the Logos through His act of grace must lead me there. Hence the pylon doorway I saw at that time: the narrow way meaning Christ. And few men are saved; the work of salvation for mankind is far from complete. If by "salvation" is meant losing the idios and entering the koinos, where you cease to be the epicenter. This means that Christianity can be viewed in terms of Heraclitus' admonition to leave the idios and wake up to the koinos, the idea of the Logos as Redeemer itself acting to bring man/men in. The graphics 3 74: I, a station, was signalled to fire (act) in response to a stimulus (the Xerox letter). A station in a vast system or network. I was then aware of being linked or hooked in to a system or mind, and that I had been "disinhibited" ax as I called it then; actually I was as I now put it signalled, but I as a station in a network. So of course for a time (3 days) I saw the system itself of which I was one of many stations, and was aware of the "traffic" of signalling going on. The veil was lifted because I had been signalled to fire (act in a very specific and complex way; I was given information-rich signals, for complex activity. This revealed to me the War in progress, which is how I see it; my response was combative to the stimulus (letter). Mostly, this bears out the Zoroastrian Sons of Light vs the Sons of Darkness and their struggle. Prior to this, for several years, I had either been on hold, or was being moved into proper position in spacetime for this evidently important (to the overall picture) response. Naturally, this exposed for me temporarily the true nature of reality, compared to the merely manifest or evident, bringing me to Parmenides, the true being so radically different. I can't doubt the two-entities in their struggle. But it is veiled under convention struggles, probably cutting across all manifest lines. The dream in TEARS contains the ostensible command, "Die," but under the steganographic covering is the Logos-word "Felix," which means precisely the opposite; it is embedded secretly in the surface picture of damnation. Thus, those not equipped by the Holy Spirit receive a "die" message; the others, a "live and prosper and be fruit¬ ful and multiply and be joyous and healthy," message, which was God’s first command to man. This embedded Logos-word "Felix" absolutely identifies the white-haired old king on horseback as God. There is a exoteric message (die) and an esoteric (live); here, perhaps, the goats-sheep division mentioned by Jesus. This happens to be the entire issue at Judgment Day: death to the evil ones; life to the flock of Christ. Am I to presume that there in fact exists on Earth actual persons who, via the Holy Spirit, receive the "live" message coveredover in this section, and if this is so, there must be countless other written materials presented which carry to them a covered-over message, similar to this at least in method of presentation, that is, stegano¬ graphic material for them alone, quite possibly absolutely opposite to the exoteric material. Then there must be, logically, a remnant or minority of God here capable of so reading, because it is not reasonable for the Logos to put forth this covered-over esoteric message if no living man can perceive it (i.e. uncover it and blur out the surface "die" message which is directed at the others, the evil ones). I can reach no other conclusion, and this relates back to the girl with the golden fish necklace and my later sense of a small body of secret (sic!) Christians at work. Is there indeed an active secret authentic Christian underground? When I saw all this in TEARS I hadn't read the ICC literature telling about steganographia yet. I must never allow myself to wonder at the real meaning of the dream in TEARS per se, because the real meaning is not in the dream (although there is some kind of meaning to it; it refers to something actual) but in the embedded single Logos-word, "Felix." It points to the Biblical nature of the dream (i.e. from the Book of Daniel and of Revelation). I just read somewhere that all apocalyptic literature (of which only 2 books are retained in the Bible, of many) tell of Christ returning as a king on horseback with other horsemen, other Christian soldiers. I wrote an apocalyptic piece, with the essential covered-over message associated with apocalyptic writing. What is the message in toto? Just a repeat of the first command from God in Genesis? No, because this isn't God, this is Christ returned, the Second Coming. "Felix" versus "die" just points more clearly to the judgment, the separating of men into two groups, associated with, and essential to, the apocalypse. Well, if this be so, then if DEUS IRAE comes out next, which it may, the message is continued! It may have begun back in UBIK, then MAZE, FROLIX 8, TEARS and next DEUS IRAE. It is even possible that SCANNER carries some of it, for instance all that about St. Paul; seeing by reflection; why, the title itself, and how it is expressed in the final version, in the text itself! Even COUNTER-CLOCK WORLD could be included...a continual stream of messages, all to point out the approach of the Parousia, which evidently I see more and more clearly. And have seen, in book after book. - 2 - Now, take what Eric was saying about the American Founding Fathers and their belief that history exactly repeats itself, and their study of it, esp. of Greece and Rome. Suppose a great 2,000 year cycle has turned so that we are superimposed over the First Century A.D., as I saw (following this idea, Vico-like, about history). Again we are back there, but it is now, too. Rome One and Rome Two superimposed, as in a film montage; but also, the First Advent and the Second, with this time the Christians unseating the Prince of This World (the anti-Christ). So to speak, they, the Christians, learned from history not to repeat their mistake that lead to the cross. The Second Advent could not occur until the great cycle rolled round to a reprise of the First Century A.D., and that wasn't until