reward accruing from the work; I would have died + departed as a mere means, agent instrument for my writing + children, never truly having been free to choose a time for myself. talk about eman cipation! Even in the act (on me) of being liberated I construed what was happening as a further task, duty + mission, not as a reward (or salvation). I went on, then, to encumber myself even further, after that; I could not comprehend that I had been liberated + that my work was done. Now I could reap the rewards. Since then, my lessons have been ones of saying goodbye to obligations - to my career + family + friends - to duty as such. my legal responsibilities are meager + clearly defined. I am not required to take on any new ones in order to justify my existence; it's now a question of what I want to do, not what is imposed on me + what do I want to do? It has something to do with mexico. having The revelation about "them making lower-level responsion. whe which get overruled" is very important because it refuted a na fores' idea that noos initiated the universe + then turned if over to causal, mechanical processes, never to intervene again o a point which bothered Plato). Clearly, like Anaxagores I see noos as t designer of the world, but I see the world as noos or as a thought product of Noos, will noös still intervenity + overriding the low level mechanical forces he set in motion 48 Zeba's activity was just such an overruling of lower level decisions as Plato in "Timaeus" believed in + anana goras did not. But there are two realms, as both apprec lated: the lower level one is that of causal law, of mechani cal determinism (precisely as Anaxagoras saw nous setting into motion at the beginning). The higher - level over rule how frequent is that? Can I generalize from what I saw in 3-74 + say it often happers, or sometimes, or rarely or uniquely? I don't know, but, happily, the two realms are clearly distinguished + described by anaxagoras, which in turn makes clear for me what I saw get interfered with + by what Perhaps Zebra is a hologram-like projection (treating wen the world of inanimate, the somewhat animate - a cat - + the the - + animate - me - as a single continuum) onto our world actual source or substance of this projection is a thought process by the ubiquitous noos. It melted a section of a reality, including objects, cats, me. We were made into i plastic receiver by it + reshaped (by form - new form mental the imposition in my case another me was impressed in place of original me - a miracle - likewise on Pinky + on objects their causal processes, producing new outcomes. Newness + is the key word. I didn't just observe newness outside me I also experienced it inwardly The thrust of all this is that causal law normally operates, but there is someone to appeal to, + for what amounts to a revision of those "immutable" processes. Noos, merely by thinking change, executes change. He set the structure lif as artifact, + to him it is totally mutable (although to us it is immutable). So Zebra was the imposition of fw thought or will exerted upon physical reality + its revealing the absolute unsubstantiality of physical reality 99 not in relation to us but vis-a-vis God. As I have said before, to see (understand) the universe as unreal be s is to view it from God's standpoint - so we must isomorphic microforms of him, or else we could not to vew it that way, it is solely the perogative of God So view + so treat material reality. This fits the Gnostic conception of man as a divine spark which is anted + hence has forgotten its identity + origins. then, too, there is the very unlikely - but theoretically + I possible - possibility that I was Zebra: that briefly the "came to my sensed" (true supernatural self, under pressure of danger) + warped the physical reality around one: the St. Elmo's fire I call Zebra was projected by my mind which would identify me as an avatar suffering on a conscious level from total amnesia, but having all the circuits there, latent, programmed, lying in wait for what I knew was coming (the Xerox thing). In which case, in regard to those who I claim are secretly among myse I am unknowingly (or formerly unknowingly) one us, of them; + the total conscious amnesia was for my own pro lection, to keep me safe until the moment requiring me to act arrived. However, acting unknowingly, I was presenting the Ubik type messages in my novels + stories, messages depicting -reveal in- our true situation, + I think someone evil caught on. there are such messages in my writing (+ even adequate + precise descriptions of such messages + their purpose + origin) but perhaps I put them there, although not the meager conscious I which has forgotten its true identity, purpose, faculties + origin. I merely felt the impulse to write, like a spider feeling the impulse to build a web. what this amouts to is declaring that I am an agent for some supernatural entity with enormous power + absolute knowledge, which intervened + permanently delected human history at the top level. Am I saying anything new here that I have not said before? I think so. I am saying that all my life from the very start, I have been nothing but an 52 agent, a slumbering agent, working away at its initi + long-term task of presenting the "true story" messages, + meanwhile waiting for that crucial day to come: 3/20/74. at which time, for the first time, I would "fire" + regain my actual form. After which I could fall back into mere human form, wind up the unfinished novels ("Scanner" + "Deus Irae") + reture, my work done. to bolster this argument, I point to the fact that during The crucial year (3-74 to 2-75) as twice before, the Sibyl came on the air + gave me ameral instructions - for which I was + am very gratefuls ie that means they have agents here in human form as myself: perhaps, like one, unknown even to themselves up until the moment for action arrives. But meanwhile, these agents are unknowingly being directed - guided into certain long - + short-term actions on behalf of their design. If it ain't God, then only one other possibility remains: we have been invaded, wind Ich bin einer davon. Positions of power have fallen one by one, to a very intricate + stealthy attack. It emanates from a long way off: another star system ("Albemuth"). They aren't here physically; what they've done is project some kind of instantalous beam here, information-rich I, what is more, imposing their or one of their - personalities off [selected members of us. its likely that the soviets (+ maybe our government ) knows this I think the beam (teaching + engramming) hit me all the way back to when I was 4 years old. Have I ever really faced the possibility that I was under the control of ETIs in 3-74, rather than under soviet psychotronic control? + by ETIs I mean the 3-eyed Reople. Look what I am saying: extraterrestrials took over my mind, imprinted another personality onto mone, rescued one + my son, + then, upon departing. Their intervention in our history successful, they deposited a micro computer or some such thing permanently in me, by which at any time they can contact + even control me? 2 They may even have deliberately given me the erroneous impression that it was the soviets - to keep me from Go crazy, + to keep me from telling the truth, inasmuch a is didn't know the truth... But have had to spend o years figuring it out. I really don't know (i.e. remember) if I ever understood this before, or, if I did intellectually, if I grasped its significance. To have one's head invades by an ETI which upon taking over became me, replaced me good Lord! Maybe its because I'm so grateful that I can't get freaked + scared. But I was plenty scared at the time. In summation: I either am an ETI, or I was taken over + directed (e.g. in my writing) by an I t I all the way back to my first years. Hence the raft headed for London" dream. ➀ But the superimposed mind "Thomas" never presented n pro-soviet stance; he was violently anti-soviet from the start in fact he abominate the soviets + acted to shake off their influence over one, so there was no deception, here. Thomas thwarter a Soviet psychotronic takeover of me, +, in doing so, discloses his ultra human, or ETI, nature, which previously had been concealit even from me - but whose secret presence in me explains the message (s) of/in my writing. (+ remember: he helped me tes the way back in physics' class in high school). whoever they are, I am one of them. Did the authorities haps suspect this, from my writing? They suspected something, per even be "Ubik." As did the soviets, which would account for the soviet psychotronic surge directed at me. Ho - it was Christ. I shared in his death + humiliation, + so I shared in his resurrection: Empedocles specifically calls his dialectic attra #18 force love by the name aphrodite ts I . 1 Here's a thought. Premise: Christ, when he returns as King, will either 1) abolish this world; 2) radically transform it; 3) replace it with another, different world. Well, if this is to be done, is it not useful in the advance-service of this metamorphosis to: 1) Demonstrate the fake - or mere hologramatic- nature of this world - which I do continually in my writing 2) Disclose that another, different world lies within, below or behind it, somehow connected with Christ. I have written all this, +, in 2-74/3-74 I saw this fake world ebb away, + another world, connected with the 1st advent, momentarily appear. Summation: is not all this clearly anticipating of St. Sophia's return? So my writing (ratified by my 2-74/3-74 experience) has enormous theological-eschatological meaning, esp. it is prophetic (of the end times.) + it is not as if I were saying, "reality is not real"; I am saying that this world --what we see-- is not reality. Thus, although I do not morally indict the world, I intellectually reject it - which undoubtedly paves the way for a more + more thorough repudiation of it, + a release from its hold (+ the emergence of other, truly real worlds - such as the Palm Tree Garden). I saw hell (BIP) + heaven (PTG). Both are real - maybe we will wind up in one of them or the other. Back to the McKenna 2-Source theory. Under (behind?) our illusory projected admixture world lie the 2 real sources: heaven + hell. Our world is a projected mixture of both. St Augustine said that at the end times the 2 worlds would pull apart +, instead of the mixture, we would see each world separate + clearly. Is that what I experienced from 2-74 to 2-75? But the prerequisite of this is to hammer away at the [theme?] of dismissal of the empirical world as irreal. [but?] the 2 hyper components are real. My writing, then, paves the way to perception of the end-time changes prophecied. Then the set-ground discrimination I experienced in 3-74 was an ability to discriminate Form I (the PTG) as Set, vs. Form II (the BIP) as Ground. That's why I experienced a heightened sense of depth [&] a totally