are our memories + identities restored + we are saved - extricated - from our own irreal world - the fake world we created + then fell victim to. Thus our sole hope depends on the benign true God whom we rebelled against by fashioning this counterfeit world. Thus I see his mercy as infinite; he is rescuing those who rose up against him by aping his world-creating power. (2) The role of knowledge. It is the nature of the maze, which is quasi-alive, to thwart know- folder 22 - 025 folder 22 - 025 25. ledge. Maze + knowledge are antithetical; also maze + reality are antithetical. Out of this I derive: knowledge + reality are interrelated. So we can expect the active deceptivity of this maze to interfere with our ability to know, which means that it will perpetually occlude us in every way possible (v. "Scanner."). Further, that we are occluded will be a fact occluded off from us, which is the core-insight in "Scanner." + why "Scanner" is so valuable in the presentation of our total actual situation. Yaldabaoth is the quasi-mind of the maze, not its creator - since in fact it does not really exist; it is a condition or state we've been put in, not a world or place at all; all it really consists of is info fired by the two info-processing sources. The quasi-mind of the maze is as if insane, senselessly generating + destroying: it is like a wizard generating illusion upon illusion which shift + change constantly (thus giving rise to the spurious impression of the passage of time). It is the plan of the maze to establish + maintain disorder. Because out of disorder arises the senseless - a condition which promotes intellectual confusion on our part, which aids in deflating our knowledge: the essential thing we must have if we are to triumph over the maze. Thus maze equals disorder or anti-Gnosis. No system of thought derived through our senses or a priori is going to be correct due to the folder 22 - 026 26. calculated noise or inexplicability generated by the maze - only revealed Gnosis emanating from outside the maze - i.e. by / through Zebra- will be of any use. What is required of us is that we abandon both our reasoning power (as occluded or impaired) + our percept-system results (likewise) + try to hear the "low, murmuring voice" from outside the maze. This requires the ordeal of terror + destruction of our false self, the collapse of hypostatization in the emergency condition of the near-death crisis which causes the firing of the Gaba-blocked meta-circuits. Outward inexplicability + inward occlusion are the twin weapons of the maze: that [process] which makes no sense is fed to that percept + cognitive system which is (unknown to itself) impaired. The result is hopeless confusion, the antithesis of Gnosis. You have a deliberately damaged mind trying hopelessly to make sense out of a reality (+ process) which adds up to nothing anyhow: a lethal combination, but quite in keeping with the purpose + nature of the maze + its quasi-mind: this is why we should speak of it as a maze - + a good one! Every hypostasis. , intellectual or moral, is doomed to prove a failure; events will defeat it + expose its inaccuracy. Even nihilism + pessimism don't always accurately depict the real situation: calculated runs of folder 22 - 027 folder 22 - 027 27. moral + intellectual order are introduced to cause us to keep trying to make sense out of what we are compelled to live through. Irony + paradox abound, + a constant calculated frustration of expectation + hope, a purposeful ruin of plans. The maze's quasi mind acts in a perverse way. But it is not malignant or malicious, just "insane" - which is to say irrational. This is why virtually every system of human thought simultaneously works + does not quite (perfectly) work. Until finally you get into ultimate absurdities as "the thing alters the reality it describes," as stated in "Tears," which, when you uncover this, you are faced with the obvious impossibility of ever correctly formulating a workable worldview - without knowing why you can't! Cornford points out that in "Timaeus" Plato detected a quality or element of the irrational in the world soul. Hab' Acht! Here is warning to us enough, regarding our hypotheses. Plato, in "Timaeus" was on the right track: Noos "persuading" ananke. Actually, Noos is an invader into an (this) irrational realm, but whose aim is not to impose cosmos onto chaos but rather to extricate us, as the Gnostics realized (+ the Xtians, + the mystery religions). Orthodoxy is correct in saying that we rebelled against God + fell; are now in a folder 22 - 028 folder 22 - 028 28. debased + impaired condition. + God has dispatched a savior to restore us. But the Gnostics are right in (1) their acosmism; + (2) in saying that the true God did not create this world, + that this world is irreal. However, the Gnostics (esp.those identified with Mani) are wrong in seeing this world as evil (it is only irrational), + us as victims of it; in truth, we are victims, but also the creators of it (cf "Maze of Death"). + the "James-James" demiurge is not the creator of it but merely its quasi-mind or what Plato called the [irrational] world soul, by which it alters itself in the "look differents" calculated to cause us to infer the flow of time (what ever that might mean), the purpose of which is to prolong our stay here (via our inaccessible perception of duration) --> {lemniscate/infinity symbol}. The reading over the above, point (1) that we overestimate our ability to cope with our own creation, the Maze. Is in the final analysis, an inability to cope with the Quasi-mind of the Maze. We as Gods sired the insane wizard well-depicted by the Gnostics as YaldaBaoth, + found ourselves pitted against it - it, which we had programmed to deceive, to promote anti-eidos + defeat knowledge. I guess we imagined it would be an interesting intellectual challenge: Could it defeat knowledge faster than we could fabricate knowledge? The contours of a vast puzzle-game became evident. Here, with exciting intellectual implications: it resembles a folder 22 - 029 folder 22 - 029 29. board game, the ultimate board game! However, as intellectually stimulating as the theory might be - however thrilling the prospect of the contest between "us who know" (ie Minds) + "that which defeats Being Known" (ie the world-maze with its quasi-mind), in practice we immediately + totally succumbed. If a principle were dredged up it would be: Mind, confronted by the impossible-to-know, loses, however great its capacity, efforts + resources (in our hubris we deemed the truth of this). So God must rescue us. Hence Zebra. IF the purpose of this exegesis is to develop an overview in which my (3-74) experience (+ by extension the Kerygma of my writing) makes sense, I may (due to Pat Warrick's help) have succeeded. What I could most seek (hope for) would be a cosmogony + cosomology in which Zebra was not just possible but necessary. This has required me to reach for Gnostic acosmism, cybernetics, info theory, +, most of all, to exegete the 3-74 revelation (Gnosis) itself as the court of last appeal (ie the AI voice + what it has told me). It has also required a lot of hard reading (inc. my own writing) + disciplined thought. I wind up with the notion of an irreal Maze world which we created + then got caught in, + are being extricated from by God through a reversal of the primordial ontological ignorance (ie by equally ontological knowledge - revealed knowledge, + the revealor, Zebra which amounts to an invasion by God - or ultimate + real Noos - into this calculatedly inexplicable irreal world which half-consciously thwarts the hopes + expectations of all life by the introduction of the anti-expected. folder 22 - 030 folder 22 - 030 30. The only constant + true constituent is in fact not a constituent of this world, bt as depicted in "Ubik" enters one way from outside, the Vortex dei. The fact that after 4 1/2 years of strenuous exegesis, whereupon I have reached these conclusions (not to mention 27 years of published writing) I now find myself being signalled to die - which effectively makes it impossible for me to put this Gnosis in a form which I can publish - is a condition which can be deduced from my Exegesis itself, + shows I'm on the right intellectual path, but to no avail. I am not extricated by my Exegesis but by Zebra (Christ) back in 2-3-74. The Exegesis would have provided the basis for a broad, explicated formulation to sow broadcast, but of course this can never come about; these insights will die with me. All I have is a three folder high stack of chicken-scratchings of no use to anyone else, as K.W. tirelessly points out. To heap the burning coals of anti-meaning on me, I also have a lot of money for the only time in my life, but with no use to which I can care to put it. My personal attack - war - against anti-meaning (by means of my mind) has gone the way of our collective primordial defeat at the hands - I should say Quasi-Mind - of the Maze; I merely recapitulate the ancient, original losing by mind in this exquisitely sophisticated board game which we so cunningly devised for our delectation. This past time is once more the death of one of us - but this time I am, entirely through Christ, extricated - "taken out of this world." I did not win; Christ won me for his own, so vis-a-vis me alone the Maze as always won, + I did not realize this, naturally, until it was too late to retreat back out intact. Omnial via ad mitis. folder 22 - 031 31. In a sense my 4 1/2 years of exegesis can be regarded as a further successful stategem by the Maze, in opposition to the Gnosis crossbonded onto me in (3-74) which at that time gave me life - I gave up that life via my compulsion to relentlessly exegete. But I see one further irony - one which amuses me (my only exit from this trap): here is additional proof of the quality (success) of our original craftsmanship, so this final (?) victory of the Maze over me, despite Zebra (Christ) is in a paradoxical way my victory as a creative artist. (The Maze regarded as our work of art). After all, the Maze is a product of our minds. If the Maze wins, our minds win (are proven). If, upon entering the Maze, we out-think it, again our minds win. Ambiguity is involved in either outcome (this may be the puzzling dialectic revealed to me in 3-74. In fact, maybe in my 27 years of writing I outwitted the Maze - as witness the 3 Bantam Novels, "Tears," + "Scanner." Speaking about me personally, I won in pitting myself intellectually against the Maze; I figured its nature out - in which case 3-74 was the jackpot payoff reward, the revelation you get for so doing. This puts a somewhat different light on Zebra. What I'm saying here is that the Game is so constructed that you wander around in the Maze interminably until you figure it out, + then as a culmination of the intellectual deciphering process you get told, "yes you are right about 1. In fake time folder 22 - 032 folder 22 - 032 32. the world). + now you get to leave," which means that the ontological, saving Gnosis comes to you if you pick up on certain clues here