fell a lot of anxiety writing this down, because I am really saying this is true - the establishment churches are [covertly] the church of simon Magus, + Xtianity is totally secret - in our world: ➀ Maybe it's not illegal, just hidden, + the N.T. is non-existent, now; the letters + gospels either never got writter or were destroyed or lost - with maybe the exception of the 4th Gospel; + Paull remained soul + didn't experience his conversion + continued to persecute the Xtians - with apparen success. + joined Simon, became a simonite Simonians 2 folder 22 - 092 folder 22 - 092 82 + Jesus in historically - theologically known as "the pretender" or "impostor"! but the Xtians in "Valis" hold to the theology + views of my tractate, tracing their religion back through Elijah to Moses to Ikhnaton to the dogon to The 3-eyed invaders from Sirius. It is known as a black African religion! Simon, ala klingsor, has cast a spell on the world; his wizardry remains (does he in secret?) Yes - the Xtians teach (re the tractate) that a long spurious- time interpolation was stuck in, specifically by simon. If all this is so, it is very scary They wouldn't be called "Christians"; they'd be called Jesusists or Jesusites. + the simonists of simonites would be called Christians - worshippers of Simon Christ e that article in "worlds of tommow" on the use of dual split brain personalities for espeonage worl if applied to my 2-3-74 experience vis-a-vis the Xerox missive, would disclose that my right hemisphere contains a us agent which overruled the "Soviet agent" of the left, upon the 2-74 disinhibiting signal beer, dog-he, cats she, country + Christ - a right brain very straight pro-us personality, surfacing in place of the customary lift one which apparently was a sovel agent; groomed by the party. The us authorities mistakenten believed the Roogna letter was KGB + so they followe it with their own fake, to which my right hemisphere dutifully replied, + thereupon debriefed - but it was all for nothing; the Roogna letter was innow? They (the us) misunderstood my reason for going to poland; they thought I was being called home, in a ary the us overrode a nonexistent soviet agent! folder 22 - 093 folder 22 - 093 88 they (the us) must have thought "Tears" had soviet code in it, maybe it did (received telepathically king Felit). But their Goddam Xerox forgery was a waste of time the right brain "us" personality was (as i I told sergeant Kelly) convinced that the left brain one was a soviet agent - I think incorrectly. but still - there is the amnesia 8 + "Scanner" which deals with dual brain, split brain. 2 personalizes, human, was conceived + written before 2-3-74! As a split brain studys the right brain super Patriot "Thomas" ratting on the left "phil" whost regards as a sovilt agent is right out of "Scanner" - i.e. "Bob" + "Fead" or vice versa - free + Bob freed Thomas. Bob =phos I am convinced that these two personalities mutually exclusive, built up naturally in me over the decades, as with Bob + Frede maybe going back to my acts accident in '64 Each of my brains got a totally different + mutually exclusive impression of the Xerox thom why? The right brain knew it had to go to the Burear the left brain thought it was CP (KGB); so Then what did the right brain think it was! Well, maybe it knew it for what it was: a forgery, using the following reasoning (of a synthetic type): if the Xerox missive contained the subliminal message "Olive Holt" it was a forgery appealing subliminally: by suggestion. But clive Holt is dead. It could not literally be from here. the presence of the words was supposed to pass below my conscious perception + incite the conviction that the Xerox missive was CP. If it was really CP (KGB it would not have needed to do this nor would it have done this; it would have done anything but this folder 22 - 094 folder 22 - 094 90 This is hard to explain. Perhaps it is a form of overkill. If "Olive Holt" was hidden in a CP document, then what does "hidden" mean, since Olive Holt is CP? You don't hide CP in CP It's an oxymoron: the disguised crypto content "hidden" in something cut of the same piece. This didn't bother my left brain which saw it as a homogeneity, but my right brain caught it at once. It deduced that "Olive Holt" was there to fraudulently reinforce subliminally the CP impres sion. If it had to be fraudulently reinforced the It was ipso facto in toto a fake. I.e. desire of the fabricators of the missive was to give CP impression. Why? what my right brain did was lift the sub liminal material to conscious level. (That follows Friday when it printed it out projected on the far wall This was never intended by the fabricators. This was the last thing they wanted; I would become aware that I was being unscrupulously manipulated t into viewing the document as CP; ergo it was in fact not CP. This fits the analysis of the two test documents in "Faith of..." The heretical one is given deliberately a superabundence of party vargon, to trap him into choosing it as the orthodox one. my right brain discerned this very superabundence of party material in the Xerox missive. There was too much + it was unnecessary. It invalidated itself. my right brain deduced that the desire was to t give a CP impression + this made it suspicious. It was like a big sign reading: this is a ce document. If it was, why the announcement esp one wouldn't consciously be aware of, one which would work on me subliminally? in t a he 1) folder 22 - 095 folder 22 - 095 9 other words I was being made to think it was (P., against my will, reasoning, + conscious ness. i.e. "the fabricators of this want to compel me to think it is CP" very likely my right brain suspected a trap before the Xerox missive even arrived; it saw the Roogna letter + thought "this will cause trouble - + not from the USSR. It's like a carcass; it will draw buzzards." It reacted the same way to antibi's "Film" letter. It saw what it feared was an "addressat unbekannt" situation forming, initiated by the soviets because of my fed with lem. When the Roogna letter came, my brain feared this, but it was wrong; the Roogna letter was totally harmless. However, it did draw a follow ing letter. By definition, had the Roogna letter been a soviet "addressat unbekannt," a us, following letter would have arrived soon thereafter - not a Soviet one. ➀ So on 3 bases I can suspect the Xerox missive of being a us forgery: 1) The Roogna letter was innocent. So a KGB letter would not have followed it 2) There was subliminal material in the Xerox missive designed to make me convinced it was CP. If it really was, why this? 3) The AI voice recently said it was a forgery +: 4) months ago I logically figured out that it had to be a forgery; this took a long sequence of rigorous logic, but that was the result: forgery. I think my right brain knew that if a letter arrived that weanesday (3-20-74) it'd be a forgery, + It knew one would arrive. The us, couldn't let the Rooing letter go by without tying a rider to it 11) The soviets couldn't have coordinated the Xerox i missive in time - sequence with the Roogna one a The Roogna one was innocent, but the us. Could folder 22 - 096 92 but the real disclosure as to the Grimness of this "sherlock holmes + morierity + the train" situation lies in my very recent realization that the most unwise move on my part possible would be to send it to the Bureau in such a way as to indicate that I knew (or suspected) it to be a us forgery of a KGB recruiting probe, because this might indicate I knew what the real thing would Look like in contrast (v. supra.) best move: I contact the Bureau at once + refer to The missive as KGB, next best move: do nothing, (not too bad a move.) 3 oo is burn it. (a bad move.) as tis answer it. (a very bad moves) worst move: tardily contact the Bureau, presumably after I had time to discern it was a forgery (A move so bad as to be lethal to me in what it would imply.) (or seem to imply.) So (1) the best move, & (5), the worst move, are sort of Y-y the Act is the same; only the timing of the Act differs. What is so clever about the trap is that there would be no way to arrive at (1) by reasoning since the time consumed in the reasoning would convers it into (3) + force it (i.e. (1) to be replaced by (2) not (3). So (2) would be an ambiguous response at best; hence not good enough. (3) is incriminating. (4) is absolutely incriminating (5) is automatic death. So in a sense, (3) can be ruled out; I would not do it unless I was really stupid far too stupid to be a soviet agent. Which returns us to (1). this is indeed the "Holmes + moriaraty + the train" heads-tails puzzle. The solution to the puzzle is (1); that is the only solution, but - it cannot by its very nature be arrived at by using logic. So how can it be arrived at? By total innocence + patriotism that causes an instinctive response. to be all of that I had to literally become i don beer, God + country" person prior to its arrival, folder 22 - 097 folder 22 - 097 95 a totally non-left straight american who at would be horrified + frightened + indignant any (p-type missive he received in the mail. If the thing blended, even temporarily with what I was accustomed to receiving - ah! A)D) It had to not blends as being too CP. B) But not seem a forgery of A CP docu ment. So I couldn't know CP documents. If I knew CP documents too well, I'd know It was a forgery. It had to be different from what I usually received (A), but not different in the sense of (B). So I had to know + to not know what CP documents looked like, simultaneously. 2 How was I to give an unambiguous response ➀ "It is too CP (A) but I don't know what CP documents look like (B). If I know what I they look like, then I have seen them. Okay, have never seen any. Then how can I claim (A) I have to claim knowledge (A) + lack of know ledge (B). Okay, it is a perfect trap; there is no way out, like when gromekyo was handed the Gulag map in public at the uin. What I had to do was D) link it with the Roogna letter, + then (2) later on prove the Roogna letter innocent; whereas at the time 3) I didn't know if it was innocent, + 4) couldn't prove it anyhow, I had to spot the Xerox missive as a ringer but the right kind of ringer! as too CP rather than not CP. Again, time was the crucial factor someone ignorant of CP documents would instantly react - no - he wouldn't! How would he know folder 22 - 098 folder 22 - 098 Qu It was (P at all? "The daily world" - how would he know that's a