my Metz speech + interview) that I not only encountered "them." but that they were secretly, in conjunction with an underground human group of vast antiquity, overthrowing governments? It is sake for me to know this now, because the very authorities who would nail me for knowing this - + participating in it joyfully - are precisely what got overthrown, + now hold no power (at least here). It's interesting, in the Metz speech etc., what I don't say. no mention of "Tanya Lee" + the Golden Fish sign - just mention of the pentathol. be they God, or Gods, or ETI, from another planet, parallel universe, the future, the past, etc - their ability to modulate (read manipulate or control or change) reality externally, + to direct us - these are awe-inspiring, even frightening. But one is aware that one is far safer with them + because of them than without them. They are not only benign + wise but also terribly protective. I think of John + what Jesus said about the 2nd Advocate comforter. Yet, one senses one's relative smallness + helplessness; one can't help comparing what he can do with what VALIS can do, what he knows compared to what VALIS knows. Timeo sed credo. I saw, in 3-74 how the great purposeful force (entity) of the universe works backward (teleologically). long-range patterns emerge. A little 4 year old boy hears a vast cowboy song + then 45 years later hears it again - sung by his favorite singer. The retrograde pull is there. It can be said that when he was i he was inordinately drawn to it because of her singing it 45 years later. It can be said correctly that when her first record came out in the sixties he was inordinately drawn to her because 6 years later she would sing that song. There can be no real understanding of the universe when only the efficient causes are studied - they lack the conscious deliberate purpose of final causes. no sense can be made of cause-+-effect linear time events, the past does not make the future; the future uses the antecedent universe as a chaotic stockpile which it assembles into a structure (cosmos). To understand, we must discern the negentropic developments - but to do this we would have to be able to "Remember" the future with the same clarity that we remember the past, + this we can't do. this, then, is where faith must come in. in every event we must, by faith, presume a benign purpose, which, Could we see all which is to come, would delight us. we would be especially delighted to see how intrinsic ally evil events become used as building blocks for noble structures - + are, in fact, essential for the ultimate construction of those fine systems. Nothing is wasted, nothing is futile, nothing is lost. Everything is eventually, when its time has come, is snatched up + incorporated. I actually witnessed + understood this in 3-74. Again I say, we are seeing the universe (in linear time) backward true (i.e. purposeful, teleological) cause comes after ts effect. For example, the true significance of what I am doing now - my whole life situation - cannot be under stood at all in terms of itself, or in its relationship to the past, but only as a stage for something ahead. 6 Harvey's fall had a purpose which soon became evident: it made it impossible - not just difficultfor me to continue to see Joan. His fall + faithful waiting probably changed the course of my life + for the better. It combined with other events to absolute prohibit any more trips north. Remembering what I saw in 3-74 I can see God's handiwork -his typical method-in this. Intrinsically, the cat's fall was tragic - until the consequences are perceived. + these consequences (results) are in them. selves, only stages (means) to greater, further consequences; + so the cosmos builds before our very eyes. Suddenly I just realized a profound implication of the above. We - each, all of us -- must be preprogrammed to play out specific roles (Acts + actions) most or all of our lives; we are not autonomous. but programmed into a complex matrix structure. The future is just as rigidly frozen (fixed) as the past. Under normal circumstances we are totally reified - like a pile of bricks (without any awareness of this rigid determinism - except in dejavu). However, our role (response, action) can be overridden, cancelled, nullified - but then another sequence of actions, just as commanding, just as binding, would replace it we'd be (on‐ not free will but a better "instinct." + scious of this override reprogramming: we'd be aware of its totally controlling nature. + we'd be aware of the cancelled programming- we'd know about both - the new one + the discarded, nullified one. + so we'd see the real situation we're in. This is what happened to me on 3-74; not only was my programming (script) obliterated + a better one inserted in its place (which saved my life) but I got to see all reality as it really is. 6 I'll go out on a limb + say, "normally, throughout human history. God does not do this. My reprogramd mmin, which allowed me to see how reality really works. is proof (virtually) that indeed God broke through into our space-time world. (i.e. the apocalypse) such a reprogramming is difinitive indication that the long‐ awaited freeing of man by God has come! (i.e. rescue as promised) the reprogramming for me was indisolun ably linked to a vast historical reprogramming It was all one event. What I'm saying is that the reprogramming could not have come for me, had there not been a (the) overall general historic intervention. It is evident that the historical changes which affected me directly are infinitel greater than Ill ever know: such clues as the sense of having just been at a high moist place, the car air vent, calling the dog"he" + the cat "she," beer instead of wine - all this + more absolutely + unmistakably point to very major world-readgustment, with commenserate new (not false but new) memories filling in. The historical changes were vast, + affected mepersonally far beyond anything I'll ever retrieve or deduce. I'll bet that before the historic intervention id never lived in Orange county - I had never before Then been Phil dick, but had been someone else somewhere else. The key clue was the Xerox missive + the necessity that the real PKD not handle it. No-Wait - I've got it. I didn't change; the world changed. + in the beer-dogecat codl moust high altitude + car air vert - those were subcortical reflexes left over from the world which had just been there + was abolished So all those "new" traits were really old traits; what was new was the Orange county hot low dry world. our entire world was redesigned - not me inside but it outside. + I had new false memories of The hot low dry orange county "already having been there." But it hadn't. So my Metz speech is correct. We all had just up to then been in the Black iron Prison world, + then intervention must have come in the past prior to 3-74. 3-74 was the pay off. Our past was attered It can, working retroactively, program any response to any stimulus for anyone + everyone. But to overrule its own programming - since everything is inter invclved a web with everything else, to overrule for ewen one person is to tamper de facto with the whole web - is to affect the entire structure of history (which in fact it stipulated it was involved with) I seem to be saying, "the world we now remem‐ ber wasn't changed." It is the replacemeet world which was not always there. The Black Iron Priso world was originally there; it was changed to the "orange county world" with new (in a sense false) appropriate memories. to match. So had I not had anamnesis - recovery of real -sic-memories, I wouldn't haveknown anything the happened. With the return of the real -sic-memories there also returned my real-sic-personality, a "meat + potatoes" man able to handle the Xerox missive, which is why they showed me the Golden Fish sign to restore my real-sic- memories - to deal with the Xerox missive; In otherwards I have or have had 2 set of memories +2 personalities 68 They evidently substituted a milder weaker tyranny which we could overthrow. But the real tyranny (as in"Tears") was overthrown there, ie track A., which was replaced by track B - it was track A I remembered, or rather was caused to remember so as to protect myself from the Xerox letter The personality "Thomas reappeared when memories of The abolished track A re-entered consciousness. Thomas was accustomed to a world much different from the Grange county track B world; he was at a loss as to what was what + where; he had to fake it + adapt to what to him was a new, strange, unfamiliar environment. How‐ ever, inasmuch as he was without his own memories he was a kind of stranger, invader or "Astronaut" in track B, with The need to catch on as soon as possible - he had to "pass" (cf "Human is"). His own world had been a i1 much worse place, so he was much more formidable than me But it was my track B memories with which he was suddenly stuck. It is not that memory + personality were incompletely wiped out - they had been completely wiped out. But were Then deliberately restored by means of the fish sign: brought back to serve a purpose. let us suppose that not everything in track b differed from track A, only some things. The Xerox missive could have existed in both tracks, unchanged. But I was changed from Thomas to PKD. However, PKD did not have the experience, knowledge, ability or personality to success‐ fully deal with the Xerox missive. So just before if arrived, Thomas from the tougher track A was resurrected. Thomas seemed to know all about the party + how it worked. The Xerox missive was intended for him, 69 Ixerox missive schematized as follows: Thomas s track A its thailo This means that I started out in life on track A as Thomas who was involved with the party. Then there was a reweaving, not just on/for me but in terms of human history (this was before 1974). Because of these pre-7y changes the tyranny was successible to successful overthrow (in contrast to track A, the purpose a laying down track B at point X in time was not to help me or any other single given person, but to depose + destroy the "cont" t Spirators." Well, this broad historic purpose was achieved, but there were loose ends. My error has been to regard the tracks as totally different each from the others. Okay, I was a portion of the changed part when the tinkering took place at point X I obtained new memories + a different history + hence different personality. But the situation "at the other end," which is to say, the section out of which the Xerox Missive emanated wasn't changed. The missive was sent. The track B PKD couldn't have handled it - wouldn't have known 1) wWhat it was (signified) or 2) what to do with it. Such fuckups must abound when part of a world is changed with other parts left unchanged; you get spooky "doesn't compute" (apply any longer) phenomena. So, I'm saying, Thomas had to be brought back (at least temporarily) or there'd This weird loose-end Xerox object. be what I got to see was: the ghostly outlines of the iron prison world of track A, + the Logos weaver -