Jim Pike, man, Phil Dick. Simal herself. All is segful B. Jim's doubts after visiting John Allegis, about Xtianity. Jim + phil in discussions Has "reme the fi Jim Jus succide. es character) doesn't belave it. Does that dren's sureide (because Jim so sant in can't D. with her + she feels guill over his suicides effect on Jim. Effect on Phil - corresive. She (ve) learns of Jim's death in israll E. she looks up Phil. This is 1970. (to 1972.) Phil believes Jim has come back to him. a f Does she believe this? Is Phil crazy? analysis" A. original joyful state. B. First doubts (by Jim, as to truth of Xtianity). C. Worsening. (Jim ur's succide.) effect on Jim's sanity, maren's sanity, Phil's sanity D. Increase in worsening (maren's suicode). Effect on Jim's sanity: leads to his death just as Jim so! corrosive effect on suicide led to maren's death. Phil who now has no link to sim further increase in worsening (Jim's death). E. f ultimate atome of am as succide which led to maien't sureide to dro's sanity exposes, to Jim's death, to Phit's insanity (he believes Jim has come back to him. Or is there any chance that the is is true. t She foresee's Phil's suicide attempt to come as inevitable o perhaps when he goes to Canad B2 Jim's suicide Maren's succide Jim's "soicide" (death in desent due to rashness) Jim P's madness Jim tr's succided Maren's madness. t Jim's madness then believe Jim + has returned to ther maren's suicides guilt Jim's death. (suicide? Madness? Guilt? Phil's madness. hat returned to him No! she finds him (1970/72) insane from loss + grief + drugs, but he doesn't yet believe Jim has returned to him. She projects his suicide in Canada (she is now Kathy). His abortive suicide attempt in Canada (she fails to 70 with him; he is she loses touch with him when he too old for her) goes into 2-Kalay. Then she learns he has returned to California, to fullerton. She drives down. She foresees second suicide attempt (Mid-1972). While She is with him he has his 2-3-74 experience, believes Jim has returned to him. She sees this as his solution to his problems; it is contra-suicide! But this does not address the real (2) issue of whether Jim has indeed come back from the other side t phit. the reconstituted (retrieved) personality of This is the Jim Pike rises "out of the ashes", real issue. Not Phil's salvation but the reconstitution (resurrection) itself (as proof i of the truth of Xtianity, which, you will remember, was item B, the first doubt, the beginning of The Fall. The topic of this book, then, is faith vs doubt. Jim had the first doubt (allied to Jim. doubt of himself that led to his succide). B-3 then the topic is (perhaps the value (rote, truth) of Xtianity, which is defined in the question, "is Jesus dead, forever dead, or is he [somehow but in a real sense] alive now as the Christ? because if he is dead, all (Jim jus maren, Jim, + ultimately Phil, +, by extension, herself + all humans) are t i t dead, will go mad + pass out of the universe forever; but if he [was resurrected +] is alive [now somehow] as Thus to all are alive + will stay so. say that "Phil's sanity + life are same because he believes Jim has returned to him" is the little question, but to say that "Jim has returned to him actually" is to say that Jesus returnoul as the resurrected Christ, in which case the original doubt (fall) is repaired (Fall, doubt, madness + death being equated), but restoration, faith, sanity + life are equated. Yet she must know the 3 truth: has Jim (Christ) really returned (This is epistemology: what is true + deas one + can that it is them + the enterate same turn a sen is the lade) is in fact the miracle of Christ's return (resurrection in enthusiasmos, in those who knew him, as the Holy Spirit). Eaith will not decide it (Phil has faith) she needs knowledge Ecf Descartes: what can we be sure -4 b+ how do we know it - i.e the know basic issue of all modern philosophy solved by Descartes in/as his famous "cogito ergo sum"). to know (about Christ's return) she herself would have to be taken over in her own mind in enthusiasmos. The "I" of "+ think" would have itself to be Christ. This would be the sole anted of he in sorrinal, as in fact the sole guaranted of anything outsiate her "Descartes has not proved (that creation, the i external world, exists"). What, then, is ultimately the epistemological issue is (in Martin Buber the not-I, the other sense, + this is creation as well as God It is everything that can be real beyond t + above the Cartesian "cogito ergo sum in which case all epistemology - all proof of reality beyond the "cogito" - rests on + is indubitably verified by Xtian thusiasmos + it alone. If Christ did not return - if he is not only the trapped isolated self of the "cogito" can be proven, which is the state of absolute schizophrenic actism - withdrawal from world. There can be no sanity unlest Shrist rose + returned to the elevere as The Holy Spirit. She sees this as the ultimate issue. + its existential proof is whether phit will follow Jim is, enly time barin + Jim into succide will fell, all she can do is wast turn to he s B-5 So knowing (epistemology) resolves itself into waiting, which is a kind of faith: in fact the initial faith of item a that came before the first doubt I she can avoid the doubt she can survive in a state of not yet knowing open to the possibility of faith becoming knowing, a true knowing, at any time, unexpectedly, without warning, coming "like thuse in the night." But how long it will take or if it will ever come, she does not + cannot know. she cannot know if she will knows Phil knows but his knowledge cannot be transmitted to her. It lies outside her as part of the "external world that he - descartes - has not yet proven." in terms of my own decades at epis temological doubt + inquiry I realize (upon having read Descartes) that I can know that something exists beyons the "cogito ergo sum" of the "I" is a or becomes the N.T-I (as in "I am someone else"), an apparent oxy moron. + yet this [topic, issue] is specifically treated in "Valis") Horselover Fat "is" Thomas catio is a not Horselover Fat). Thus the schizophrenic actism of the Cartesian doubt is broken by what I construe to be enthusiasmos by the Holy Spirit which I further construe to be proof of the resurrected Chics. B-6 the resurrected Christ as the Holy spirit - i.e. the Holy Spirit is not evidence of the resurrected Christ but is the resurrected Christ). Thus "Valis" + the 2-3-74 experience it depicts is the answer to the sum total of my epistemological inquiry + doubt. it says, "creation (i.e. an external world or reality) exists" Hence the final level is the "I (am]" who is not myself (I can see this because a while ago I noted the relationship between Descartes' is (lam cogito ergo sum" + ehyeh I am). There in, then, an inner‐ + outer Ho on, + a micro-macro Ho on The issue of 4 decades is closed. I can infer (deduce) creation (external world) from the Holy Spirit, but not the Holy Spirit from world; thus the Holy Spirit must be the primary given for anything beyond self to be known. There is, then, some kind of necessary problem-solution relationshis between doubt as to the external world (creation) + the Parousia So 2-3-74 is (1) the Parousia; + (2) logically a 3-7 from my 4 decades of epistemological doubt. Can it then be said that by my own thinking (cogito) I generated the Parousia? This is There is same kind of extraordinary t internal sequential reasoning, here; a process + its conclusion, neither part (process, conclusion) being complete (whole, intact) without the other! My initial is doubt the forties that cause + effect are real is one side of the perception in 3-74 that indeed causality is not real, this being the solution (Parousia). which is to say the other side on the same thing. The 4 decades constitute a sort of analysis + resolution outside of time - + herein lies the key, which I seem to have found. What I am led to by this realization is that the Parousia is both real + yet outside of time, it having occurred as the inevitable logical (a priori) solution to an a prine realization (doubt) in 1949having to do with causation (a valid doubt). Thus the Parousia did take place (in 2-3-74) but t as a result of my own a priori logic + not due to external historical events For God's sake am I saying that I reasoned out - correctly reasoning out the Parousia: bec t e B-+ is so then I would say that what we call - correctly call - "the Parousia" is somehow a priori + logical + necessary not a co atingent truth that might have happened + did happen but, rather, must logically happen due to a very long sequence of [a priori) reason i Does this make the Parousia t a function of consciousness, e modern physics tends to indicate are? If so, space, time + causation till s surrounding some of the mysteries 2-3-74 immediately clear up, because 2-3-74 becomes viewed correctly as a meta-abstraction or logical a priori leap - an apperception; my t "Platonist meta-abstraction that then is recovery of the eide. equals the Parousia, with all I creation (reality) a function the Parousia + derived from it. t t e Cosmic Christ + creation, then, the (as stated are somehow interrelated "Valis"); one is a version of o in the other, reality sensibly perceived; the Corpus Christi abstracted meta-abstracted from empirical Bdata. "The Parousia," then, is sensible reality properly perceived (understood). This sheds a vastly new + radical light on eschatology, unlike anything I've ever heard of but ftting in with (1) my 2-74 meta-abstraction + (2) my later conception of it in terms of "not 3 mothers but I mother seen 3 times." I.e. Christ. the Parousia, then, is always the case i specific as a consequence of a certain a priori logical operation (my 2-74 "meta‐ abstraction"). The correct word, then for 3-18-81 is not "revealed" but "understood." + as the outcome of a logical sequence of understanding (i.e. put in a very crude + bluat reasoning). way, you can cause the Parousia to occur by thinking about it. an exercise in logic, breaking down the boundaries of the solipsistic self as expressed in the Cartesian "Eageta." is this Heraclitus! "They are compared to sleepers in private world's? The Parousia - the second coming, not just enthusiasmos by the Holy Spirit, but the sheep-goats division. The discrimination of perception (vision), etc. The world of Acts, rate by God: Christ's return. B10 what seems to be involved (the "meta abstraction") is a testing of reality + a discovering of it to be or contain something quite different from its seeming; what is really there is the "common essence" that is Xtian apocalyptic history, the other normal reality being realed as a [self-produced not - other, mere "cogito"] dream. As with Heraclitus - this latter (idios kosmos) being the all-important consideration (fact). The begins with a catching "meta-abstracting" sight of the truly other the "I mother 3 time, not 3 mothers" logic operation what then is perceived is one's own thought formations, which are recognized