that Fate is not Fate but a wiser ("higher") + more powerful will contending with - overruling - man's will out of its higher intelligence. It disagrees because it knows more. But this does not inspire faith + is not accepted (known) [in] or by faith. Exultation comes not from faith, which would provide only passive acceptance or resignation, but from an encounter with "fate" seen in the aspect of higher + (more) intelligent (i.e. sentient + planning) will; the exultation is derived from knowledge of, not faith concerning. That which masked itself as Fate in (mimesis) reveals this camouflage + in stepping forth acts in revelation of a deliberately hidden ➀ nature. It is not Fate at all. "Higher intelligent will" is not Fate, if the term is to retain its correct meaning. Something or someone has mimicked fate, perhaps supplanting it invisibly: replacing it perhaps by insidiously devouring it + substituting itself for it in perfect imitation, at its source. This is a staggering mystery, but mystery it is, since the stipulation of capacity for perfection of imitation when desired is attributed. ➀ different even opposing It will look like fate as long as it wants to look like fate, but if it cares to disclose itself as actually being a "higher intelligent will" (if it ever does so) it then can, + "Fate" + "higher intelligent will," in that I see no tragedy in bowing to the latter. For me, the find that I had been broken by the latter + not the former would, by all means, induce, specifically, exultation. The mystery of the "guessed at" reality would certainly deepen - but become even more reassuring - if I suspected that in some supernatural fashion this "higher intelligent will" could be identified or equated with my own covert enlightened will: a web of harmonié underlying or transcending the antithetical clash which had pulverized my conscious plans. Exultation is precisely my response to my direct knowledge of + experience of VALIS, of my awareness of its authority over the irrational - which I identify with "astral determinism" or "Fate" - I especially exult in my sense of VALIS having invaded the irrational as a conqueror. The relationship between providence + tragedy (in real life) is that providence heads off the catastrophe essential for tragedy to reach its inexorable culmination; providence, then, is the counter attack by the supernatural (guessed at order, which I identify with Ma'at) against the very core of tragedy: it robs it of its victory over the person involved. Providence + tragedy could be regarded as two absolutes, with the former obliterating the necessity of the latter. Also, tragedy could be regarded as the human situation in which providence is missing. But it cannot be said of providence + tragedy that each drives out the other, because it is inherent in the nature of providence if it acts at all to overpower the necessity which dictates the catastrophe essential to tragedy. Providence, then, insofar as it exists, is the superior force. Presumably providence does not short circuit catastrophe unless the tribulation has already successfully accomplished apotheosis; i.e. has done its job. ---------- Upon reading the earliest part of my exegesis, mostly letters to Claudia: 1) a past personality from Greco-Roman times very educated in Greek + Iranian Metaphysics, who calculatedly revived himself. Apollo, Asklepios, the Sibyl. 2) Obviously this highly educated man was an early - original - Secret Xtian, although educated in all Greco - Roman - Iranian - Essene - Gnostic - Cabala thought (probably - obviously! - a Greek convert to Xtianity). Very gifted; probably known to us historically. 3) He had adminstrative ability: very shrewd + realistic + practical; an organizer. 4) The 3-eyed people. A non-terran super race, intimately involved with early Xtianity + the Masterminds behind the scientific, technological knowledge. 5) Their involvement in over throwing Nixon. 6) Taking me over was deliberate, vis-a-vis Nixon, which makes the 3-eyed people the secret rulers of the ancient world + our present world - Conclusion: I was taken over by one of the 3-eyed superrace, psychically, + hence had 1) his practical + theoretical knowledge; 2) his percept system + hence view (vision) of (our holo) reality; + 3) had his powers, inc. ability to "perturb the reality field" - i.e. to generate externally to me, by PK. The externalized vortex "Valis" which was his psychē. ➀ + where did he / they come from? I think they are time travelers from the past + future. ➀ 4) + I could see the plasmate in / as our info media. ➁ So this was no mystical experience; I was invaded by an evolved neo-human from the future. ➁ + knew - saw - the dune tapes, understood the pre-programmed "reality." + saw how things are linked. + experienced the binary computer dialectic + overcame space + time. These are superhumans. I ceased to be "blind" + no longer saw just by reflection - i.e. backward. There is some reason to suppose I was a deep sleep 3-eyed creature with Fake Memories, deliberately disinhibited in 2-74, like in "Telefon." Then I wasn't invaded + taken over by a 3-eyed creature but remembered I am one myself. Invaders stealthily here - like the secret early Xtians: that whole Rome vs Xtians an analog: like. Xtians: Rome ::: e-eyed: USA 1974 It all had to do with feature analog correspondences within a pattern. Again, this ratifies my insight of the Bible as a cypher I never thought that the Secret Xtian to Rome might be a feature analog to the literal situation: Xtian: Rome :: 3-eyed: USA 1974, a didactic method of instantly making me totally aware of the nature of a complex situation re myself + my society without giving info away. As a feature analog it would cause me to keep my mouth shut about myself, to simultaneously know who + what I was + yet not to know; it is right hemisphere feature extraction - comparison. As A:B :: C:D. By studying (perceiving) A:B (Secret Xtian:Rome) I could understand myself: USA 1974; + the more literally I took it. The better, even though it was not literally so. I could do everything I had to do while believing it was literally so even though it was palpably impossible that it was literally so. If it had to be unknown information (unformulatable) passing through a transform, from which all necessary operations (actions on my part) could be derived (without my knowing the true literal situation). "You are in the Fortress - armed fortress - of the enemy + you possess hidden knowledge which at all costs you must not reveal, + there are others in you small secret society / group - you possess secret ident / recognition passwords + cyphers + signs." etc. the inference here is that the group recognized me by signs in "Tears," + brought me to self-consciousness, out of deep sleep: restored my memories which had false memories over them. But not just memories were restored but powers: knowledge + perceptions + abilities. Supernatural powers, in fact! E.g. the ability to perturb the reality field. + instinctive (non-ideational) awareness of what I had to do specifically. This is the whole point of the feature analog transform: to permit actions (behavior) without knowledge (ideation). This is what so puzzled me, that I could be acting without ideation, this is programmed acts, + the feature analog transform was like that in a hypnotic state. If I run the analog feature transform backward I get, Enemy agent behind the lines; i.e. spy. (In hostile territory, so that utmost secrecy + covertness is essential.) Stealth, programmed responses - actions - of a political nature. Against the society depicted in "Tears" - which is US police state. Now, the Q is, who was I working for (advise: abandon analog transform, which is Xtian). So scratch Xtian. Conspiratorial group totally illegal. Vision of blowing the very place - thing - itself up + running away gleefully like the July bomb plotters. Does this suggest terrorist group? Yes it does. What else could it suggest? The analog transform makes it syntonic to me (transform of Xtians, but when / where do Xtians blow up large public buildings?) + then we have the negation-of-the-negative dialectic (Engels.) The Prokofiev LP Green Felt album. The cold climate. What we in fact have is a secret illegal revolutionary group dedicated to blowing up (which is to say violently overthrowing) the old police stated (as shown in "Tears"). As Xtians were to Rome, what is to USA 1974? OCCP. Despite the transform. The transform "explains" to me (provides a physical + idealogical framework) palatable (syntonic) to me, although blatantly impossible; yet, since I saw Rome externally +, internally, experienced myself as an apostolic Xtian, I was essentially compelled (hypnotically) to believe it. That I could believe this impossibility proves the deep hypnotic programming. Probably my own mind created the transform, in order to account for what I was undergoing. It would not be necessary to program the transform; my own mind would take care of that, although the Golden Fish suggests external programming. Or maybe it was an accident. That's more probable. The Golden Fish determined the nature of the later transform. I was already undergoing such anxiety that I was losing touch with reality. This is why so much that I experienced was in terms of my own books; I was lost in my own mind. My unconscious became projected into + as a world, included archetypes: the Sibyl being the anima, + extraordinarily old: mythological themes predominated - Jung's concept of phylogenic archetypes was confirmed. But the Xerox Missive was real. + a real + highly organized other self took over (which I call "Thomas"). So more that psychosis is involved. "Thomas" was far superior to PKD in all ways. This is not psychosis. The self disintegrated + a more adaptable ➀ self was disclosed; it had been there for some time like a selenoid clock ticking away, awaiting its time. ➀ Reality oriented, problem-solving. He must have known when he saw the Roogna Letter what they would do, + "they" is U.S. Intelligence; he knew they couldn't let the Roogna letter pass. He formed his plan, they, as to what to do not if the Xerox letter came but when it came + he could calculate when. He didn't have to think it out on Wednesday the 20th. It was really a question of whether he could act swiftly enough - + he could / did. But my principle error in reasoning through this situation is to assume that a OCCP personality was deliberately disinhibited in 2-3-74 to take political action vis-a-vis Nixon. Wrong. My breakdown (schizophrenic psychosis) was due to 1) stress. + the Xtian theme 2) due to accidental suggestion. The OCCP personality was not a recipient at a KGB Missive because neither the Roogna letter nor the Xerox Missive was Soviet. All the time the Soviet personality had been doing its jov (esp. in my writing); it was all the time - always - my real personality, + not designed to be disinhibited since it had been affectively active for decades. The notion of "deep sleep" agent + disinhibition (as in "Telefon") is based on the false asumption that the Xerox Missive was KGB, but it was not, nor was "Thomas" an alien personality imposed on me. It was the real me. All that can be said is that unconsciously or basically or latently I was CP, despite conscious orientation to the contrary. The OCCP personality was compensatory - a self which had formed in my unconscious (or right hemisphere) + by + large wrote my writing. What really happened was paleocentrical response to acute danger (the Xerox Missive) at a subverbal level - + effective. The whole Soviet indoctrination was due to my entire life history + upbringing back to 4