is a rasp that in this world they are illegal. That is impossible; it doesn't fit. So it woke me up. Born (the 2nd time). 2 degree: fully born (= wakefulness, + being out in the real world). "God" = that which is outside the dream, + whose touching can't be worked into it; also, he intrudes deliberately, for the purpose of rousing you (to 1) remember yourself; + 2) experience the real world - which he (as Valis) is in! Sleep equalling death, he therefore gives you life, + gives you real world. The illegal Xtians were not -could not be- part of my irreal world, + so started me waking up. ___ What, of all the Valis showed me, was the most important? Answer: he faded out one world (space + time: i.e. Calif 1974) + faded in another (Acts), + at the same time he faded me -PKD- out + faded in Thomas who is related to the space + time of Acts. Thus he revealed his nature as "Yahweh-asher-Yahweh" + no other. But I did not understand this until I studied -not just concepts about God- but about YHWH specifically. The turning point for me came when I saw "3 Women"; then I understood, + soon saw the sacred tetragrammaton: received the crucial identifying revelation (in confirmation). When I saw "3 Women" I knew, + at the folder 48 - 127 folder 48 - 127 deepest level; I was terror-stricken: either I believed in YHWH or there was das Nichts. Not the salvation of my individual soul +/or immortality was at stake but what I call "the existence of existence." I -in 3-74- was given an example of the role of Valis working at a level deeper than that of saving one man (me) or all men; rather, the guarantor of substantia as such: all substantia as a single totality. This is power beyond any that I could ever (without the 3-74 demonstration) have imagined. Even the existence (Sein) of evil was at stake; without YHWH there wouldn't even be evil. Or chaos. Or pain. Or loss. I would not be I, + world would not be world. This has led me back to the kind of comprehension that must have gripped the early Hebrews, the essence of Moses' vision gained from the theophany at Mt. Sinai. The deepest level of reality is YHWH. This is what is meant by "creator." It is not precisely artificer to artifact, + it is not precisely pantheism. It was reading Heidegger that caused me to understand it. My years of acosmism has been a search for YHWH who had to exist if world really existed, rather than only seemed to exist (dokos or dream: auto-generated by each percipient: viz: idios kosmos only, just a lot of them). I had construed the problem correctly. But only upon "3 Women did I fully appreciate the problem - did it really wash over me and leave me terrorized, whereupon the solution came. folder 48 - 128 folder 48 - 128 Spinoza was a crucial help to me. This view ("Deus sive substantia sive natura") does not lead to the Platonic body-soul dualism but leads back to world-affirmation. To immediate deity. God + nature are inexorably inter-involved. The problem is that a mock creation has filtered in, which must be transubstantiated into the real, by YHWH. My God - I seem to have become profoundly anti-Platonist! (Cf. "Beyond the Tragic Vision" re Plato). As if correcting the error Plato made vis-a-vis Parmenides (i.e., when I wrote: "Parmenides" did not say there were 2 realms, a priori + empirical; he said there were 2 ways of viewing one realm, one right way -a priori- + one false - empirical. Plato misunderstood this + assigned some reality to the empirical as if it were a partial realm, rather than a way of knowing, a partial way, not realm."). + the other basic error in Western philosophy (held by, e.g. Pythagoras and the Orphics), corrected by Plotinus, was the error that the journey of the soul was spacial: first down from the cylum past the planets + then back up again (an error held, again, by Plato!). In this ontological view of the journey, rather than spacial, Plotinus anticipates Heidegger. The upper realm is spacially here, not there. I should know; I entered it, in 3-74. + if here, it can be entered in this life, not just after death! folder 48 - 129 folder 48 - 129 The journey is not past the planets but more like a Bardo Thodol trip through levels of ascending ontology to YHWH, the Urgrund. So Plato (+ to some degree Aristotle with his "sublunar" + "supralunar" realms) made 2 fundamental inter-related errors which affected Xtianity, but not ancient pre-Hellenistic Judiasm. For the ancient Israelites God was in nature firmly; he was in fact "a God of nature," as the EB 3 points out. The Megiddo Mission is absolutely right about the Hellenistic origin of the body-soul dualism - it is Orphic-Pythagorean-Platonic. The error didn't lie in Parmenides but in Plato's correction. Plato was almost right, but not quite. Plotinus corrected the correction but it was too late; the idea of a mere partial reality to the phenomenal world was already too ingrained. Actually there is no phenomenal world; the "phenomenal world" is the percipient's view of the one world which is divided into two realms exactly as Parmenides described in his forms one + two. Heraclitus' distinction between the idios + koinos helps explain it. __ I suddenly conceive of original pre-Paulline Xtianity as a high, special form of mystical Judaism (before Hellenistic influences took it over). The way. To the restored universe: i.e. both upper + lower realms co-joined + folder 48 - 130 folder 48 - 130 experienced; as the Sufis are to Islam. But Bishop Arrius was correct; we should worship YHWH, not Jesus. Jesus was a high priest, "the Son of Man." Jesus is the way, to YHWH, with whom (YHWH) we have the covenant; he is the guarantor of the world, + all power comes from him. Jesus however was Hagia Sophia: God's Wisdom. I reject the Logos doctrine as Hellenistic. This is what my revelations tell me. And Trinitarianism is incorrect. Nonetheless I believe in the Shekhina, which is my AI voice, the spirit of YHWH. All is YHWH. + the essence of YHWH as we experience it is in the form of providence -pronoia- which is based on God's total power over reality + his covenant with man through natura, not despite natura. Therefore unless the Xtian experience is as mine was in 2-3-74 it is not Xtian. (E.g. the larger, older universe). __ 3-74 was not seeing another world, but was another way (v. Parmenides) of seeing the one + only world, i.e. seeing it more completely. What I saw is here all the time, but our senses don't report it. My seeing the Kingdom is proof of Parmenides view that normally folder 48 - 131 the senses lie. But, proof that under certain circumstances they can report the truth (about the outside world); i.e.in 3-74 via "the Way" I saw it as it is -i.e. reality- or much more like it is. The solution is not to put a priori knowledge of the world in place of empirical knowledge, as Parmenides + Plato thought, but rather enhanced empirical knowledge, via the Way. + this is done through the "eleventh datum" + "backward-turning." The breaking of the idios hypostasis! That wakes you up in a second + real birth. ___ If I were to construe the AI voice as the Shekhina, + construe it also as that (he or she) ("Thomas") which took me over in 3-74, then YHWH took me over, "the spirit of God." ___ {Phone numbers of persons, and a calculation of PKD's money balance at 12/16 and 12/17/1978} folder 48 - 132 folder 48 - 132 Two points: 1) My seeing Hebrew letters permutate until "Olive Holt" (presumably) cypher was printed out on the far wall. This is not necessary Cabala. It could be Torah. 2) Torah is both oral + written. It is the blueprint for creation + contains the answer for every problem every person will ever have. God studies the Torah + cannot act contrary to it. This implies a living information organism - what I called the "plasmate." In "Tears" King Felix was Torah. "God created Torah before he created the universe." It regulates everything. We are dealing with an information processing entity which 1) has power to control reality; 2) which is present in (with?) reality; I mean, it is here (immanent?). Or: what we call reality is our way of viewing this information. The information is more real than any other substantia. It is like digital signal to recorded music or video image; what we call "the universe" is a read out of Torah as info signal. It is "projected" into substantia. It can be stored. It "tracks." Valis the "machine" that turns the info (Torah) into substantia (reality). The recepticle. The system into which the info (Torah) is fed. {Illustration: From "Torah/info" an arrow points to "Valis/system" from which an arrow points to "Substantia/reality"} folder 48 - 133 folder 48 - 133 Torah would remain -does remain- info until it enters the system (Valis). Torah controls the system, like stress on a web. But what lies behind Torah (info)? Is the info self-creating + [hence] alive? I think so. {Illustration: Long arrow from left to right "Torah info flow", above which is "YHWH" and below which is "Reality/Substantia"} YHWH turns info (Torah) into reality. Thus YHWH creates reality out of Torah (info). Without YHWH it (Torah) would remain info. So ultimate revelation about reality would be to render it back into Torah: to see the Torah in it. (The info basis of reality.) Then Valis was feeding Torah into reality (in 3-74), which defined reality ("modulated" it). "Torah served as YHWH's blueprint for creation + contained the eternal divine formula for the world's future workings + thus the answers to all problems for all times + all people. God himself is depicted as studying the Torah, for even he cannot make decisions concerning the world that contradict it." 1) The huge books with their pages of info - answers (e.g. "the bichlorides") 2) Oral: the AI voice giving corrective answers 3) Answering -i.e. solving- the Xerox missive puzzle-trap-problem. What we have here is a problem-solving macro-entity. The key: "answers to all problems." folder 48 - 134 folder 48 - 134 It doesn't think so much as work out or just plain know answers to questions - why, it answers, rather than solves. It is a responding, as in a dialog, entity. It converts reality back to its formulation + answers. It does not study reality; it is transformed into reality + can be transformed back (retrieved as information again, which equals "answer"). {Illustration: "Info/Torah" with arrow to "Reality/World" with arrow to "Info/Torah"} If I were to guess, I'd guess that reality is a storage mode for the information. Reality isn't problem-solving; Torah is. I don't think reality is to Torah as performance of symphony is to score; I think reality is a container for the information. If God is intelligere - the info is trapped in reality. Suspended, in infinite complexity. Tape or LP or chip is material. Info is poured into reality + can be extracted back out: retrieved. Transactions take place. Information processing transactions. The info is here, it entered + leaves. The key use of reality is memory, which means impression (what I call modulation). A record. Well, that certainly sheds light on 3-74 + the Xerox missive situation as info processing, a basic function of the system behind the phenomenal world. Yes - I passed over into the info processing system behind the phenomenal world, where the real transactions take place. Or it came forward. The