but covertly under‐ neath it the Empire won Q: You are wrong underneath the Empire li ecret victory of the Fish: true Xtianity t t t n 371 t Q: What was killed in the arena by the spear? A: Xtianity Q: You are wrong. God substituted the solar deity, the Empire, for the dying - i.e. lunar deity (Christ), + Fish teeth for the iron spear 9 The key is substitution ( this is what I under‐ stood (was told or shown?) in 2-74 by the phar‐ macy girl. These are not temporal or spacial layers but ontological layers. The least real is the ostensible surface victory of Xtianity over The Empire, under it, more real, is the Empire victory, which is deliberately concealed + no o realizes it (eine geheimnis). But most real of all, is the innermost layer of victory by the Fish which means fish teeth: viz: he e The Fish fights back. But, paradoxically, the Fis fights back by being sliced up by the metal teet (i.e. the Empire); it feeds the faithful when the Empire cuts it up. ➀ It was the Empire which died on the cross, i.e. the serpant. God substituted the Empire for Chris + Christ for the Empire. God tricked the snake; hubris was such that it desired to be the one son of God + hang on the sacred tree (of wisdo (knowledge.) (i.e. the cross), + did so - at the moment Jesus died. The serpent realized it h tricked + cried out, "Eli, Eli, Lahma ia than's" meaning, "Father what have my own cunn you have used ise me? on i 374 Thus as Christ substitutes himself for us when each of us dies. The serpent substituted itself for Jesus when he died. Thus Christ lives The Empire is the serpent; i.e. the serpent turned itself into the Empire (iron). God is the serpents (Satan's) father, as he is Christ's father. the serpent climbed onto the cross (tree) only to have God remove himself + disown (forsake) him; So the serpent cried out in anguish. Therefore I say, Christ did not die on the cross the serpent expected God to save him, since he was God's son, but God did not. The entire ostensible Xtian church is the serpents (i.e. it is actually the Black iron prison the spear + Empire) but below those levels is the fish unharmed. Reality is very complex. The Fish is sliced up, surrenders slices of itself to feed the faithful, + suffers pain, but does not die - as Satan did Christ (Thomas) replaced me at the time of my death in 3-74 + again outsmarted Satan by guessing (solving) the riddle (the Xerox missive as to which was -a- + was not - A-) what it was in his female role as Holy Wisdom, the wisdom of God (female). As Pantocrator he adjudicates + has the power to exculpate based on the books which I saw: the Sibylline texts in which all is con‐ tained. He alone has access to the books. + he can enter you in the lambs book of life, as he did me. Upon adjudication + exculpation; "the "- the wise old King court sat + the books opened in the "Tears" dream. God worked it so that the serpent's riddle was mistakenly sent to Hagia Sophia, God's wisdom A postiori knowledge was lacking it aprior if who sol 375 The Kingdom has been successfully established within the Empire (which itself is established secretly + successfully underneath Xtianity - ostensible Xtianity). It has its own language + commerce + citizens. You are adopted into it as a child of God. thin the dialectic is between the two sons of God (brothers), one of whom possesses a priori absolute knowledge (Holy Wisdom: Christ) + the other (Satan) only "backward- looking" know‐ ledge. Satan thought if he climbed the tree of knowledge he would then have Christ's a priori absolute knowledge (wisdom), denied Satan the younger brother. He was tempted - the tempter. But he was tricked - + denied there, since God cannot be deceived but can deceive This reversal is the "backward turning," the transmutation into opposites. The solar deity (iron, power" cruel, monotonous to Satan) is slain, not the lunar deity (free, compassionate diverse, wise, Christ). Solar: masc. Lunar: female. maybe brother (Satan) + sister (Christ). The female principle has won (secretly). It is here as the Holy Spirit (Shekhina). The empire is also here; this is the world of "Tears" (Penthus). the serpent was shooting for Christ's a priori knowledge; if he'd gotten it think of the consequences. But he got shot down + lost; in secret the Kingdom is here! The partial victory that the serpent has is, he occludes people to the presence of the Kingdom, + he rules the ostensible world - + yet is ruled himself by Christ. The world is in Satan's power, but Satan is in Christ's power, "+, willing evil must serve the good." Satan secretly rules + still hore secretly is ruled 374 So Valis is the final ontological state, layer or level of reality shining through the trash. as 4. Can the Xerox missive qua riddle be olved by a priori knowledge alone? s A: No. Q: you are wrong. If, a priori, the recipient of the Xerox missive knows everything A: But humans do not know everything about the outside world] a priori. So the i riddle was not solved Q: you are wrong. A human was not the recipient; Christ was. A: Then the riddle was solved re the missive that was + was not what it was. Q: You are correct. The recipient solved the riddle years before it was posed. (cf "MITHC" + "Faith H.") The solution came before the problem. A: it would have to it Q. You are correct. A: This points to Christ. o you are correct if A: Then it was another trap. Like the cross Q: There were two traps. The empire posed a rap but a trap, through absolute a priori reknowledge, had been set for it. 1375 So the dialectic is between the solar God of iron of power + uniformity, the patriarchal society - + the lunar God who is compassionate, who dies for his follow ers rather than asking them to die for him (or her!). The former relies on strength but lacks wisdom; the latter uses wisdom to outwit the solar deity's power + by degrees transmutates the world. It would seem that the solar deity secretly won (the Black Iron empire) but his empire is honey combed secretly by counterparts of those whom he has enslaved. Gnosticism knows of these divine counterparts; viz 3 2 In the divine The Empire visible t secreti Kingdom of Xtianity ruling it Christ than the would" one" the divine Kingdom through its counterparts comes to the rescue of persecuted Xtians in (1) who may not even know they are Xtians - which is to say true Xtians. When this rescue (salva ) occurs, the Xtian in (1) suddenly sees the multilevels of reality: first (2) The Black Iron prison secretly here, + then beyond it, seen through it, the divine Kingdom to which he is linked: vast spaces + time are dis‐ closed to him, + Godly nature + wisdom + his holy counterpart who is a Christos secret Xtians make no sense unless the Empire secretly holds sway. 376 I am really where I found myself when I woke up in 3-74. (i.e. when the occlusion lifted.) Where is that? 1) It is a world composed of, made out of, information. 2) It is on the other side, reached by the Bardo Thodol trip 3) to some extent it is composed of for gotten memories. 4) It really happened a long time ago. reasoning: suppose we go somewhere when we die I sort of postmortem reward or punishment world or world where - ah: reward. We get to do what We didn't get to do in our actual life. However irreal, the postmortem world will seem real to us because our perceptions are occluded to fit the t limitations of the world. But if we wake up that we can wake up shows it's irreal. the enters around a second chance at the Xerox missive I am now in the mind of God (Valis). This is + "Eye," etc. I why I wrote such novels as "Joint" was sensing it. It's all there in the soft drink stand in "Joint." Oh Fuck's sake - of course: when you woke up t hat you'd notice is what I call pretextual cause, + a living world (Valis). + the inner outer 2 tape synchronization as I wrote supra, Thomas is indeed on the other side, but Thomas is me: I am on the other side. I awoke to that consciousness that s The conscious state on the other side, whereas my regular PKD state (self) is that state + self on the other side embroiled in the recyded dream of the world here. Thomas knew the stual. situation. 32 the Xerox missive. This is certainly a reward situation, but of a highly specific type, as if based on a "Pythagorean yo in depth analysis of my life. The original disaster of 3-74 has its roots back throughous my entire life up to that date - at which time I paid the poper, but not fairly so only causually so (nemesis - retributive fate, not destiny). a priori knowledge of the NT (i.e. of Christ) encoded in a DNA memory packet fel into our genetic memory. Not a recording of the entire story + its meaning like a Holo-tape so that the Kerygma could not be lost. The Holy Spirit bred into Our race in 1st century A.D. + if you can prove that the whole not Kerygma is [bree in] a priori you have proof that it is the true religion, or how else could it exist a priori? " to be retrieved on cue (at the right i time, as with insects: by inner clock, but external analog signal to explain it). This is why I always write, when it is this loaded "ch bin der retter." Wait. The event did coseetle "tape packet not happen here on Earth but back home in the stars in our home planet. + the Xtians wrote it down, synchronized, the packed fired in a number of people the origin ad Xtians A story edu is ca al 78 that the hime culture would not be 10 I (are there a number of packets? lost. The Christ story is the center think so. don't we feed our home planet, the it of "Tears" describes it for the BIP. same reason that Acts described it? both are printed from the DNA packet. our king was horribly murdered + We were scattered; our ancestors encoded the whole story into our DNA memory + we came here. It broke out again in the 10 hundreds - before - Luther. is it possible there are enemy agents here from the home planet trying to detect us (out of the general population)? fiction. No - that's just (I'm not at all, sure of this) Jesus to did exist what he secretly taught his disciples was how to remember. But the Christ story come from our home world. Not "the teacher of righteouslys So the Bible is partly an account of our home world (not at least). Then the Kingdom is what we're pro‐ This was our grammed to seek. To create. home world (i.e. the PTG) before the enslavers (BIP) came, + now in 1974 we rose up + revolted. Successfully. We are taking ver this planet based on DNA program 8 med instructions which we act out sans 379 This is so as to model this planet after Our home the PTG, as it was before the BIP took over, + killed