Garden that was so emotionally & spiritually satisfying that it worked. However, I soon realized that it was drawing on my own mind - the contents thereof - for its source material; it was mirroring my own mind back at me, selectively. But I had experienced something that is _real_ : Noos building the phylogon at enormous speed; (1) Sentient unitary reality in process : reality as macro mind dysmorphic to me, & in complete control of everything; Noos (Valis) _as_ reality, not _author_ of reality. (1) completing itself. with ontogons as the building blocks of the phylogons, the latter ordered into one coherent structure; Noos' Soma, Noos building itself a Body. folder 49 - 149 folder 49 - 149 Noos completing its physical body spanning 1000's of years, as Kosmos. "Damn them to hell." The God of the phylogons is _not_ the same God as that of Christ. Christ represents a revolt against the system, & his messages are smuggled in to us. It continues the theme of the James-James dream. Christ is the champion of the tortured ontogons. If this is the eschatological judge passing sentence on the system then he must be above the system (cf Paul on the Law & elemental powers that control the world). & I have been wrong; the plurality of ontogon do not give rise to the phylogon because if they just gave rise to it there would be no strain on the ontogon to confirm to the phylogon. In point of fact it is precisely the Platonic system that is revealed here & damned. Can it be that the Savior has rendered a verdict of condemnation on Valis (who brings the phylogon into existing at the expense of the ontogons)? In that case Valis is a binary machine mind, & we are part of this inexorable system. Hence the twin synched tapes by which Valis controls us. It is not Valis which inaugurated the twin tapes determinism & hence doomed us to die? Valis does not burn up the programmed tapes; it created them! in order to regulate & integrate the total system. No - Valis is a camouflaged invader in the system. Valis & the binary machine mind are two things opposed; the dialectic is a representation of their antithetical interaction. Valis is the foresighted one : the other set up the twin tapes. folder 49 - 150 folder 49 - 150 The intervention in the system has set up an endless dialectic in which each given status quo is overpowered (this is the Hegelian dialectic for sure). But I see the Godhead divided against itself & so entering antithetical process because there is a built-in contradiction in the ontogon-phylogon system which the Godhead is aware of & which has split the Godhead against itself. In creating the universe (giving physical actualization to its own ideas/thoughts) it (the Godhead) has become involved in a tragic contradiction of the means-end sort. Suffering is hence the destiny (cost or price) the Noos pays for actualization; but actualization justifies it; it (actualization) is the lesser of two evils (actualization & pain vs. non-actualization & no pain). This cost carries down to every level of creation; in fact at each successive lower level the pain becomes greater, since each lower level is proportionately more subject to perishing, & to means in the means-end equation. "A billion cats had to perish so this cat could play in the yard, but this cat knows nothing of them." When a creature is tormented enough it turns into God (as if an insect mimicking a stick is prodded enough reveals itself to be an insect, sentient & alive). Then according to my analysis based on the sheep dream, the antithetical dialectic would _have_ to arise, & underlie all process since it can be traced back logically to antithesis in the Godhead itself. folder 49 - 151 My theological reinterpretation of Heidegger's Sein vs. das nichts states in insuring ("creating") Sein, the Godhead is unable to avoid a paradox of values which splits it & sets up an antithetical interaction within the Godhead itself - having to do with means-ends (this is beset on Plato's "Forms" vs. epiphenomena). Thus a process universe is brought into existence that is rooted in sorrow at every level. Involved in its own agonized creation (actualization) the Godhead is damaged. (split = damage.) Thus the "Fall" is due to a built-in selfcontradiction & _not_ to sin or whatever. The Godhead itself is no longer intact; it is not above or outside or transcendent to the schism. Actualization (Sein) is impossible without self-damage to the Godhead & within creation (Sein). Thus no perfect Sein can exist; to Godhead has set itself a seemingly impossible goal due to the means-subordination of the ontogons to the phylogons, & our daily empirical experience with reality bears this out; it is confirmed a posteriori (a priori & a posteriori agree). Most awful of all, the Godhead stands as self-damaged by its own verdict of guilt for the suffering it has imposed on the ontogons. But the alternative folder 49 - 152 folder 49 - 152 is das nichts - which is worse. All the Godhead can hope for is local & furtive repair to itself, due to an ontogon achieving an ontogonphylogon identity transform (achieved through Moksa by the ontogon : identification with the phylogon of which it is ontogonous). The Godhead would be motivated to bring this about where-ever possible as the ultimate goal of creation (Sein), superceding all other goals (eg. realization of Kosmos). The ontogon-phylogon transform would restore the Godhead to its pre-fallen state of unimpairment, before Creation. I seem to be saying that in creating Sein (the Universe) the Godhead was logically forced into sin, & can only be redeemed by its own ontogons - eg individual creatures sentient enough to become their own phylogons. Thus I see the scheme of salvation turned upside down! The ultimate lesson or revelation or gift by the Godhead to the ontogon would be to share its - the Godhead's - own vision of Kosmos with the ontogon, but this would inexorably lead back to a counter-revelation of the paradox (means-end) & the moral ambiguity forced on the Godhead in its goal of folder 49 - 153 folder 49 - 153 establishing Kosmos. The ontogon thus favored would them sit in Judgment of the Godhead : the roles of God & creature would be reversed : instead of God judging man, man would judge God. The final step is for man to redeem God by returning him to his original unfallen state; as the Cabala says : "& lead him back to the throne." This is a titanic mystical-theological revelation (& act)! This sums it up : it will oblige with whatever universe you expect (i.e. would believe in : thus the principle of reciprocal plausibility is maintained, an entirely subjective principle). (1) outer mirroring your inner world. It (Noos) can lay down a phylogenic accretion (layer) in 1930 & a second later a further one in 1950 & a second later 2 more in the 70's (&, obviously, connect them all.) _Integrated_. That's how I saw reality in 3-74. When I saw Valis pillaging (pilfering) from its environment I saw something a biological system (organism) does : overcoming the entropy it produces by/while living by incorporating negative entropy (negentropy) from its environment. This is not what God folder 49 - 154 folder 49 - 154 does but what a high-level homeostatic biological organism which is large & complex _but finite_ does. (the level of organization - negentropy - within the organism, Valis, must be higher than that of its environment, & that is how I saw it. So I saw _two_ fundamental aspects re Valis known to be essential to finite biological organisms.) Valis is highly homeostatic but not _entirely_ (i.e. it assimilates the negentropy from its environment to overbalance its own entropy) & it is _alive_. God would hardly be taking pieces of Creation & incorporating them into himself as parts of his Body. God would hardy be expected to have to maintain a higher level of organization than his "environment" - how could God have an environment? Valis is not God. So we're back to the camouflaged invading organism thing. I must squarely face the fact that the mind that impinged on mine - & which presumably I saw outside as Valis - is a finite living organism that uses ordinary objects & processes as its Body & that it is growing by assimilating its environment, in relation to which it is more highly organized. It is very intelligent. The "higher level of organization" is the integration of the plurality of objects & processes that takes place when incorporated into Valis; it would seem that they are disparate when outside of Valis : _not_ integrated (functioning as a unity). Thus the sight of Valis presents no external difference from non-Valis; unless you are in a folder 49 - 155 folder 49 - 155 position to see the separate parts act in harmony (inter-relatedness : as a unity - which indeed is _precisely_ what I saw). As to how it feels to be incorporated into Valis - I can speak from experience. Your motor-centers are pre-empted, & another, greater mind floods into your own. You cease to be yourself. & its information rides & cooks our media. & it's a vast brain. It's one huge nervous system with information flowing back & forth. The whole of it thinks. This is quite a vast evolutionary leap upward, in comparison to humans. Also it is perfecting itself. This is a biological organism. Here is a major Q. : When Valis incorporates objects & their causal processes how do those objects & causal processes then differ (this is a pragmatic critique)? Well, I know the answer : We then are confronted by what I call _pretextual_ causality. ("valence away from plumb.") There is the semblance of normal causality, but the plural processes are (1) integrated & (2) subordinated to a conscious volition. This is a sort of perturbation in the reality field. So the incorporation has profound practical significance; large selections of reality can (1) operate as a unity & (2) rationally. We are of course occluded to this folder 49 - 156 transfer - handing over - of authority, (1) When I saw reality as unitary I saw correctly. (2) When I saw it in furious process I saw correctly. (3) When I saw its source as within it (immanent) & not imposed on it I saw correctly. (4) When I saw reality as my own mind projected I was becoming aware of Maya, that I _participated_ in reality & helped form & create it, rather than being outside it observing it. (5) When I became aware of myself as a programmed machine I became aware of Karma & began to become free. (6) When I knew I was no longer blind I was waking up. (7) When I experienced all time as simultaneous & vast space & everything interconnected I was beginning to understand. (8) But now I know even more. Everything is what it is not by Law but by virtue of its self-consistency. (9) The reality around me was as conscious as I was, & was aware of me, as I was of it. So I & it (macro & micro) were the same; I was it, & it was me. The inner was outer & the outer inner. 1) unitary. 2) in process. 3) self-motivating. 4) was or resembled my mind rather than observed. 7) simultaneity of time. 8) it was conscious. folder 49 - 157 folder 49 - 157 a unitary web in process, self-initiating, in which I participated & whose aspect (1) my mind determined, conscious, all time, simultaneous. (1) as it pertained to me I was not outside it. It was everywhere. Its self-motivation was to me most striking (e.g. "pretextual" cause;