ourse, when you dee it's all revealed to you outinely or - having a deceased twin sister makes the nusual: in symbiosis to a dead (sic) person, + in telepathic contact with her, or maybe I'm just a genius. No, I'm not. bu 39 (urious. I love epistemological riddles. + so Now I've got one, a superb one. It's ultimate just theoretically, its formulation couldn't be beaten. I love it. I'll solve it. I regard the two-proposition formulation about "am I alive or ..." etc as a brilliant application of the "Ubik" puzzle to my own self. But I can't take credit for formulating it; it was presented to me. Whoever the funning player is, she is a delight. Sophia, I think It is you. one thing I must posit as absolutely veridical: the power of karma over me was broken completely in 3-74. So at the very least, I am 1) dead to the way-of-being in the world I had known; + 2) alive to a new free way of being, + progressively more so. one intriguing idea I had some time ago is that in this binary computer we're in normally (parts of) we don't register the "off" side of the on-off cycle (dialectic). For me, the off"side (dark, yin or zero) is "I'm dead + exist as an idea in my living sister's brain" the antithesis of the palpable "I'm alive + She's dead + an idea - thought - in my brain." But 3-74 exposed me to the "subcarrier" "off" side of the binary cycle + revealed the otherwise hidden dialectic governing all, the off sides in essence non-being as us being. My neural firing speeded up so fast that I picked up the "off" part of the cycle 40) it regestered on my memory + impinged on my percept system (an abnormal condition) So memory - again - is crucial. "Her second thought." I came up with this twice in two days - steiner und Nicht. It may be important First second thought: thought: 62 telos (which I Atelos original saw assembling itself using the creation as we antecedent universe as a stockpileg have known it. + which I call Valis). the "her" refers to St. Sophia who created the universe (designed it, God caused the design to exist; i.e. have onto or esse - to actualize). is it possible that "her second thought" is St. Sophia herself? I have down that the thought. is in her brain, that she is a physical body; + Valis + the plasmate are this body + blood (= Christ/Logos). This is the in-breaking (of the wise old King) which appears in the "Tears" dream. "The whole is [replicated] in the part." St. Sophia is the whole; the universe is her thought (a part of her [brain]); she now replicates intact in it - within it her maste [brain universe sophia ccret t i t the telos inserted in me is what I called "Firebright" me as first thought or creation, atelos to telos; is Thomas this telos, "grafted" or inserted in menas-female-egg, him as seed? microcosm of Pythagorian cosmogony his is what is meant by icosmology being born again te or by the spirit. pire os = St Sop t 41 analog between the fertilization of me (by Thomas or to produce Thomas?) + Valis fer‐ tilizing the universe as seed (male) to egg female). c 883-3628 Thurs 10:25 #115 t The EB article on Pythagoreanism. I read + the Edph article again. visual perception of Zebra in 3-74 + my later verbal conceptualization of what I saw (the rational vading the irrational + using it as a stockpile to form a growing integrated structure) is the specific + unique Pythagorean cosmogeny of the limited (telos) unit placed in the atelos + "inhaling" it - to produce a kosmos - "kosmos" being defined both in terms of structure, limit + above all beauty. I' too tired. 1:.618034 tetraktys 3 ooo oooo the opposites: limited - unlimited. Valis - not Valis. Valis = Kosmos, + I saw it (+ its growing + self building outward from the center). Apollo - Pythagoras - Apollonous of Tyana brind Zeibnitz: the binary computer b most important, Pythagoreanism teaches pow I acquired the intact corpus of Pytha gorean Gnosis - esp its cosmogony + cosmology: I the soul through the transmigration of was anamnesis. Eureka, at last So 2-74 42 The universe as an organism - alive. + divine + sentient body + blood. causality showed intentionality Thomas is Apollonius of Tyana who was Pythagoras who was Apollo, + maybe Paracelsus. geometric figures with Greek letters. Pythagoras' concept kosmos: ESP. the notion of orderly arrangement or structural perfection with that of cosmogony starts with the beauty" planting of a unit in the infinite. it grows by drawing in + assimilating. t the unlimited outside, that is by conforming it to limit + giving it numerical structure. The unit seed had the nature of fire in the completed cosmos (which evidentally grew from the center outward)." "It was said at Pythagoras that he was the first to call "from its in herent t the world kosmos, this order. We re order. By studying produce it in our own souls, + philo‐ ophy becomes an assimilation to the "hme." "The limit (telos) is an active cosmos, orce effecting order harmony. kosmos: the beautiful a the unlimited. This is precisely how I at ader of things. saw va 43 "the seed (telos) is the second thought by her geometrically expressed." "He Christ) is the second thought dispatched as into the irrational. Who is she"? The it brain behind the mental [Brahman). The body + blood which I saw. the atelos is considered female, the unit (seed) telos (limit) mate. So Valis is male, + the greater (infinite) reality is female. This conforms exactly to What I saw: Valis (order, structure) within the infinite, assimilating it into its structure (i.e. turning it - making of ordering it - arranging it - into kosmos So Valis = cosmos. This is what was so puzzling to me. This camouflaged organism within the overall (total or infinite) reality, assimilating it as it were a disordered scrap heap of unre‐ lated unorganized parts. I had never It was obvious heard of any such thing to me that this lactive force effecting order harmony, "kosmos in the unlimited." + which evidentally grew from the center tward." So in "Valis" I pains akingly carefully, accurately + precisely pict the unique Pythagorean cosmogony + smology, having arrived at it due to amnesis of having been "Thomas" living in the first century CE, a 94 So "Valis" is a scrupulous documentation which, if accepted, verifies the basic constituents of Orphism/Pythagoreanism in seeing Valis I saw kosmos forming at the center of the infinite - or, as I phrase it in "Valis," the rational invading the irrational + transubstantiating (devouring) it (assimilating it.) + this is directly con‐ nected to Apollo's "moderation [telos) in all things" - proportion + harmony + limit as a religion it is shamanistic apollonism + hence connected with the Sibyl (at Delphs), Apollo's oracle whom he took over + spoke through. the God here is Apollo, not Dionysus (this agrees with the andeid: Apollo, Sibyl, cyclops, blessed isles. But I go one step farther than the account of Pythagorean cosmogony (available to me): I say of Valis: "the seed is the second thought by her geometrically expressed." 1) "second thought" - telos that makes the atelos her first thought: original dis‐ rdered (non-kosmos) creation. It came first (as is obvious in the Pythagorean cos logony). 2) who is "she"? She is "the designer of the binary computer" which generates the dialectic opposited + which we're plugged into. "She is Logos of it but God created it (i.e. caused he to exist. She envisioned it as thought + he turned it into reality. But who is she who t rentally conceived it? The bird woman"! I "She decides for God what believe she is St. Sophia: She is wisdom + is the He shall do. The kosmos 457 the idea that wisdom is the ultimate reality fits with my perception that what I see as the ultimate reality is literally a physical macro- or meta-brain. + the machine intel‐ ligence of the binary computer is the product of it: designed by her (the brain) + actualized by God (created by God!). could this binary (dialectic) computer be her first thought? I regard it as an infinite system + unstable (atelos?). + i Valis invades it + structures the infinite generation of antimonies. (Antithesis) into a coherency (kosmos) which is stable + doesn't just drive at infinite velocity in permutation along its [form] axes: efficient cause (the computer + its dialectic) vs Valis' final causes or teleology. Yes, the computer (dialectic) generates an but infinitude; it is atelos! Personified! Valis plucks from here + there selectively in the infinitude of parts to assemble itself, the dialectic knows no limits. i Then the "causal train melting" which I saw in 3-74 consisted of this [perhaps unusual] situation: Valis rejecting a cluster of permutations which perhaps it had assimi‐ lated into the (its) kosmos, in favor of an alternative cluster (out of the infinited of permutations/possibilities), + so remastering reality. Did Valis change its own amind? or did she override it? I.e. did her thought Logos: plan) c hange? 16 St o I dialectic e the whole (St. Sophia) (macro) is replicated intact in microform, e.g. in/as the divine spark in a human mind (soul). So St. Sophia is in me + speaks to me (the AI voice). She is the divine [soul) in me. She could even be Thomas. The ultimate dialectic is between telos + atelos (Pythagoras states this). + this is the particular 2-player dialectic I saw in 3-74, with victory after victory falling to telos (or kosmos), as it (he) perpetually grows by assimi‐ lating ateloss yes this is what I saw. Yes - Valis, the ordering geometrically + in proportion (linked arrangement) of beauty; This is what Pythagoras meant by "kosmos" - I saw it: pure form, not matter (substance). a Gestalt inter-limited + taking in (inspiring) more + more pieces, + linking them into place. this is the reality behind the phenomenal. + seeing it did bring me in contact with the divine. + it was all due to my remembering my past life (in 2-74) + hence as Plato says, reacquiring the pre-birth between incarnation knowledge of the soul's celestial home, Pythagoras : structure is everything, not sub‐ stance. Number, arrangement proportion, shape. + numbers equal shape (which our method of annoting number conceals). The completion of the circle, hence eternity (recurrance). The essence of Pythagoreanism is not to seek to ("the basic cosmic sub‐ discover what reality is stance") but rather to conceive of reality in terms of structure, by which was meant mathematical form (that is, structure turns out to be number + pro‐ portion + I would add arrangement: how elements are interconnected) interrelated] viewing reality this way, ontology (in my opinion) doesn't enter into con‐ sideration. Reality, ontologically speaking, may not be there at all. This is a middle position between idealism + empiricism. "Harmonia: "Fitting together" of the "Kosmos": "the beautiful order of things" these are precisely what I saw in beholding what I call Valis, a fitting together ("linking") to form a beautiful, ordered structure, which assim ilated parts from the not-it outside which was an antecedent scrapheap not fitted together + not "a beautiful order of things." "Salvation + perhaps ultimate union with the divine cosmos through the study of the cosmic order --" etc is basic. Neo-Pythagoreanism (ist century AD) was led by Apollonius of Tyana. (Said he was a reincarnation of P.) Pythagoras as magician + shaman. + a great involvement in politics: an elite ruling the state. What I am wondering is, could a highly secret Pythagorean brotherhood