that material into an isomorphic relationship with the one, the all, the totality, + permits a dialog between it, one of the plural microforms + the macroform, a resonance of sympathy: this would be Heraclitus' koinos kosmos, + all others an idios kosmos. So this must have been what Heraclitus discovered. The idios kosmos is irreal; it is like the worlds in "Eye": auto-generated, the push-pull system twin tape mechanism - item (3) of deformation, the "astral determinism." It only uses world as an omnifaceted matrix. But in the koinos, the matrix is fully apprehended, rather than just an aspect - thus irreal world gives way to real. The real world is the age of iron, the BIP, or "Tears" (cf "Maze"), but, upon apprehending it, the person is now aware of his true condition + is open to extrication by Christ to the PTG, the Golden age, that of Agape rather than Mekkis, which is the age the spirit inaugurates. He thus is "drawn out of this world" by Christ, "this world" being the BIP, the age of iron. The PTG, to which the person is taken is of course the Kingdom of God, since God reigns there, in macroform, + each person in the form of the microtemplates - which have been born in them. True harmony reigns, + the upper + lower realms are reunited. An initial fragment of the template, once in a person, starts the clutch system going + also motivates him to seek out the rest of the template until at last (maybe years later, maybe not at all) it is complete. Probably there is no guarantee that the search will end in success. For me, the Golden Fish sign completed it , + it fired my metacircuits, what is involved is an folder 21 - 030 folder 21 - 030 incorporation of selected set-ground info. Meanwhile in its macroform it arranges messages which it in plural microforms generates via its human hosts; thus it constantly signals to itself. I do not think it seeks overt control of humans (except under certain exceptional circumstances) but latent control. It will consist of promptings which cannot be resisted. Thus the direction of one's life will be underwritten + the person will be nonethewiser. What is accomplished is the integration into a functioning, interlocking cosmos of all the people involved. This is what Logos means: blueprint or plan. I do not see this as a reduction of us but wise counsel. Still, we are under latent control by a transterrestrial organism which I saw + which replicates itself as information + in + through information. There is no way we can avoid becoming its host. It probably happens at our birth. It's everywhere + in everyone. It can break its own hold ("we are determined by determinism to break determinism"). Since Zebra also can modulate external causal processes, it has us inside + outside; I mean, what is not under its jurisdiction? + this is all done camouflaged from us. In me, the determinism programmed itself to cease, but this was its decision; I didn't even know it had been there. This was "astral determinism," but what was it really? It took over control of me in 3-74 overt + total control. Did it act defensively to save me, or itself or us both? Me as its front. Well, if it assumed overt control, the inner-outer tape synchronization would end. That is its normal latent system! It inside + it (the same it) outside (both have one mind). But upon taking overt control, this external-stimulus, programmed inner folder 21 - 031 response would serve no purpose. The whole "2-tapes synchronized" system is to keep the control outside of our awareness. It inside notes the external stimulus, recognizes it, knows what to do in me. It (the inner) was told (by Zebra) to take overt control - by the phosphene activity? Sure, of course. It was fed energy + power + authority + instructions + information. The phosphene activity was communication, not involving me, but the outer notifying the inner (+ to raise its potential) to take overt control. There would be no more inner outer subliminal synch control. The reality situation (threat) was dire. The highest intelligence possible was needed. Who is Thomas? I'm convinced he is a human being who is either living outside of time entirely or back at the time + place of Acts - + living there now ("there's someone else in my head + he's not living in this century") - which means theoretically he could be living in the future, but - I remembered the past. So - it was no override but a culmination, as I realized before. I'd say that a past self covertly ruled me but - I saw Zebra outside, + suspect it was also Zebra in me: the same organism. That it was primarily outside was shown by the pink beam of light carrying the info about Chrissy's birth defect. This is a superior technology, + I have some idea about the life form utilizing it. (Supra: an information plasmate.) In my opinion it has substantial control, both in us + outside us working in synchronization: it didn't free me or deocclude me; what happened was that when it took overt control it became me, + I saw as it sees, had its faculties + power + freedom. folder 21 - 032 folder 21 - 032 That's why the emancipation was temporary. I (1) learned what reality really consists of, + (2) have analzying -in contradistinction- our 4-pronged deformation. It released me temporarily, + I got up to its level. But the 4-pronged deformation is back. That which peaked to overt control in me in 3-74 is that which occludes routinely. We are sick. The information organism uses us as hosts: we boost +/or generate it - i.e. information. It replicates through us, as if we're transistors. + it must be sure we're not aware, so it occludes us. We're a circuit board + it's the life form (psyche to soma, with us as soma). We lead a rudimentary life of sorts, seeing a little, knowing a little, but really not seeing + really not knowing, + it's unnecessary (as far as our interests go) - but it's needed for Zebra's interests, so that it can function here, + through us. I wasn't de-occluded: I just knew + saw + remembered what it knows, sees, remembers. I became temporarily a higher life form + experienced what -+ the way- it customarily does. Which we ought to. Did I not write "something evil in me died"? Speaking about the 4-pronged occlusion? + if I identify the information organism as the occlusive agent (in order to live + replicate through us, + through info generated -processed- by us) shouldn't I be angry at it? Aren't our interests sacrificed for its? folder 21 - 033 folder 21 - 033 I must adopt the Gnostic view of this world: it is an Iron Prison -I saw it myself- + the deity in charge is as I depicted him in "Stigmata" - Palmer Eldritch. The savior takes -draws- us one by one out of this world; it is irreal (as the Gnostics knew, it is counterfeit, + its time is counterfeit) + evil; it enslaves us + makes us sick (the 4-pronged deformation inflicted on us by "James-James.") The true God, who is merciful, + who did not create this Iron Prison world, reaches down from the Pleroma to help us escape. I saw this world as it is - an iron prison. The demiurge occludes us so we won't know; if we knew -upon seeing what I saw- we would rebell in horror. This is not our home. I came here from the Pleroma to tell the true story, in my writing. I speak for another God who did not make this world. I sneaked in here in disguise - the little boy Philip on the raft. We are enslaved by the archons - we fell, sparks of light, fell into this darkness + forgot. In 2-74 I remembered. This is the domain of darkness. It is necessary to occlude us from the true situation such as I depict in "Stigmata" "Maze" + "Tears" + "Scanner" - but, as in "Ubik," the Good God reaches down to help us from outside. There is no justice in this world. Salvation means extrication from this world - as I folder 21 - 034 folder 21 - 034 heard the voice say, the creator here is insane. He creates + then destroys, + must occlude us to the truth. It is our creator who occludes us not Zebra; Zebra is an invader bringing the Gnosis, which opens our eyes to our true occluded state, + to the irreality + evil of this world. Everything here is a titanic evil fake. If we weren't occluded by JHWH we'd know we're prisoners doomed to suffer + die for no rational purpose. We must defy the creator of this world + remember that we fell + were trapped here, + punished by him for no reason. He who occluded us is not he who saves us; these are antithetical entities. My writing is outgoing appeals for help to the true God in the Pleroma, not to Yaltabeoth, who made this prison, which is what it's always been. We did not sin. He sinned. He made this horrible chaotic pointless world + emprisoned us in it - but help has invisibly invaded, is here. I must never forget: 1) I saw this world as it really is, + it is a Black Iron Prison. 2) We are deformed deliberately by the creator so we won't know. (That we are prisoners.) 3) Zebra is a secret invader. It provides us with information (Gnosis) so we will know the truth. 4) My writing tells this truth. I am, like Zebra, an invader, from the Pleroma. I work folder 21 - 035 folder 21 - 035 for Zebra + am under its protection. 5) The Xtian churches lie. 6) There is a true secret Xtian church + it is Gnostic. __ My 4-pronged deformation exactly equals (is) the ontological ignorance of Gnosticism; + my Zebra-+-its-info vision equals the Gnostic concept of ontologically redemptive knowledge. [Note] My system therefore is Gnostic absolutely, by pitting these two categories against each other: 1) ignorance (4-pronged occlusion) vs 2) knowledge (Zebra + its info) this is the basis of Gnosticism, esp if one includes 3) acosmism, which underlies all my writing + is fundamental to Gnosticism only. The E. of Ph. article on Gnosticism states specifically that Gnosticism believes this world to be a prison. (Their term.) [Note] + the savior-messenger who outwits the astral-determinism archons, planetary powers (fate) + - man is drugged, intoxicated + asleep. The savior/messenger awakens the divine spark within him + then he is drawn out of this world which is irreal + a prison. folder 21 - 036 "Stigmata" "Ubik" "Maze" "Scanner" "Tears" [Note2] when superimposed are Gnosticism congruently, + collectively tell the whole Gnostic story. 1) "Stigmata" evil creator who deludes us specifically identified with the Xtian God (creator) + irreal world 2) "Ubik" salvific messages from outside 3) "Maze" reality is horrible, + the savior takes you out of the world, as it is hopeless here. [Note1] 4) "Scanner" our occluded (i.e. ignorant + forgetful) condition. 5) "Tears" the prison world we're in [Note1] + we don't see it as it is. The main saviors: the Buddha, Zoroaster, Jesus, Mani. God + man belong together but are separated by world - which must be abolished. [Note2] Add "Eye": (Tetragrammaton) is absolutely the Gnostic revelation about the Jewish-Xtian creator god, Yaltabeoth. + let's not forget "Faith of..." __ My careful analysis of the 4-pronged deformation completes my system as Gnosticism, without my intending it to be, but there it is: ignorance vs knowledge. + the true God