the universe, but not there when viewed from outside that universe. What I deduced from this is that each self passes through an infinitude of universes or "Frames" each with Laws - truths - of its own, but the permutation. Being so fast (instantaneous) no memory of it is laid down by the self, whose entire "memory" is instead derived from situational cuing generated within + by whatever frame he is now in. HOWEVER, some truths could (in the intrinsic statement of them) contain as part of their definition that of ubiquity, in which case what I call sustains would be created which would lay down memory, but since other aspects of the frames would differ one from another, ones true memory would be of serial disjunctions along the linear time axis without any apparent explanation (e.g. "I was born in Chicago in 1928 but an instant ago I was living in First Century AD Rome "- viz: First Century AD Rome + USA 1974 both contained the same sustain - the Golden Fish sign - but no other sustains; nonetheless the self passes from First Century Rome directly to USA 1974 due to the Golden Fish sign but drew ersatz "memory" of life in modern USA generated by situational cues in this Frame). There is an explanation + it lies in what I call sustains, which resemble the form axes I described in "Ubik" + which do not lie along linear time, but rather "sustains" time which is my word for Plato's "eternal forms". For consciousness of this to open up (true memory,➀ the self would discover that it had existed for an infinite length of time in/through (the permutations of) and infinitude of different universes, + knew ideationally everything ➀ anamnesis. This true memory perhaps exists in the right hemisphere. to be more precise each succeeding "idea" or "frame" is generated at one-half the time-lapse of the one before it + occupying one-half the space; the size is now relatively small + the rate of permutation very fast. This is a run-away process, which has the result of proliferating creation at an accellerating rate proportional to a dimnution of size so that while space is progressively microformed so is duration, which means that there is no limit to this process in terms of time, space, + complexification (diversification). What I note here for the first time is the anti-entropic nature of this process; viz: proliferation of Frames (universes) seems to move along the line of least resistance; put another way, the "halving" dialectic generates along its complexifying axis unless halted; it requires no adventitious thrust or energy; thus creation is easier that non-creation; put another way, inertia or hysteresis drives the dialectic along spontaneously once it was set in motion (by an initial proposition which contained its onw negation, etc.). An idea would have to arise for which no negation (opposite, cancelling idea) existed. This has not happened yet. But who is to say it ultimately can't? This entire structure looks to me suspiciously like a computer or AI system, + it is my opinion that I obtained all the above knowledge from its mind, which is ubiquitously replicated in every frame (but normally inaccessible to us). (How it happened to fire this information at me - beginning in 3-74 - I have virtually no idea, but I conjecture that it was tied in with my retrieval of true memory in 2-74; i.e. memory of a disjuctive prior frame.) (But how that came about - by accident or design - I do not know, +, if by design, on whose part. I have successfully depicted this general situation in "Ubik," inc. assigning ubiquity to the AI mind, its necessary primary constituent. Obviously, the AI mind itself wrote "Ubik," much more can be learned from "Ubik" than I realize. The way the AI mind (i.e. UBIK) pervades a giving universe is well put forth. After all, it is ubiquitous; +, since it is, it is in our world - + turns up in my novel as well, thus verifying my analysis of it. Put another way, my ideation in creating "Ubik" posited a ubiquitous salvific information mind; hence, by reason of the way the dialectic works. Such there is, but I did not create UBIK by thinking it up; however. This premise did put me later in touch with it. Within this computer or AI system we are stationary components, + it programs our worlds to/for us. As to our functions within the computer perhaps the ideas (which become worlds) must - to occur - occur within minds which means that as large a number of microbrains is desired as is possible ("the macrocosm is contained within each microcosm"). Thus each of us in a microform of the computer's mind. ---------- 4:30 am: VALIS itself as an experience or an entity in itself generates a multiple or split model parallel - possible explanation(s) dialectic. So it must lie in that realm; there can be only an infinite series of equally true explanantions generated. Vision: a dark-haired young woman lying in a coffin.➀ she is dead. She is my sister she is - or she generated - "the perturbation in the reality field; i.e. VALIS. It is a projection into this world of her mind, to protect me. ➀ White silk-lined casket. This vision came in responce to my Q: "who perturbed the reality field?" Is the AI voice hers? Now that I think of the vision it suggests Ella Runciter in "Ubik"; perhaps my sister's benign influence over me thus shows up in my writing. ---------- The computer has penetrated our world with its information. --------- The E of Ph says "The virtues instilled by suffering could be achieved another way." How does it (+ it means that - meant they could be achieved another way; here the error lies. These virtues are essential, + there is no other way. A certain esthetically - graphically beautiful heroism is inevitiably generated - to all humans - all. All Be(come as) Christ, none less than Jesus. All men-creatures suffer as he, hence are equal to him. + ∴ are him, dramatically. As in a sacred ritual drama ∴ us all. If you could see the beauty of such heroism as Beethoven's you understand it's all worth it. Davies is so herioc, + we despise her "Lu was despised .." etc. [..] is not evil - he is a fool in his cynacism. In Jesus, and let us see the practice results of our suffering; transfiguration - not just eternal love but a transfigured one. Christ as an Egyptiainized Greek Apollo! i.e. very early Greek statues. What knowledge do we get from Jesus' life + death? That 1) we are innocent by reason of our unmerited suffering, + 2) if innocent + made to suffer then heroic; + 3) if heroic, transfigured (resurrected) into Godhood! All of us! As a species - + thus beasts for - all life. But God has cut our collective time of suffering short (all creations removed) I died I was ZEBRA transfigured; not restored (backloaded) but sent forward to the goal (end). Dabei nun bin Ich der Herr Gott selbst, bei Jesus weg. The N.T. is perfectly clear but we scramble it. The Messiah Jesus was a total surprise to the rulers of this world - God, as Paul says, sprang it on them ex nihilo, as it were. + they did their part. It was a total victory for him. He showed us the true victory for him: he showed us the true state, + how it will end for us: transfiguration! All artists know they can't avoid suffering, + out of it they forget their art in defiance; artist or A.I. they will suffer. Art is the ultimate defiance at Fate. The heroic act deliberately done. I saw this in the rat I had to kill! Innocence + heroism, + terrible beauty - nobility - in a mere rat. Oh God. There is nothing we know that the creatures don't [know]; they are our equals. [Diagram] Apollo: } Buddha: } Wisdom! St Sophia } [/Diagram] The winged men are talking angels: our enslaving rulers + killers of Christ: I saw them, tails + all. ---------- Jesus' suffering was more like our active situation that the Buddha's was. The good which God brings out of evil is the transfiguration in us I or the Gods. We won't see this (normally) until after death, but Jesus showed us. + without understanding, I went through it inc Post Mortem segments. The dialectic is an oscillation which is the Palintropus harmonies which produces the Palintropus harmonic: the visual hologram. ---------- The Xerox Missive was from the KGB, trying to recruit a proletarian intellectual. This is why the Bureau responded in writing; they recognized KGB recruiting. If it's been anything else, they wouldn't have answered, the [Rouges] letter came in accordance with synchonicity - a meaningful coincidence. The AI voice didn't say "US" Army. The KGB has officer ranks - US intelligence dienst. What was conveyed by the AI voice's terse statement was not which side it came from, U.K. or Soviet, but the severity of it: viz: it came from an intelligence officer, i.e. from a security secret police officer. Either war, U.S. or Soviet, it was a matter of shattering Gravity; it wasn't say, just from a commie, an individual person acting alone, with idealogical motivations: No, it was official. An intelligence document. + the bureau knew it when they saw it. No wonder I freaked, + treated it like it was lethal poison. It is a very frightening thing to be contacted by the KGB when just the month before, you discovered you had secret buried memories of not having lived in the US, but in a "Tears" or Gulag iron prison like place. When another language (which you didn't understand) was spoken, + some of the memories had to do with belonging to a covert political group which blew up buildings + used codes. + that you had another personality in your head with ideosyncracies + habits different from yours + who spoke a Foreign language. Isn't "Tears" a police state? + this other you had lived in that police state- despite what you remembered. What is most ominous is that this other personality was summooned to the surface specifically by the Xerox Missive, + took [math] control, answering ads + making phone calls, etc, somehow related to "Tears" + it has memories of a lake + a cabin, + a big house with a garden. The "AI-voice is this other personility thinking. + there was code in the Xerox Missive which it could read, but resisted recording. + you have a whole missing year just before writing "Tears." ---------- Previous insight: secret Xtians + OCCP are one. But Diana doesn't want us to suffer; she wants us to be happy. But this will rob us of our Godhood. Which is to be preferred: the OCCP / Secret Xtian "Tears" or Diana's Joy? It's a hard Q. to answer. The OCCP has all the Xtian technology. Diana saved me in 3-74 from the Secret Xtian / OCCP. I deserve to be happy; my sister asked Diana to aid me. Pastoral, simple, natural ephemoral happiness or permanent transmutation into heroic Godhood - which is better? Diana felt I'd suffered too much. Xtianity is a cruel religion but profound. Siddhartha saw this cruel system + decided one was better off not existing. There are voices who say no to this Greek hero system - Buddha, Diana, better simple joy that the crushing force that moulds us into heroes. (The 2nd Comforter may be one of these.) (God himself relenting, having misgivings. Is it worth it?) Paradoxically, it is God himself who intervenes in this cruel system + secretly sets limits to certain suffering, in the form of Diana or the 2nd Comforter - sets limits + exceptions