to 2-7[1] & change county, bridging '71 to '74 - [arcing] across. My "taco stand" [experience] was the other half of "thomas" taking me over in 3-74 1971 --"thomas"----> 1974 taco stand [?] [shirt circulred time & [marine] space.] the "taco stand" experience was of being in 1974 in [?] & [placentia]. Not april 72 but 2-[?] 3-74. & then maybe returned to '71 in [marin] county, at the end of the [anrroy] 8 hour [RET] "taco stand' experience, which really lasted weeks (in '74) while I lay on my bed in santa i or: another psyche ("Thomas") operated my body - in '71 + again in 3-74 when we con habitated. This is a supernatural self, nicht ich He put the Acts material in "Tears" - why? message to trigger himself into being in 2-74? I was taken over not just in 2-3-74 but in There were 2 me's, as Hal guessed. One of 171 them supernatural + part of a conspiracy, making use of me. Somehow connected with the Xerox missive. It didn't call him forth; the Golden Fish in 2-74 did. But he met the Xerox missive; he knew what it was. wer ist er? I had to be in fullerton - he was last in Canada, not Santa venetian what happened in Canada? The dream of return to Santa ventia "a lot later" - + the missing week. Did he take over for a week in Canada + fly back to the U.S.? someone perturbed (space + time] reality. back to '71 + early '72. A conspiracy having to do with overthrowing Nixon. someone took me over in 71, 72 + 74 - + may dwell in me now (the "AI" voice). I am a deep sleep agent, but for whom? The us army G2 thought the Roogna letter was my trigger. It wasn't. was the Golden Fish? Yes. There is a revolutionary con‐ piracy, here, operating in the realm of political ristoric power. But not OCCP. It is the secret culers, they used me, which is okay. I've figured it out. In '71 in the "taco stand" incident I was taken + trained for what I has to do in 2-3-74, Thomas was created then, in '71, to surface in 74 in conjunction with the publication of "Tears." A second personality was created - but by whom? not occ 3 "Thomas" was created in '71; maybe so a he - I - was taken to fullertor - yes. He was at the Bar-B-Q, which is why trip. I don't remember. But that's CP. (Angela Davis.). That's why my house was - had been hit. How does Christ fit into this (+ hence God?)? Christ is a secret immortal enlightening political revolutionary; the NT is code. It is a secret society with supernatural powers over reality (space + time) so in a sense not a religion. Hard core (RC?] revolutionaries th divine powers: agents of the true God wis here, penetrating the prison. It's all code, as "Fidelio." No one outside the movement in ever has guessed; object of the true secret Xtians: to set up a literal physical "Kingdom of God" millenial rule. His Kingdom is of This world! But it has powerful enemies: of tyranny, enslavement + occlusion. I've solved it. Decoded it in light of 2-3-74 +1 they saw the resurrected Christ but (except for the inner circle) did not guess what it meant: Jesus cannot be killed; he is still alive Xtianity as a religion is a cover which the esoteric inner circle either allows or outright promotes This explains why the eschatological pectations of apostolic times were not fulfilled There was a complete exoteric misunderstanding the Roman Empire, the real e.g. Paul). t if enemy, + it his yet to be overthrown "the empire never ended"). Xtianity as we know it (the churches) is/are the Empire - the That's why the 2 enemy, still in power, hings I'm never supposed to reveal are: early 1) I'm a secret (i.e. real Xtian She is 2) Christ's female (i.e. Sophia) natural She is the rightful about to return openly original ruler, ouster by the "regent": + the empire female, Diana, the sprin that was "Thomas" is queen whom they saw at elysius. the revelation - who I saw + hear + who took me over. Diana is Jesus Christ (Sophia). who created this world. bird woman - feathers - Papagana. dove - Holy Spirit: her true form e If the universe aquatic: Fish. is "halving" or two weird experiences: running down, 1974, 2) 971 a self arcing another across from the seemed I person or to be in past would have self Mexico vaded me a relatively (or south + run me high ergic level 7 from another ern calls) in '72 in south time + place in Fullerton h if ern call with s with some i Linda sense of evidence of now being where amnesia being from I'd been in the (no personality), the past "taco stand" + yet used experience - this to driving This is a time before the other a car. or but not mo dysfunction self took me Dodge over - i.e. sur‐ manipulation, + t faced - in '74 what I call "Thomas" is two personalities the result of time travel my part going from (my) The seeing the world of Acts in 2-74 was really seeing "Tears" + this was due to the arcing over of my past self but not from 2000 years in the past but just from back at the time (1) that I wrote "Tears" - my self of that time for whom it all i "Tears" was the world-perception could have been divinized + cosmologized in order for my mind (s) to explain what was hap pening The same event 2). viewed from t 2 direction. 94 174) in in 191 a 19743 s 971 i h I world of "Tears" taco stand into the past into the future. in '74 the past ('71) would seem gloomy + fore. bidding; look at my actual circumstances then. i the future but in 77, 74 would seem stimulating + new i.e. the old + frozen + exciting, in '74, the past would seem like a BIP, but, going the other way, to go from 71 into the future, a new + unexplored + free + lit up + exciting - stimulating - world would be experienced. This would probably be useal in 1) going into the future: into newness + freedom; + 2) going into the past: into con‐ gealed "iron" oldness, a prison 6 Thomas was phasing out, not in. He was the product of the annihilated track A, with residual subcortical impressions of it. He did not override me; I overrode him (eventually). my memories then I deduce replaced his, but not at first. that the past was changed. The "taco stand" inc den't must have been an alternate reality phased in a or out by the [retroactive?] change. Then it wasn't it bore "track" change. time dysfunction but a some relation to the 2-3-74 change - in fact the two were perturbations of one change. As if track B temporarily faded in. Well, yes; later. The change was retroactive: it affected the past. So the pressure was on '74, but in '71 I experienced it. I think It had to do with trange county. Orange county faded - as if I had woken up prematurely + briefly. in range county was certainly the replacement reality There's no problem in establishing what the replacement reality is, or my replacement personality; obviously it's what we have now. What can't be established is what track A was like (Thomas was the track A me). even how extensive the change was, I feel it or redited the white house. Factors were brought into being ex nihilo which would cause Nixon to be deposed. this was the point of it all. So - in track A the tyranny must have been unassailable; it must ave been worse. Would you believe "Tears"? Hey - the change may not have been one rand slam, but surgically here + there at but the result was different times. Judiciously. massive change. Maybe "Tears" was how it would later be - not in '71 or '74 but in the future, which was obliterated by the earlier changes culminating in 3-74. So they didn't obliterate Tears"; they warded it off. No, it did come into existence in the future: '74 was the past Then, as I hrich was changed. felt at the ) retrograde in time from the future; I fell it moving backward - hence my theory that tachyons were involved (as in my letter to peter fitting). the release of "Tears" showed them Then that their agents were in position here at this time; "Tears" was a variable introduced from the future; it had not existed in track A the second it came out they knew they had been successful (in so far as I was con‐ cerned - not, maybe not just me? "The eable "King Felix." has landed." Oh, okay, well, then. Thomas was an agent from the future who took me over. Hence 1) he came just before the Xerox missive; 2) knew it was coming; 3) knew what to do with it; 4) knew who it was from + its purpose. No me from the past would have known that Hence his knowledge of the danger of aerosil sprays + metallic poisons. + the prophecies. + about the rolling stone article. They - through their camouflaged artifact Zebra - exerted powerful perturbations on our It was the true secret Xtians, reality field. but whether they come from the past, present or future I just don't know; maybe they're supra‐ temporal + move through time the way we move through space. (Time becomes space.) + on that day "In the day that I act - the true Xtians will know themselves, each aware of his identity in terms of its historic role. He will remember the Lord as if it were yesterday. Christ is very much involved in this; he is at the core of it. The plasmate the as Bloo fel spreading itself over the world, but as with transubstantiation, invisible to our eyes' now It has crucial control of our world. It exercises dominion. anne April 3 nov t keeo Hypnagogic vision: the Xerox missive seen as enticing red apples: recapitula of man's tentation + fall [Note (but he saved me). Also something about "healers" + I'm not supposed to understand 3-74, the "healers," who were involved in causing 3-74 are blocking my understandings + they are benign. So they've scrambled my mind, so I keep going around i around. But sometimes as I fall asleep, the scrambler lifes. So I've just now proved that I cont prove anything. + I never will. + they were reluctant to let me know even this. (This fits my steiner insight that there's a scrambler working on me perhaps a defensive screen or by the enemy; it's neither but it's there, all right, due to a third it possibility.) The other side of this, perhaps, is that underneath the scramble - were it not for the inner scramble - I really know what happened. This may be why I keep trying; I know I know but can't figure out why I can't stabilize or formulate it. quite a bit of information is contained, here: that it was a trap; they used bait + hoped for a Nibble. This reinforces the idea that it was a us G2 forgery. +: a lie had been) was being told me. It (the bait) was made to look what they thought would entice me, so its appearance was not what My track B memory of "Tears" was that it was an imaginary world. But the Golden Fish restored my real memories that I'd actually lived there as well as temporarily