to robots (emprisoned reflex machines): But the DNA is one piece of it, + a piece scientifically verified - i.e. detected. There's a lot more as yet known just in theological + folder 21 - 122 folder 21 - 122 philosophical -i.e. unverified- terms. The whole picture, as I synthesize it conceptually, is - beyond belief. You'd have to have a big hunk of the programming, grid, occlusion, delusion, enslavement, lifted even to guess its existence; it's total, +, on our own, there is no way we can discern it, let alone break it. We are born, we suffer meaninglessly + die - look at Doris! It's diabolic, + it mimics morality; it mimics the salvific God-savior itself - like in me, thanatos annexing eros + then posing as it; I'm a victim, just like Doris: death drives me, + really through no sin or fault of my own; it's an illness, a blight, fallen onto us, + for no rational reason. + Doris will go to her grave never guessing, having known only pointless suffering, + duty. Which mimics meaning + ethics + spirituality. We are calculatedly robbed of joy, like some vile game or sport (v the Catherist poem). The very creator himself afflicts us, + those who say so are tortured + murdered for saying it. But: we possess the secret of immortality, + saving knowledge through the 5 saviors. We the despised. They tell us to imitate Christ in his suffering - Christ who came here to take away our suffering! A 180 degree perversion. + the Joy God is forbidden to us, locked in an iron box + sunk in the sea. But he is still alive. folder 21 - 123 folder 21 - 123 The "mad" god Dionysos, like Hamlet or Christ, is the only one who truly understands the situation. No wonder Christ spoke in riddles. He was a doctor, like Paracelsus + Asklypios. Maybe Julian was right: the 4th member of the divine. ___ Dreams last night: an Orson Wells movie about him looking for a friend who disappeared in Greece: "the Greek port authority." Dream: Low class people. A prostitute. "Photos" of a particular woman, so precise a definition of her face, + impression of her (e.g. voice etc) that I feel I really know/knew her. Q: why such an amnesia barrier to these dreams? They were, after all, pleasurable. Amnesia not just a fading out, or inability to remember, but a purposeful mechanism calculatedly designed to efface the memories of those dreams as much as possible. Why, if the dreams were pleasurable? The forget-mechanism is too good. Too determined to efface. It does not make sense. After all, the entire 2-3/74 experience was based on an abrupt abolition of this very amnesia mechanism - + what was disclosed? That I also lived, besides as PKD in USA 1974, as Thomas in Rome CAD 45, which isn't possible. The amnesia mechanism got voided, + another self with another life at another time + place, speaking another language broke through: came back. What is this amnesia mechanism? It's connected with the fake space-time coordinates in my exegete supra but - the dream-amnesia suggests: not only space time hoax (grid) but personality as well. Each space-time has a specific personality locked into it. Break down the space-time illusion, + the personality illusion is also exposed, as interrelated. The 2-3/74 anamnesis is a collapsing - by a Page 1 Fat later developed a theory that the universe is made out of information. He started keeping a journal – had been, in fact, secretly doing so for some time. His encounter with God was all there on the pages in his—Fat’s, not God’s—handwriting. The term “journal” is mine, not Fat’s. His term was “Exegesis.” A theological term meaning a piece of writing that explains or interprets a portion of scripture. Fat believed that the information fired at him from time to time was holy in origin and hence a form of scripture. One of his paragraphs impressed me enough to copy it out and include it here. “Summary. (etc. –v. tractate) Fat developed a lot of unusual theories to account for his contact with God, and the information derive there from. One in particular struck me as thought-provoking. It amounted to a kind of mental capitulation by Fat to what he was undergoing; this theory held that in actuality he / Page 2 Page 2 wasn’t experiencing anything at all. Sites of his brain were being selectively stimulated by tight energy-beams emanating from far off, perhaps millions of miles away. These selective brain site stimulations generated in his head the impression—for him—that he was seeing and hearing words, pictures, figures of people, in short God, or as Fat liked to call it, the Logos. But, really, he truly imagined he experienced these things. They resembled holograms. What struck me was the oddity of a lunatic discounting his hallucinations in this sophisticated manner: Fat had intellectually dealt himself out of the Game of Madness while still enjoying its sights and sounds. In effect, he no longer claimed that what he experienced was really there. Did this indicate he had begun to sober up? Hardly. Now he held the idea that 'they' or God or someone owned a long-range very tight information rich beam of energy focused on Fat’s head. In this I saw no improvement, but it did represent a change. Fat Page 3 Page 3 could now honestly discount his hallucinations, which meant he recognized them as such. But, like Gloria, he now had a they. It seemed to me a pyrrhic victory. Fat’s life struck me as a litany of exactly that, as for example the way he had rescued Gloria. The Exegesis Fat labored on month after month struck me as a pyrrhic victory if there ever was one—in this case an attempt by a beleaguered mind, to make sense out of the inscrutable. Perhaps this is the key to mental illness: incomprehensible events occur—your life becomes a bin for hoax-like fluctuations of what used to be reality, and not only that—as if that weren’t bad enough—you, like Fat, ponder forever over these fluctuations in an effort to order them into coherency. When in fact the only sense they make is the sense you impose on them, out of the necessity to restore everything into shapes and processes you can recognize. The first thing to depart in mental illness is the familiar Page 4 Page 4 and what takes its place is bad news because not only can you not understand it, you also cannot communicate it to the other people. The madman experiences something, but what it is or where it comes from he does not know. In the midst of his shattered landscape Fat imagined God had cured him. Once you notice pyrrhic victories they seem to abound. --- Either he had seen God too soon, or he had seen him too late. In any case it had done him no good at all in terms of survival. Encountering the Living God had not helped to equip him for the tasks of ordinary endurance, which ordinary men, not so favored, handle. --- Men and the world are mutually toxic to each other. But God—the true God—has penetrated both, penetrated man and penetrated the world, and sobers the landscape. But that God, the God from outside, encounters fierce opposition. Frauds—the deceptions of madness—abound, and mask themselves as their mirror opposite: pose as sanity. The masks, however, wear _____ the madness reveals itself. It is _____ Page 5 Page 5 The remedy is here but so is the malady. As Fat repeats obsessively, “The Empire never ended.” In a startling response to the crisis, the true God mimics the universe, the very region he has invaded: he takes on the likeness of sticks and trees and cans in gutters—he presumes to be trash discarded, debris no longer noticed. Lurking, the true God literally ambushes reality and is as well. God, in very truth, attacks and injures us, in his role as antidote. As Fat can testify to, it is a scary experience to encounter this. Thence we say, the true God is in the habit of concealing himself. 25 hundred years have passed since Heraclitus wrote, “Latent form is the Master of obvious form.” --- Albemuth Crete Rome Calif. x y — ? ? ? ? ? ? ? —?———————————————————————————— drawing, see MS At y, the entity including me, evolves into its ultimate state (self). The info-firing quasi-material, quasi-energy plasmate non-humanoid life form I call Zebra—from perhaps, thousands, or millions of years in the future. Page 6 By then (“y”) it is virtually pure knowing, pure information [& firing it back at/to me]. It has died for the last time & now invades from “the other side” (upper realm) as well as from the future. This fits in with the “paranormal crisis discloses paranormal powers” & the hiding of these powers overruled by the life threatening situation: this clearly states that I possess the powers. “I know, too” – i.e. am one of them. I arranged for my own 2-74 disinhibiting. It’s not him come back from the other side but me; & once I was an Essene. But it is indeed from the other side, no longer humanoid, & it’s in me now: I am right now it. “We shall see him as he really is & we shall be like him”—not him like us. This is a little different from saying, “It’s ourselves in the future”; this says Zebra is specifically me. --- Fat’s obsessive idea these days, as he worried more & more about Sherri, was that the savior would soon be in the world, he walked or would soon walk the Earth, once _____ see MS Page 7 Page 7 In 3-74 that which was in me was that which was outside me. {1} This is not the Holy Spirit; the only theology which describes this is the Eckehart-Sankara Atman-Brahman or Spark-Godhead - the division between me as microcosm (inner) and the macrocosm (outer) was abolished. This is not "theolepsy" - this is the Eckehart-Sankara concept of Moksa. God born in the person and the Godhead outside. Only my ignorance of theology has prevented me from realizing that only the Eckehart-Sankara concept can explain this experience. {1} and that which was outside me was not localized (i.e. a part of reality but was the totality, viz.: cf. Xenophanes). I have confused "theolepsy" with this inner-outer identity (unity) of the divine. Its holiness was indubitable. Via the Eckehart-Sankara route can I see how my experience could be xtian and Brahmansitic. As I correctly explained it in "Valis" what "Zebra" invades (in theophany) is maya - inner and outer maya. Page 8 Page 8 And I entered the "timeless total present" which Eckehart describes as the way God experiences time: all is now. It's interesting that my coming across this Eckehart-Sankara explanation was held back until after I finished "Valis" - in which (without being able to identify what happened) I depict this Moksa. The fact that in the writing of "Valis" I suddenly picked "The Friends of God" - which is correct - shows divine inspiration for the book for sure. Although this (my experience) is above any given religious system (as Sankara) pointed out, my acosmism (maya) points to Sankara - for me, a Sankaran xtianity, which may be the real explanation: a melding of xtianity and Sankarism. But my contribution is seeing the rational (Christ or God) breaking through into the irrational [1] in terms of this acosmic pantheism. [1] and overpowering it - Spinoza to the contrary. Thus I say, "There is only one rational reality: God inside us/outside: all else is irrational." Page 9 Page 9 This resembles "Timaeus." Thus I state, as I do in "Valis," an irrational (and irreal) cosmos, into which God (the rational) breaks. This isn't ordinary pantheism or the usual concept