itself (it is the pretextual causes as well). folder 82 - 095 folder 82 - 095 So, within the same 48 hours, I've proven (to my own satisfaction anyhow) that (1) it (2-3-74) is Christian and nowise else; and (2) Valis is God, hence the Christian God. Valis, for whom cause is internal to it and a result of its intention. To grow and surpass itself and the similitude of cause and effect is created when it acts, as for instance when it prompts us to do something. Valis being everything is us, too. It is not merely external to us. It contains causality within it. To briefly summarize the argument for Christianity. The Torah says, "Love thy neighbor." But Christ adds, "You have heard it said, 'Love your neighbor.' But I say, love your enemy." Christianity extends love to those who are palpably unworthy of love. (Such as worthless New York street kids.) This abolishes the justice or retributive system; my "messenger" dream where the messenger arrives in time to insert a blank white sheet for your bill of particulars. There no bilking of the heimarmene machine by acts of charity as such; something qualitatively different is needed: acts toward those who do not deserve them, who are unworthy. Christianity is to aid sinners the not-righteous. Thus my aiding the kids at Covenant House is, from a Christian standpoint, OF A DIFFERENT ORDER THAN ANY OF NY OTHER ACTS OF CHARITY, and tripped the bilking "messenger" intervention in my bill of particulars machinery. Thus I came to be Adopted," as the AI voice put it. Torah stipulates aid for the disadvantaged, but not for the unworthy; it is the Hittite covenant of the strong protecting the weak. Most acts of charity are this (without us realizing it); what Christ told us to do is go beyond the Hittite covenant to a new covenant, in which the unworthy are aided, just as he aids us, we who are unworthy. folder 82 - 096 -1 3-31-80 I have recently demonstrated: (one) That Valis is God (because he contains all causation internally and nothing acts on him externally). (two) That the religion involved is Christianity (because the distinction made between my giving to Covenant House and my other giving, the latter being the Hittite Covenant kind of giving in which the powerful or advantaged protect the weak or disadvantaged) is found only in Christianity). Now I come to a new point, realized last night: that what happened in 3-74 was not only pronoia and theophany but, specifically, in the strictest sense of the word, a miracle. An intervention from outside of time occurred, which I call event "B" emanating from point "X." This resulted in effects rippling backward in time to form "A," so that effects preceeded their cause. This is the disturbance that I noted, the "reweaving" or the "alternate world." Event "B" generated what I properly call "pretextual cause" and these modified reality prior to "B," the actual event. So there was indeed a reweaving. This is an aspect of miracle that I know of no analysis of, that somewhat before the orthogonally-entering override miracle, a disturbance in causation automatically takes place, as event "B," the miracle proper," justifies itself retroactively by sequences of pretextual cause. This is why I said three weeks ago, "I saw time run backward." An event in the future ("B") was sending out seismic causation-waves, to affect reality before the event, the event "B" not arising from chains of actual causation, but, being miraculous, being orthogonally introduced. folder 82 - 097 folder 82 - 097 -2- 3-31-80 This is not to deceive anyone; it is simply what naturally happens when a miracle occurs (override of causation from outside or above). So as of just the last month I have these three propositions lined up firmly: (one) Valis is God. (two) Valis is the Christian God and Christian logic was involved. (three) An actual miracle occurred. As a spinoff, a host of other theories can now be abandoned, mercifully. Note that the above three propositions interrelate. The ability to perform the miracle (to lay down a new causal sequence override working from "B" backward to "A" and forward to "C") derives from all causation being internal to Valis. It exerts its will inwardly, not outwardly; i.e. onto its own self, so there is no difference between its idea or plan and its action or work. Valis, then, is not in the world, but Valis is the world, and we are in it. But this miracle doesn't necessarily point to Valis having changed its mind; it points to Valis achieving an event not based on efficient cause (but, rather, on orthogonal cause). Normal causality did not lead up to the event that Valis wished. Now, Spinoza argues that a miracle would demonstrate God's weakness, not power; but suppose the real isssue is not weakness or power but pronoia? In that case Valis (God) is interested to helping a creature, not in demonstrating power or admitting to weakness; Spinoza has missed the true issue involved. Normal human conceptions of miracle include an awareness that the issue, or a key issue, is the care of the human; hence the term "Divine Providence," not "Divine Might." God's love is the issue, and there folder 82 - 098 folder 82 - 098 -3- 3-31-80 is no reason to assume that an exercise of causal override indicates weakness; the argument for weakness is flimsy. The argument for God's love is very intense. Also, if there was not a revisionist rollback to "A" there would be a sharp, even total, disjunction where "B" occurred, like a fuckup in a movie film. (Well, this is very close to what did in fact occur! But I say I encountered a pre-miracle "A" causal disturbance which went a long way to reconcile and harmonize otherwise disjunctive reality sequences. A perfect joining would be inpossible, by definition, since the causal train does not factor out correctly by definition (i.e. there was an interruption, and override). It's been a difficult, long and painstaking task for me to even get to where I could be certain, Yes, there was an interruption; Yes, there was an override. I can't begin to reconstruct how it was "before" (beneath?) the override. Except that it was different. And I was aware of the sentient volitional Presence with its internal causation. Wait -- it wasn't "before"; there wasn't first an inferior tracking -- emphasis on "first." There were two simultaneous trackings with one expunging the other as it went along, line a minor variant: an overt and a latent dual tracking, like a strong and weak signal mixture. This is what shows up in TEARS, latent forms -- crypte morphose. Can the latent forms be decyphered? TEARS helps, but it's speculative at best, a matter of guesswork. Concurrent realities. Modulation by impressing a stronger signal on a weaker one. To retrieve the weaker one would be virtually impossible (cf JOINT). Ah; my answering the ad in Psychology Today; that was the weaker one firing -- caused to misfire. No wonder I said, "I am a machine." The latent track versus God's will folder 82 - 099 folder 82 - 099 -4- 3-31-80 I had to keep to "B" or my life was forfeited. So I acted without ideation, because my acts were without antecedents; they were sui generis. They had no causes. Then left to my own I would actually have answered the Xerox missive! That bad! Due to the subliminal material encoded in it? Apparently. But I got it out of the house in time; that was what I was doing, getting it out of the house, not just to the B. but where I couldn't refer to it. YHWH: Hebrew letters. "A" consists of what would have logically (causally) caused "B": "B" is cause and "A" which preceded it is effect (due not to Valis operating in retrotime but entering from outside time, point "X".) "A" is natural as based on "B," that is, Valis only concerns itself with "B" -- "A" will follow in completedness: intact, as adequate "cause" of "B." The astute percipient will observe what seems to be a time dysfunction, and a dysfunction in causality; somehow causality will seem (and rightly so) to be mock or pretextual causality. But "A" has simply proceded as the causal effect of "B" which occurs later in linear time. Therefore some of the null-causal miraculous quality will be effaced automatically. So there is a dreamlike, or hallucination-like quality to "A." It is generated from the future. It covers over a genuine sequence of events acting as prior cause, prior to "A." Then there are no boundaries or limits to what Valis can orthogonally cause "B" to consist of; whatever it is, the logical antecedent "A" will be retroactively generated. And "A" will lap back farther and farther in retrotime, as necessary. It resembles teleology but is a little different from it, Since in a certain sense "A" is a fiction -- is irreal. folder 82 - 100 folder 82 - 100 -5- 3-31-80 "A" is like a spell cast over the percipient and reality, as time moves toward the miracle itself, "B". Reality and the percipient are hypnotized. But (as I say) these causes are, in terms of Valis, internal to Valis, are in it not outside it; so Valis as a corpus alters. This is precisely what I observed. Like the cooking of the radio signal. I see, now, that this was a rollback from "B" to events preceding it. No wonder I saw the resemblance between the radio signal cooking and a person being awakened from a hypnotized state! This is strange dream-like reality is like a state of hypnosis for the person involved. Seem to are the key words. Events seem to consist of "A." folder 82 - 101 -1- 4-1-80 The selecting. Rest-motion modes. The motion is not along spacial or temporal axes but along the form axis, and the system in which this occurs is Valis' mind, so it is an apperception on the part of Valis as to which phylogon each piece or accretion lies; this is essentially an analytical and memory system of a vast mind, a mind that includes everything that has ever existed. Objects grow and develop until they achieve their eidos and then they are conceptually incorporated (they do not move physically in space or in time; they move as Valis "moves" them conceptually, according to its thinking. The things, then, must be for Valis something on the order of ideas. It processes them as physical bits however; this form axis can be understood by studying UBIK. Valis is not arbitrary about the linking; Valis analyzes rather than decides ad hoc; Valis derives its understanding of the form of a bit by studying (knowing) the nature of the bit. Here is the "plantation" concept, the universe as God's plantation. So I saw the workings of an information-processing meta-system; but the information consists of things, of objects, which are "moved" around within the system according to how Valis classifies them. Valis, I would think, must constantly analyze and conceptually arrange things. "This thing goes here," it decides, and places it "here," with its proper phylogon; thus ontogons become accretional layers for phylogons; this is the rest-motion transform. Rest equals still ontogon. Motion is when the thing has reached essential intactness and is transferred conceptually by Valis. I saw these phylogons (forms) as the phosphene colors, exactly as Plato theorized. folder 82 - 102 folder 82 - 102 -1- 4-3-80 Q: How do you solve a problem that can only be solved on the basis of information knowable only after the problem situation is over (i.e. later. After you fail. I.e. when it doesn't matter any longer)? A: By warping reality (by projecting a field from your brain onto it) so that TIME RUNS BACKWARD. Thereby information flows to you from the future. It