my fathers. He was loving and kind and he had personality. He said, "You suffer a little now in life; it is little compared with the great joys, the bliss that awaits you. Do you think I in my theodicy would allow you to suffer greatly in proportion to your reward?" He made me aware then, of the bliss that would come; it was infinite and sweet. He said, "I am the infinite. I will show you. Where I am, infinity is; where infinity is, there I am. Construct lines of reasoning by which to understand your experience in 1974. I will enter the field against their shifting nature. You think they are logical but they are not; they are infinitely creative." I thought a thought and then an infinite regression of theses and countertheses came into being. God said, "Here I am; here is infinity." I thought another explanation; again an infinite series of thoughts split off in dialectical antithetical interaction. God said, "Here is infinity; here I am." I thought, then, an infinite number of explanations, in succession, that explained 2-3-74; each single one of them yielded up an infinite progression of flipflops, of thesis and antithesis, forever. Each time, God said, "Here is infinity. Here, then, I am." I tried for an infinite number of times; each time an infinite regress was set off and each time God said, "Infinity. Hence I am here." Then he said, "Every thought leads to infinity, does it not? Find one that doesn't." I tried forever. All led to an infinitude of regress, of the dialectic, of thesis, antithesis and new synthesis. Each time, God said, "Here is infinity; here am I. Try again." I tried forever. Always it ended with God saying, "Infinity and myself; I am here." I saw, then, a Hebrew letter with many shafts, and all the shafts led to a common outlet; that outlet or conclusion was infinity. God said, "That is myself. I am infinity. Where infinity is, there am I; where I am, there is infinity. All roads --all explanations for 2-3-74-- lead to an infinity of Yes-No, This or That, On-Off, One-Zero, Yin-Yang, the dialectic, infinity upon infinity; an infinities of infinities. I am everywhere and all roads lead to me; omniae wiae ad Deum ducent. Try again. Think of another possible explanation for 2-3-74." I did; it led to an infinity of regress, of thesis and antithesis and new synthesis. "This is not logic," God said. "Do not think in terms of absolute theories; think {folder 01 - 157} 11-17-80 2 instead in terms of probabilities. Watch where the piles heap up, of the same theory essentially repeating itself. Count the number of punch cards in each pile. Which pile is highest? You can never know for sure what 2-3-74 was. What, then, is statistically most probable? Which is to say, which pile is highest? Here is your clue: every theory leads to an infinity (of regression, of thesis and antithesis and new synthesis). What, then, is the probability that I am the cause of 2-3-74, since, where infinity is, there I am? You doubt; you are the doubt as in: They reckon ill who leave me out; When me they fly I am the wings. I am the doubter and the doubt... "You are not the doubter; you are the doubt itself. So do not try to know; you cannot know. Guess on the basis of the highest pile of computer punch cards. There is an infinite stack in the heap marked INFINITY, and I have equated infinity with me. What, then is the chance that it is me? You cannot be positive; you will doubt. But what is your guess?" I said, "probably it is you, since there is an infinity of infinities forming before me." "There is the answer, the only one you will ever have," God said. "You could be pretending to be God," I said, "and actually be Satan." Another infinitude of thesis and antithesis and new synthesis the infinite regress, was set off. God said, "Infinity." I said, "You could be testing out a logic system in a giant computer and I am --" Again an infinite regress. "Infinity," God said. "Will it always be infinite?" I said. "An infinity?" "Try further," God said. "I doubt if you exist," I said. And the infinite regress instantly flew into motion once more. "Infinity," God said. The pile of computer punch cards grew; it was by far the largest pile; it was infinite. "I will play this game forever," God said, "or until you become tired." I said, "I will find a thought, an explanation, a theory, that does not set off an infinite regress." And, as soon as I said that, an infinite regress was set off. God said" "over a period of six {folder 01 - 158} 11-17-80 3 and a half years you have developed theory after theory to explain 2-3-74. Each night when you go to bed you think, 'At last I found it. I tried out theory after theory until now, finally, I have the right one.' And then the next morning you wake up and say, 'There is one fact not explained by that theory. I will have to think up another theory.' And so you do. By now it is evident to you that you are going to think up an infinite number of theories, limited only by your lifespan, not limited by your creative imagination. Each theory gives rise to a subsequent theory, inevitably. Let me ask you; I revealed myself to you and you saw that I am the infinite void. I am not in the world, as you thought; I am transcendent, the deity of the Jews and Christians. What you see of me in world that you took to ratify pantheism -- that is my being filtered through, broken up, fragmented and vitiated by the multiplicity of the flux world; it is my essence, yes, but only a bit of it: fragments here and there, a glint, a riffle of wind... now you have seen me transcendent, separate and other from world, and I am more; I am the infinitude of the void, and you know me as I am. Do you believe what you saw? Do you accept that where the infinite is, I am; and where I am, there is the infinite?" I said, "Yes." God said, "And your theories are infinite, so I am there. Without realizing it, the very infinitude of your theories pointed to the solution; they pointed to me and none but me. Are you satisfied, now? You saw me revealed in theophany; I speak to you now; you have, while alive, experienced the bliss that is to come; few humans have experienced that bliss. Let me ask you, Was it a finite bliss or an infinite bliss?" I said, "Infinite." "So no earthly circumstance, situation, entity or thing could give rise to it." "No, Lord," I said. "Then it is I," God said. "Are you satisfied?" "Let me try one other theory," I said. "What happened in 2-3-74 was that --" And an infinite regress was set off, instantly. "Infinity," God said. "Try again. I will play forever, for infinity. " "Here's a new theory," I said. "I ask myself, 'What God likes playing games? Krishna. You are Krishna.'" And then the thought {folder 01 - 159} 11-17-80 4 came to me instantly, "But there is a god who mimics other gods; that god is Dionysus. This may not be Krishna at all; it may be Dionysus pretending to be Krishna." And an infinite regress was set off. "Infinity," God said. "You cannot be YHWH who You say You are," I said. "Because YHWH says, 'I am that which I am,' or, 'I shall be that which I shall be.' And you --" "Do I change?" God said. "Or do your theories change?" "You do not change," I said. "My theories change. You, and 2-3-74, remain constant." "Then you are Krishna playing with me," God said. "Or I could be Dionysus," I said, "pretending to be Krishna. And I wouldn't know it; part of the game is that I, myself, do not know. So I am God, without realizing it. There's a new theory!" And at once an infinite regress was set off; perhaps I was God, and the "God" who spoke to me was not. "Infinity," God said. "Play again. Another move." "We are both Gods," I said, And another infinite regress was set off. "Infinity," God said. "I am you and you are you," I said. "You have divided yourself in two to play against yourself. I, who am one half, I do not remember, but you do. As it says in the GITA, as Krishna says to Arjuna, 'We have both lived many lives, Arjuna; I remember them but you do not.'" And an infinite regress was set off; I could well be Krishna's charioteer, his friend Arjuna, who does not remember his past lives. "Infinity," God said. I was silent. "I cannot play to infinity," I said. "I will die before that point comes." "Then you are not God," God said. "But I can play throughout infinity; I am God. Play." "Perhaps I will be reincarnated, " I said. "perhaps we have done this before, in another life." And an infinite regress was set off. "Infinity," God said. "Play again." {folder 01 - 160} 11-17-80 5 "I am too tired," I said. "Then the game is over." "After I have rested --" "You rest?" God said. "George Herbert wrote of me: Yet let him keep the rest, But keep them with repining restlessnesse. Let him be rich andwearie, that at least, If goodness leade him not, yet wearinesse May tosse him to my breast. "Herbert wrote that in 1633," God said. "Rest and the game ends." "I will play on," I said, "after I rest. I will play until finally I die of it." "And then you will come to me," God said. "Play." "This is my punishment," I said, "that I play, that I try to discern if it was you in March of 1974." And then thought came instantly, My punishment or my reward; which? And an infinite series of thesis and antithesis was set off. "Infinity," God said. "play again." "What was my crime?" I said, "that I am compelled to do this?" "Or your deed of merit," God said. "I don't know," I said. God said, "Because you are not god." "But you know," I said. "Or maybe you don't know and you're trying to find out." And an infinite regress was set off. "Infinity," God said. "Play again. I am waiting." {folder 01 - 161} So Satan served me up a sophisticated world in accord with my epistemological expectations (as expressed in my 10 volume meta novel) + I took this to be God + worshiped it, which is not only delusion - although a subtle delusion - but blasphemy; but in doing this 1) Satan revealed to me a great deal about world (although he led me to believe it was God, not world); + 2) Because of the infinitude of my theorizing I reached God anyhow - + this is an example of the triumph of God the wise horn of the dialectic; so: 3) The dialectic revealed to me is the entropic world-process; but also: 4) The dialectic is God in combat with Satan + God always wins; winning me (as expressed in 11-17-80) is an example: Satan's delusions led me to God in the end (through the "infinity" route; viz: as God said, "where there is infinity, there is God; where there is God, there is infinity"). Thus my exegesis has been futile, has been delusion, +: has been a hell-chore (as I was beginning to realize, but God delivered me from it, from my own exegesis; + he pointed out the one truth in it: the