+ frustration. Also, it would lack semantic mechanisms by which to hypo‐ statize what it temporarily knew. Thus Holy wisdom gets in + gets out. It would be the practical application in terms of action (deed) that would permanently count, not retrospective ratiocina. (theorizing). So Holy wisdom must stand outside the echo‐ sphere, precisely as Valis does or seems to do, monitoring it + perhaps introjecting absolute knowledge into it to maintain balance. It is impossible that absolute knowledge could exist within the echosphere because 1) if it were unevenly dis‐ tributed it would generate suggernacts or 2) set up infinite regressions of antithetical paradoxic dialectic that would lead immediately to seezing (i.e. 3 kinetic death). However, if John I is to be interpreted as Holy wisdom entering the echosphere Holy Wisdom would drive out approximation i pace, hence change, + set up something like Parmenides' static monism, although the illusion of change might persist or be allowed ban to 8 So if the echosphere is to exist at all, Holy visdom must, although present, suspend its speration except in cases where its operation the actually balances - increases balance - in echosphere rather than abolishs it; so it would have to act covertly + in an unpredictable pattern, avoiding disturbing the echosphere; it would heighten the interaction within the echos sphere (or seem to). Axiomatically it could not openly) disclose its presence (therefore the failure of Holy Wisdom to be palpable/evident is -cannot be - an argument that it is not here). It would move like the wind + be cone with no trace that could be pointed to: in such a way as to heighten the interaction, not freeze it, within the echosphere. This might lead to two contradictory levels of reality, the covert one being a changeless monistic realm, therefore outside of time. This realm would outrank the realm of change + control it judiciously while the maintaining its invisibility (camouflage?). entire echosphere would be epiphenomenal. Note: "If kept to a minimum." If strictured. It must not permeate the whole system. It must be self-limiting. This is like surgery. on the other hand, absolute shrewdness would be the ultimate evolutionary survival success factor. Judiciously injected for that purpose it would guaranted competitive evolutionary victory - to whomever it was given to for whoever received it. This is an Hegelian historical imperitive, a tilting of the scales from outside the human societal "echosphere. This were the purpose, this would be the E perfect instrument: absolute smewdness, because 572 but this must be very judiciously applied, the latitude (so to speak "grease". Not of the system will vanish. Hence I can see ) that mere approximate cognition-perception must be the rule, or there will be kinetic death in the biological - i.e. higher - realms. + 2) this precise missing quality of Holy wisdom - absolute knowing - can be injected p571 into the total system if kept to a minimum. This stamps the origin of Holy Wisdom as ndubitably adventitious + for sure based on elestial decision + not chance or caprice; it is done where it can safely be done i.e. with out stering the system. So I deem it qua gift as the maximum gift which the celestial powers can give, temporarily elcrating the biological organism involved to the level of the celestial powers themselves or itself. This necessary normal occlusion will have the regretable spinoff of denying all biological organisms understanding of the celestial mechan nics - but if Holy Wisdom is injected into one of them temporarily he will see + understand but never be able to tell about it (since his vision is the absolute amidst the approximate hence irremediably dysmorphic). Not part clearances within a moving set of elements, as in an interal combustion engine, etc. If a missile were built which could escape any interception, + an intercept mechanism were built which could shoot down any missile, what would result? A stall or oscillation! Burpose ther be ful abolished be would activity 573) a latitude based on approximations on the part of missile + intercept mechanism both (why both? Why, if in just one of the two, the other would instantly obliterate it. So the area of mere approximation must so to speak float everywhere for all biological - i.e. sentient participants! It has to be a verity, a con‐ t stant, a ubiquity, in the total system perpetually It is literally the space-time which permits motion per se: the space-time in which the participants - all of them - move. It is literall a kind of space! nonetheless St Sophia introjects pure (absolute) cognitive-perceptual shrewdness at selected loci but this act can never be the rule; only the exception, + not even reportable in that it bears no resemblance to the cogniti perceptual approximating mechanisms installed in all biological entities perforce, + it must soon be withdrawn or the fortunate entity will become a juggernant. After the target t situation is over, it must be taken back as gift So - to go back to the chipmunk + the out - the must exist this neutral space in which they by participate + into which each - both - can move in + our, forward, backward. I envision it mechani cally, this model works to explain why we are occluded for our own good, + we are occluded, I found out in 3-74. (Due to being calculates de-occluded so I could solve a lethal problem absolute shrewdness generates inexorable actio who cannot err. fail, misfire, fall short etc is scary. The biological organism bein fect mechanism that will not deflect, s 74 5 perception at its disposal. He is like a killey intercept missile, which does not even need to know in the ideational, conceptual sense; he needs no mere hypothesis, no theory; it is like a zen archer. He does not have to think because he does not have to figure - reason anything out. Also the outcome is not in doubt. A wholly deterministic series has come into existence in fact the presence of absolute knowledge would introduce paradox into the system, a functional oxymoron. You cannot have owls that can catch all chipmunks + chipmunks that can escape all owls. The introjection of absolute knowledge would soon upset + void the system; on the other hand, absolute wisdom herself would know when, where + how she could safely introject herself, So in doing this she could not unwittingly err. But I say, holy Wisdom is the very element necessarily absent from the system‐ This is a realization so important as to beggar description, inasmuch as as I know, Holy Wisdom (absolute shrewdness) exists - exists but cannot, must not, be imparted. except in precisely limited bits that in no way suffuse the system. The key term is balance. withholding holy Wisdom permits balance within the echosphere, via the space of approximations on the other hand the judicious introjection may be also a balancing device - like measured amounts of poison that serve as healing medicine. these measured bits would (I think) jolt the system heverely, small though they be (viz: formula: "a tiny amount of absolute knowledge offsets a vast of approx. mation/guesswork mount 16 c t proposition: a biological organism granted Holy Wisdom would - albeit temporarily - know everything (as when a blind person abruptly becomes sighted: if he can see he can see everything that falls within his purview, sight is sight + absolute shrewdness is absolute shrewdness. The only limiting factor would be duration/memory. The organism would understand everything totally + then forget it after the gift was withdrawn - to its baffled irritation + dismay + frustration. Also, it would lack semantic mechanisms by which to hypo‐ statize what it temporarily knew. Thus Holy wisdom gets in + gets out. It would be the practical application in terms of action (deed) that would permanently count, not retrospective ratiocina. (theorizing). So Holy wisdom must stand outside the echo‐ sphere, precisely as Valis does or seems to do, monitoring it + perhaps introjecting absolute knowledge into it to maintain balance. It is impossible that absolute knowledge could exist within the echosphere because 1) if it were unevenly dis‐ tributed it would generate suggernacts or 2) set up infinite regressions of antithetical paradoxic dialectic that would lead immediately to seezing (i.e. 3 kinetic death). However, if John I is to be interpreted as Holy wisdom entering the echosphere Holy Wisdom would drive out approximation i pace, hence change, + set up something like Parmenides' static monism, although the illusion of change might persist or be allowed ban to 8 So if the echosphere is to exist at all, Holy visdom must, although present, suspend its speration except in cases where its operation the actually balances - increases balance - in echosphere rather than abolishs it; so it would have to act covertly + in an unpredictable pattern, avoiding disturbing the echosphere; it would heighten the interaction within the echos sphere (or seem to). Axiomatically it could not openly) disclose its presence (therefore the failure of Holy Wisdom to be palpable/evident is -cannot be - an argument that it is not here). It would move like the wind + be cone with no trace that could be pointed to: in such a way as to heighten the interaction, not freeze it, within the echosphere. This might lead to two contradictory levels of reality, the covert one being a changeless monistic realm, therefore outside of time. This realm would outrank the realm of change + control it judiciously while the maintaining its invisibility (camouflage?). entire echosphere would be epiphenomenal. Note: "If kept to a minimum." If strictured. It must not permeate the whole system. It must be self-limiting. This is like surgery. on the other hand, absolute shrewdness would be the ultimate evolutionary survival success factor. Judiciously injected for that purpose it would guaranted competitive evolutionary victory - to whomever it was given to for whoever received it. This is an Hegelian historical imperitive, a tilting of the scales from outside the human societal "echosphere. This were the purpose, this would be the E perfect instrument: absolute smewdness, because 582 expanded like adam Kadmon to fill the universe - or as Adam Kadmon. He is not one life form among life forms with approximate percept system knowledge of the outer world; he contains the outer world in him + hence all other living creatures in him - + therefore he is God (v. Sankara). Only God knows reality this way: a priori. + contains as well everything yet to occur. How can This be explained without consigning a lesser reality to all other people than I? by the macro-micro-cosm of the Hermetics. There is no other system that will explain it. macrocosm to me: microcosm containing the macrocosm. So the macrocosm contains the microcosm which contains the macrocosm in miniature. + in it, + it in me. (Christ: "us in you + you in us.") No - the discovery of outer reality in you a priori as well as prior to the events in outer reality themselves reminds you - shocks you into remembering your true identity as God who has entered his owncreation + forgotten who he is he has passed down through the layers of I 883 reality, forgetting something more, losing something more at each stage - now he (as soul) ascends to what + where he was originally - all based on finding the world + its creatures inside himself. absolute shrewdness is an invasion of the universe from outside (above?). No created I creature has that knowledge, especially a priori + in advance The "blooming" into (if) would not have occurred if the mind were wrong as to what (1), (2) + (3) pointed to. + this explains the postmortem experiences; the mind (involved here + disclosed to itself] is not of (or limited to) this world. So knowing what the Xerox