plasmate? + secret message traffic (in our media). We must be in the process of taking over this planet - i.e. set/ground cypher, e.g. "King Felix." The prophecies by the AI voice. The fall of governments. what is not encompassed by this explanation? Bible as a way of speaking, a code - to cover historic political Acts. Acts of liberation (e.g. the RC enlightenment). this is where + how the illuminate fit in. medical attention - askylepios. Superior technology. the polluted "ocean." The 2-rotor motor - all represent technology - the about Christo pher's birth defect. + this would explain the game playing contradictory multitude of explanations given me (e.g. Diana, Erasmus, Dionysos Ho on) - fairces - + why I haven't been able to figure it out in over 5 years; it has been a scramble, which religion (had it a religious origin) would not have needed. "The Empire never ended." How cardinal that now is revealed to be! This is tough, real Politike, not religion. It all has to do with 1) overthrowing Governments in order to 2) re-establ lish our own Garden world, + "lead him back to his throne." + what the Eucharist really represents: ock 387 dividing up our Lord so as to preserve him crypte morphosis form to reconstitute him in ages later on another world, even though we aad consciously forgotten everything! This is how you preserve a civilitation + trans‐ cant it elsewhere to an alien planet - or lanets plural. The invaders have no con‐ scious memories or knowledge - until their inner locks fire at the proper time. Well, then: the plasmate, cypher messages riding our media, the AI voice, Valis. anamnesis + secret Xtians programmed political acts all point to the fact that our planet is invaded + success - fully so, + quite invisibly. not to mention the 3-eyed cyborg people! An alien race that has been here for thousands of years + is creating its own pastoral culture in place of Our Empire, right in our midst, from inside, in "time capsule" form. I remember, now: this is the impression I got in repeading "Valis"! This would explain Valis' camouflage, all right + my sense of it breaking into invading) our reality- read planet. But in this case (i.e. our planet is invaded) what in the name of God is Valis: some vast Et life form? Or a computer e like construct? Valis is no "star i person" - Valis is not like us. I say, here is another life form here + it is vast, + perhaps it can warp time space + causality, + replace (substitute, 388 objects with itself. It is the ulti‐ mate of the whole situation + seems to possess super technology - here enter) The 2-tape programming + what I call "pretextual cause," which Valis controls. a variant theory. The 2-3-74 firing in me of the Kerygma was an accidental redundancy, due to a coincidental comingling of circum‐ stances; viz: the pentathol, the Golden Fish - with the result that I "woke up" - or rather a phylogenic (?) self in me woke up + went through its programmed series of ideationless actions android-like vis-a-vis that which at that time happened to come along (specifically the Xerox letter"; this was then, a malfunction, a misfiring which let me in on the greatest story (or secret) on our world: the real nature Xtianity (to recreate the culture of another planet on the part of people dispersed). The fact is, I knew nothing not already known by previously disinhibited Xtians back over a 2000 year (or more?) period. This made me privy not just to the DNA taped memory packet - + what t signified - but caused me to see + know the "state of the art" - i.e. that the secret Xtians existed in our midst, what they were really doing, their message traffic the coordinating transmitter (the AI voice) + Valis - to know their historic machinations + its purpose. In fact the firing in me could even be a belated firing, so-to-speak overlooked by history, a back up system (purposeful redundancy) whose plannied time had been for 2000 years ago, like unexploded wa I morter shell buried in an t pasture ome freach farmer that gets o si 389) by a plow in 1960 etc. Viz: techniques were deliberately employed 2000 years ago to disin‐ hibit - cause anamnesis of the home culture memories, knowledge + programmed Acts - the sacraments, rituals + sacred rites of the mystery religions (inc. Xtianity) by priests/people who knew what they were trying to achieve, done to people who knew why they were being initiated (I know enough about the Greco-Roman mystery religions to see how likely this is). This "we are from albemuth, this was the situation, all this is our heritage (from the pleroma?] + this is what we are to do" was what was revealed by "revealed" read "dis‐ inhibited as a priori prenatal knowledge" not adventitiously taught, + of course this was kept origidly secret; I mean a time from Elysius to Sarapis + St. Paul - all of which was aimed at overthrowing Rome since that was the Empire they faced at that particular time. but I get disinhibited belatedy 2000 years later by an accidental combination of circum‐ stances, such is bound to occur given enough time + people. Which is why I talk + write about it, but my isomorphic forebears did not, since they were sworn to silence, + knew what they were doing. establishment This, then, points to the Xtian church not so much as being a fraud or cargo cult as a front religious "parables for the many") hiding an esoteric ruth which is not theological but - well, you can't even call it "political - wow. Now what is the "Kingdom of God" seen as? Our home civilization, established here for us in secret, I has been established but you need the enhanced percept + cognition to set-ground is or 390 This would certainly account for "Luke's secrecy theme" + the cryptics answers that Jesus gave pilate but perhaps the most important aspect is what I call Valis, which is the deity-above the-stars who adopts the initiate whose eyes are now open + frees him from "astral determinism" - which is a slave or robot status, probably connected to subliminal DNA self-destruct programming; i.e. the "burning up" of "Karma." DNA programming seems to be the key to it all, to both the debased + enslaved state - + the remembering, restored + liberated state. the triggered-off packet when firing, finally, (if at all, + it is rare), masters all other (lesser?) DNA programming it is a meta-packet. Here is The antithetical dialectic + the hoped-for victory of the foreknowing "entity." This is salvation expressly. Then we would have to speak of the true Xtian as a superman. These are hierarchies life-functionings: distinct levels which supercede of each other. I have no idea what Valis is, only what it can do Here enter pronoia + charis. the packet is the psyche or noos of the Kyrios He is capable of multiple existence (Christoi). Is Valis his "father"? + the AI voice his voice as "Holy Spirit"? the linking transmitter. t t Wait! The Gnostic concepts of throwness, of alienation, of this not being our true world, of man + God (Valis) separated by the world (read: alien planet), the of i t f read: home the pleroma for 391 planed - + the Gnosis, which restores us to our true state, read: anamnesis vis-a-vis purpose. The our origin planet, civilization fact that we are strangers here is somehow reversed by the Gnosis, + my explanation shows why; the link to our true culture (planet + itilization) is restored. Now: the Fall emigration from for our home world. To this place. + t getfulness but: there is the DNA memory packet which can be induced to fire. + Then we know - + are restored to - our true nature in the world but not of it The key: forgetfulness. The interruption of continuity of our civilization (i.e. its contents). This would normally occur given circumstances. But it being normal, the it was foreseen + the DNA memory packets a inserted to be disinhibited later. Yes the packet would be set up so that even if no one remembered, time + tide (i.e. the vageries of chance) would cause anam‐ nesis, as in my case. But: by the time of the Greco-Roman mysteries it had happened enough to become deliberately induced. Hence e.g. the essenes teach that we have sunk into sleep, intoxication + forgetfulness. So in "Valis" I was right to focus on nag Hammadi 392 So my acosmism + Gnostic acosmism stems from the same source; an instinctive repudiation of this world (planet) in favor of what is probably a Galactic civiliza it possessing exalted art, sciences + philosophy - not to mention Valis or God (whatever that may be; for me it defies description + analysis + hypo‐ stasis). What a bitter pill: we are prisoners here on an alien planet; but: we have encoded instructions on how secretly to set up the heavenly Kingdom (read: so recreate our original civilization) although we are oppressed, more so we are [perhaps involuntary) revolutionaries, fighting "the Empire" So "Valis" is close to the mark: 31) Gnosticism 2) Secret Xtianity + historical intervention 33) phylogenic memory - great wisdom + knowledge 4) 3-eyed "space people." 5) something to do with time. As it serred back thousands of years - to the 3-eyed people! f course - to our home race. n forced out of the Garden of Eden: forced to emagrate from our home planet. our faculties impaired; devolution, + perhaps inbreeding with the indigenous Earth hominoids. freedom from "astral determinism"" star ling DNA packet firing + obviating human DNA programming. higher goals based on the values of our own civilization, all of which 393 we carry in us as dormant phylogenic memory, waiting to be disinhibited, to take control (+ overcome "fate - the son (a Christos) can see the father. 4:30 am insight: not all humans can be Xtians (true ones), only those few who have the star genes + DNA packets. "you did not choose me; I chose you, i.e. you have no choice in the matter. Hence the correct doctrine of predestination i e which in context, now, makes sense. So the Gnostic Gnosis is restored memory long term racial memory of our origins, of a great civilization elsewhere, which explains our situation here. We know who/what we are where we came from + what we are to do, + the DNA memory packet fires + releases in us the basis of our original civilization in rich detail: i.e. tons of information. Viewed one way we are alien to this planet; viewed another way we are secret invaders whe will overthrow its societies in order to re-estab‐ lish our pastoral Kingdom (the Garden from which we were evicted). The salvific Gnosis, then, equals anamnesis (due to the nature of what is remem‐ bered). It is suddenly totally clear to me that) how "Tears" tells the ur-story of our home world which appears in the Gospels, the Bacchae + Hamlet. the usurper the King of Tears is on the throne + is a tyrant; the land groans under his yoke. The stranger shows up + is imprisoned (unrightfully; he is innocent). oom comes to the King of Tears sell 294 Buckman) + he repents (the scene in the all-night gas station which appears in Acts thus tying "Tears" explicitly to the N.T.). The Bacchae, Hamlet + the NT + the "Tears" have a common source: DNA template: this is not a story among stories, this is the story of our home world I take it that our + what happened. to a deposed or to a ancestors belonged revolutionary party whose