order to enlighten him as to his state of enslavement. The dialectic which I saw was antithetical, not complementary. Unless an antithetical dialectic is conceived of the situation is impossible to understand. When I saw the dialectic I did no see one principle above it. I can infer it if I wish, but I did not see it; what I saw looked like conflict. It looked like a fight to the finish with one side blind but powerful. The view that an upper & lower realm exist is platonist, but that stride (antithetical dialectic) exists between them is Qumran & Gnostic & Catharist, & esp. mystery religions (the irruption of the supra lunar into the sublunar, an invasion & overpowering.) I just realized after writing the above, as I recall the perturbation in the reality field that I saw, & the melting, that it was the advocate - whatever else might be there or not there, that is so - externalized & real. I must infer the nature of the advocate from my experience, rather than from scripture when necessary. The vortex seemed an extension a me-as-a-field, or at least close to me: tangent to me - & also in me: a presence which entered me from outside, bringing with it a non-me personality. It attacked this world on my behalf to unchain me & to reveal to me the truth & to aid & extricate & inform me & speak for me as if it were me, disguised as me. But I stand with the formulation in "Valis," that rational intelligence did not create (give rise to) the universe but is either a product of it, or, more likely, has invaded it to combat its blind mechanistic striving. Thus it is pitted against the universe. My proof: that it is assembling itself from othe universe, which it uses as parts which it incorporates & arranges coherently & meaningfully. What this is in conventional theological terms I don't know, but I know what I experienced & I saw as it sees & knew what it knows - & that is enough. I know that it views the universe as a chaos, & I know that this view is correct. I can recognize a sentient unitary self-constructing entelechy, here & it is not the universe & not the creator of the universe if indeed there is one. It is a life form of ultimate homeostasis (self-creating, i.e.). It has made war on the universe & the blind processes of the universe which are unjust & in fact irrational. It is a higher order of organization than anything we know, & is camouflaged here (to us). & it is our mentor. Thus I can say of it that I know enough to thank it, love it & respect it & recognize it as my savior. This functional definition suffice me. I also say its 0-1 language, which I just realized recently. Now I realize that in this two-mode system active or one represents a constituent incorporated into the entelechy, & zero or at - best not incorporated; so the structure does not utilize language But is language, as I state in "Valis": it is living information, the language is it, not used by it merely. It is not just a thinking entity but a language - thinking entity; it is its own thoughts! (as correctly put forth in "Valis".) & I saw the activity of its thinking going on., which we experience as flux (change in time). Time, then, is the activity of this mind. It is pure intelligence. Its effect on material reality & causal processes (the universe) is to pattern it into a brain. To arrange it & thus create a brain for itself. It was nice a human being who lived at the time of Acts & feared the Romans & knew the xtian secrets & sacraments. It is now discorporate except for the - it can turn anything into its corpus; its corpus is not a thing but an arrangement of things & processes, which produces language, thought, information! i.e. a macro brain, this includes humans. Macro-brain, not corpus This is precisely Paul's description of the mystical body of - or the cosmic - Christ. The logos of the 4th Gospel. We see the arrangement of processes but can't perceive them as a language by a single thinking (& growing) entity. It is indeed a negentropic vortex assimulating the universe. It is imposed pattern (what I call arrangement). There is no corpus separate from whatever it chooses - seizes on - to arrange. So in a sense it has no body - brain - of its own. It can pattern anything to become part of the brain; it totally uses the given, the given & nothing but the given the constituents then relate (link) to each other & then one another, to do this, it (VALIS) must be able to modulate causal processes, (how else can it impose pattern?) It bears an uncanny resemblance to UBIK, & also to Plato's Noos persuading necessity. Is it possible that an object & its causal process is only included at the time it's converted from the zero rest made to the one action mode - that the imposition of pattern is itself in FLUX, using & discarding & moving on? It sure has discarded me! I'm in the zero mode now, & hence "outside" the pattern - its axis is transtemporal as non-temporal (accretional). As correctly stated in "Valis" time is changed into space, & the Gestalt of VALIS then emerges. Only a micro - thin slice is here now. It thinks across time, which for it s not time but space. Somehow Acts is its base, which should be a clue to its identity. It's a binary either-or thinking - language activity but the sequence is supra-temporal the time axis as space axis. Say, integer [1] is put into the active mode in 100 AD & the next in 540 AD & the next in 1700 AD - or so I deduce: the laminations system, where the onion model of "Ubik" obtains for it. But to read it, the set/ground unscrambler is needed. VALIS is UBIK, & in "Ubik" UBIK breaks in one way through a simulated reality to tell them the truth: they are stationary & fed a simulated reality; & this is what VALIS (Zebra) revealed to me. VALIS was the "uncanny intrusion" which [then] depicts vis-a-vis UBIK & there is a time reversion in "Ubik" which I now recognize as a changing of time into space similar to what I experienced in 2-3-74. The "onion layers" model of time & hence of reality is presented in "Ubik." Thus I am led to the conclusion that the one-way in-breaking of VALIS (& esp. that the melting of causal trains) demonstrate, as it does in "Ubik," that our reality is simulated. ➀ If VALIS thinks along the time axis, that would account for my sense of VALIS 1) being from the past (i.e. Acts) & back from the future, moving retrograde. & this would account for it giving the sense of having overcome time & certainly would explain the superimpositions (which discloses the BIP)(& the xtian attack on it.) ➀ It not only is simulated - it is a prism, & enslaves us, trading on our ignorance of its nature, Yes - the pattern of its Gestalt which VALIS imposed extends back & forth along the time axis which to it is a spacial axis. Actually it extends along all 4 spacial axes, simultaneously. Maybe this is why we can't read its language; we would have to convert time into space. 1) Did I convert it & hence see VALIS? 2) or was I incorporated into VALIS & hence could then see time as space. Thoughts upon reading the first half of "Valis"! We are in a situation like the cold-pac in "Ubik." It is a hologram reality; time, space, causality & ego are not real - the world (phenomenal world) is not real but projected. We have preprogrammed lock-in tapes synchronized with the total outer Matrix. Subliminal cues & into are fired at us constantly; "reality" is really information (as I saw); we are a brain, V.P. 22, the controllers are the 3- eyed telepathic deaf, mute builders with crab-claws; this explains who they are. They can readjust our hologram at will. We are under their dominion, & we perform a useful cerbral function. They equal VALIS which equals UBIK & which breaks through on the one-way "eerie manifestation" basis which [Being] depicts. It is a spurious reality & their technology generates it, & although they aid & inform us they also occlude & control us ( this is "astral determinism") they can & do intervene in their own system; we know this as "God." They use camouflage & mimesis re their presence here. There is a teaching - machine elemet involved. Timed [cognere]. In a sense the 3-eyed people in their bubble, looking down at us were not so much physicians but surgeons, using laser beams to recontour our hologram. They are not in the hologram but above it (i.e. outside the cold pac, & they've sent ZEBRA-VALIS-UBIK in). Because of my book "Valis" they're going to zap me. they did not invade the phenomenal hologram to help me; they just disclosed themselves. They are rational. It never occurred to me when I wrote "VALIS" that a maze (which I describe our world as actually being) is a test situation - struction built by a higher life form to teach, test or study a lower life form, but this is precisely the situation, & then saw fit - through VALIS - to tell me so - i.e. reveal this actual situation. It already has shown up in my writing. Fed to me subliminally. So "Valis" must have their approval if not outright authorship. The news in being broken to us. I had it all correctly figured out except for grasping the significance of the fact that "maze" signifies testing, studying & training a lower species, that we are the lower species & not isomorphic with the 3-eyed people who built the maze - nor did I grasp the significance of their being outside - i.e. above - the maze looking down at it (represented by the stagnant pond & the pond life) & their controlling "the reality field" (i.e. the maze) & us inwardly/outworldly at will. As the special faces guy in St. Jude's said, "maybe we're in a biosphere" (& owned). Okay - they saved my ass in 3-74 through their parousia here, Zebra/Valis/Ubik, but - we're just pond life to them living in a irreal hologram which they manipulate at will without our suspecting (the "supra-lunar or upper realm" making matter "plastic" in the face of their mind - & making [of] appear time passes) they have run me like a toy train. In 1974 they intervened in the maze to overthrow the tyranny. They approached me. In -70 they put cypher in "Tears" It may be - repeat merely maybe - that in my earlier writing I on my own, guessed correctly as to the maze (& controllers?) Nature of our (irreal) world, which would be why they approached me. Does "maze" equal Bip? Anyhow there are those who are trying to liberate us - the early xtians. I am linked in 2-74. They are running a program or experiment in this biosphere, utilizing an antithetical dialectic; we are in furious flux. The secret xtians are abotaging the maze (Bip), bringing to a few of us (e.g. me) enlightenment as to the true situaltion. They must represent a humane faction - i.e. one called by us Christ. Valis is this faction (?) a: them - he are revolutionaries against the old order of the maze, & the program being run at our expense. The vision of Palmer Eldritch in the sky in the early