was what I wanton so badly when I wd a kid first reading the Bible. This is Sila, the soul of the universe, speaking in a woman's voice "that would not frighten even a child," as the Nome shaman put it. YHWH: the low, murmuring voice. He calls us to rebellion and to freedom, the little clay pot who fashioned the universe. The time- you have waited for has come. The work is complete; the final world is here. He has been transplanted and is alive- — mysterious voice in the night 9-10-80 I have to realize that the revelation about the reality of the Prison is a genuine revelation; it exists down through the ages and it exists now. I saw it: prison and Empire, the tunnel of history. When I say "revelation" I mean divine disclosure of the nature of history...and that I had correctly depicted this archetype in TEARS, that TEARS was true; a timeless condition of man's servitude to the Empire, man enslaved; and the rest of the revelation was of the genuine secret underground Christians fighting it. How easily 1 forgot this revelation and sought for obscure meanings 1 The meaning is not obscure. First I wrote TEARS, based on intuition, and then it was published; and then God disclosed to me in a theophany that it is true, literally true, exactly as depicted: true now, true in the future and true in the past; and this is what history, divine history, is all about. The paradigm in the Bible is the Hebrews brought out of slavery in Egypt. The explanation for 3-74 is so simple; the primary purpose was to reveal to me that what I had written was true, and, secondarily, to rescue me as an example of rescue by God from the Prison; this was an instance. God says that 1 am a scribe for Scripture, and proved it to me by showing me the Acts material in TEARS; by putting it in there in the first place. 1 must never overlook this disclosure about history when I am trying to understand 3-74. There is war taking place, war between Christ and the Empire or Satan. Freedom in Christ, slavery in the Empire. This is the Ursatz of reality, the ontological basis (much as Hegel saw). God says to me, "You are on the side of the prisoners and you have told their story, and I approve. And you have been such as these — a prisoner; and I have set you free." This is 3-74. 3-74 can't be understood except in terms of the narrative told in TEARS; this narration is the real purpose of it all (but I was so surprised by 3-74 that I forget that). But as a writer I should realize: It is what is written that matters; that is the goal. First I told the story (in TEARS) and then an example of what I told (freedom) took place in regard to me. So I experienced the very release that I had written about. Thus my extrication is a dazzling example of the power of God to rescue, and I can then apply it to the general narrative, to history, and see how it is done and that it is done. The name of all this (3-74) is information. And that is what is in TEARS. The Befahltrager became the Geheimnistrager, through the Grace of God. My life was truly in danger when I wrote TEARS and again when I published it, but God protected me and I was delivered. Remember how scared I was? I sensed my situation. I was insane with fear and it was rational fear, given what I had written and published. I was the bearer of an important message and that role might have meant my death or imprisonment. It came very close but then the Holy Power arrived — I am thinking of the Xerox missive which would have hanged me. Could the Acts material in TEARS decode to mean: where the Prison is, He is there, too? I think so. I think that is it — and this is also true —very true-- of the two-word cypher. I wrote the Prison narrative, and God put in the Christian narrative. Together these two parts form the complete story (my story by itself is only half the story; the rest —the good part— I didn't know). The story is not just "There is a Prison" but "and it is under attack by the Christians, by Christ Himself." This is quite different. -3- As to the question, "Who is the information for?" I will probably never know; perhaps information is information and exists for its own sake. It is a fact that Valis continually generates and processes and stores information. -1- 9-13-80 Huizinga, THE WANING OF THE MIDDLE AGES: "The imagination was continually striving, and in vain, to express the ineffable by giving it shape and figure. To call up the absolute, recourse is always had to the terminology of extension in space..." p. 220. "But still the contemplation of the absolute Being ever remains linked up with notions of extension or of light." p. 221. "The mystic imagination found a very impressive concept in adding to the image of the desert, that is to say, extension of surface — that of the abyss, or extension in depth. The sensation of giddiness is added to the feeling of infinite space." P. 222. In my six and a half years of working on my exegesis I have often said, "I have found it." I don't want to do that one more time, one in an endless series of failure. It seems almost as if the mere saying of it causes it to permutate to some other explanation. But I do think that the night I was talking on the phone to K.W. and realized that in 3-74 I experienced Medieval vertical —which is to say Gothic— space, and this meant that I had ontologized reality in terms of Medieval use of space, time and causality, and hence Valis was God or Christ (it is the same); I think then I had it: that the vast volume of vertical space that I experienced in 3-74 (as well as the transformations in time as if I were seeing down a time axis extending thousands of years) meant that I had abreacted to a Medieval worldview, and within that view a theophany was logical, i.e. possible. -2- Theophany and miracle and pronoia in the modern worldview, the way we organize space, time and causation now, would make no sense; so God provided a meaningful context in which these could logically occur. So I say, I have found a clue that offers me (1) It is not ETI. (2) It is not UTI* (3) It is not a computer. (4) It is not AI. (5) It is not ancient technology. (6) It is not people from the future. (7) It is not USSR. (8) It is not psychosis. (9) It is not drugs. (10) It is not the Rosy Cross Brotherhood. (11) It is not quantum mechanics. (12) It is not the occult, i.e. magic. (13) It is not the paranormal. Here are thirteen possibilities abandoned and one decided on; that it was God and most likely the Christian God because: (1) The Acts material in TEARS. (2) The Christian golden fish sign. (3) The Greek. (4) My performing the original sacraments. (5) My anamnesis of being an authentic Christian. (6) My moksa that there is a secret Christian underground. (7) My fear of the Romans. -3- (8) The Hebrew letters which point to YHWH which then would be the Christian God (unless you’re a Gnostic). (9) The AI voice speaking of Saint Sophia, as well as the showing me the Sacred Tetragrammaton. (10) Dreams about Elias, High Carmel and fire trucks, my friend Elisha. (11) My name entered in the "hotel register" and the realization that I could stay there (which I take to be the lamb's book of life). (12) The blood of the lamb mixed with my blood. (13) The time of year (Easter). (14) Much else, etc. The problem has always been what I call "the eleventh datum"; you get ten data to point to one explanation and then the elventh one comes along and it changes the whole chain by pointing to something else; a flip-flop occurs. But I don't think that is the case here. The vast volumes of space (and other changes in the ontological categories of perception, of organizing world) seem identified with God and with God alone. I can see in reading about Eckhart that his fourth level of experience —in which reality is experienced as absolute abstractions which is how these things are in the mind of God— agrees with my world of the reticulated, arborizing phylogons. Also, I can see now that Valis' organizing its macrasoma out of the stockpile of the antecedent universe is God ordering chaos into form which is another way of speaking of continuous creation. -4- Outside of the theophany, miracle and pronoia the revelation consisted of a disclosure in terms of human history: the Black Iron Prison always present, always in power, but under attack from the secret Christians — and, since this is connected to TEARS and the themes, ideas, material and messages in TEARS, connected with me —- which is to say, my own role in historical terms was revealed to me: what I was fighting against and who I had aligned myself with (the secret Christians). Thus the broadest possible picture in which I was involved existenially was disclosed to me. My view of the relationship between God and the universe is basically that of Spinoza; God is immanent and the relationship is one of necessity not contingency. God who is unitary simulates the plurality of the phenomena; I am a pantheist and a monist, but I believe that God is totally free and that he simulates rigid causality, that miracle is possible and that pronoia exists (miracle is possible in view of the fact that rigid causality is simulated in the first place and hence can be suspended; God works in terms of what I call "pretextual" cause — there is always a sufficient reason (cause) but God is the real cause of everything). What we see that we call the universe of plurality is actually unitary God; I am an acosmic panentheist, I guess, as I've said before. I also believe that God is intelligere, that this intelligere _is his esse; he does not know because he exists but exists because he knows (at one time this was the view of Eckhart)° I have a theory that the universe-in-time was generated by God's decision to know himself, his self-perception starting an endless chain of dialectical pro¬ gression in what we know of as time; i.e. it brought time into existence by a sort of infinity of mirrors effect, that he caused himself to change by his very act of self-awareness. He could not be not self-aware and still be intelligere; thus the universe of the ontogons —and plurality— that we experience is in fact God¬ in-time, God in process, and this process is one of self-awareness, there being nothing for him to know except himself. Living at the time of Newton, Spinoza thought of causality as rigid determinism within a closed system; what I see is God's power in terms of the direction taken by probabilities. With reality as a unified field, God exerts a relentless power over the acausal factors (what we know as synchronicity) and so controls the universe; as Will Durant says about Spinoza's God: "His will is law." This is true, but causal law really deals with probabili¬ ties; however, God decides which shall be actualized and which shall remain merely potential. It is like a perturbation in a field, a perturbation of the astronomical sort...this perturbation points to God and the