-just now. a the This has now me. in united, 27 "the pression life 4 years ago, but it will return." Key Jargons + as sebersack noted. God unites historically East + west in the world, as in micro cosm they are united in my mind. finally. The religious stuff went to nfinitics of infinities to conceal from he the truth: Thomas/pia spurt - just as in "Valis" infinitudes of religious + occult pseudo-scientic specula be conceals the hand book. I, who am pror-Thomas, really floated it past them. It has been excluding Thoma i Pigspurt from consciousness has produced my that merital illness (anxiety + phobias I over the decades, it's like repressing sexuality from consciousness, only It's political. But in (2) 3-74 it took over, hence the truly dissociated actions. now, with (1) the publishing of "Valis" + (2) heagan coming into office can set it int consciousness. Can face it. PT" + Thomas one - as expressed in the recent letter outlines psychological (ategration. + identional, a fusion of religion + plaspurt a (os in Spintza: Pig is "MI ner 28 to the enemy ears" is to a witness "dies Irae" + "Scanner," but, most of all, what I've said about "Valis" before of came out. No wonder I was so worked about it even coming out - the way I felt about "Tears" - remember didn't feel that way about "scanner" I as with Spinoza's attributer neithe religion (outer, spatial extensin) nor Pigspurt (inner mind) can be reduced to the other, it is a true Hegelian synthesis. A new thing in me + in the world (micro‐ macro-cosm). + 29 There are ms intelligible archetypal ideas stored in us but they don't fire because creation has slipped (fallen). Not Christ reunites creation with the upper realm; a I experienced the intelligible archetypal ideas correctly synchronized with reality, + I did see Christ the cosmic Christ He saved (restored me) + thus synchronized the tw realms: (1) the upper (intelligible archetypal ideas stored in us): + (2) lower (creation as Eden). It was a microreunion of the two realms effected in me. The intelligible archetypal ideas in me (they are heaven) fired + I saw world correctly as Eden. This was due to 2-74 when by accident (?) one of my pal archetypal ideal did match up with reality + I saw eide in/as reality + understood the "meta-abstraction," which then (3-74) caused all the others to fire [Note} Thus seeing USA 1974 + Acts superimposed was a brief apperception of restored creation - it was induced by the Golden Fish sign. Literally I saw one object (BIP) in two places (space-time continua) + my mind leaped to the truth. Seeing the eide in reality in 2-74 was the first moment of my restoration; the Gap dividing heaven (the intelligible archetypal ideas - eide) + reality (Eden) was abruptlly but only briefly abolished (3) âž€ So they can't act as inner analogs of reality + so don't fire at all starting as "phosphene graphics" (3) So an eidos in me did match up with rea 30 substantially Plato is right about ( anamnesis, but the eide are in us: i they are supposed to fire + thus stabalize outer flux by means of them as constants. my meta-abstraction was due to seeing one object - BIP - in two places (+ times) simultaneously; this caused the eidos BIP to fire - + later the others fired as they are supposed to. Christ acts to cause this. Hence the rift betwee. The 2 realms (heaven, upper, the conceptual eide + Eden (lower realm, reality) is abolished. restoration of the individual (microcosm) is a restoration in the ground of being itself, as Hans Jonas says about Gnosticism Hence I saw Xtian apocalyptic history, which is our last 2000 years of flux with the constants (eide, intelligible archetypal deas) in place (a priori in us, as what I I call the "Acts grid/lens"). These constants are exactly like the constants of math - the leap from I can plus I cow equals 2 lows" to "I plust equals two." Thus, as Plato fully realized, flux (disorder) is turned into intelligible order with constants that do not come into being, decay + perish literally chaos becomes cosmos. The failure of the stored innate eide in a person to link up with reality is a microcosm of the macro cosmic Fall! Hence, repair to that micro ground of cosm is a repair in the general certain real sense n, is a being ( de ne an 31 without the eide in him firing the person is perceptually cut off from Their counterparts in reality - if indeed they do also exist in reality, but this is a metaphysical issue lying t beyond the possibility of proof; the "observes participant" theory explains why One could put it simply, "the person notices (as mild a word as possible) recurrent constants in reality + figures out what this means for him perceptually he can organize his perception of flux by means of these constants, which, he discovers are innate categories in him like a priori math truths." Hence the impression of remembering, or, more accurately overcoming forgetfulness. This is something he in a sense learns to do, but it is a it learning" based on "remembering," which means drawing the constants up from their mere latent state in his collective unconscious, + applying them as maturing analogs of reality, as an unscrambled grid/lens" the issue is disorder (flux vs creation itself (creation equalling intelligible order). The schism noted by Parmenides between a priori truths + reality is abolished + the person healed Thus the semireal" flux realm (lower realm) + the real form realm (upper realit become one. Noein + einai are rejoined us to then what he knew by virtue of his noin had no einai (the Flux 32 Hence there took place in me a hierogamy between my unconscious (Thomas) + my conscious (PKD) - Pigspurt + religion. so in "Valis" the two are combined in a the unified politico-theological schema. two do not run paralled without inter acting - as in "Tears" - but form one integrated structure. (In "Tears" you can read on an "either-or" basis: either politics or religion; but in "Valis" this an not the case; thus "Valis" shows is integrated psyche at work; "Tears" + "Scanner" show two separate psyches at work each with its own orientation.) (This is why in "Valis" you find Holy Wisdom delivering what amounts to a political manifesto.) (i.e. nothing in "Valis There that I was is subliminal, nothing unaware of putting there as in "Tears") ("Valis" is after all, the first novel I've written since the rift in me was healed [in 2-3-74).) 1) Healing of reft between the two realms: macrocosmic restoration 2) Healing of reft in me between my conscious (PKD) + unconscious (Thomas): microcosmic restoration in seeing the Golden Fish sign, both my conscious mind (PKD) + unconscious (Thomas) saw the same thing - in two times + two places; hence anamnesis + recovery of the universals occurred. Both PKD + Thomas leaped to the realization of eide (universals) + so they were unified by being for the first time synchronized. Together they apprehended one unified reality, trans-spatiotemporal 33 I just now reread my stones notes from last night. Yes, the Xtian material is a smoke surden generated by Thomas that would accound for him + his Pigspurt view (Hegelian dialectic in history) taking me over. But. The Xtian apocalyptic history will blend with his Pigspurt Hegelian dialectic in history; they are n, just as I saw in 3-74 projected onto world. They would have to be syntonis for me + Thomas to coexist in one brain the result: a higher synthesis of thesist antithesis: "Valis"! However the Platonist eide is not a hysterical hypnotic smoke screen; it is a valid meta-abstracting but what is really perceived is Hegel's dialectic of + in history, mounting through cumulative stages of higher i ie in it was not as in t t s higher resolution. The synthesis of Pigspurt + Xtian apocalyptic history is a legitimate + higher resolution. In it I (PKD) + Thomas are at last reconciled. My notes are correct Religious: outer. Pigspurt: inner, like (as I say s pinoza's two attributes of one substantia. neither is more true than the other, although the purpose of the generating of the theological perception in me was tactical by Thomas so that his Hegelian Pigspurt view of history (the dialectic - no wonder I saw the dialectic s would be palatable (i.e. syntonse). In essene in "Valis" divine authority is claimed for the revolutionary manifesto call to battle. That the two are syntonic - + Palatable to me - is 34 indication that the Xtian aspect (attribute) makes it - will make it - Palatable to other people, in this decade of the moral majority it - the revolutionary doctrine + apperception of history - has to be presented this way, now. b the Xtian element (attribute) is real also in a sense factical. "Neither but attribute can be reduced to the other" - Pigspurt + Xtianity; this is a genuinely new synthesis. Each side or attribute if pushed all the way flips over into the other (enantiodromia + e Taoism, the dialectic, yin + Yang). t i . is us This revolutionary spirit began a long time before Pigspurt, e.g. the Dutch wars but it is So 2-74, due to the pentath. Pigspurt now + the Golden Fish sign, was a fusion, a blending, of my two selves experienced externally as a fusion + blending of two spatiotemporal sets; the real purogamy was internal; that's where the event occurred; both selves in me discovered that their two worldviews were based on (or contained) a common essence or eide: the "revolutionary secret Xtians" fighting "the Empire," the BIP Thus that day in 2-74 the two parts of me (2wee seelen) for the first time blended into me, + with a binocular view. "Valis" is the result of this inner hierogamy neither t self fought the other; hence I felt Thomas swimming into consciousness; it was not an either - or but both what the Golden Fish sign did a was reveal to me higher synthesis s I previously unsuspected, at which level my two warring personalifies could be reconcited - + this higher synthesis was Xtian apocalyptic history (as in Hegel); so 2-74 was a psychological event as well as epistemo‐ logical, Xtian apocalyptic history as mind-set/orientation/worldview success t a fully subsumed + unified the up-tothen conflecting two worldviews in me: normal establishment Xtianity + Pigspurt these are opposed: Xtianity + atheistic communism!). Suddenly in a flash saw them, as two spatiotemporal sets subsumed within + by a vast total view of 2000 years of history involving cumulative dialectical struggle for a freedom. Hence it can correctly be said that I saw the same thing at two times + two places: Rome + the imperial vs gove ernment; Rome seen by my Xtian side; vs Government seen by Thomas. + buth "things" were one, hence an eidos; so I did experience Plato's anamnesis + recovered the universals. But I have missed the psycho‐ logical integrative aspects. Both selves in me had the same enemy but had never recognized it until that day. the one super‐ dea - vision of society + history - subsumed + unified the two up-to-then competing lower ideas. So thesis + antithesis flashed over into synthesis, of one higher 36 the conflict that divided me was abolishe this event was very dramatic in me, as witness the bizarre dissoliative activity + perception of reality in 3-74, what was happening was that due to this higher synthesis material - a selfexcluded from my consciousness could finally enter consciousness + be incorporated t into + as one meta-psyche (Jung's psycho but only now that logical integration). appraise the