constant, so when objective (clock) time speeds up, since it is really constant, you have slowed down. {Note} Think of 2 cars traveling parallel at the same speed. You then look out of yours at the other + it has begun to speed up + is pulling ahead. But if its speedometer shows that it is still at the agreed-upon constant, you must have slowed down, but only subjectively - wait; this isn't right.] No, you are the real constant. One travels into the future - moves faster through time, by slowing down in relation to clock time. {Note:} Subjectively only! Your biological clock has slowed, + from outside you are seen to congeal. There are 2 kinds of time; the word covers two phenomena. While you move faster through objective (clock time, as the frenzied clock dial shows) in terms of internal biological time you have slowed - ah; Einstein's relativity! There's the answer! I've independently discovered relativity! folder 48 - 095 folder 48 - 095 Paradoxically, you are both slowing down + speeding up. From inside looking out, you have speeded up: you know this by the frenzied turning of the clock hands. But someone outside still in synch with clock time sees you slow + congeal. The 2 cars paradigm above shows the paradox in that the paradigm while accurate does not explain this paradox! It is non Einsteinian. The slower you move in time the faster things happen. Proposition one. Valis travels very fast in time; viz: it traverses years in a single second. Proposition two. Valis moves (presumably through time) at an incredibly slow rate; viz: our world moves at high speed in relation to it; it (Valis) is congealed in relation to us. It experiences our world as moving much faster than it. Thus Valis moves much faster + simultaneously much slower than our world. How can both propositions be true: answer: the word "time" refers to two different things. (1) Rate of change. In this sense Valis moves slower than us (i.e. proposition two). (2) "Time" also refers to a fixed interval system which is a constant against which the rate of change is measured. One can only say that "change occurs rapidly" if it is measured against something. This "something" is objective time + would occur even folder 48 - 096 if there was no change. This can be shown by the subjective experience of time dilation by a person who has taken drugs such as LSD. Regardless of his subjective experience of time dilation there has been in fact no time dilation; he has subjectively undergone a recallibration of his time units. Our world moves faster than Valis, + Valis scans (experiences) our world that way - that is relatively. But it binds our world's change in such a way as to callibrate it with Valis "moving" at a faster rate than our world, inasmuch as Valis can bind whole centuries -even thousands of years- into a present. The key is this present (by Valis) which is a wide slot of out world's change: so Valis' apperception of our world based on its time-binding subsumes our world, so that subjectively Valis is "moving" faster in real time (1) than our world, not slower. Viz: it takes our world 2000 years to cover what Valis covers in hours or days; thus Valis moves faster, yet if seen by our world (which is only hypothetically possible) is congealed in terms of change. Obviously in 3-74 due mainly to the Lithium I slowed down to Valis' rate, which finally had the effect of speeding up the perceived rate of change of our world to the rate that Valis experiences it; this gave me the prolonged time-binding present of Valis so that I saw the Urwelt of "Tears" + finally I saw Valis acting in + on our world in the form of folder 48 - 097 folder 48 - 097 clearly sentient patterns of moves of the changes - visible to me due to the slot or accretional present. Thus it became evident to me that we are self-replicating cells within a macro-organism, + the life of each of us extends over very large numbers of replications: i.e. phylogenic self, life, identity ("reincarnation"). Valis moves so fast that for a year of its life to pass by, thousands of cells must replicate + die to maintain Valis. Valis uses up its cells at a great rate. __ Although Valis is moving faster through (in) time -centuries in minutes- its change rate is slower (i.e. than ours). Therefore time + change rate are not the same. The faster the change, not in it but in its world, the not-it, the slower it is moving. Our world seen speeded up presents quite a different picture as the present is expanded: it becomes accretional; the past remains within not behind the present. Yet Valis controls our world by being able to enter it at any time, since Valis outspans it. Valis can affect the whole historic process over centuries. At that velocity of change a different world emerges: "Tears." With analogously long-term lives. folder 48 - 098 folder 48 - 098 The control (Valis) would want our world to move at high speed in relation to it (i.e. to Valis) as in Sturgeon's "Microcosmic God," since it would put vast stretches of change-process under the [scanning] scrutiny + hence power of the control. Suppose the reverse obtained: we were coagulated in relation to Valis. Valis would want to hurry along the linear time strip of our reality to locus after locus rapidly. This is achieved by putting our reality on fast forward, with Valis inserting crucial adjustments at key times + places. If we moved much more slowly than Valis, Valis would die before events it needed to influence ever came about. But I see Valis slowing down our reality at crucial moments of adjustment by synchronizing himself to our high velocity - a bailing in on his part. At high velocity our system discloses certain constants or patterns which Valis can analyze + direct over long periods of our time. __ Solution: if you travel through space very fast objects "move" fast past you; but this is relative. So when you travel fast through time, processes (change) occur hyper fast. Again, Einstein. In a real sense when you move fast through space, folder 48 - 099 folder 48 - 099 objects are moving fast (in relation to you). So you move fast through time + processes change move hyper fast in relation to you. Hence Valis, the control, is moving at hyper speed through time; as a result, our world speeds up. The temporal axis must be construed as a spacial one, + then the problems vanish. But I still say paradoxically it slows down in relation to time, + as a result change accelerates; time contracts (the opposite of time dilation). In relation to time, not to change. A disparity must be achieved, rather than a synchronization. In Sturgeon's story the microscopic people would see the macro-human moving very slowly, if at all. __ Our world permutates hyper fast in relation to Valis. But neither Valis nor our world is a (or the) constant; here "fast" + "slow" -i.e. faster or slower- are relative to each other, like two moving trains. There is a third thing that is the constant (in my opinion). This would be the Earth in relation to the two trains. But is time transversed, like space, or consumed, like energy? If transversed, Valis moves faster than our world; if consumed, then our world hyper consumes vis-a-vis Valis (i.e. it consumes years as Valis consumes a mere second). Each -transverse, consume- in relation not to each other -Valis to world- but each to the constant. So if time is space, Valis moves folder 48 - 100 folder 48 - 100 894 {note in the margin:} 2000 seconds faster than us; if energy, Valis "moves" i.e. consumes at a much more meager rate. I call on the dual model: time is both space + energy; thus Valis moves both faster + slower than us: the explicates the paradox. Let's call a "year" the basic unit of time (revolution of the Earth around the Sun). For Valis. There are 525,600 minutes in a year. Let us say that as our world moves in time as space one year Valis moves only 1/525,600 of this (one minute: one year), i.e. one minute. 31,536,000 seconds in a year; let us say that the ratio is year to second, so that when our world has consumed 31.5 million units, Valis has consumed just one. If time is energy, let us postulate that our world is issued one hundred units of time - years, + so is Valis. This is 315 million seconds. (I.e. 3 billion 15 million seconds.) When our world has consumed one year (31.5 million seconds), Valis has consumed just one. So Valis is consuming a fixed constant of time (100 years) very slowly in comparison to us. But if the situation is that time is space, in one second Valis has covered 31.5 million times the distance we have, + hence is moving 31.5 million times faster than us. But to use the bimodel theory, that time is both energy + space, Valis "moves" both faster + slower than us at a ration of 31.5 million to one. If the bimodel paradigm is correct, Valis arrives at a given point in time (1) before our world does + (2) after our world does. Since change implies energy expended, I think time is energy. So primarily Valis is thrifty + consumes time very slowly. But it takes advantage of the fact that time is also space, + so reaches the end of any constant interval long before we do + therefore knows the outcome in advance of us. folder 48 - 101 Potter: Essenes. Acts. The black eunuch. The Holy Spirit = the spirit of [the Sons of] Light (vs Darkness) of Zoroaster. Jesus was not [a] God become man, but a man who 1) received the Holy Spirit (v supra) + 2) then was adopted by God as God's son. {Note 1} Luke-Acts is the core of the N.T., esp. the scene of Philip + the eunuch. Fallen angels who saw the human women as fair + mated with them + now are in prison, preached to by Enoch (or Jesus), this prison the basis of the doctrine of purgatory. But the offspring of these unions between fallen angels + earth i.e. human women were "great patriarchs of old" - i.e. superior genetic interbreedings. {Note 1:} I.e. became God. What if: "receive the Holy Spirit + adopted by God as his son" = fallen angel -or progeny of the interspecies symbiosis- being let out of prison (i.e. what I saw: "Tears" the BIP)? I discovered 1) I was in prison. 2) I remembered Acts. {Note A} 3) I regained my true identity (enthusiasmos). 4) I was adopted by God: I, a man, became God. I.e. let out of prison. {Note A:} My Essene origin. The interspecies offspring are blended into the human race + distinguish themselves by signs - what shows up in the dream in the giving. folder 48 - 102 folder 48 - 102 The sons of light here + hidden: interspecies symbiosis unknown even to themselves (cf "the Book of Ptath".) The whole process is one of 1) displaying their identity by signs ("massive giving") 2) Remembering Acts - their origin. 3) Regaining their lost "son of light" nature. 4) Adopted by God, with the result that they are let out of prison - for them, this world is purgatorio. They were blended in[to the human race]; now they are winnowed back out. This is a very delicate process. __ The period in which we are observed -+ some (one in four) selected + some (three in four) rejected- is over;