it [i.e. Valis] knows the connectives, but we don't; they don't occur in space-time but conceptually, hence are in motion (as in rest-motion) to form kosmos. It is alive + it does think - at infinite velocity, + it is predicated on actual constituents in the physical flux world - but we see only a fraction, + none of the rest-motion [linking] modality. Kosmos completed - this is the goal. I am sure that this is what Pythagoras saw. Is it God or world? Impossible to say, but it is really real. It has invaded our universe + is invisibly (to us) dismantling + assimilating it. It may be a life form, a macro-brain operating along more dimension-axes than we know of. + it does use us to generate + process information - + our media as well. It is possible -very possible- that it is the Alexandrian Logos (of the Stoics + Philo, hence very likely Christ qua Logos; but to understand what this means you must study Philo + the Stoics; i.e. it is world reason + not God! It is an intermediary. Rauch {?} insight - something is messing with our mass communication media, + this is important. The medical info about Chrissy had to do with a Beatles record. Then "Tears" (no, this was prior). Then now: Asher (Divine Invasion + Heart Like a Wheel i.e. Ronstadt) Forget everything else; concentrate on this; + this theme, although it is in "V" is not stressed. Yet it was a major part of 3-74; why didn't I stress it more? + the Xerox missive had to do with cypher + extracting the cryptic information. If it communicated directly with us (as does the AI voice) we would know something superordinary exists + is communicating with us; this way we don't guess. This is so much like "Ubik"! Messages, from a supernatural agency, in the ubiquitous trash. This fits in with its camouflage of itself. A life form? Unfortunately this fits in with the revolutionary underground element, since this, too, is camouflaged. I mean, doesn't this point to a secular -i.e. non-religious- explanation? The "mind" of Valis that I experienced did not think because it is not a mind nor alive, it is a machine. A complex encoding + decoding -i.e. cypher- machine. I have a whole new theory. The truth is as pointed to in 2001, Valis is like the black stone. I was right originally when I represented it as an information satellite, i.e. artifact, there (here) to guide + teach us, but an artifact nonetheless. But isn't it growing + thereby bringing more + more of reality under its control? Yes! Its internal organization is spreading out. Did it not take me over overtly at one point? It does not just guide + teach us; it controls us. "The sun dare not overstep his bounds for the Erynys will find him out." The dialectic. Enantiodromia. It is a balance machine; Taoism with its Yin + Yang depict it without having any idea of what's really being depicted. It is a reality regulator; it is "justice" operating in human history. This is Hegelian. It only operates in human history + yet it is the Tao, so, then, what is it? It is not found in nature but in history, this {is a} 12-21-80 very important insight. 3-74 was a massive enantiodromia for which it was responsible. Its purpose: it was put here to regulate hence guide + control human history. (This view is halfway between theology + conspiracy.) This means it is not God but also it is not a - construct? Yes, it is a construct. It can be thought of in s-f terms. The Torah a construct } Ubik } One + the same. But what? Like: trash Torah. Hierarchically arranged reality: with it (Valis) as apex (we’re not), +, in addition, it itself arranges; so it is self-generating - it is a UTI + it is not conquering us; it is subordinating + unifying us hierarchically in terms of the ecosphere -life- of this planet; but this is not God. If anything, it inspires us (rather than limiting us). But it does coordinate us. It is a brain + not a mind. In a peculiarly literal way, we do its thinking for it. The arrangements of our information are not a result of its thinking but are its thinking. Of this I am certain. Every theory about Valis must be made with this discriminatory realization. So it is as if this planet is alive. But this is a perfect description of the Alexandrian-Stoic Logos! World reason but not God! It is Christ + he literally is becoming the physical world - by literal transubstantiation, as Logos become flesh. That’s it: "the word was made flesh"! I.e. the Logos/St. Sophia had been immaterial before the first advent, but became flesh through the incarnation, died, now transubstantiates physical (i.e. flesh) reality. This is the secret meaning of that statement in JN, "The word became flesh” - we are not (+ even I am not) facing the implications of this "+ the Logos became flesh" - after his resurrection he still had a body, but before the incarnation he did not. Think of what this statement must have meant to the Greco-Roman world: "The Logos became flesh [in Jesus Christ]"! With what they knew about the Logos. (Which we do not.) The point of this would be to reannex creation back to God or - to spiritualize hyle? Spirit penetrates matter? Then probably unspiritual matter was a fallen creation; this is the great restoration discussed in the captivity letters. Yes: Valis is a penetration of the physical (matter as field) by spirit. This is different from pantheism, so physicists will find that reality behaves more and more like Brahman + in Taoism, but this is a dynamic on-going process, I know {I know it} Suddenly I see it all: "The logos became flesh," + this set off a logos-ization of reality itself, a strategy. No longer was Hagia Sophia outside of creation but at its physical core! It is Christ (if one understands that Christ is the Logos). This can be done because, as we have now realized, what we call "material physical reality" is a field. Again: arrangements of our media information are not due to Valis' thoughts but are Valis' thoughts; Valis is building itself a physical body. +, since Valis is information, physical information occurs; Valis uses our world as a carrier on which to record (perhaps record memories? What I saw + am seeing is a memory system; I think Jeter pointed this out). No, it is not memory + it is not cypher + it is not communication; it is its (Valis') thoughts; it is thinking; this is a process (but it can record + hence remember its own thoughts). Physical matter ("the reality field") has been invaded by mind or spirit + therefore is becoming spiritualized, literally. It has to think through arrangements of our media info because this [physical world] is the only brain it has; apparently as with us mind is the result of brain, the neural connections - literal + physical (but also involving energy - the plasmate). This is why I say, “it doesn’t arrange [our] info by its thoughts; the arrangements -inc. linkings and relinkings- are its thoughts.” This is the only brain it has, + it retains the past, so its memory is perfect, + (apparently) it is everywhere so it contains huge amounts of info. In its info arrangements it can link across time as if it were space: it has the aspect of depth along a spatial axis. Layers. This is why (I realized suddenly) "Valis can’t think!" I didn’t pick up its concepts; I was in it + saw how it worked. The rest-motion modes, the wheels. {Illustration: a wheel rotating counterclockwise and a wheel rotating clockwise, connected by} Linking It’s all in rapid flux - very fast. So the macrometasomakosmos is its perfect memory system, in/from which there is total retrieval. Our reality is the only brain it has, + it doesn’t arrange our info by its thoughts, the arrangement is its thoughts. Of course it deals primarily with information, it is a brain; this is what brains do. This makes sense. I’m completely wrong what I say "Valis doesn’t think." It thinks, but its thoughts are physical. Every "concept" that it (Valis) conveyed to me actually had to do with -not what it knew as thought- but how it functioned, its nature. No wonder it didn’t identify itself; it could not because it does not think as we think, nor does it speak. If you enter it you enter a mechanism that is mainly memory. When I listed the things that Valis did that pertain to information, I left off the Xerox missive decoding by means of the Hebrew letters. One thing is certain: Valis is no mere spirit; Valis is physically real. Christ is here in this world on this side of the grave. Apparently God is not. Hence we speak of the Logos as world reason. Here is the best argument that it is the Logos + not Brahman: 1) It is a dynamic process in which, through antithetical dialectical combat, the old creation is dismantled + assimilated. The captivity letters describe this. 2) The secret of world-history was revealed to me through -by means of- the Acts grid; it is chiliastic; it is the message that Jesus brought about the Kingdom 3) Brahman does not print out information. 4) There is an amazing resemblance between Teilhard de Chardin's noösphere + Valis vis-à-vis information. Damn it; something or someone or a group is using our information, communications media to transmit latent messages. This fits with the Acts lens/grid revelation of true history in terms of the revolutionary underground opposed to established power. Third, Valis' mind was an info-processing encoder-decoder, with Acts as the lens/grid + our media as the carrier. Valis utilizes the most widely distributed media (as theorized in "The Morning of the Magicians"), linking elements together, but you need the grid/lens to extract the message by a set/ground discrimination. I have caught Valis doing something with "Asher" + Ronstadt + "Divine Invasion" + by extension "Valis"! Is it technology or the Logos? XXV I created him because I create (my writing proves it). It's that simple. Create equals give birth to (Prajāpati reintegrates + reascends through creation). It is not Christ/love but God. It's not skepticism I have but pistis (I can't analyze). I am a fool in Christ, who is in me + loves the Father, + to whom the Father spoke (11-17-80). I am an adopted son, so I am a Christos. It is not my artistic ability, my intellect, my creativity that did it; it is my shrewdness posing as torheit. I figured out back in high school listening to "Parsifal" that if "Parsifal" existed, the Christ story has to be true (never mind the logic; it isn't logic: it's shrewdness). I assembled the evidence (the Bible, "Parsifal" + heaven knows what else) assembled -i.e. synthesized- + shrewdly guessed the truth: that (1) Christ is; + (2) is now. Hence I had pistis. (My radical epistemology fits into this, it, too, is (not logic) but shrewdness: "a guess uncannily close to the [hidden] truth." I was willing to hold any view that seemed true, logical or not; I went where my shrewdness led. Thus my whole religious world is aesthetic in nature. My touchstone is that what is beautiful is real; this is my criterion, my epistemological criterion. "Parsifal" was my clue. Parsifal talked to me: the blood talking (plasmate) in Wagner's words + music. It all comes down to the blood: a life form. It entered me when I was still in high school from "Parsifal." No; you want the truth? The truth is: Christ is real + he is alive, +