to me most striking (e.g. "pretextual" cause; no laws were imposed on it). It was equally conscious and aware throughout. Every part of it was perfectly linked together into a structure (kosmos). Yet, the whole structure was epiphenomenal, a magician's trick, done for the sake of beauty, music and dance. It could "be" (appear) any way it wanted to anyone: different ways to different people. It took an infinity of forms, all of which came into being and passed away (ontogons) leaving only constants (phylogons) as part of the structure -- hence it was in flux like a self-perfecting organism. The complexity of the structure increased upward (i.e. toward the macro) and downward (toward the micro) with each passing second. 4:15 a.m.: I wasn't seeing it and I wasn't seeing a projection of my own brain. What I was seeing was a combination of end interaction between my brain and it, so that to some extent a unique local field came into existence; viz: I didn't observe Valis but participated actively. Valis, then, is not it and not me, but rather it and me. So of course it mirrored back my own conceptions. This was due to my participation in it. But this wasn't just projection on my part. It was an interpenetration between it and me. The significance of this new insight is very great. So Valis was not me, but I helped shape its nature as it presented itself to me and mingled with me. This is not a matter of preconception[s?] folder 82 - 002 folder 82 - 002 January 30, 1980 -2- on my part; it is an interpenetration. Hence "Thomas" took me over (its penetration of me). Valis, then, is a syzygy of me and the whatever-it-is, but I can only know it in the fashion that I knew it; I can't exclude myself as participant in it. It had the power to actualize my thoughts (mind, brain) so that I was outside myself and thus looking at my own mind interwoven with external reality; it conjured up a reality for me constructed in the image of my own mind. Thus it (Valis)has total creative power, in terms of bringing something into being ("He causes to exist whatever exists"). My mind was outside me. Valis, then, is me made into a world (by the creator deity). He showed that he could conjure up an entire world based on my mind -- infinite powers of creation. But Valis is not the creator deity; Valis is a fusion of me and the creator deity and thus applicable to me only. By this power he can make me immortal. I now return to Xtianity; this is the esoteric Xtian gnosis. So my belief system actually changes Valis as it changes. Hence with every new theory I come up with, Valis changes -- not only because it's playing tricks or games but because my belief system is part of it -- the intersection of two fields: me and not-me. Hence (and this resembles a psychotic notion but isn't) I have a certain control over my reality by thinking about it, but only because my mind links up with a greater mind. So in 3-74 there was an element of paranormal powers in me, probably allied to precognition. But I changed my outer reality. This interpenetration of my mind and its explains the "too folder 82 - 003 folder 82 - 003 January 30, 1980 -3- obliging" quality of it. In fact the "too obliging" quality is a great clue to the real nature of my experience and of Valis. This reveals the plurality world for what it is: an epiphenomenon of mind! If it wasn't, my mind could not have affected/altered it! 5:30 a.m. Each human brain is a different universe, literally, not metaphorically: vast spaces. I saw mine (i.e. my brain). Hermetic alchemy. So the vast spaces that I saw was my own inner space projected outward; it is greater than outer space. I was interacting with reality at its deepest level below that of the plural epiphenomena; I joined with it (or became aware that I was already joined with it). It took the form of an open system biological organism model because it is; this is why it could interpenetrate me and me it. I can never know the not-me greater mind as it is in itself, since when I encounter it I actively participate in shaping the aspect it shows me. I do not experience it; I experience myself merged with it in syzygy. This is the issue Kant raised regarding the thing-in-itself; his arguments hold true here. This other mind probably appears only to me under the aspect I encountered; thus I can say little or nothing about its intrinsic nature. This is what has wrecked my attempt to analyze it for these six years; I overlooked the fact that I was a participant in it and not a detached observer outside it. I changed it by encountering it. It is significant that the boundaries of my mind and its mind are lost in such an encounter; we blur together into the syzygy. I'd like to conclude that this indicates isomorphism, but it does not. Nor can I even be sure which parts (elements, aspects) are from its mind and which are from mine. All I can be sure of is: it was not all me. folder 82 - 004 folder 82 - 004 -12-29-80 Paul and original sin. Paul is saying, Man after the Fall is still fallen. The Torah has not restored him to his pre-fallen state. This is the point Paul is trying to make; the Jews believed that the Torah, in particular the decalogue, was sufficient for man's needs, but Paul points out that the Torah doesn't save; i.e. it doesn't reverse the damage, the effects, of the Fall. Man stays as he is: blighted and occluded; what Paul calls "in a state of (original) sin." Again, the Torah is for fallen man.(1) It tells him first of all what not to do ("Thou shall not" etc). How has this changed fallen man? Original sin is simply a term telling us that Adam alone did not fall but that all men fell with him and are fallen now. This is simply a statement of fact, unless you reject the doctrine --notion-- of the Fall. But Judaism accepts that notion.(1) Does Judaism believe that Adam's descendents re-arose to a pre-fallen state after Adam's death? No, of course not.(1) Paul says, "The Law (Torah) can only condemn, can only convict of sin." This is so. In itself it has no power to save; in fact Judaism is devoid of a concept of any method by which man can be restored to his pre-fallen state.(1) It as a concept simply does not exist in Judaism. Man will stay fallen forever, abiding by the Mosaic Law.(1) Another objection. Let us concede that the theophany at Mt. Sinai took place, that the Torah was indeed handed down to Moses by YHWH. Well, let us compare it to Jesus' teachings. We find that Jesus' teachings are superior. Then if we regard Jesus as only a man and not God or the Son of God, we are faced with the impossible notion that a mere man, a prophet or preacher, could come up with a (1) I am wrong; Rabbi Herz says that for Judaism there was no Fall (and of course no original sin). folder 82 - 005 folder 82 - 005 "Torah" or system of ethics-beliefs superior to what God came up with vis-a-vis Moses at Sinai. Well, since this is impossible, then perhaps the solution is to say that Jesus' teachings are not superior to the Mosaic Law. But they seem to us to be superior. But perhaps this is circular reasoning; we find them superior because we are Christians and have been taught them. But Rabbi Herz claims that the golden rule comes from the Torah (Liv. 19:18), so he admits the absolute superiority of Jesus' basic ethical premise but claims that it came in the Hebrew Torah long before Jesus]. Then Jesus was just repeating concepts already familiar to the Jews; e.g. Hillel. But Jesus does not just state the golden rule; his system is complex, intricate, sophisticated, vast. He did not utter just the one statement found in Liv. 19:18. So where did his other sayings come from; especially the Sermon of the Mount? Again, if he is only a man he is more advanced in terms of ethical conceptions and propositions than YHWH! In my opinion if you conclude that indeed the decalogue was given to Moses by God, then it follows from internal evidence, which is to say the teachings and system of Jesus, that Jesus was God or related to God in some way; for instance God's Holy Wisdom, or as with Ptath in the Egyptian system, God's "tongue." Finally, Jesus presented a system which went beyond making men truly moral --spotless of sin-- but, more, restoring men to their pre-fallen state(1), and here the issue lies, because it seems probable that only God could inaugurate such a system -- unless you wish to take the argument that Jesus' system does not in fact restore man to his pre-fallen state but only claims to. But Judaism does not even make this claim for the Torah. (1) But if man did not Fall, then what was I restored to? The Book of Adam and Eve (can't read) folder 82 - 006 Further, the Torah is frozen; it is an article of dogma for Judaism that there is no new Torah and there will never be, so by Judaism's own dogma, Torah is frozen forever. Obviously, then it has ossified. What Jesus represents is the living Torah, with new revelations; he is with us and can enter into dialog with us. He is flexible. Obviously if the original Mosaic Torah were ever to be superceded, this would be the ideal way for it to be superceded: by God incarnate as man. It seems to me that the original Torah ossified and was then superceded by Jesus, the Christ, and then Christianity itself ossified around 1300 and was then superceded by the system of the Protestants and that now we see an ossification of that; by reason of which we can expect a new revelation, a new theophany, perhaps the Parousia. Also, if Jesus is Holy Wisdom, he existed before creation and does not represent a part of creation but the Godhead itself entering creation anew. Structurally, this makes perfect sense, but what is involved is not just further injunctions, admonitions and rules for fallen man, but a method by which fallen man ceases to be fallen man. Rabbi Herz does not speak of this when he contrasts Judaism with Christianity. He misses the central point of Christianity, and hence the central weakness of Judaism, or, as Paul puts it, the Law and the Law's inability to save. Judaism accepts the condition of fallen man and makes the best of it (by relying on the divine Torah revealed to Moses by YH WH). Christianity does exactly the opposite; it preaches man restored, the Second Adam who undoes --more than undoes-- the work of the first Adam [Note]. Judaism does not present [Note]: Yet I have always rejected Paul's doctrine of original sin, hence the Fall. Judaism teaches that man is pure. Is this not my belief? Do I not share this? folder 82 - 007 folder 82 - 007 an alternative system by which this is accomplished. In fact it is only upon studying Judaism --the writings which include the Torah and many glosses-- that I understand what Christianity does, by virtue of the contrast visible between them. Thus for the first time I can understand why Paul taught the doctrine of original sin. It was absolutely essential to stigmatize man's present and past condition (state) as that of Adam's and