there is an imperishable spart of the mind which appears in "Ubik" as a in like This is the mind containing the memories Ubik. I 278 The mind must somehow be in the process of either succumbing to or, alternately, burn up its memories through this reprise them. It relives them, reaches the juncture of the Pythagorean y + prevails this time, where in fact it originally was dealt a mortal blow or anyhow chose wrong. Then a successful choice at this unique crucial juncture would be followed by the mind regaining touch with itself as world, it would be born the memories being gone. "a second time" or "from above" or "by the Spirit" But this would signal its - the mind's or souls - ultimate emancipation from maya + karma + world in the sense that the Buddh + Gnostics taught. It would happen only once over a series of lifetimes + signify that the journey of the soul had bottomed out + the soul was now free to return home (reascend through the ten sefiroth). the veil of illusion would be rent + the in overcoming at this unique thrall ended. decisive moment the self would have the help the "beside - helper." The Paraclete, his I infallen divine brother who would insure his right choice so that he would be saved. Thus the intervention by the advocate transforms the while process into one of salvation instead of damnation, freedom not thrall. After all, in the successful confrontation we are dealing with the purpose of all this, the dying soul sinks, bottoms out in confrontation with its "layer!! Its lethal adversary which slew t in the first place (originally) + this time due to the assistance of the Paraclete 1274 it defeats its primordial enemy + is itself saved (emancipated). This is very Zoro‐ astrian. It seems almost as if God gives each defeated person a second opportunity, where he can again confront his Dru; +, This time with the assistance of his divine brother, win where he originally was slain (destroyed). (Or simply went astray in the darkness.) God is correcting the error of the universe from outside time. So that creation is subject to a continual refining process: an internal movement (transforma tim) toward perfection. In regard to this. goal-seeking is stimulated in the person at This crucial moment: overpowering goal-seeking of divine origin. but - the Paraclete is the person's own mind coming at him from outside + from what seems to be the future since the real time is in the future vis-a-vis what he experiences as the present (the archaic period of his forgotten memories or thought contents). So his own "future" mind comes to his rescue. The person has become God in a sense. That is, he always was but fell under the power of his own forgotten mem‐ ries; i.e. forgot his identity with the Godhead. So the return is not just begun by this inamnesis + victory - with the help of the araclete -; reunion with Ensof in the form the Shekhing is achieved; the goal is von! The damage to the Godhead is in is case (microform) repaired. 80 So that's what Ubik is: the mind - actually the true present - of which the world is in its ossified forgotten memory contents (which appear to be in the present but are really in the past - exactly as put forth in "Ubik"! the contents regress but the mind - Ubik - doe not. + Ubik is the Paraclete + Logos both. It has traveled down into this ossified complex (in the Jungian sense) to dissolve it! It has made a microform "phagocyte" of itself to attack the "BIP" - the ossified memory contents which are stuck in the past: So it, the mind in microform, journeys down + in + back to deal a crucial blow at the core of the contents; in my case represented by the Xerox missive. Probably it has many microforms of itself throughout history doing battle against every [undesirable] ossified thought complex (BIP). The mind remembers these events (thought contents), because for it they are the past: they are ossified thoughts - memories. Viewed this years in way it is obvious why it knew advance that the Xerox missive was coming: This was what it was here for. ttep one. The microform perceives the macromind (Valis or Ubik.) It sees that it is isomorphic step two. to it. Dialogo step three. It understands that it is it bliss. Thomas may be on the other side but that may mean in the real world + hence in the future (the AI voice, too). 281 wouldn't that be the case if I'm in a Bardo Thodol existence? Like Runciter? unfortunately this fits in with the recycled memories as world. Now, there may be a good reason why "Ubik" of all the novels + stories might be the one true one: because it is a technological adaptation of the "Tibet ian book of the Dead" which may actually be - on an esoteric level - a study of this life: our true condition. would 2-3-74 be a confirm of this? It began with a Bardo Thodol kind of trip, as if I was breaking through, + the next thing I knew I saw Valis/Ubik. But Ubik is not mentioned in "TTBofTD." Well, but see the above: living, present-moment mind versus its archaic ossified memory contents. But is this a unique macromind or the person's own mind, or is This a meaningful distinction? The "two-tape programming" which I noted is connected with the ossified nature of the thought contents. This is why I speak of them as ossified. The course of them must be played out because They have already happened. This is why they are called karma. They are irreal; this is why they lost in the programmed are called maya. archaic irreality. Then we are dead, in this con‐ dition. Effectively dead. Since nothing is really there, nothing is really happening, we have pretextual cause which in fact disinhibits us. We have no power over what we will react to + how; it is just an intricate signalling system. It's like a selenoid clock: it notifies us when a particular moment in our cycle has come. But there is a mind behind all this. It must remember a world, + this memory is the basis of our reconstituted world. 282 "This is a brain, not Valis just a mind. + I say, AI voice It presents us with our Thomas reconstituted reality written info in dreams which is based on what it remembers. It must plasmate have experienced all these things. Could it be exploring variations at key moments? Seeing what the results would be if alternative choices had been made? The brain is recirculation its memory contents - so they are fixed except for the alternateschoice nexi. It has the power to alter its own past, which is to say its own antecedent self. It certainly resembles a computer running programs with changed variables. It goes back to the beginning + runs it again - this is the deterministic recycled quality - but at one particular moment it overpowers a constituent + causes it to change its response to a key situati e t e This fits all the conditions which I see: the archaic (memory) deterministic recycled aspect + the sole changed response (element of newnes entroduced into the program). What scares me is to realize that we could be run through the program a near infinite number of times. But this does suggest a "Ubik" or cold-pac situation. (E.g. stationary brains.) So in 3-74 we do not have intervention but intervention in a repeated program; This is quite different + a lot can be learned by knowing this. Because this "intervention" constitutes a change (of a variable) in the program, + this is familiar to us from com‐ puter programs. We are in the grip of the mover of pretextual cause which can stimulate us to do + believe + experience anything it wishes. This is aristotle's understanding + ood of the power + in fle 28 + the dialectic! The binary flip-flop generated into infinity by the negation of the negation. It is a computer (did) system, + we are in a program being run + reruns with variables, change based on reset. i.e. new info Valis AI voice info this is the goal of info Thomas The variable written info in dreams info process; what plasmate info I call Valis is the result info dialectic of newness cypher in "Tears" info (info) added. 1) World perceived as ancient "Prison (closed system) it 1) a be broken open; i.e. variables introduced to which will substantially add newness + the system keeps getting growth: change at itself into cul de sacs + must be rerun with altered variables. New info is fed into the system from outside, Valis is the payoff not a causal factor but the net result of change within the system due to adventitious newl info so Valis is in a class by itself. Yes - the system has gone on reset - the program is changed, + this introduction of change (from outside) shows up as what I call Valis. Hence Valis is the verification of my contention per se. (That This is a program being run + rerun within a brain, the whole of it thinks. The world is not the body of God as Spinoza supposed but the brain. 284 info from, by, for to the total system is constantly flowing through our world or program. Some of it acts to program control us, but, I think a lot of it + is the system thinking - which includes storing information, as well as process it. Our brains may act as storage nits. Mirrors each of which encodes reality from a different vantage point + hence is unique. The totality of mirrors being syn‐ thronized by the system for self - analysis. o "ach is so to speak angled differently. But then it could be conceived that given "mirror" might be plugged into playback whereupon its [forgotten] mem‐ ories would be reconstituted as a holo‐ gram-like pseudo world, which resembles the "Ubik" situation, with everyone in cold pac remembering a past world as if it were their present - whereas it is neither world nor present. + change in The form of a variable could be introduced by the system (for whatever reason it nished). The world is the sum total of the [forgotten] memory contents of the "Mirrors." So the whole program is on "tape" - recorded + then played back; in This sense run again:: extracted from the forgotten memory contents of the "mirrors." This is where it still exists - is pre‐ I served, + changes introduced. After all, This [world] is in the past. Then it is memory contents + nothing more: retrieved as one does with a stored program for/on a computer. 28 e ah - the program is not stored in one mirror (person) but in a very large number which - as in "Ubik" - are intermeshed, thus forming the program as world. Each mirror adde more info + more precise info in a vast overlapping grid. not only did I discover memory traces of the future in me, but when I reached the actual situations involved I acted on information available my to me in these prior memory traces! dream: Ya (youth authority) + Ypsl (young people's socialist league) combined. "Ya" or "Ja" suggesting German. Interpreta + Q: How can a document be Ya (us authorities) + YpsL (CP) simultaneously? A: It is intrinsically CP but sent by us Thus the contradiction is split + solved G-21 This is represented by "gary Corp" - suggesting G-2 + OCCP simultaneously. t 4:30 am thought. The "King Felix" cypher states, "Christ has returned" (v. the dream in "Tears").