The two 12-8-80 3 contend in antithetical combat. Why, then, Valis is the in-breaking of God, the Kingdom (Kingship) of God! I reached this conclusion without knowing where I was going with my train of ideas! Valis is God's sovereignty in-breaking -- and I saw it. It has already happened: invisibly, concealed, small, like a "mustard seed"; it is here now. The exercise of his will (the arrangement of the "iron filings" by "the magnetic field") is the in-breaking Jesus spoke of; and it did take place, just as Jesus promised. There is a good possibility that it is exercised for God by the Logos; I don't know. (Valis as the Logos or Cosmic Christ, then, once again.) But I was absolutely right in VALIS, to designate Valis as the rational invading the irrational. Now I equate this with God's will versus what he allows / has allowed. Next I equate this will with the Kingdom (Kingship) of God, which was promised. If it --God's sovereign will-- had been here all the time I would not have perceived Valis as invading! I think I just did it; I reason it out that Valis (1) is not God; this must be realized, and I could not realize that until 11-17-80 when I encountered God. Okay; Valis is not God; what is it, then? Answer: (2) Valis is God's will, in-breaking into world; hence it expresses itself by affecting reality, by arranging reality; it is arrangement, pure and simple...but we don't discriminate it from the totality of causes, processes and events. The dialectic is not in God but between his will and what he allows; there is a dynamic tension between them: but his will always wins in the sense that it completes patterns to induce enantiondromia again and again; meanwhile (3) progressively more and more of world comes under his will. This is why Valis does not think, why it creates information by arrangements of material things --and our own information media-- but does not think as we do or God does. It is not God; it is his will, an expression of his -- well, will is the only word I can think of, what Spinoza supposed all causation, all natural law, to be. But this is not so. Hence when I saw Valis -- I saw what I called "pretextual cause," which was sentient volition replacing natural causation and minicking it. Pretending to be it: camouflaged; all this is camouflaged. This is why my turning point was realizing that all I had actually seen of God per se was "the perturbation in the reality field," the glint of color and ripple of wind in the weeds of the alley -- something itself outside the reality field acting on it, but the thing itself (God) immaterial and invisible; then came 11-17-80! 12-8-80 4 God’s will is gaining on the total mass of reality; I saw this. He wins in a progressive, not just repetitive way. Out of each victory another piece is taken from the world and fitted into the permanent macrometasomakosmos; this is the Kingdom being formed, I guess. In other words, the wise horn --God's will-- is progressively advancing from each victory to the next. So the invasion --good lord; the divine invasion!-- is advancing. This, then, is not a balanced antithesis, a balanced dialectic; the wise horn's victories are cumulative. Then how am I now to regard the revelation of Valis to me in 2-3-74? Why, it concerns the Xerox missive (as the AI voice said; it was all concerned with the intervention to rescue me, which I have long realized). This was an expression of his will; therefore it was an instance, an example, evidence of and demonstration of his presence, his will, his in-breaking, as depicted in the dream in TEARS. My verification: the prophecies by the AI voice! So VALIS and VR are right on. Whether the Logos is the instrument of God's will I don't know. There was a consciousness, not just volition; it knew. It possesses absolute a priori knowledge...so maybe it is the Logos, which is to say the Cosmic Christ. But -- I see why I could not understand why it didn't think, as we do and as God does, and did not speak, as the AI voice does; and yet it arranges things into information, so it is intelligent; rather, it is totally purposeful. It is the expression of his will hypostatized; and if it is hypostatized this must be the Logos. And of course the exercise --the expression, the enactment-- on world of this will has to do with human history; this is its central arena. But it also acted to extricate me in 3-74 when I was doomed. It is here as a sophisticated divine or quasi-divine entity, so I guess it is the Logos. But not necessarily. That might be the Alexandrian Logos. Wasn't there a intermediary mind in my mind causing me to see "the second signal" and Valis? Didn't enthusiasmos occur? Maybe this was the Holy Spirit which is the discorporate Christ; maybe that's where Christ fits in, as revealer. Valis, then, wasn't Christ but God’s will; but the Holy Spirit revealed Valis and everything else to me, and reminded me of Jesus. Perhaps that was it; the Spirit of God in me, and the will of God outside me --Valis-- in dialectical combat with the unspiritual world. 12-8-80 5 I think I'm going to strip 2-3-74 down to what Jesus taught, without the accretions; he taught the imminent in-breaking of the Kingship of God, which would produce a Kingdom under whose rule you would live. This was Jesus' message. I think this is what I experienced and saw in 2-3-74, although there may have been one or two interpediaries: the Holy Spirit in me, the Logos outside. But the will of God is not the same as God; it lacks his einai, which is to say, his agape. Due to 11-17-80 I know the difference, then, between God's will --which is to say the in-breaking of the Kingship, which is to say, the Kingdom which Christ said was imminent, and God Himself, his personality and essence. Thus there is absolutely no problem in reconciling 2-3-74 with 11-17-80. The first had to do with world and a "perturbation in the reality field"; the second had to do with a transcendent God who is a loving father, with personality, his essence love, capable of conferring infinite bliss; he is infinite along all axes. This is more than his will. But from a practical standpoint, in terms of world and human history, his will is everything; for instance, it saved my life vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. Then 3-74 is a spectacular in-breaking of the will of God -the revelation of the Kingship that Jesus spoke of- into my affairs + consciousness. I have long thought it was the Kingdom (expressed as the Palm Tree Garden; e.g. the bells, the peaceful animals etc) but now I see that his will -Valis- revealed itself + acted; I was in a sort of place, yet not a place - well, anyhow, his will replaced my own + saved me; more, I was aware of what I call Valis, construing it as God or as Christ - until 11-17-80 when I discovered I had made an error somewhere. His will is less that his totality; it does not contain his essence -agape- nor his personality: it acts on world + creates -or recreates- the Garden. His will does not talk or think; it is force exerted (a field consists of lines of force), force in the sense that the term appears in physics. It replaces causation. It "warps away from plumb," as I like to put it. It is God as sovereign king; his will is law. + this when expressed openly (that is, if you are aware of it) creates a totally different world. It is incredibly beautiful + awesome, it is holy. The return of God to world. Maybe Thomas was Elijah, as I speculated (like when Tom Disch was out here)! Good grief, I was sure back at the beginning, in early + mid 1974, that I had been taken over by Elijah! Tom was out here in August, '74, + I still thought so. I had had those dreams: Alto Carmel + the fire engines; the phone call from Elisha. I the name Elias; I remember looking it up in the little one volume encyclopedia because I didn't know who "Elias" was! + that's why I contacted the Meggido Mission. + all that Zoroastrian material was Qumrān. Which would explain the dreams about Jim + Diana Pike in the desert!) {Note} + the O.T. designation for Jesus: St. Sophia. God's Wisdom. {Note:} Why, I even still have that drawing of Elijah up on my wall. + I wrote about him extensively in "VR." Well, it is clear to me why, as I have gained progressively more understanding of 2-3-74 + deity + have gravitated more + more toward Judaism. I see Jesus as the last great revealer of the God of Israel; Jesus said, "He is here now + I am the gate [to that Kingdom]." + the disclosure that God's essence (nature) is agapē; this brings in John and Paul. Jesus was Hagia Sophia; the AI voice told me so - rejected by the world. Even by the Jews. Two threads of my exegesis now have come together: 1) The blitz disclosure in 2-74 of the real, secret goal + historic purpose of true Xtianity: the Millenial Kingdom (revealed by the Acts lens/grid. That it will be here in this world, + that the churches + civil authorities -"the world"- oppose it, are the [Fourth, Iron] Empire, against which the secret Xtians fight. 2) Valis as the in-breaking of God's sovereignty + will, his rule. The Kingship of God, as foretold by Jesus. 3-74. These two are one revelation; one Kingdom/Kingship is involved not two: the Kingdom -Millenial Kingdom- that the secret Xtians will establish / are establishing will be ruled by God or Christ. (Opinions differ; the white-bearded old king in the dream in "Tears," the Ancient of Days.) All this is secret. Only the Holy Spirit can reveal it to you. 3) The AI voice. Its prophecies. Conclusion: as Jesus said, the Kingdom is here but secretly. When the Savior returns, the Kingdom will not be established; it will be made known; it is here already, secretly - + has been for some time. The second coming does not begin the Kingdom; it discloses that it exists + has existed secretly for some time, the "2nd signal." Then 2-74 did not just disclose the struggle for the establishing of the Kingdom but the existence of the Kingdom - secretly. It is here + I was in it + I was conscious of the rule -the will- of God, it is a divine kingdom, as predicted by Joachim of Fiore. The two disclosures (1 + 2 supra) show that the Kingdom exists -secretly- + God rules it; it is truly a divine kingdom secretly here at the heart of our unsuspecting world. + now the Savior has "been transplanted + is alive." My experience -+ revelations- they are complete: + they all 3 fit together. It was Elijah! I ask, "why me?" a: the Herbert poem: "Thieves + Murderers" + - the stone rejected by the builder; Christ sought me out. XXII Notes made immediately after the theophany of 11-17-80: I have the strangest theory re 3-74. What I saw as "the second signal" (and before that as Acts, the world of Acts) was a hologram that my own brain projected; the "second signal" added to what we normally see was projected by me: it was a sort of world-image, a template or grid --as a decoding grid-- not in the external world but in me. {Note} You understand? That is (e.g.) how come