the what, even though Neo-Platonism and Platonism is the how. It was born --incarnated-- in me exactly as a Soul is born --reincarnated-- in a newborn baby; except that I was full-grown. This is literally being "born again." What the Christians don't know or don't say is that metapsychosis is true, that a Soul can enter a fullgrown body as well as that of a fetus (but this is extraordinarily rare; and the key to it is that the Soul is the person's own, which he lost in the Fall, in primordial times; it is himself returning; the explosion and splintering involved in the Fall is reversed; that is why this particular Soul seeks him out; but none of these things are known or told by the Christians regarding being "born again" or "born in the Spirit" or "born from above"). (It is important to realize: this being born again restores the original intact wholeness and unity lost in the primordial fall that occurred before the person's lifetime.) So when a baby is born it remembers its former life, as Thomas did, but the brain is underdeveloped and the baby forgets before it can speak about such things, before it can communicate to others the details of its former life... this is what Wordsworth so perfectly captures in his "Ode." The Cosmic Christ is so-to-speak the father at this event (I mean the second birth); and the person involved, who receives the Soul, is in a very real sense the mother; this is why I felt myself to be female, and thought of interspecies symbiosis. I should say here that once again I am brought back to the very real possibility that Valis was the Cosmic Christ; he acted in his role as High Priest at what is the ultimate sacrament of Christianity: the second birth or birth from above or birth by/in the Spirit. The restoration of intactness, the return of the lost Soul. This is what it was for PKD, but for Thomas it was resurrection --in the flesh-- and immortality; this is the Christian "magic" or technology: utilizing Plato's anamnesis deliberately, availing themselves of a calculatedly-engrammed disinhibiting sign (signal). Hence it is proper to speak of Christianity as a mystery religion, like Orphism. {folder 01 - 093} 10-26-80 1 Therefore my experience in 2-3-74 now that it has been followed by a successful exegesis --and only in the last two weeks has it become successful-- pays off in the way that I perceive ordinary daily reality. I cannot bring back the absolute vision of the morphologically arranged realm that I had in 2-74, the anamnesis; but I now can apprehend this realm from the standpoint of the realm #3 reality; I can see in the epiphenomenal realm the constants shining through... and this is the triumph in practice of Platonist metaphysics, its whole point: that you learn to see in the flux realm the constants, literally see them with the educated eye, educated by Plato's metaphysics of the Forms. If one theorized about a self-replicating system which could reproduce itself forever with no signal/information loss, one would say, "This is impossible. There would have to be some entropic factor, some deterioration of signal; it logically impossible that the system could reproduce itself forever with no loss whatsoever." And yet that is the case. In fact, as we know from the Theory of Evolution, it is actually possible to improve the instances of each species, either by minute increments or by quantum leaps. Logically, this would seem to be impossible, and yet it is so. But the real success of the exegesis is that as I become old, now, and wear out, I feel myself wearing out only as an instance of an eternal Soul or Form; that nothing is lost, nothing is destroyed; and although I don't crave immortality I do crave vigor and joy and the running that I associate with my eidos. And I know, too, that all that I have lost in my life is epiphenomenal, people and cats and things, that in reality nothing is lost. So I can face my own aging and mortality with calm and even pleasure, since I am grounded in both a mystical vision of super-reality and an intellectual exegesis based on that vision, the totality of which provides me with a philosophy and with an experience with world that is harmonious and wonderful and intellectually satisfying: it is a vision of intactness, of my own self and world. Of everything as a negentropic whole. As regards my writing: it will permanently affect the macrometasomakosmos in the form of reticulation and arborizing --and hence will survive in reality forever, in the underlying structure of the world order. {folder 01 - 094} 11-1-80 1 This is the surd I am left with after completing the metaphysical system of my exegesis: a surd. There is what the AI voice called "A perturbation in the reality field." This is Valis; this is the most important part. Originally I spoke of it as a valence away from plumb. Now I think of it as a tugging, like the moon's effect on Earth's oceans creating, by tugging, the tides. I say, The reality field is not real but the tug is. But what the tug points to --that is, what is doing the tugging-- I have no idea. I know of it only by its effects on reality, its setting up an irregularity in reality, in the field, the way reality, the field, behaves. It is being affected from outside --outside reality. This surd (something irrational that can't be explained after everything that is rational has been) may stick with me. So I may wind up with something like quantum mechanics faces. In fact it may be an event in quantum mechanics, like something related to the Tao. I don't know. And this is what I wanted the most to explain. And this tug is right here and now, in the very trash stratum of reality. I have set out in pursuit of ontology, rising from level to level, only to go full circle and come back where I started: pop tunes on the radio, weeds in the alley... and the faint flurry of a kind of breath, as if some invisible spirit, perhaps the ruah, is breathing creation into existence ex nihilo. Yes, I am on the rim of reality; level after level each one more ontologically real than the previous, and then nothingness. The void. Only a faint wind stirring reality, tugging at it. And maybe a glint of color, briefly. And a word or two as set to ground. Six and a half years of work: a glint, a rustle in the weeds of the alley; I am confronted by unfathomable mystery, as if I saw cosmogenesis reversed: cosmic resorption, until at last creation ceased to be, and only the Spirit moved across the face of the void. And, equally real and equally enigmatic, a small murmuring voice speaking in the night, as if from immeasurable distances away. I have found the ultimate Source: a rustle of wind in the weeds and faint, distant words by a lovely voice that is neither male nor female. Both bordering on the rim of not being there but being, I am convinced, the truly real; in contrast to the great substantial world order, the galaxies and nebulae, suns and planets, civilizations and deeds. {folder 01 - 095} 11-1-80 2 I cannot say that I have found moksa, enlightenment. I do not understand what I saw and what happened in 2-3-74. Something helped me. Who? Oddly, although I don't know who I do know why (since the AI voice told me that). I chased after reality, and how far did I actually get? "Ti to on?" the pre-Socratics asked. Perhaps it is the wrong question. An odd thought came to me. I end my exegesis with something --what I call a surd because that is what it is-- that can't be fitted into an otherwise satisfactory system. This one thing is simple. No elaboration of it seems possible, no implications extracted and elaborated. It makes me think of Dante's semplice lume. And my exploded morphological structure reminds me of Dante's description of God as the Book of the Universe whose pages are scattered throughout the universe. I beheld leaves within the unfathomed blaze Into one volume bound by love, the same That the universe holds scattered through its maze. Substance and accidents and their modes became As if together fused, all in such wise That what I speak of is one simple flame. 11-2-80 About all I can see clearly is that 3-74 was a heroic act that consisted of the overcoming of fate. "We can be heroes for just one day," to quote Bowie. It all has to do with waking up long enough to perform one action, to make one change, before you sink back down into sleep, before you again forget. One change (in the programming?) is enough; it is decisive. Where are we? Is this like UBIK or MAZE or STIGMATA? The AI voice speaks from outside; we are inside. Anyhow: In my notes last night I defined the purpose underlying all religions as: freeing the person from the tyrannical rule of the world (called variously heimarmene, astral determinism, karma, fate, DNA programming, the planetary powers and the Law). What possibly, then, could serve this purpose better than Plato's anamnesis, in which the reality of the universals (eide) is realized, and the mere seeming of the spatiotemporal world, it being only accidents. This realization achieved through anamnesis only --it can come in no other way by no other means--permits the heroic deed described above, {folder 01 - 096} 11-2-80 1 because for the person the ontological categories of the spatiotemporal world (time, space and causation) release their grip from him long enough for him to act freely for the first and only moment in his life. Thereby the great chain of determinism that connects all his splintered parts --parts of his true self-- that chain is broken, and something new has come into existence unforeseen at the beginning of creation. It is my belief that this abolishes what I call dead or false time (as in "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed"), and into the vacuum left by the disappearance of false time rushes real time, live time, which is to say the genuine future. Therefore the grip of the past over him dissolves, and maybe it is the grip of the past that constitutes this "astral determinism or heimarmene," Whatever word you wish: the word or words used point to the person never being more than the sum total of all that has happened to him, which is to say, his personal history. And with the short-circuiting or burning up of his karma his punishment is also obviated, as when the messenger inserts the blank white sheet of paper instead of the person's bill of particulars into the retribution machine. This is the second birth or birth from above or birth in the Spirit of Christianity; it is also known to the Taoist alchemists and to the Western alchemists (to them, the chemical wedding, the hierogamy, marriage of the opposites). What strikes me about this is that it is cosmogenesis in miniature, in the microcosm, because something has come into being ex nihilo. What the person did --the heroic act-- he could not do given who he is, given his history, his karma. It is an impossibility. Thus in a real and literal sense a new self has been born in him, since this act, this deed, could not issue out of the old self, the self splintered throughout time and space. This is as much a miracle as the original cosmogenesis; in a sense it is the original cosmogenesis, and perhaps the ruah is present at it as it was in the