is evident that I am desperately trying to find a center (omphalos) for/to my life, but that I was failing; I was still "stateless." Now the wisdom of my recent moves is evident: living here, buying my apartment - leaving Tess, staying friends with Doris. In contrast to "TDHG" period I have found authenticity - Sein. I have made one wise decision after another. Look at my providing help to Messiah - contrast that to when I used to buy dope. Look at how I persevered with Doris re the cancer. Look what we've been through! It's like the Dodge. My life has stability, durability, prudence, creativity, + I am constantly learning + Getting involved with Joan was a good idea + splitting up with her was a good idea. Look; I am dealing with dreadful crippling phobias. I am at home here in this general area in this apartment specifically. I have it: pronoia + conversion + sanctification = salvation. Snatched from inner + outer death. The center shifts from outside you to inside you: you have God or Christ or the Holy Spirit in you at your core. So you are intrinsically complete. folder 48 - 164 folder 48 - 164 showed the key page to me, "A writer in Marin County will have troubles" - in the instructions of the universe + Christ extricated me in 2-3-74 from that trouble, vis-a-vis the Xerox missive in his role as Wisdom. "The formula for creation" was overruled by Christ, the only one who can overrule it - the Law (Torah). Introduces newness (ex nihilo) into an otherwise closed system (cf Spinoza). He has (1) the power; (2) the wisdom; (3) the authority. This points to Xtianity as supra-cosmically revolutionary (freeing); it frees you from the powers controlling all reality (i.e. the great epiphenomenon). To be released from the blueprint of creation itself - you'd find yourself out of the lower realm + in a postmortem world while still alive. + you'd see the epi system modulate (i.e. Valis). + you'd see the controlling information (the plasmate); the system doesn't process the info; it is created + driven along by the info; the info programs it. Valis is. Like as if new info was fed into the system to program it differently concerning you. But at this point Christ has replaced the Torah as the info (instructions to the system) source. He pre-empts the mechanical source with his living mind. Valis. What I saw was new instructions fed into the episystem (reality) replacing the huge book-pages (Torah). Here Christ is acting in his role of judge. This explains my sense of having seen meters reset. The system acted alive because something alive had invaded the system - folder 48 - 165 folder 48 - 165 something (someone) with the power to overrule the system + contravene the instructions being fed into it. The system itself is not alive (i.e. pantheism is not the case). It's a slave to its instructions (law/Torah). Hence the mimicking of actual causality! The real thing is -real causality is- based on the law, is an enacting of the law. The line pertaining to me in the instructions ("A writer in Marin County will have troubles") is precisely what Christ overruled. Hence it was shown to me... in conjunction with "My friend Paul." (Remember it was set in the Simon Schuster type of the Bible I used to own.) There is a big difference between providence that deflects your evil fate + an agency which frees you from the powers of the episystem totally. The latter is a much more profound operation, esp. if viewed existentially. All your karma is burned up: karma as such. You as item in the system, locked in place, governed by forces outside you. Freedom is given to you. A whole new way of being is involved, that would go on after the moment of peril is over. The moment of peril just sets it off, or is used as an opportunity to set it off. There is no way this intervention could fail to affect the total system. But is it designed to affect the total system? V. the "secrecy theme" in e.g. Luke. If its use is maximized, the purpose is to affect the total system; if minimized, to save given selected individuals. folder 48 - 166 In 3-74 I felt myself helpless in the power of some force of the world, an evil force compelling me to act, like a robot, my whole desire was to thwart this force. I guess I had become aware of my actual condition for the first time; I had woken up. But strangest of all to me was the discovery of a self within me going its own way. This frightened me the most. Again, I am persuaded that something in the past had been changed, thus producing a new me (Thomas). This impression is ratified by my reading over "TDHG" + knowing that it was not I (as I am now) who wrote those letters. The text of the law was amended, + as a result reality altered (as in "3 Women"). (Viz: Grace to faith to entry of the Holy Spirit to sanctification to adoption to heir to freedom from the "planetary" powers/law.) By having the power, wisdom + authority to rewrite the law (or go over its head) Christ rewrites reality, the epiworld derived from the law. But he does more; he frees the person from his programmed "taped" condition (servitude). The person is woken up + sees reality as it is (prison). The person then experiences, in this life, immortality (due to the speeding up of his inner tape). The world can martyr him but it cannot control him without his knowledge. It is as if the DNA programming has been surgically killed: what Eric Berne calls "the script." folder 48 - 167 folder 48 - 167 EB: "He (Christ) enters his own creation + renews it." The "script" (Torah) tends to allow progressive ossification - even promote it. A corrective override has to be introduced as a newness factor. It has to be sentient, in fact wisdom itself, Logos itself, have authority + power, flexible, alive - in contrast to it the law ranges from being sterile + ineffective to downright wrong. Renewal is the key word; under the script (law) the world runs down - loses its virility + elasticity. Christ will decide where to insert correction + the nature of the correction: what + who. If a person is corrected he will be renewed (born from above - born a second time): new energy is introduced + released, negentropy, etc. This makes sense, all right. It is the whole point. To add ergic power to a declining closed system - ergic power from outside (as if ex nihilo). Hence the person is healed + invigorated as never before; not just restored to what he once was, but, rather, entirely fresh power is added from outside him. All the information formations that I saw in 3-74 point to an info basis of reality. I was aware of this at the time: I saw the plasmate as folder 48 - 168 folder 48 - 168 a primary constituent. I see now that our reality is based on a script which precedes it (i.e. reality) in ontology + in time, + also that there is a being here (camouflaged) who can pre-empt this primal script - presumably by generating and introducing totally new information which then realigns (modulates) reality. The message is changed, + so reality changes. Perhaps the King Felix cypher was such as I speak of: new information generated + fed in - perhaps even replacing earlier (+ now void) info/script/law. So it's not the Torah but rather Christ speaking: overruling + amending. In fact, the King Felix cypher pertains to the override, to Christ entering the system. Since the for step of the process, grace, comes from God, a person can't achieve the sequence; it's obvious that he is selected; as the AI voice said, "You were adopted because -" etc. It's not something you do but is done to/with you. Further, this grace - faith - sanctification through the Holy Spirit - adoption as sons of God - heirs - being freed from the elemental powers/law is as Paul says, the sine quo am of Xtianity! This is it; this is why Christ came here + what he died + rose for. folder 48 - 169 folder 48 - 169 "Paul even claimed that, as heirs through Christ, men were no longer bound under the elemental powers of the universe, which were apprehended as negative, as was the law, in Paul's mind. In ch 4 the Judaizers are said to keep themselves, like many Greeks, under astrological powers -not unlike the Jewish calendar of feasts- which kept man, according to Paul, enslaved by cosmic order. But to those free from the Law + possessing the Spirit, sonship + inheritance can come by adoption." EB So possessing the spirit = freedom from the cosmic order (astrological or planetary or elemental powers). The significance of this can best be seen if the mystery religions as a whole are studied. If our reality is some sort of program based on a script (info), as I suspect, the meaning of the above is: you are freed from the doom that the program programs you for: inevitable doom arising out of your programmed (robot) condition "under the power of the cosmic order." You are not really alive + awake, not truly or fully born. So what I call "the rasp" [of God] intrudes into the dream + awakens you. This must be a place of punishment, if the programming invariably leads to doom, as I suspected, it is hell or the same as hell, only we do not remember our former, actual lives. The dead do not know they are dead - mainly folder 48 - 170 folder 48 - 170 because (1) they are occluded perceptually; + (2) their true memories are suppressed. Then the intervention is definitely to save the person from his doom as well as giving him a new kind of life (+ way of being in the world). He is no longer at the mercy of the world; he is under the direct tutelage of God. The name of this whole process is salvation. Christ by his death pays the ransom + removes you from the power (kingdom) of Satan. My analysis is: when your tape is run at high speed forward to your death, Christ dies for you + leaves you alive in the postmortem restored condition. He is taken instead of you. In this view, death is conceived of as the planetary powers' victory over you (i.e. Satan's victory). EB: "Kingdom of God ... means an event suddenly breaking into the world from the outside, through which the time of this present world is ended + overcome." The time dysfunction in 3-74! Valis breaks in + time gets deranged. + consider what the AI voice has said. __ According to "VR" YHWH + B contend not for the outcome of the universe but for its [ontological] nature: BIP vs PTG. (Our universe is an epiphenomenon.) Victory by YHWH at the end of time rolls backward through history in terms of what we know of as an alternate universe. Each time I read over the outline for "VR" I want to write this: That I saw in 2-3-74 folder 48 - 171 a worse track (victory by Belial at the future "7th battle") because YHWH had won a decisive victory in the future + had abolished thereby that track - + no one remembered or saw it any more since it now never-had-existed. But it was given to me to experience anamnesis + so remember + see the lingering image of that defeated track, which I depicted in "Tears." Then God did in-break