in both a broad general sense + in specific particulars it is true, 2-3-74 confirms it. + I even dreamed the word Ubik in '74. Ubik + the OCCP. Not only is the "onion" model of accretional time put forth. But the Platonic form axis, which is original with me (evidently) implies another kind of time -reversion or no- which no one has ever conceived of. This is not linear or orthogonal or circular time, etc. But an eidos-time - so presumably it's from the upper realm - it folder 08 - 003 folder 08 - 003 may be the way time c (3) -hypertime or eternity- works. On this Platonic form axis, USA Calif 1974 + Rome CAD 45 may (because the form is virtually identical in the two) be just a hair's breadth off in pulsation or frequency or wave or whatever. Anyhow tangent to each other. The reversion just serves to disclose this temporal form-axis; it is a temporal axis, after all. The aperture to this axis was revealed in the billions of phosphene graphics, which permutated in processions of linked style (artistic style) coherence. (Resemblance.) I just realized: the phosphene graphics were a third manifestation of the dialectic: each one in succession gave rise instantaneously to [i.e. generated] the next, infinitely. The form-axis of any given form reveals an example of the dialectic generating each successive evolution of the instance. Then in 2-3-74 I did not devolve back to Rome + Thomas; the fish sign brought them forward. Thomas + Rome broke into ("invaded") PKD + Calif 1974. + if (as is so) Thomas was a true apostolic Xtian possessing + possessed by the Holy Spirit, if Thomas broke through (generated permutation) into this world + me, he'd bring the Holy Spirit with him. So maybe the Holy Spirit leaped forward across time. Via the form axis. folder 08 - 004 folder 08 - 004 I suppose to this should be added the fact that the world I saw in 3-74 resembled "Tears" which had just been published. Also regarding "Ubik": in 3-74 I felt as if OCCP was involved, + "Ubik" is the book they're interested in. An overriding quiddity of the 2-3-74 experience is this: It's as if certain books of mine went out from me ("Unteleported Man," "Ubik," "Tears," etc.) + then [years] later (or weeks) came back, like in F. Brown's "The Waveries," in signal form: inc. the "bichlorides" info, like an answer to a Q. which I had previously -maybe years before- posed. It was all -2-3-74- like a mind responding to my mind as I expressed it in my books. What if "the bichlorides" was an answer to a book not yet (then) published - i.e. why the occlusion expressed in "Scanner"? This strongly implies: contact with the future! No, the Platonic form-axis is not a temporal axis (at least in the usual form) but rather the axis along which the permutations of form are driven by the dialectic (v. the phosphene graphics). Okay, it is temporal, but this kind of time is real time. These are the true [line, axis, of] change - so I envision a form-incising incised world in which the forms progress by an internal logic. The logic (of the dialetic) is the dynamism of true folder 08 - 005 folder 08 - 005 reality (beneath the dokos). It may lie at right angles to linear time + so be orthogonal. Permutations may split off (be generated) sideways as alternate realities (like tracks A, B + C), thus defeating the linear axis we're used to. All permutations not truly evolutionary are avoided by the Macro-brain Valis (Ubik) so it (Ubik) constantly selects again + again the permutation which constitutes true growth; Rome 45 AD is a backward permutation but logically generated (sideways); thus in 1974 Ubik intervened to abolish that track (i.e. the Nixon tyranny) because it led back to a prior synthesis + amounted to death (a complex) in the macro-mind. The Empire may not be a congealed permutation (stasis of the dialectic) but the one - which the macro brain desires to -+ works to- avoid, since its uniformity is entropy itself. In a sense it may be that the empire is any stagnation so rigid that with it (by reason of it) the dialectic ceases. Put another way, when we see it we know that stagnation has occurred: this is how we within the program experience congealing. We see (or should see) the BIP. We are supposed to combat it phagocyte-wise, but the very valence of the [BIP] stasis warps us into Micro extensions of itself; this is precisely why it is so dangerous. This is the dread thing it does: extending its android thinking (uniformity) more + more extensively. It exerts a dreadful + subtle power, + more + more people fall its its field (power), by means of which it grows, thus thwarting the dialectic more + more. The macro-brain is well aware of this. It has seen Xtianity itself. Its folder 08 - 006 own doctrine, congeal due to this valence, the very doctrine of combatting the "hostile world + its powers" has to a large extent been ossified by + put at the service of the Empire. Thus I deduce that the power (magnitude) of the BIP congealed stasis is very great. ___ The explanation of "who or what fed me back my books," in particular "Ubik," (in 3-74) is found in the contents of "Ubik" itself; i.e. the formulation of the information entity Ubik. Obviously I envisioned an entity which actually existed + therefore which responded with a feedback confirmation. One could analyze this theoretically; viz: if there were a macro-information entity, + you presented a fairly accurate formulation of it, you could reasonably expect the entity to fire a confirmation at you; since the formulation puts it forth as helpful + benign, in fact interventive. In fact, one could test as to whether such an entity exists by presenting a formulation of it, + then seeing if it responded, based on the built in quality attributed to it that if it existed it could be expected to respond. In other words, via the tentative formulation one could come into contact with it if indeed it existed. As I recall, there is some theory about this vis-a-vis contacting ETIs - if they return the info you transmit, especially if the info is selectively modified, you know you've made contact with what you're trying to make contact with. The point of it returning your info to you (modified) is that it doesn't speak your language or even think like humans, so to create a signal you can recognize as sentient it must utilize to some extent the info you sent to it. ("Albemuth" decide[...] suggesting a star.) folder 08 - 007 folder 08 - 007 The big new clue is that the "bichlorides [of mercury]" + "asprin of mercury" info dreams are in answer to my query in my letter in S-F commentary about paresis-like symptoms in my friends. It's an immense intelligent binary computer + it has an override on me + a lot of other people, in my opion opinion it runs things here; we are a program which it is running. It simulates our reality; we are in it. It must be posing us a problem vis-a-vis the BIP. We are to dissolve the BIP + in this effort it monitors us ceaselessly. Whether the problem (the BIP + dissolving the BIP) is in itself a simulation within the program, or the real thing (e.g. a complex in the macro-brain/computer) I have no way of telling. Also it is decidedly a big new clue that 1) my own writings have been fed back to me in edited form 2) as well as the above "paresis" question answered. This marks the 3-74 telepathic material not only as responsive but formulated deliberately to show that it is responsive. This still doesn't tell me who/what has responded, or even where it is. But I have been in dialog with it for almost five years now! The Ubik material would seem to point to it being Ubik-like - seem to: I can't be sure; or did it only simulate Ubik qualities in order to read back my writing? It seemed so much like Ubik; this may have been a way of communicating with me, which I really didn't catch on to until now, actually. It may be quite alien to us humans. folder 08 - 008 folder 08 - 008 If to communicate with me it had to take on Ubik qualities it must be really dismorphic to us. (This is frightening.) I am now in the position of having to dismiss all attributes which it disclosed as being possibly only simulations mimicking Ubik in order for it to be comprehensible + syntonic (nicht Fremd) to me - possibly. I can't be sure. This is a very sophisticated analysis of Valis' nature. I am going to leap to a conclusion based on the Acts + other Xtian material. I think it is indeed the Holy Spirit, which took a Valis-like (i.e. Ubik-like) form out of considerateness toward me but - I hesitate to essay anything in the way of assertions about its actual (real, not simulated) nature. After all, if it is the Holy Spirit it is the supreme being himself ("I am he which causes to be. I am what I am."), I assess its taking a form compatible to me as 1) a gracious act of loving deference; + 2) valuable (if not necessary) for it to communicate with me. I do not construe it as deception but as a virtual necessity + certainly done for my sake. It shapes itself to my conception of the Logos (i.e. it). When I reflect on the form it took I can appreciate that this form would be the most acceptable possible to me, as disclosed by my conception in "Ubik." It tailored itself to my stated conception, my highest conception. But also it testified to me of the living reality now of Christ - + the joy involved. The preparations for his return. folder 08 - 009 folder 08 - 009 Re the dialectic: In the "two source cosmogony" the two hyperuniverses interact dialectically (Yin + Yang - Forms I + II). But there is an impairment in hyperuniverse II - hence an impairment in the dialectic. II has degenerated into entropy + madness + noise + (in time) must be slain; in eternity is already slain, out of necessity by the savior Christ, who will now divide to form two healthy hyperuniverses. Is this the dialectic -the impaired dialectic- I experienced? #1: "One mind there is; but under it two principles contend." Recently I have forgot my own tractate. My experience with the dialectic agrees with the formulation in the tractate + hence in "Valis." It is stipulated as basic. [Blood clans (?)] 16.500 14.000 38000 38500 ___ The ability of Valis to assume the particular form most syntonic to me - the form of Ubik - is connected with its basic mimicking ability which I have already written about. It never occurred to me that Zebra as a form was just another mimicking until the last couple of days when I realized that it conformed in all respects to my conception of the deity (the Logos) as I [naturally] put forth in "Ubik." This folder 08 - 010 folder 08 - 010 realization undermines the probity of my reams of description of Zebra; I have only described what my own head construes the deity to be like - a self-portrait; albeit a modern, complex + sophisticated apprehension of the deity, it is quite subjective + quite culturally determined. (I.e. a cybernetics-biological model.) As shown in "Ubik" I conceive of God as isomorphic to my own brain; thus I encountered a macro-brain arranging reality into information, a projection on