away and full of God," as the E of PH article on Plotinus says. Ecstatic comingling. -44- So my solution came when: 1) I realized that Valis —i.e. Valis as Soma—- is in a metarealm; it is a metasoma of which we see only the plural, unrelated (unstructured) constituents.. .this led me to NeoPlatonism and Platonism. 2) The One (the unitary all) is achieved by means of Pythagoras' kosmos: a harmonious fitting-together of the plural constituents that exist at our level. This is how there can be a One (which is eternal) and the many (which are in flux, come into being for an instant and then pass away, as Lucretius speaks of, based on Heraclitus). Thus the relationship between the One (Valis) and our world of the apparently unconnected plural has to do with a structuring of these plural constituents along the lines that Pythagoras described but we do not see this structuring. Thus, as Plotinus said, unity with the One requires that you somehow become the One yourself, since unity is unity. This One has or is Mind (noos) and pervades our realm like an arborizing vine. It is the motive force driving our flux realm along; our realm is so to speak the metabolism of this "life form." This meta life form. It puts in and it then extracts back out to add to its macrometasoma (the Forms in God's Mind, as a Christian Platonist would put it). I mean to say, the Forms (phylogons) are themselves integrated into a structure, what I call the macrometasoma that is like (or is) a big brain composed of memory. That Valis seems governed by laws governing biological organisms may be simply that it maintains internal necessity or regularity or law in the sense that Spinoza and the pre-Socratics spoke of. -45- The permutations of its metabolism —our flux world— are logical; they proceed through internal necessity, not mere will or caprice (a point familiar to Spinoza). (I saw Valis sorting through all the combinations but they were all the possible combinations, before selecting a "causal" outcome.) At this point it occurs to me that Valis may operate on a Taoistic binary dialectic system, wherein the "dark counter player" is in a sense Mind split into antithetical Forms I and II for the purpose of generating change; "One Mind there is, but under it two principles contend." It is a priori knowledge (i.e. omniscience) versus physical power (i.e. omnipotence). White knows everything; Black can do everything (possible). Strange...but that's what seem to characterize the two sides of the dialectic: wisdom versus power. Hence Zoroaster spoke of the good deity as the Wise Mind. Then it could lose on the field, since it has surrendered power to a (or created it as a) adversary. Put another way, God's Wisdom and God's creative power operate as a binary dialectic, perhaps even antithetical each to the other. Could a person speak of a primordial crisis in the Godhead in which the Godhead split (the Fall) so that its Wisdom is pitted against its power in combat? VR seems to hint at this. Out of this split, this schism, our flux world came into existence. The dark counter-player, then, is also God; this is the "secret partnership" that Joseph Campbell speaks of as a mighty revelation. Wisdom lacks power and so relies on strategy; power is irrational, being deprived of Wisdom. Golly. Why then God as noos or Wisdom would in a sense be exiled from creation — since creation is due to power; this would -46- be of course James-James who can create but whose mind is gone. What happens is that power acts first and then wisdom amends it, in particular utilizing enantiodromia; power {hence creation) must come first. So my two source cosmogony would be correct; this would be Plato's noos persuading ananke, too. Power and Wisdom are somehow split, and work against ^ach other in /as a dialectic. But God in terms of Wisdom (Hagia Sophia) foresaw this, and foresaw that the best possible creation would arise from it. Good grief; in Psalm 6 or whichever it is, God and Holy Wisdom (God as Creator! Hence power I) are described as separate I And Holy Wisdom is female! So I have some scriptural basis for my notion that God's creative power and his Holy Wisdom somehow separated before creation. And this was the first thing the AI voice spoke to me of: Hagia Sophia. The very first thing! Identifying her with Christ (which Will Durant says is correct). Could it be said, following Hebrew mysticism, that my 3-74 experience was a microcosmic reunification of the two halves of the Godhead, called by the Jews En Sof and the Shekhina? This idea of repair is found in Gnosticism as well. So I experienced a unity, although I was aware of the binary dialectic. First the mind that entered me (the Shekhina or the Holy Spirit; they are probably the same) and then a little later I saw Valis externally which was for me a perception of the One which is to say unity. In the moment of this perception of unity time, flux and causation ceased; hence I say, The dialectic ceased (momentarily). So they are split in this realm (where they interact in a dialectic) but, as Joseph Campbell speaks of, in a higher realm (meta—realm) they cooperate (behind the scenes ) -47- That's it. That's the difference between our realm and the Upper Realm; in the Lower Realm the Godhead is riven in twain and contends with itself as En Sof and the Shekhina, but in the Upper Realm it is intact as the One of Plotinus. No dialectic, no contention, but unity. No flux. "One Mind there is (Upper Realm) but under it two principles contend (Lower Realm, this realm of the dialectic)." Well, then; it is much clearer what 3-74 consisted of. If there is a combative dialectic here, but unity in the Upper Realm (flux here, permanence there) then I saw that Upper Realm where the dialectic doesn't exist. This realization stems from my recent insight that in Valis' macrometasoma the dialectic is absent. So my experience was a microcosmic restoration of unity —a healing of the primordial rupture— of the Ground of Being (vide E PH article on Gnosticism), as well as my own merging with Plotinus' One. Really, in place of Gnosticism I am adopting the view that the Godhead is both split and unified; in the Lower Realm split; in the Upper Realm still intact: in fact this intactness, and the existen of the Upper Realm, is the great secret (although Neo-Platonism is hardly secret). But Campbell does call it the "secret partnership." In other words: the two contending forces that make up the antithetica dialectic (along zoroastrian dualistic models) conceals a secret parnership beyond our vision; further, both "gods" in the dialectic are halves of one Godhead. This would account for Parmenides' con¬ viction that despite what our senses report, a priori we know that change -—motion— is impossible; empirically we apprehend the Lower Realm but a priori we apprehend the Upper...which Plato dealt exten¬ sively with, as a problem; this is the basis of Platonic metaphysics and strongly influenced me and my work. -46- But the Lower Realm is not one of mere maya (dokos), I would say. Both realms are real. However, in terms of levels of ontology, the Upper Realm —that of partnership and unity— is more real; as the AI voice said, "The Upper Realm has plenary (var. pleni¬ potentiary) powers." So, I guess, Plato and Plotinus are correct in their consignment of greater ontology to the Form World. So the kind of experience of the One that Plotinus describes is regarded by the Gnostics and the Jewish Kabalists not just as a perception of unity but an actual repair, a creating of unity (since they believe in a primordial crisis in the Godhead, which Plotinus does not). But I saw (it was revealed to me) that this Lower Realm of flux feeds the completion of the macrometasoma; hence this realm has value; hence I would tend to adopt a modified Platonism, rather than Gnosticism...actually, X am tending toward a third view, that of the "secret partnership" which is neither Gnostic nor Neo-Platonist but mystical, perhaps Egyptian (Campbell found evidence of it in Egypt). The "primordial crisis" was deliberately willed by the Godhead by virtue of its foresight (Hagia Sophia); that the best results would occur if the dialectic came xte into being. Seeing this split, the Gnostics assumed a crisis, an inadvertent rupture, rather than a calculated one. But the fact that it was deliberate, planned by the Godhead itself when it was still intact, is a secret and is a sort of gnosis of gnosis: secret of secrets (if the gnosis of Gnosticism is in itself regarded as a secret). Could this be "the secret stolen, in one’s hands," i.e. something that was revealed to me that I know but don’t realize I know...I know that the dialectic, which Zoroaster was shown, was purposeful, and that both sides are the Godhead, two halves of God? -49- This means that behind bitheism lies monotheism. It is as if the revelation of the dialectic is in itself a secret —first revealed to Zoroaster— but there is a further secret concealed within that secret: that behind the dialectic lies unity, and both sides in the dialectic are good, hence both are "good" insofar as "good" is involved at all: Satan is God in a Satan-suit. In the cosmic game, the Godhead is playing against itself! Its wisdom against its creative power! And the reason for all this —the dialectic— is that it feeds the growth, evolution and final completion of the macrometasoma itself, whatever that may be (I just call it Valis and let it go at that). And of course Hagia Sophia knows all this... but the dark counter-player doesn't. Of course; there you are. There is another part of the stolen secret "in one's hands." Since the dark counter¬ player doesn't know it, it i£ a secret- In a sense the goal of Hagia Sophia (Valis) is to use everything eventually somewhere in the macromet asoma- That's why I say it's playing Big Nigger; its ultimate win in the final game will incorporate everything that a has ever been. Black can't fathom how this could be. But Hagia Sophia with her a priori knowledge foresees this; it is known to her already; to her, it has happened; she has won and knows she has won. I haven't really explained everything, because what this macro¬ metasoma is (in terms of theology or philosophy) I don’t know. Is it the actual creation? Is it true reality, Plato's Form world? Is it the corpus dei or the corpus Christi? Or Pythagoras' kosmos? What¬ ever it is it exists in contradistinction to this world. Yet it feeds off our world! -50- It is as if our world isn't the real world —a real world?— at all. Maybe the answer lies in my ten-volume meta novel. We have a fake reality masking the actual reality: what the E of S-F calls my "two level" reality theory. Strangest of all, the Upper Realm, the macrometasoma, seems to be this realm, this world of the dialectic of flux, seen another way — as if the Gnostics are right: and to see it healed is to cause it to be healed. Could this be the observer participant universe of quantum mechanics? "Reality is what you see it as," as the E of SF quotes me. "is what you perceive it to be"; i.e. your perception of it changes it. Well, this would make the Gnostics right! To see unity is to cause repair. (The ontological value of knowledge.) So I am saying: To see the secret partnership is to cause the secret partnership; you reconcile the dialectical strife in you (the two brain hemispheres?) and