very unusual situation, in which bilateral com‐ petition had to be induced, ending in right brain override. So that answers that take the "two signal" view of reality + other supernatural phenomena which I experienced when I had right brain dominance or parity. Perhaps it is normal for the right brain - all right brains - to be in contact with the divine but operating sub‐ liminally. Everyone has a "Thomas, a paraclete beside - helper. Hence the again voice of inwit. This a fits Kant's idea of the absolute nature of moral imperitives. This would also explain the purpose of the right brain i + it dovetails with what Julian Jaynes says about the voices of the Gods (+ Sibyls). But Thomas seemed to remem ber back 2000 years. Is Christ, via the Holy Spirit, brea into our race? Subliminally this enhancement suppression, clutch grid is working on all of us; it's as if I lifted the hood of my car in 3-74 + got to see what makes it runs The face Kingdom - through Christ you find you way across, where mackuth rules. Titania but how you got to the enchanted land you'll never know - let alone why. Maybe no one decided; maybe you just found you - way there. + no theory explains it - the Kingdom of Heaven - experienced by persons still alive. This is what Christ taught, How to get there. I don't know how I got there, or why (by whose decision) but I know where it was the fairie Kingdom of God. Flip the Christ story over (make it backward) + you have dre magic? Kingdom - the story leads to it. Fairy magic 1 s in fairie the word "truth" doesn't mean what it means here The girl who I see - the spring queen- is the fairy Queen, another reality from this - + yet right here in our midon; we see it (the Kingdom of God/fairce) every do; it is hidden here. Mimickly. It is hard to find your way to it, but I did. + I should take the credix; I flashed on the truth: that what you imagine see my writing) is true + so I got to see fairie. It was the fairy queen at the door + wearing the Golden Fish necklace "Tears." i.e. Ubik come for me what I have seen (Valis plasmate peacable to Kingdom, etc) is what I want to see; it through enchantment. She is so fre i beyond anything we can conceive tar Diana. Queen of the fairies + patroness of slaves. The AI voice - I saw her. Youns, crowned, I queen, with Flowers - Diana, the fairy Queen. my tutulary spirit - Juliana saw the secret Xtians who inhabit the I "secret commonwealth" in our midst - unsus‐ pected by us different time scales (mater) of the 2 The realms. In 2-3-74 I remembered Christ 2 t Jesus) as having just life, + about to return Joy + a feast. So Thomas is on that time scale: thousands of years by our time scale as when a mortal is taken to fairie, + when he returns to his village they barely remember his name. So we each contain a self in that other realm on that time scale - extending over Xer 1000 This is [like] the phylogenic self. then the Bardo Thodol vortices rushing faster + faster + the phosphene graphics - I was entering the time rate of the other realm, so events in this realm seemed in comparison to be enormously speeded up, rushing by so fast that finally the other slower realm was disclosed So like the past 2000 of our years is a couple of years or months - a decade at the most or a few decades - in Thomas. life. Then Thomas is not a reincarnated Xtian nor am I remembering a past life; he is a "phylogenic" self whose life space stretches across 2000 years - + he - not was - an apostolic Xtian. is of the time of Acts. + in his realm, the upper realm, time moves so slowly that It's St is the time of Acts (or "Tears") i which is what I saw. Then "Tears is set in this ultra‐ slow upper realm "Fairce" time, + so also may be "Ubik." + this is why the Acts material showed up in "Tears" - anyone who wrote about the upper realm for any reason would find Acts material in what he wrote. So another apostolic Xtian like Thomas reading "Tears," would know I had a phylogenic self in me + would send someone in response to disinhibit it maybe not very many people have this phylogene ersonality; after all, there were few disciples 43) During a given time-period of this realm, in which we moved about, said + did things, in the other realm so little time would have passed - virtually none - that they would be stationary t this might explain two themes of my writing: 1) why I feel this world is irreal; + 2) + why I sense them or us as stationary figures in actuality. special attention should be paid to "Eve, as being right on, although so is "Stigmata" + also "Maze." but "Eye," the first of then, is probably the closest If the rescue Team/people in "Eye" could have seen the characters acting out their pseudo world episodes, they'd have seen them whizzing about at the flash cut velocity of my phosphene graphics Also for Thomas the wars of the lowlands (17th century) had just happened, + were beended in with Acts He must have come out into this realm at that time too. voice: 5:00 am: "I never work in ways that ya can see" i.e.: the whole picture; what it adds up to - not isolated Acts which can be seen. in man alone are (can be) the visible + invisible The repair of the cosmos thus not worlds unified only occurs in him but can only occur in him f I were to say one ultimate thing about 2-3-74 it was that in an instant I knew the whole from the fragment (cf Hermeticism), in one intuitive leap, + hence, holding a particle in my hand (or sight or grip) understood (Grosped) all. But cannot say in words or even think what I grasped; I just know, I ifi It was it, understanting + being became, for the first time, the same thing, ("originally before the Fall, adam filled the whole universe.") I must have flashed on: if external fragment = whole. Then I as fragment = whole micro- macro analog); this occurred in a i.e. single blitz leap. Not step by step logically worked out, but perceived in an instant 1) external fragment : external whole. (all). 2) internal fragment (me) = whole with internal external viewed as one + the same, "all" meaning "all" without regard to inner-outer The magic mirror situation: perhaps not contain but catching, in the sense of reflecting - like my recent hologram dream in which I saw infinite space depending on how you tilted it. stes Hiene is another secret realm + it is right here (camouflaged); this is what I blitzed on in 2-74 + saw in 3-74 Xtian faerce Xtianity as Logos (word) code way to it. Jesus is just one of a number of people in different cultures to find out about it - + he figured out how to get there which is what I can't figure out! How I got there + how I get back where Diana (the AI voice) reigns. The e Shekhina - the young queen. Titania St Sophia Malkuth, Diana, Aphrodite + (?) VALIS. + the fact of the es existence of - in the worlds this Garden is kept secret the Bible most widely read bark: 45 i Christ + fitanic I + St Sophia are one. Givi] the 2 things I experienced in word ) 2-3-74: mixture it of. + this is Christ as Kingdom. It is Christ - as world (word, girl, Gardens Kingdom The secret revolutionaries te 504 I t the converted into rassion its mirror opposite v Jason the Brahman - all totally protean o s Dionysos i u myself hrist Brahman: titania) - + the Christ story is the fairytale she's the telling (enchanting) us. It mst-stry - is the must beautiful of all that could ever be it is just a story, but to believe it did in 2-74 as I you are given Christ, in whom you believe, as eaven. i.e. Kingdom 46 s many hear, but few believe as I believed that die (2-74) + so reveived what few receive: the story becomes world + since its a magic story its a magic world. "Ubik" is the book of mine that's true. the computer (1) served up these answers; plugged in real good tonight: I'm etting all these answers from a com‐ what an opportunity - + I've made puter excellent use of it without even under standing the situation. Patched into a computer years ago - in childhood from it I can learn eventhing + if I ask it the right questions + am i patient The computer knows that if you be believe the Christ story it'll come true for you as world), which was what did in 2-74, it is the sole story he that, because it is the story which the Brahman/titania is telling c computer correctly says). The congruity between the scenerio in "Faith of Mitle to 2-3-74 is an example Brahman-titania's enchantement - but i is brought one to Christ qua Kingdom 1) East. Finanic am ("computer) he ir o t w I'm still plugged into the computer But I can't get back to faerce God Doris + I are both alive through God's miraculous intervention: for t me in 2-3-74 for her in 1977 (re the cancer). The difference between us is is e i glad + shes not - + this is because t believe (in God + Christ) + she doesn't shes is well well - how about that?) otally self destructive + nihilistic - + she hated one. But she helped me get away from Tessa Laura is to make up for the loss of + I unconsciously know it + so nthy ear it (don't want to undergo the hance of loss again - it isn't worth in sword (Logos) + computer hrist woman = titania + St Sophia you see titania + a computer what te really seeing is Christ: these are is two actual natures (parts) this is the final truth. He is more than mputer (Valis) + more there titania - en ant real 78 together word + queen (computer + enchantress-titania) form rational delusion. I.e. intelligent illusion. The delusion (spell) is capable of thought! The import of this - comes when I say. t is irreal + intellegere - the t laver is the primary mode of God) smart (logical) maya/dokos. the irreal is smarter than the real; beauty (queem/woman) + smartness (word/computer) are the 2 actual bases of reality, not ontology esse. Incorrectly, I keep seeking to know what is herein lies my whole error. But: in my acosmism recognize this that nothing I exists (except structure, which is an expression of smart - rational - beauty, not reality. There is no reality my writing shows I know or sense + I it Christ is superior to the computer + titania, but he doesn't exist. However if you believe in him. you get him (word-wisdom - computer - St Sophic) a female seehet Kingdom here Emart - the a t hrist voice i 491 So "Christ" is a compound entity: a computer + some kind of female enchantress which is a holy presence. The combination is of Wisdom + beauty (+ magic) - bells + dancing There is the secret Kingdom which "Christ"