with a specifically Christian attitude in giving- + the statement about me being adopted. + knowing the early sacraments of the church.) One thing I realize is that genuine Christianity is very practical (e.g. political) + also very mysterious + mystical (e.g. the captivity letters). But the summation of it is to know God's nature as agapē, + that this nature is annexing the world (cf the last scenes in "Tears"), achieved through Christ who first acts as Revealer of God + then, after the crucifixion, acts in his cosmic capacity as God's warrior against Satan + Satan's power in the world, dismantles the world, assimilates it into his own mystical body + thus restores it to God (this is a feeble summation, but the twin thrust is: Christ breaks Satan's power; Christ restores world to God the Father thus healing the primordial damage known to us as the Fall). (In this battle we are both participant -we act as agent for God against Satan- + recipient of the victory: {Note} Christ frees us from Satan's [world] power + transfers us from that iron prison of immutable cause-+-effect to the love + freedom + bliss of the Palm Tree Garden wherein we -as once long ago- know God.) {Note:} We are active in the dialectical process + we benefit from the result (success) of the process. This must absolutely be understood: we save + are saved, both. Thus, curiously, we are agents of our own salvation, the salvator salvandus: in a certain real way we can become in this struggle Christos himself. This requires an active, participating role, rather than a merely passive role; what I call "the heroic deed" is required, but Christ (or the Holy Spirit) will -paradoxically- perform that deed as us + in us, as a sacrament, a rite of transformation: it marks our passage from domination by Satan to the new order of God's kingship. This is an awesome moment in our life, because on it rides our option for life -eternal life- with God; without [performing] it [correctly] we die. XX Look: it is no small matter that I have so-to-speak trapped the identity of Valis between the Father + the Holy Spirit; in fact the very sequence of my encounter is the order of proceeding: first the Holy Spirit (2-74), then Valis (3-74), then the Father (11-80). (Actually it is the order reversed, which is logical. The Spirit is the initiator of revelation about/of the Son, + through the Son one encounters the Father. 1) The Spirit disclosed the secret, real nature of history in terms of the church, of Christanity; this is how it began. I could not then + can’t tell now where the Spirit left off + Christ began, as if in some mysterious way they were the same + yet not the same; this is because the Spirit did not tell but disclosed the actual reality of what it knew: what it knew was/became at hand: there to be perceived. He unveiled latent reality, culminating in the disclosure of Valis which I saw with my own eyes - now. But spatiotemporality has been rendered void or semireal. 2) Assuming the Spirit to be the revealer, Christ existed external to me; assuming some kind of identity between Christ + the Spirit. Christ’s mind merged with mine, this may have been Thomas who was once a man killed by the Romans. But none of these qualities + aspects carried over to the Father, who was absolutely distinct. I am not sure I am (due to all this) a Trinitarian; I would have to say that based on my own experiences each member of the Trinity diminishes. - I mean: the Spirit reveals, discloses the truth, knows everything; but Christ transubstantiates the universe + combats Satan (which is more than (1) to know all, + (2) to reveal + verify it). Yet the Father is even more: whereas -as I wrote supra- Christ is Logos, hence wisdom + nous, absolute reason, the ultimate in the Hellenistic view of Logos + mind, God’s nature -einai- is agapē, infinite, + bliss for all eternity; Christ -the macrometasomakosmos- is in process [of completion], but the Father is perfect + complete - more, we are imaged on him so (strange to say) he is more like us than is Christ or the Spirit. It is as if the Spirit exists for a purpose (to know + reveal); Christ exists for a purpose (to introduce reason into the world, to combat + defeat Satan, to recreate the kosmos + restore it to God, to extricate men from their enslavement, to select those he wishes to have as his flock); but the Father is, + is complete in that being: at absolute rest, above purpose + even reason: infinite being + love + bliss with no need of anything, but due to his love + kindness "desiring" (in quotes) that other creatures be, have life + joy + learn to know him + image him in love; but he does not need this; these things occur naturally from his nature, over + above his will or his intelligence - it is the overflowing of his nature which is limitless; it is as if, given infinite love + bliss, these things occur effortlessly; they just are. Even if there was no universe God would be sufficient - nothing would be lost. It is as if all creation is contained by the nature of his love, but that creation (sb) is nothing, although real; perhaps it is gracious of him, it occurs in his love + kindness acausally: it is not due to his love + kindness but is in it. One of my greatest realizations about him in 11-17-80 is that rather than just willing he also allows (in contrast to Spinoza: "His will is law"). Everything that exists he either wills or allows. The magnitude of the freedom expressed by this ("he allows") was a totally new conceptual experience to me. God's will was something I understood; in fact I had always viewed everything as due to his will. I had therefore no notion of human free will (in this I saw God + reality as Spinoza did). He allows independent being, which explains, perhaps, evil + disorder + that which is futile + wasteful, perverse + senseless. He shows infinite toleration due to his love + kindness; nonetheless this is not all; he also decrees (this is his will); a tension is created by his will + his permission, the result of which is an unfathomable mystery to a finite creature's intelligence; but God knows that every creature will within this mysterious bimodular reality -God's will and God's permission- find his way voluntarily back to God, however long + "inefficient" the path. This is totally bountiful; the parameters are infinity itself. His will operates in conjunction with his permission without damaging it -yet the will, the decree, is there- perhaps by implanting certain knowledge in the persons, or tendencies which although they do not abridge or infringe on the person -do not diminish him but in fact enhance him- help direct him, like signs or inner/outer guides. Goethe well understood this [about the divine nature] when he wrote "Faust"; this is specifically the wager in heaven. (Leibnitz sensed this in his concept of theodicy + this being the "best possible world.") (The factor of theodicy is an absolute + can never fail. It is the reality brought into logical existence by the infinite love + kindness of God; anything less than absolute theodicy would literally contradict God's nature, this was perhaps the strongest point that God made with me as a rebuke; it was precisely what I did not understand: God pinpointed my underlying error. (This is what "Job" studies.) Absolute theodicy is an attribute which can be predicated of God, since it follows from his einai, which is agapē (it would not follow from, say, noein, if noien were his einai - here, then -the absolute fact of his theodicy- is something built into the primary revelation that his einai is agapē + not noein. This must never be overlooked: the absolute reality of theodicy. This is part of my revelation of 11-17-80: because of the Greek tradition I have involved myself in the issue of the rationality of the universe; this is a Greek preoccupation. What I am saying is that theodicy as an absolute fact stemming from God's einai is more fundamental than rationality, which has to do with Hagia Sophia / Ho Logos + -it seems to me- less than absolute; but theodicy is absolute. "Rationality" may actually mean "I understand it"; if so, then absolute theodicy will result in something I understand assuming my understanding is perfect; would I prefer some other nature than agapē hence theodicy? I might wind up with a universe I understood which was devoid of theodicy - in which case we would have built-in tragedy facing us!) (Viz: theoretically it might bipolarize this way: 1) Would you prefer to be destroyed + understand why (by "destroyed" read "doomed")? 2) Or would you prefer to be saved + not understand why (by "saved" read "given joy + life" - by "life" read einai)? We have been mislead by Hellenestic thought- + Attic Greece gave rise to classical tragic drama. (As a further example: I can save an animal's life but not explain to it why or even what I am doing - as when I take it to the vet. On the other hand it is possible to kill an animal -the same animal- + make it very clear to that animal why you are killing it: as punishment, for food, for sport, etc. "As wanton boys will do, the Gods use us for their sport," to badly paraphrase "Lear"; this seems to me a Greek sense of tragedy, but the tragedy is due not to irrationality in the heights but to injustice. The Christian God would contradict his own nature to do this; this may be at the heart of Judo-Christian revelation about God - new to the Hellenistic world.) Thus for me there were these primary revelations about God in 11-17-80: (1) That he does not only will (ordain) but also allows; + the interaction of these two elements is the basis of our lives + world. (2) That his einai is agapē, not noein, +, because of this, we can know (3) that absolute theodicy exists throughout all levels + dimensions of the universe. (7) Thus all fear (I now see) stems from ignorance of God's nature. (4) Our life in this world is an ordeal; (5) but it is a "little ordeal" more than made up for (not "made up for" but "more than made up for") by the (6) infinite bliss to come. ("Made up for would merely clear the slate by balancing bad -the ordeal- with good -the reward to come. Were this the case, mere equipoise would be our proper philosophical attitude. But due to "more than made up for" - why, joy would be the proper -logical, I mean- response. God made this perfectly plain; it was to this point that he most urgently spoke; this is central to the primary disclosure of agapē as his nature. Agapē does not settle for equipoise but leads to joy; + he showed me that that joy extends into bliss - in fact infinite bliss. These elements -love, theodicy, bliss- cannot be separated, really. The variable of "allows" is (I think) what renders reality puzzling to us, since it introduces the possibility of error, waste, futility, evil. It makes the total system unfathomable to us, since it defeats the very element of determinism that Spinoza supposed. I could say, weakly, that "through his infinite wisdom God saw that allowing as well as willing created a better universe," but I don't think that is it; it is more fundamental than having to do with