generate the Spirit in your mind by the mysterium coniunctionis, and then the Spirit generates Christ in the outer world — turns the world into what I call the macrometasoma or Valis, structure, -61- metakosmos, pattern, integrated unity of the unrelated plural. This is transubstantiation, not just like it. The Eucharist takes place, performed by the Spirit, and it's real; it's not just a re¬ enactment of the Lord's Supper...it has something to do with time, though. You’re back at the time —and the place— of Acts, where Christ was last seen by the disciples. There is continuity of Christ, here. It's as if the Spirit is a transparent mechanism that acts as a lens or intermediary state between you and Christ. The Spirit and the risen Christ can't be separated; wherever the Spirit is, there is Christ; contrarily, there is no Christ unless you have the Spirit in you. But then, What is Christ under these circumstances? Not a man. There is nothing there that wasn’t there before, except the linking. If the Spirit can turn anything into Christ —the weeds in the alley— what, then, is Christ? If this is not a revelation by the Spirit that the weeds are really Christ all the time, if it isn't that, if it's the Spirit actually trans¬ muting the weeds at that moment into Christ (which is what happens in transubstantiation: the priest doesn't reveal to you that the bread and the wine were "really" Christ; he turns them into Christ — this is what the Spirit does, I think. But if the Spirit is so to say a psychological event in your brain, the mysterium coniunctionis, then in a way haven't you turned the weeds in the alley into Christ, with the Spirit being a middle step on the route to that? The Spirit causes Christ to be present by means of the miracle of transubstantia¬ tion — of everything that's handy (which is pretty spectacular); and you don't have to take it on faith: you can see it. And your mind is linked to Christ's. I can't help noticing the resemblance to Ubik, who identifies itself with the Logos in John, the same source as these statements about the Holy Spirit (the Advocate). He's everywhere, including the trash of the alley (I mean Ubik, now). He is related to information. He is anti-entropic. He takes an endless number of trash forms (the commercials). Are we to assume that in fact there really is no world, there? That it's some kind of formless stuff, nothing more, onto which we project images? And the Spirit projects the image of Christ? Viz: "Christ is a certain way of viewing reality." (In terms of unity and metastructure.) What occurs to me is that given all this, Christ is potentially ubiquitous: "Break a stick and there is Christ. Lift a stone and there is Christ." This is not Teilhard's Point Omega, apparently. It's also not the Cosmic Christ in the sense that I formerly used the term; because this is something the Spirit does (transubstantiation, not revelation). Really, the Spirit turns everything into Christ! No world remains, only total ubiquitous transubstantiation. Doesn't this resemble Brahman? No, because it wasn't Christ until the Spirit did it. I'm amazed. This is like nothing I ever heard of, but I'd bet everything that this is precisely what took place with the original Christians during the Eucharist; this is what is supposed to happen. But how could such a vastly wonderful "magic" leave us? How could this pass into oblivion, due to the imperial church losing the truth of the Eucharist, trading the truth for the husk? Technically because they forgot it had to do with (1) The risen Christ, not the passion and death; and (2) It summoned the Spirit through anamnesis, Christ here and now. (Re Eliade): a mythological event unfolds in another kind of time (ilio tempore, etc.). Therefore if you can get (yourself ) into a mythological narrative you will enter this dream time (as opposed to entering dream time and, by means of that, entering the myth). The entree to dream time is to reenact the ( i.e. a) myth. I accidentally did this in 2/3-74 vis—à—vis Acts due to (1) TEARS; and (2) the girl with the fish necklace. These plunged me into that other kind of time and so I aaw world under that aspect, i.e. made eternal and holy — and experienced anamnesis. Also the Xerox missive somehow acted toward being a part of the mythic ritual (the message opened and read? Perhaps some myth I don't know). So I got into mythic time by reenacting a sacred myth, and, having done so, saw world under that aspect (.e.g. the blood of the Cosmic Christ, Rome, the secret real Christians). I fell into the myth by chance, and entered the realm of the sacred; one keyfactor was my utter belief when I saw the fish sign. Bible as sacred myth -— but who thinks to reenact scenes from the Bible*? (Well, the stations of the cross, but there you are assuming the Christ role, and perhaps this will not work because you cannot be Christ; you cannot be the god worshipped. I'm not sure, but I have a feeling that that reenactment would not work.) The whole entree cun be regarded as a colossal infinity of mirrors feedback based on an accident — a series of accidents; (1) The coincidental material in TEARS to Acts; (2) the girl at the door; (3) the sodium pentathol. A sacred rite of great antiquity was accidentally reenacted correctly — and I was transferred from the mundane world of time and causation to the sacred world outside of time and causation (to repeat) by virtue of reenacting the rite with absolute faith. Feedback, positive feedback, occurred. There are two keys, not one: (1) Faith (Pistis). (2) Reenactment of the sacred rite. (3) Contemporary time ana world were abolished and another world showed through. Another world and another Kind of time (and space) replaced them: apostolic world was recovered (hence X know that the mythic rite Was performed correctly). Once into illo tempore I went further and further because my faith increased the more I saw. The plasmate is Christ’s blood, and VALIS his cosmic body. (3) The time of the year: the vernal equinox: That, too. The E.B. article on time Says that the Eucharist relates Christ to fertility gods who die and are reborn ("Yet tne rite of the Eucharist, in which Christ’s self-sacrifice is held by Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Christians to be reperformed...has suggested to some serial or s that it originated in an annual festival at the culmination of the agricultural year. In this interpretation, the bread that is Christ’s body and the wine that is his blood associate him with the annually dying gods Adonis, Osiris and Attis — the divinities, inherent in the vital and vitalising power of man’s crops, who die in order that men may eat and drink and live.”). The corn king who I saw dancing. (4) The Xerox missive is part of the Gnostic legend of the pearl: the letter to the prince who has lost his memories (in an alien land) which restores those memories. This "legend" is actually a Sacred myth/rite. The letter coupled with the golden fish sign restored my memories due to n.y faithful participation in this complex sacred mythic rite of anamnesis and rebirth both. No wonder I expected a letter to come; I knew? it because on an uncon¬ scious level I knew the myth (collective unconscious). So all this took a Gnostic turn — the cryptic sign (golden fish), the letter reminding me of my mission (albeit a profane pigspurt 1 one; the myth sanctified it, turned a profane thing into something noumenal. (1) Or was it? In any case its mundane nature is not so important as its mythic role. And that fired correctly — a series of coincidences and accidents; TEARS, the pentathol, the girl, the fish sign, the Xerox letter which very much seamen to call to me from the archaic past and to deal with my real identity. And since it Was noumenal it sparked a divine or spiritual —pneumatic— identity in me. oh, more: the letter was an ordeal, a trial rite: it posed a riddle that had to be solved (i.e. what to do about it); more mythic ritual. Here is what is .important mythically about what I did with the Xerox missive: I knew that I had done the right thing: made the right choice (although interpreted by me at the time on a profane level). The antithetical war between good (Christ) and evil (pigspurt) was decided in favor of the good — of the spiritual over the profane. This is mythic heroic testing. So I saw the next world and the powers of the next world. - 4 - Or was this really all accidental? Didn’t VALIS engram me from childhood on shark's teeth necklaces? Answer: the very fact that I feel this way (or that this was "revealed' to me) shows the power of the myth over the mundane, profane world. There are two answers; (1) On the mundane level all this was a series of random coincidences and accidents. (2) On the mythic, sacred level the Divine power arranged for the necessary sequence to unfold; it decreed and willed my mystery-experience, which is to say salvation through initiation by means of the rites into the holy religion. I saw what I saw (another universe) because I did what I did. This is the answer: the deed came first and this generated the altered perception because I was literally in another universe. It was as if a formula had been correctly followed —- exactly as if. I must assume that I did what I aid by accident; otherwise I ami into a series that infinitely regresses. By sheer chance I reenacted the ancient ritual connected with Gnostic Christianity, at Passover; I did a certain thing at a certain time and certain results occurred, even though I did not know what I was doing, even though I did it without intent. And as the other universe (illo tempore, the beginnings, the sacred origins) flooded in I enacted the ancient rites more and more; this is what I mean by positive feedback; once begun they had their own dynamism. It is not that I came to the notice of God; it is that I entered a universe wher. God could be seen. I engineered it existentially. -5- The value —or one value— of this explanation is the "Why me?" solution. God did not choose me for any reason, such as merit or need on my part. Chance played the determining role in select¬ ing me; chance actions on my part, Alone, without a priest or guide, I reperformed an ancient myth whose nature I still do not fully understand- Mainly it had to do with a letter which both informed me of something about myself (my actual nature and actual origins) and posed a grave problem that I had to solve. Had therebeen no letter there would have been no other universe, no altered, enhanced perceptions, no ’’second signal. ” Likewise for the golden fish sign. Likewise for the time of the year. Likewise, in fact, for my burning a votive candle at a holy shrine. That this was indeed, then, an authentic religious experience I now cannot doubt. It was not precisely mystical, certainly not psychotic, certainly not a drug experience (although a component necessary for it to happen may have been the washing-out from ray system of the mellow jello; I can't be sure). I can look at it this way; God approached me through the medium of a sacred mythic rite reperformed; reperformance of that rite put me in touch with the Divine and in fact the Divine Realm. But it must never be forgotten that