plural selves"! Plato did not press his insights far enough. I am saying is that in So what 2-74 I comprehended the eide, + this although Plato did not seem to 27 realize it, summarily abolishes the competing organizing system of spatiotemporality no one, Plato included, has ever realized (insofar as I know) that apper‐ ception of the eide is the pushing i the quantum leap - to its con‐ clusion of an organizing abstracting mechanism common to all higher creatures, one so fundamental Thus in that we are oblivious to it. a sense recognition of the eide is a normal process that customarily goes uncompleted. It is only com‐ pleted under certain specific, pre‐ cisely-defined circumstances: a situation in which the "one mother not 3" abstraction clashed headin with the use of spatiotemporality the former is inexorably logical + correct, the latter dubitable - so the latter falls; the former leaps to its ultimate stage - instantly, in the vacuum left by the collapse of belief in + reliance on the late gories of space, time, particulars + hence causation. What I am saying, then is that it is not recognized normally that the "3 mothers" abstracting + spatiotemporality are competing systems/mechanisms of organization by which order is brought out of flux. 28 spatiotemporality is disproved by the very situation that proves the existence of the Forms! But this is an extraordinarily rare situation It is one in which the percipient finds himself faced by the puzzling "fact" that one object seems to exist at two times + two places, which he knows is logically possible (it is, in fact, an oxymoron, hence the logic is ineluctable - + so wins out, his use of spatiotemporality is obliterated, + the eide become available as the other side of the conceptual coin what he perceives -or seems to perceive- is that reality itself has apparently fucked up by exhibiting a selfcancelling event logically he cann't be seeing what he is seeing - his categories of ordering if perception are correct. Thus either they or reality itself are thrown into doubt, + it is the categories that must fill, inevitably. By the very nature of the situation. But, as I is immediately at say, a solution hand 27 The solution is: the Platonic Forms. this realization of the total irreality of particulars links up with my apperception of the MMSK in which I saw/realized that in fact each "thin a must of necessity in fact be there only once - but, at the time I conceived I could not equate (perceived) this, it with the palpable pluralization that we experience in world. Well, that pluralization is illusory. As I realized logically it had to be. something like a hologram seems to be involved - images (as Plato said "shadows last on the will of a cave"). It has to do with the analogous illusory pluralization of self into "selves." Asspace-time fact of perception. This other realm. Available through ones ordering by the eide. Christ returned as promised (time of Acts) [Note] Then this would be the ultimate secret of Xtianity never alluded to publically in 2000 years. N Time unlike the time we know of continually coaxial with non-eide reality? I.e. always coaxial? We fail to see it because we organize reality improperly? 30 the abstracting as an ordering category can't be carried out to its logical conclusion without infringing on the other ordering categories of space, time + causation. So we employ it in its rudimentary form (level) + Then switch over to space, time + causation Plato did not understand this. He knew that the meta-abstraction by which the Forms are realized was a way - the way - of ordering flux, but - he would have had to know what rant figured out. So when (if) the metaabstraction occurs it necessitates a simul‐ taneous abolition of space, time + causation with the result that a totally different apprehension of world occurs (as the result of what is a dual or two-pronged process) normal erasein) spatiotemporality) unusual: (meta-abstracting Essentially, then, the person is in the world of the eide; he does not just know of their existence behind + beyond the spatiotemporal flux world - they are his world, now (hence I experienced radical changes in my experience of space, time + causation!) meta-abstracting is incompatable with ordering by spatiotemporality. So meta-abstracting is not a relative mode of ordering perception that can be commingled with other modes; it is absolute. What is pointed to, here, is Plotinus + his ascent from the spatiotemporal universe of multiplicity to the supra-spatiotemporal realm of unity (+ God). figured out how Plotinus I guess I've just of the fallen soul works reascent Well, it was inevitable that I'd come back to Plotinus, once I realized that I took some sort of trip based on Plato's metaphysics; this is what no Platonism is: an application of that meta‐ physics to mysticism (altered experience of reality - trip to higher realms of being). So, in one mind- operation, abstracting makes/takes a quantum leap upward, whereas space, time + causation (as categories of ordering flux) nosedive; the combination of these two "motions" results in a stupendon reorganization of reality - +, what is more, + This must be realized, the new-found way is the correct way (as I say supra). All Flux is abolished except for what I call "accretions" added to the reticulated arborizing phylogons. My God; Valis' mind (the dialectic, the on-off (rest-motion) modes, the MMSK -) this is God! Or: the one, (as Plotinus puts it: perhaps correctly, since now all reality is one unitary entity). 1) You cannot apprehend the eide + still employ spaccitime + causation as ordering categories. 2) You cannot employ space, time + causation as ordering categories + still apprehend the eide. this is what I finally realize. twin realizations; or rather, twin aspects of one realization the mind (brain) must choose (I've read so many articles on philosophy that I've finally learned not just to guess reason to 2 particulars are like: you can take so million pictures of one given tree by placing cameras at different places vis-a-vis the tree (the "reflections plural of the unitary sun in ponds here + there" - a Buddhist metaphor) Yet there is only one tree seen at 80 million different loci by 80 million different tenses. All 80 million pictures are each to some extent unique, but they all "contain" the one unitary foree (or the one tree is "in" all of them, + it is the tree that really exists, not the 80 million different images/pictures). So the satore of Friday Feb 13 181 was the reasoning of 2-74 forcing (so to-speak) its way into consciousness - exactly what I'd been seeking to bring to This is why I went a consciousness for years into a dazed, abstracted state that day, on my walk to the post office. It was, basically a psychological event. when you consider that two simultaneous mental operations took place simultaneously (meta-abstraction abolition of ordering by space, time + causation) it is not surprising that it took me seven years to articulate what my reasoning was. It all begins with your realizing that you're seeing the same object at 2 times + 2 places, + this is impossible. You have suddenly seen "through" spatiotemporality (+ multiplicity) as deluding - not the true case at all, + This united all my separate trains of thought epistemological, religious, political, personal, t historical) into one vast wheel a mandala of 3 The very statement/thought/perception) intuition: "I am seeing the same object at two times in two places" is itself a meta-perception, the very meta-abstracti in nascent form. The "one mother three times not 3 mothers" has been one performed; the eide are comprehended has perceived that "two particulars" are in fact the same object ("one mother") twice. just reread "flow my Tears." the mystery deepens. Obviously it is "The Bacchae" retold. Felix Buckman of Tears" kinage is King Pentheus, the trangers s Jason Taverner is the priest of Dionysos, who is imprisoned by pentheus, + who bursts the prison + causes pentheus to become insane + dress up in woman's garb (allided to by the character of alys who "is Felix Buckman's twin"). "King Felix" is Dionysos "the joy-God" who was shown to me to be Christ by the dream I had in which I was shown the book page on which the name "Jesus" split apart into Zeus-Zagreus. Beyond doubt "King Felix" is a cypher + refers to the God who will -+ does - pull down the King of Tears the police tyranny; Dionysos does this (as that us. am saying that So I article described). "King Felix" refers primarily to Dionysos, + my It was Dionysos who overthrew Nixon. 34 enthusiasmos in 2-3-74 was by Dionysos, I was intoxicated; it was Dionysoil stoned magic that permitted me to see what I saw in 3-74. Greek - hence I heard Thomas thinking in Greek; hence the Sibyl + cyclops by the cypher Dionysos identified himself + his presence, but you had to be "mad" or intoxicated to read the cypher. Hence f dreamed of the maze at minos, saw crete beyond the 1:.618034 doorway + Aphrodite. I was possessed - + saved by Dionysos; he saved me from the Xerox missive trap; this is why I was My manic - intoxicated. Dionysos! equation is correct: s the Bacchae 1) one + the same story. 2) The Gospels Dionysos inspired the 3) Hamlet counter culture's overthrow of Nixon. + inspired "Valis" based on 2-3-74. The "Joy God" - King Felix. The injury done Felix Buckman (the death of alys) symbolizes the mortal blow to soon be struck at the tyranny by Dionysos. Then when I was slipped the hit of Str in '74 it was Dionysos I saw: the grape vines growing up around the figure of the Catholic priest, my little icon of the saint. all the pranks, games + riddles (e.g. re + Erasmus. Hence I heard the word dithramb i the dance of Dionysus. My full + final proof: "Tears" is (is, not is like) a Greek tragedy; + those are Dionyss. festival rites. 35 I do discuss Dionysos in "Valis," but he has occluded me with Xtian material - a diversion that I fell for - until I reread "Tears" tonight; Dionysos caused me to see all that I saw in 3-74; it was his magic - it wasn't really Christ + God; Dionysos can take any form - he fooled me. Of course, now that "Valis" is in print, Dionysus lets me see the truth; since it doesn't matter. He mimiced my conception of "real" Xtianity. the plasmate, set/ground - Dionysian mysteries; the greater mysteries of Elysius. pre-Xtian. I have been in the power of Dionysos, + when I was slipped the StP in '74 I knew it. "This too, is sooth." Yeats. It is magic. Pagan magic. This explains Diana, the AI voice. Pagan magic come to our rescue. amazing; Dionysos caused me to see Xtian messages in "Tears" + blinded me to the obvious: that "Tears" Then Dionysis retells "the Bacchae" caused me to see the world of Acts + believe all those things. 530 actually this fits in with my Platonis Neo-Platonist analysis of 2-74: Dionysos-Elysian mysteries-Orphism Pythagoras - to Plato. + with Hoffman + his colleaguess analysis of the Elysian mysteries as based on LSD; + John is sacred cross + the mushroomm allegro's aly old a earr Xt 36 it probably all began for me with took in mo. the mascoline I So 2-3-74 was a "mescaline" trip the "other reality" of C tanedyDonJuan. Hence the phosphene graphics: colors. Hence carol Hillard suggested drugs. It was psychedelic, all right Entry #12 in the tractate: "the immortal one was known to the Greeks as Dionysos; to the Jews as Elijah; to the Xtians as Jesus. He moves