since the machiner couldn't be halted. It is as if doubts rather than beliefs got served up. Doubt fed on doubt rather than belief on belief. N Yet - this is the dibba cacchu enlightenment which the Buddha spoke of the burning up of Maya + Karma âž€ This is the element of accomodation by reality of which I am so suspicious. It shouldn't have accomodated me in 2-74 by substituting Rome c. AD 45 for Calif 1974 AD by doing so it let power by it over me pass to power by me over it, which set up rapide positive feed back that hasn ye 426 apparently I momentarily fully awake, but all the way back in the fifties I was becoming dubious. This factored in a weakening element + it fed on itself - there was a lay. Reality didn't disappear the moment I doubted it; what was needed was for that doubted reality to come bopping past the playback head again, 25 years later. I didn't know the Xerox missive was going to come; I remembered I it began with the pentathol. I don't think This pass was the first time I remembered; I think I remembered once before in 2-74, + this caused the doubts starting in the fifties - e certainly explains the material in "Faith." The mmaterial in all the writing - inc. "Frolix 8" - is correct. I am communicating with myself across various passes. It's like the note the guy in "Stigmata" puts on the mirror to himself. in my writing I am leaving myself notes it paid off on the pentathol day in 2-74. + soon after that I woke up - + those discoveries cot remembered + written down in the next pass starting in the fifties: the written info doubts in the fifties are based on the previous + ass in 1974 (2-3-74). So "Frolix 8" is based on the experience with Valis in 3-74 - but the reverse is a true, since what we have it a feed‐ back loop constantly reinforcing itself toward doubt + wakefulness. Once you start to wake up, it causes you to wake up further, + in my case write myself notes (i.e. my corpus of writing). Then I am Thomas; he is me awake. He quickly, when awake in 3-74 on, set up later (or "later otes in writing of the fifties + sixties + "Tears" to accellerates + increase the waking - up process. an "up by his bootstraps" time-travel ex nihilo or sua generis paradox is volved here. Normal causality, operating from past to future is violated, since what was earlier (forgotten memories) also is later: as reality; viz: eedback: i i t a t N 196o. 1970 1950 Log spiral i t The thoughts I am thinking now, affect 1900 + vice versa (the doubts I felt in 1950 pay off now). the key, of course, is time + time overcome. So the material in "Frolix 8" re the Frolixan is a note by me in 1970 to me in 1974/79 to explain Valis. The other mind which I am in contact with is my later self - who exists earlier in linear time due to the feed back loop. Thomas, in 1970 when I was writing "Frolix 8," had already encountered Valis in 1974, figured it out subsequently, + put it in The novel as info to help me figure out what Valis is. bot only is my corpus of writing stremen with clues - notes - to my future (?) self, but there are even clues which explain the system of clues t like the note in "Stigmata." So I should regard the material in a "mithc" "Faith" "Ubik" "Frolix." "Tears" which pertain (+ indubitably so, as e.g. "Faith") to the future as notes left to me by my even more future self to help me understand + cope with events in particular 2-3-74. At this time I can't 428 i how notes explaining future events got into my writing, but I am sure it is connected with Thomas - whoever + whatever Thomas is. f Thomas knows the answers now he probably knew them in the past. For example, how did the AI voice know that the Xerox missive came from "an intelligence officer in the army"? + who This AI voice? (My tutelary spirit, I guess. is then my tutelary spirit inserted the notes in the writing for later use.) If the description of the Frolixan in Frolix 8" is to Valis as the AI voice's analysis of the Xerox missive is to the Xerox missive, then Valis is a helpful alien life forma I am to accept the material in "Frolix ell as equal to the AI voice. Okay, then 8 This particular note may explain who + what put the note there, + what the AI all voice is: this particular note explains it we are dealing with an ultra ETI who is helping e.g. me. It has total foresight cf the wise mind's powers in Zoroastrianism. Maybe I am being advised by the wise mind. Wait - I'm forgetting something in 3-74 Valis showed me how it had engrammed me on Fish necklaces on girls through out my whole lifetime (toland man illo, etc) Dreams. The collage of the watchtower + nude girls this would therefore show up in the writing. This frankly sounds more like God than an ETI, because the very basis of human life + reality is involved. + the in-breaking is God, the vading. It had a holy quality about it - e.g. the sound of bells, + it was 43 the Xtian fish sign. So I'm back to the fact that I knew parts of the not. (Acts) a priori. N The vast spaces + the time dysfunc on in 3-74: what I became restoration to a occurs to me that this wasn't pre-fallen human state or evolved human state but post mortem. They I say again, I must have died in the early 3-74 + yet am alive. part was the Bardo Thodol, + it led me into vastly different experience of world. the Kingdom of God: where God reigns. farth seen this (Valis) is what I saw, as heaven. + i I was prepared + trained all my life fore ( (my whole life has lain 2-3-74 viz: under the jurisdiction of 34 Valis. It is the God by + subliminal t t inscribing large of Spinoza, but it t i like intricate does plan like Aristotle's writing unmoved mover which spires goal-seeking, Valis is too close to a fusion between Spinoza's immanent deity + Aristotle's unmoved mover not to be God. It is Xenophanes' + Aristotle's deity but it is Christ. I have thus pursued the ETI explanation as far as it will go, + must let it yield to the theological; viz: the decades of planning + the use of chance, natural events to prepare (program) me persuades me, since I can see how the deity inscribes all creatures without their knowing: The inscribing is below the surface +, with me in 3-74, it was made t te to surface, this, in essence, is t 42 what happened; normal substructure became visible to me + I could see that it worked, how it worked lthough I still do not know the real goal. Yet I am conscious of a vast lood - no: make that designe It is a fitting together it is Pythagoras' Kosmos. harmoniously of the beautiful. It It is not by (due to) Valis; it is Valis. The designer is the artifact; put another way, the artifact designs + assembles itself. Valis is totally the homeostatic. reet universe 1) Valis 1) usual situation (rather fertitie plucking deagnant designer in what it I artifact can use + "Valis, fitting it in exactly right So that which Valis exerts pressure on has to do wi it th what Valis intends to assimilate: i total i t B is invisible to us ) universe avates withing The message A, in the total Dato, so to t speak. B is camouflaged (in terms of set to ground). B (Valis) plunders the universe, cunningly (wisely) But I correct in this encroaching on a more + more. fashion: B is not spacially smaller than A (as the drawing tends to depict); B is throughout a everywhere ubiquitous!) like a field (just as gravity is everywhere). what its encroachment consists of is one of organization (cf "Timaeus"). Degrees of organization. (i.e. in) Also, like Ubik, it deals with information. It is a weak - i.e. subliminal - flux which amps itself up at critical space-time nexes. It doesn't work down grom above as transcendent deity but up from below as mmanent deity. But it deals in hierarchical levels of organization by stealthy persuasion upward, the for want of a horse shoe nail ... the Kingdom was lost" srenciple. This is an important realization, sing agher levels have their roots in lower le vel so e 428) are vulnerable to toppling from below if the agency working below is very deft (which It is). This principle of the expendature of minimum effort aids in concealing its presence + pressure EHWH hierarchical levels. 144 i Valis exerts pressure at 1 Valis exerts lit A in order to influence w B, + so its action is not ressure here perceptible Does it just happen to work out to be imperceptible, t does it wish to be sot a weak but smart field i induces many very precise minor totally effective influences (corrections? is the system which it corrects "the dark counter" player"? In that case Valis is not immanent but adventitious! (However elsewise it might appear.) Yet Valis is lodged within the system + yet is not the system; i.e. it does not correct itself but something other than itself; there is a dialectic. There is Valis + not-Valis Valis has subverted the system of things invaded it at its heart? Yes. This is not panpsychism but is as I describe in "Valis": an invasion camouflaged. is it self-correcting? No. I saw a dialectic t v "Frolix 8." Substitution at an ontological level. Aristotle did not regard this unmoved mover as a creator deity. It is teleology vs efficient causes. "Spinoza is right. These "corrections" or valence away from plumbs never violute natural law. However i 2) There is no such thing as natural law. 3) So the valences only seem to be in accord with natural law. They are in accord with what seems natural, plausible + possible to us, 429 some kind of pretextual system is preserved. the tampering is artfully concealed. Why? The suggestion here is that what we humans know (+ do not know) think + believe is important. is this a biosphere? - + keeping Valis hidden - is deceiving us important. Why? This points to "Maze" + the deceptive oos forgotten memories fed back reality situation!! Then we are asleep ("Ubik" "Maze") + I did wake up, + Valis' valences are intrusions into an otherwise closed [biosphere-like?] system. Other wise why the depection - or veiling? Why does it Valis not communicate openly with us? does with me. It awake me. But - my books ("Ubik" "Maze" "Frolex 8" "Tears" "Scanner") were skimming the occlusion + delusion away + bringing me closer + closer to remembering. in "Ubik" they don't see Ubik until they pass into a postmortem world - nor did I see Valis until I died. Every time the feedback signal is circulated it reinforces the delusion But I introduced a negative skeptic ism. It got feeback + doubled, so the thing was "skimmed" or vitiated rother than reinforced when it came around again! + it will continue to (1950s recirculated in 3-74 do sol 1 Sure enough, the 2 elements ([one?] from "MTHC" and the other from "Faith") are doubts. Tagomi in the park doubts the reality of his world. Tanya