[illustration presented below in text form] ------------------------------- linear time accidents AD 45 1610 1914 1974 etc I I I I Essence BIP: Morphological arrangement exploded in space + time. In a sense, therefore, space + time are not real; the contua are coaxial. They pervade one another: at least in terms of the abstraction to the morphological (Form axes) realm (#3 or #2). You go to the recovery of another accident along the Form axis (or all of them) by - as Plato says - anamnesis. I.e. you recollect the universal, which is not in space + time + yet through its continua of accidents, in vast space-time. There is not only a universal of the BIP + the secret Xtians - there is one of myself - hence Thomas. I exist in that morphologically arranged Form world, unfallen into #4 space-time. It is an immortal soul: which in this realm it has forgotten. It is incarnated again + again + realm #4 + takes up its task contra the BIP. But when anamnesis occurs + you enter realm #3 + 2 it is all one life. {folder 01 - 027 folder 01 - 027} [illustration presented below in text form] A) USA 1974 / accidents I---- Acts AD 45 essence Wrong, leads to the peculiar idea that it is really AD 45 Rome. But the correct view: B) USA 1974 / accidents AD 45 / accidents I I essence leads to Plato's universals + anamnesis by which, as he says, the universals are "recovered". This is the true case; I performed a sort of meta-abstracting in 2-74 when I realized this diagram; this is what I realized, not (A), as I have thought for 6 1/2 years. But the "He causes things to ..." statement indicated that realm #3 is real (morphological arrangement) + the spatiotemporal with its mere accidents is not. Two space-time continua based on the same universal are that universal when superimposed. Simple reincarnation would not explain why I saw Acts as being here. - "The space-time continua with the same Essence are not just tangent: they coincide [in terms of morphological arrangement]." + this is the arrangement (not spatiotemporal) that Nous (Valis) employs. You are seeing the world-order the way Nous sees it. This opens up a vast meta-life to you; you have lived at many times + places but it is all one life + one way of being in the world. No wonder when the xerox missive came I felt as if it had all happened before - but this time it came out differently. You are not doomed to repeat mechanically the same motions + fall victim to the same Nemesis once again; through anamnesis what you have learned accrues + this is of supreme importance; this this accrual Fate is broken: other subselves or perhaps your {folder 01 - 028 folder 01 - 028} overall self surfaces + takes control. This could even be a future incarnation, as I theorize in "Valis"! After all, the master self is outside of time. This certainly makes clear what "Thomas" was: past, future + master self. If my general [Neo-Platonist] scheme is correct you would expect anamnesis to recollect such a master self - yes: I think it is my master self, hence essence to PKD as accident. Here is where Xtianity enters. Although the philosophical-theological structure is Neo-Platonist, he is a Xtian. (This is why Acts plays such a big role in establishing which particular universals are involved: it is the Xtians vs Rome. But I am not as much interested in that as I am in the how, i.e. the metaphysical, philosophical system or structure, rather than his ideology or facts or allegiance. I have known of this orientation since 2-74. What I have not known is, how was it possible + exactly what happened. I (perhaps wrongly) see the Neo-Platonism structure containing the Xtian, not vice versa. Viz: The succession of sub-selves add up to a Xtian master self but as to how there can be sub-selves that add up to a master self, Xtian or otherwise - the answer is Neo-Platonist; the universal of Acts, Rome, the BIP (which includes the Roman Catholic church + the USSR) is just one "narrative" of many, which I realized some time ago; it is not the story in illo tempore but a story (as Eliade makes clear; every tribe + culture knows of illo tempore - I have wanted to know how illo tempore works, not which story is "true" - they are all true, but only one explanation accounts for illo tempore itself - + even Eliade {folder 01 - 029 folder 01 - 029} Plato specifically says that it is by anamnesis that a person "recollects" the (existence of) universals, rather than abstracting them out of experience of the sensible world. This is what happened in 2-74, and explains why I recently figured out that I had managed to meta-abstract; I did, but based on anamnesis, which occurred. The importance of this realization --and the event itself-- divides up: 1) Universals exist -- i.e. Plato's form realm. 2) Since anamnesis can occur, there is prenatal existence; which means there is postmortem existence. 3) These higher realms are available, via anamnesis, during this lifetime, as Plotinus taught. 4) Our spatiotemporal realm is in a certain sense, the sense that Plato taught, only semireal. What is real is 5) The morphologically-arranged upper realm, which is not separated from this realm by time or space but hierarchically. 6) Morphological arrangement is the actual arrangement of reality, rather than the spatiotemporal. 7) The morphological realm is "exploded" through our realm. This is what I saw that I called "set" as contrasted to "ground"; this is the "second signal." 8) We have led many lives but, from the standpoint of the morphologically-arranged realm, it is one vast life of the unfallen soul that is reincarnated again and again in the spatiotemporal realm, forgetting each time, but able to remember (anamnesis). 9) Thus Plotinus' system is correct and explains 2-3-74. 10) Put another way, now 2-3-74 is explained (9). 11) Acts isn't any more real than USA 1974; both space-time continua are accidents of a common essence (universal). This universal is what I call the Black Iron Prison. It exists outside of time; its accidents show up e.g. during the Thirty Years War, in the future in TEARS, in U.S.A. 1974. I am one of those who has fought it, fights it and in the future will fight it again; I am a universal, too, in terms of my immortal soul reborn again and again to resume its role. 12) Through anamnesis and restoration to the Form realm you have access to several space-time continua based on your universals. {folder 01 - 030 folder 01 - 030} can't account for this. Xtianity is like a given drama on TV; what I've been trying to figure out for 6 1/2 years is not what this one drama of many is about, but how the TV set works that brings this drama + all the others (there are many, as Eliade makes clear). (So: Xtianity, when you think about it, could not be the answer. It is a content within the system, not the system. For example Xtianity speaks of transubstantiation but simply calls it a miracle; Neo-Platonism makes clear how this reperformance works ... Because as the EB article on time points out, many religions have equivalent "Eucharists". What was needed is a system of thought that says why + how each reperformance is not an additional celebration, but all - at every place + time - are one performance: the original one. - I have a certain modicum of evidence that (1) Thomas is my supra-temporal master self; + (2) He is the AI voice. My evidence: early on I picked up his thoughts as I was falling asleep + he was thinking in Greek; + this hypnagogic ratiocination is the AI voice. "He" may be neuter or female. I am very taken with the idea that the AI voice is of my supra temporal unfallen soul (master unincarnated self). That means that it observed my act toward Covenant House + it rendered the judgment to help out in 3-74 {folder 01 - 031} vis-a-vis the Xerox missive, + it is my tutelary spirit (is this not indeed the Salvator Salvandus?). In an incarnated state, forgetful (again) of my true origin + nature, I as PKD nonetheless performed an act vis-a-vis Covenant House that stirred my unfallen soul to approbation; this view pleases me because it points to my own acceptability to myself; I, as unfallen immortal soul perceived myself in my forgetful, fallen state + adjudicated out a verdict of self-approval: healing whatever split, if any, there was in it + me; viz: Even fallen, incarnated in space-time + forgetful it knew to do the right thing. Thus it tested itself, + was joyful at what it found. 1) Possibility: The original genuine Xtians possessed secret techniques for causing anamnesis + thus inducing the reconstitution of the master soul [Note]. This was the main secret wisdom they possessed, relating to "the Kingdom of God". This is why I as an early Xtian experienced anamnesis. This is the immortality that Jesus spoke of. Xtian techniques based on the Neo-Platonist structure. [Note] During each lifetime. 2)The purpose of each lifetime was to enrich, complexify + diversify the master soul, since realm #4 feeds into the morphologically-arranged realms, i.e. the master soul was [...] {folder 01 - 032 folder 01 - 032} 3) My master soul will always judge my individually incarnated selves by Xtian moral standards, + I in my sublifetime should take this into account. Whether I as a sublife like it or not, this is what I eternally am + this is the basis on which I as master soul shall judge myself. Relating to (1), a genuine Xtian can be someone defined as a person privy to the secret of anamnesis + a reconstituting here in this world of continuity of identity by restoring the pre-fallen soul - i.e. the original "man" as he is "supposed to be", as Milton says of Christ at the opening of "Paradise Lost". I.e. reve[r]sing the original fall. Thus my anamnesis, though the structure is Neo-Platonist, was due to a Xtian disinhibiting stimulus, + all the sublives turn out to be episodes by a master soul Xtian. So although Neo-Platonism is the structure, Xtianity is + was + always will be the content. Presumably it was for this that Jesus taught his system of ethics. Also presumably my anamnesis reoccurs in each lifetime. Such a person as this, continually coming into existence to fight the Empire (Satan) would be a Christ (Christos). Item (2) bears a great resemblance to both what Ted Sturgeon told me in 1977 but also to that book "The Education of Oversoul 7" or whatever it was called. My master soul is perfecting + educating itself as the subsouls - incarnated lives - feed into it. Further, each [...] deliberate on its [...] {folder 01 - 033 folder 01 - 033} This is exactly what Ted Sturgeon told me is what happens. This makes me wonder what it was that caused him to want to tell me that. Something in me + my books? Even if the Xtian business is marginal (for example merely having to do with one subsoul - i.e. a particular incarnation -) this business of the master soul deliberately incarnating itself + causing -inducing- anamnesis each time (or perhaps only when the situation gets so dire it is necessary?) could still be the case. This would constitute deliberate multiple space-time tracking, so I am back to my original view that I - but now "I" refers to a master soul, not to PKD - am simultaneously tracking a number of space-time worlds. However, now I have a vast theoretical framework as