-—in Acts the apostolic Christian church-- but this organization is really ineffective at this stage. At this stage the Procurator of the Empire has arrested and is interrogating members of the organization to try to determine, the aims, strength and size of the organization (which the Empire correctly recognizes as subversive). The Empire is in the infor¬ mation—gathering stage. It is puzzled, 'hilling trie members of the revolutionary subversive organization docs not seem to be the answer; this is the message of tne gospels, killing having been the initial naive solution of the Empire. Now the Empire wants to know everything there is to know about the organization. What it finds out is virtually nothing, because the organization is guided not by human leaders but by an historical Geist. Its leader is literally dead. As I said before the members —or suspected members— of the organization Cannot give any information about themselves to the procurator. They do not know anything; they are enigmatic to themselves, as if operating on an unconscious or supraconscious basis, outside of their own awareness. They are controlled by impersonal historical forces (Hegel's Geist). Or, worse, they are governed by supernatural forces that even they do not under¬ stand (in this context the organization consists of partisans internal to the Empire but acting on the behalf and in concert with external enemies of the Empire; who these powerful external enemies arc the Empire cannot even dimly guess). The powerful external enemies are the real danger to the Emtire; the internal partisans are dangerous only insofar as they are coordinated and guided by these powerful external enemies. Unfortunately for the Empire, the internal partisans cannot give any kind of coherent account of their powerful leaders; they see, in fact, unaware of them, as if guided by them subliminally. Nonetheless there is an information system linking the internal partisans to their external leaders. This is rendered through the very media of the Empire, using it us a aarrier. Tne intelligence agencies of the Empire are appalled by this and by the fact that they cannot fathom (1) who is doing it; (2) how; and even (3) why. The Empire is under siege. All this is taking place in secret; the population of the world is aware that a struggle is taking place but it knows nothing about an external foe of the Empire; but, then, the world’s population does not even know about the Empire. What the Empire suspects is that it will be invaded or is being invaded or has been invaded. Perhaps the powerful external foe has smuggled activists into the confines of the Empire. Can the partisans tell the Empire the answer to this question? This is one purpose of the interrogation, to get an answer to this question. The results are inconclusive, as in the interrogation of Jesus. Vague hints abound; that is all. VALIS deals with the internal partisan activity; VALIS REGAINED deals with the invasion from outside. The latter occurs when the internal partisans have been sufficiently successful. From an historical, tactical standpoint, the First advent - 26 - represents a penetration by the Divine into the internal workings of the Entire, in contrast to the situation involving the Hebrew enslavement in Egypt, where the Divine operated externally. In terms of war, this was crucial. No longer was there a clear distinction between the powerful external enemies of the Empire and the internal subversive partisans. A dangerous phantom row dwelt at the heart of the Empire's domain. Tne Empire started searching for it two thousand years ago, found it and lose it, found it again repeatedly but always lest it; always it melted away and eluded their hold. From the moment of this penetration on, there was no way that the internal partisans could be cut off from the powerful external enemies of the Empire. What is involved here is communication of information: information flowing from partisans to guide and coordinate them; information flowing from the partisans to the external enemies of the Empire to keep thorn informed of conditions within the Empire. Thus the Empire's own communications media was subverted, and the higher the state of this media the more it served the enemies of the Empire. From all this it can be seen that my essential revelation in 3-74 had to do not with God (Valis) but with history, which is to say, the revelation granted by my anamnesis. Not only did I perceive the eternal struggle but I remembered my own role over the centuries in that struggle; I was doing now what I had always been doing: subverting and fighting the oppressive, enslaving Empire in all its forms. I saw present events as epiphenomena; I remembered what lay behind them and saw the archetypal world in which those events have taken place, and found in my own novel FLOW MY TEARS an account -- in fact three accounts!-- of all this. I could not have written TEARS had I not paricipated in this eternal struggle (or at least long term stuggle); the writing of TEARS came out of my personal experiences, my encounters amd reencounters with the Empire over a period of thousands of years. What I saw that I called Valis could he part of the supernatural communications network that links the internal subversive partisans with the external enemies of the Empire; I may not have seen God but seen a sophisticated information system at work guiding and informing me — now visible to me at a conscious level, although having long operated in relation to me at a subliminal level. It is camouflaged; it cannot normally be detected. perhaps only in phylogenic space-time can it be discerned, and the agents of the Empire are denied access to phylogenic space-time. My revelation (vision) of history is a vision of permanent reality, the noumend world behind the sensible, the Platonic archetypes behind the phenomenal. That I should see history us this constitutes a remarkable kind of penetration to the ontolo¬ gically real. Who —what theologan or philosopher— has ever seen history as the platonic world of the archetypes, the noumenal or spiritual or transcendent world, the Dinge-an-sich? I know of none. Now, this something I never realized before. For decades I have sought to see "the permanent world of unchange behind the flux," and when I finally saw it it turned out o be a historical exemplar situation, a dramatic one; in fact a narrative that could be expressed as a story.( And I myself had done so). So I am saying something quite remarkable and unusual: world (identified by Schopenhauer with Brahman) turns out to be a dramatic story that can be rendered in words — although I saw it as reality, as reified, as substantia. Yes; this is what sub¬ stantia turns out to be, for me: not "Deus sive natura sive substantia" but "Ultimate substance turns cut to be a dramatic story that shows up in print as a tracing, the underlying reality being a series of events." And I also said (supra), ’'There are other narratives; I key-punched into just one of many" (as near as I can determine). Underlying reality turns out to be certain events that happen over and over again; they are tirelessly so. They have always happened, but — they evolve very slowly; but they do evolve. The underlying narrative that obtains new is not the same one that formerly obtained and it is not the one that will obtain later on. I find this narrative as early as the N.T. and as recently as STAR WARS. All this causes me to theorize that our underlying reality is a computer program, one of several, that is being run by the entity I call Vails. Variables are introduced with the result that certain aspects of the narrative change; for example, the repression by the Empire lessens or increases. I could even suppose that what I see is a two-person game, much like Roger Zelazny's "Blood and Dust" story, in which human history is tinkered with so that alternate worlds —futures— are generated. And this happens over and over again. In TEARS, Jason Taverner comes to the attention of the authorities not because of what they know about him but because of what they don’t know. This, apparently, was also true of me in the two years following my writing of — as well as 1974, il the Xerox missive was, what I now think it was. This is a symptom of the Empire's realization that it is under attack from an obscure source. Just as the Empire is polyform, so is its enemy. The enemy must identify the current form of the Empire and the Empire must identify the current form cf its enemy which would overthrow it. Maybe these are the two players, rather than fronts for the two players. Rather than hypostases they are two dynamic centers, two vortices, such as Empedocles’ Love and Strife eternally in combat, with Veils the krasis formed by Love (Eros). This fits in with my revelation of the dialectical nature of reality. The Empire is one hart of the dialectic; the fighters for freedom, are the other. The terms I have used are: human and android, which is to say: freedom versus the mechanical. Out of their antithetical interaction change slowly occurs. But above them is Valis: "One Mind there is; but under it two principles contend," This is the first sentence of the Tractate. I have it; I advance the following bold theory. Out of the dialectical antithetical interaction between the Empire and its enemy, Valis is created, Valis as Kosmos. The war provides the stockpile cf parts —ever newer and different-— that Valis fits into place to form, its own soma. Valis is the result, and purpose of this contention; the: contention so-to-speak generates wreckage -Chaos-- and this is Valis' raw material which it must — 30 - have, have access to, if it is to complete itself; if it is to continue to grow. This fits in with Empedocles theory that combat is the basis of reality, that antithetical combat is necessary for reality to exist (i.e. for there to be einai). Thus Valis comes into existence in the midst of this battle, not as an accident, a byproduct, but as the ultimate purpose; the battle is the means and Valis the end. So one kind of reality —dialectical War— gives rise to a perfect structure in equilibrium a harmonious fitting-together of the beautiful. I saw Valis here. Valis arises from the ceaseless dialectic that was revealed to me. I might say that the dialectic is one form of universe and Valis another, and in our ontogenic world we see neither. So history is the means and Valis the goal -- at least for Valis, it may prey of this combat! The combat may not have come into existence for this purpose. Valis uses the combative dialectic for its own purposes. Wow. Then Valis is the goal of history. Sacred (phylogenic) history; history revealed, as in Judaism. What is Valis, then? Why, it is the Cosmic Christ, point Omega. I have seen what Teilhard de Chardin wrote about, although I had never any of his writing. I am sure that this is what Valis is; my reading of Paul's letters had already half convinced me. But this clinches it. The goal of history... and the agent active in this process is the Paraclete, working backward from the end of time, entering into good men to make them saints and prophets. Then the goal of history is not victory for either horn of the dialectic; the combat itself is goal — goal of the interaction in the sense that the interaction, the. battle itself, gives rise progressively to Valis. The battle is its own justification not in terms of a final victory but in terms of Valis given its material for a developing soma. This is very zen and very existential;