+ semi-conscious teacher (of the other pluriforms); i.e. performing a salvific task, + enjoying doing it. We upstairs want the self-deception (a la "Maze") curtailed. Thus teachers are sent down here into the "Hologram". It's told in "Scanner": both parts (Bob + Fred) are himself: i.e. me + the AI voice, the tutelary spirit; I am both. The Koine Greek gave it away back in 1974, I am not-I, as in "Scanner". folder 20 - 026 But my search in this world, in all worlds, is for my sister, my female counterpart whom I have lost - been separated from. Still, she exists, + finally I will be reunited with her. She is very close to me as the AI voice, the singing woman (psychopomp) + the Sibyl. +, ultimately, as Holy Wisdom herself (v. Prov 8): "my darling + delight". The tutelary spirit is outside of time + knows (knew) from the start everything that will happen to me, every choice I will make + everything I will do. In 3-74 they trapped Dionysos, a God, + he burst the trap. Perhaps he (I) played them off each against the other. The overwhelming impulse I sometimes feel to help (e.g. Doris), + the ultimate despair when I can't, is the impulse issuing out of the divine (in me) itself, + it is this prompting, primary beneath all else in me, which motivated me to come here in the first place; under certain circumstances it issues forth again in its pure, superhuman form, which is a form of divine love + longing, a reaching for to hold + help. At these times the ur self in me discloses itself to me in all its desire + anguish; + so I came here to write my writing (esp. "Tears" + "Scanner"). (Which are both studies of love + the beloved lost.) My 2-74, 3-74 experience would be: if in "Maze" one of them found a deliberate disinhibiting clue-stimulus which would trigger off memory of their real world, the irreality of this one - +, after wondering who put the disinhibiting-clue there, the character would realize he had; he did it so it'd trigger him off just in time - just before a disasterous trap (in the irreal world) was about to close around him; +, via his recovered faculties + memory, he could successfully cope with the trap, which otherwise folder 20 - 027 folder 20 - 027 would have destroyed him. + he figures out why he/they created this irreal world + then came down into it voluntarily, + voluntarily sans knowledge + memory. (But strategically distributed clues - no fools they.) + he discovers that his outside-of-time self is watching over him + speaks to him, giving him info he needs - i.e. help. Advice - council. __ Those 2 dreams near 3-74. 1) Gold watch + Monopoly money. Represents the capitalists (i.e. the USA). Return to Placentia; this is US intelligence. + now I don't need to fear the police. 2) Necktie (hanging, noose) laundered into clothes (trophy) of respectability: red, white + blue: patriotism. The counter culture person dressed up, acceptable + rewarded covertly (in a way he can't see). Oak, wine bottle = FBI. They hit my house; trash (rubbish) is turned into trophy: cleaned up, made orderly. It's over, the attack on me. 1): What I found unexpectedly (received, the Xerox missive) came from the West, not East. 2): Necktie equals an execution, a hanging, equals "give him enough rope + he'll hang himself": punishment laundered (transformed) into a reward (trophy), due to how I dealt with the Xerox missive. Goes all the way back to the hit on my house when/where they were looking for evidence to hang me. Red, white + blue: obvious meaning: US patriots reward me, a fellow patriot. Specifically an official federal trophy. The red is not for CP but red for heart (it was heart-shaped): trophy for my injuries sustained. (I.e. hit on house, they're making it up to me for that.) Put another way, when they assembled the evidence they found, it was (finally) red, white + blue. These dreams when combined show: the Xerox missive was U.S., returned to U.S., + resulted in me being "cleaned up" into patriotic respectability, out folder 20 - 028 folder 20 - 028 of the chaos + rubble of Nov 1971. The dreams show that the Xerox missive was tied to the hit on my house. At last a coherent picture (represented as the trophy) was fashioned out of it all. It was one of a "make it up to you for what happened in Nov 71" reward: a badge of permanent respectability (i.e. patriotism). I.e. something I could permanently keep. + there was code in the Monopoly money. That code would later have hanged me. Cabrillo: the brig. The code word was: You go to jail (as in Monopoly). So the worst outcome (had the "necktie party" worked) was jail, but what did come out of it, due to my returning the watch + Monopoly money to (to my surprise) its owners, resulted in a permanent badge of patriotism + respectability. Quite a spread of possibility outcome affecting me. No wonder I pre-programmed myself to be disinhibited - to reacquire memory + faculties a month before... The phosphenes began just a couple of days before the Xerox missive arrived. __ The Kerygma on p 22 is it: We created a fake world, went into it voluntarily, + voluntarily shed our memories + can't get back out, but would like to. However, foreseeing this, we providently laid down clues in advance, to remind us when the going got too tough. These reminders would not only restore our memories of identity but also our powers, which we voluntarily let get occluded. Thus we descended into difficulties but not into a closed trap. We were brave, + willing to suffer, but not foolish. folder 20 - 029 folder 20 - 029 I have evidence of the reminder-clues; this evidence serves then as evidence of a voluntary coming here, + a foreknowledge of the problems involved, the possibility of getting stuck + needing an automatic way back out. I reason back from the clues to the original situation: inductive reasoning but still convincing to me. Had it been an accidental or involuntary "intellectual error" would those reminder-clues have been set up beforehand? ___ The belief that we are pluriforms of God voluntarily descended to this prison world, voluntarily losing our memory, identity + supernatural powers (faculties), all of which can be regained through anamnesis (or, sometimes, the mystical conjunction) is one of the most radical religious views known in the west. But it is known. It is regarded as the Great Blasphemy: replication of the original sin mentioned in "the First Book of Adam + Eve" + in Genesis. For this pride + aspiration (we are told by orthodoxy) our original fall + exile + punishment, our being taken from our home the Gardenland + put into the prison, was inflicted on us. "They wish to be equal to -like- us," the Elohim say, + toss us down. Yet I have reason to believe that this, "the Great Satanic Blasphemy," is true. First, we are here voluntarily. We did not fall + we were not punished; we elected to descend. Why? To infuse the divine into the lowest strata of creation in order to halt its decomposing + the sinking of its lower realm. This points to a primordial crisis in creation, in the total macro- folder 20 - 030 folder 20 - 030 cosm. ([Hexagram 12 of "I Ching"]). The Yin, form two (dark, deterministic) part was splitting away from the light or Yang or form one. In conventional terms, heaven (upper realm) + earth (lower realm) were separating, carrying the lives within the lower away from their form one (upper) counterparts (this can be viewed as the Godhead itself coming apart, into its Yang + Yin twin halves). (With the lower form universe as God expressed physically in time + space.) The solution was for the divine (Yang, light, form one) to follow the lower realm down, permeating it + thus reuniting the cosmos into one totality. To do this, elements (in ancient terms, sparks of light) advanced (descended) into the dark kingdom, the immutable prison world; upon doing so they shed (+ knew they would shed) their bright nature, memory, identity, faculties + powers, + fell under the dominion of the delusion that the dark kingdom is real (which when severed from the upper realm, it is not). I.e. the world we presently live in doesn't exist. There they have lived as prisoners of the Master Magician, lord of the dark realm who poses as the creator (+ who may not know of the Light God, the true creator, his other half). But the Light God + his pluriforms, the descending (invading) sparks have cunningly distributed clues in the dark realm to recall to the drugged + intoxicated sparks of light their true nature + mission (+ true source or home). Upon encountering these cryptic clues the forgetful sparks of the upper realm now prisoners in + of the lower realm remember, regain their powers + faculties + link back up with the upper realm + the Light folder 20 - 031 God; they are the Light God in pluriform, his way of invading the lower realm in disguise. The Light God (the divine) has now crucially occupied critical stations in the sinking lower realm, + begins to re-annex it back into the totality composed of both realms. The sinking ceases; the Master Magician is stripped of his autonomy + assimilated to the Yang part of the Godhead as its passive counterpart, + once more there is one macrocosm ruled by the Yang or active (creative) Light God assisted by the now receptive Yin (dark) side. The divine has triumphed at all levels; the prison is burst, + the vast, light-filled Garden Kingdom restored as the home of all creatures. These now whole creatures, composed equally of Yin + Yang, are what I term homoplasmates: the Yin part is homo (as we know ourselves to be now, only) + the light or Yang part is the plasmate or energy part (vs the physical). Thus renewed + complete microcosms mirroring the renewed + complete macrocosm are achieved. Reality is imparted to the otherwise irreal lower realm + the upper realm now extends physically - into the realm of matter. The integrity of the Godhead is restored; its two halves function in harmony; + the primordial split (or crisis) is healed. This is a view compounded of Zoroastrianism, Brahmanism, Gnosticism, Taoism, the macro-microcosm of Hermes Tristmigistus + other mystery religions, + not very much of orthodox Xtianity. Xtianity can be added if the pluriform microsparks of light are considered plural saviors or Christs comprising a single mystical corpus which is distributed widely in the dark realm but possessing only one psyche which is somehow also God, the Yang or Light God. folder 20 - 032 folder 20 - 032 __ I have read the above cosmology over, + I find no fault in it. In fact I am amazed. It is in a sense acosmic, + certainly Gnostic, but the Taoist overlay is novel, + pleasing; the Taoist overlay redeems it from the flaws of conventional dualist religions + the problems therein. Instead of stressing moral aspects ("Good vs Bad") it stresses epistemological ("real vs irreal", which I can understand). The lower realm sinks not because it is corrupt or evil or somehow rebelled but because, as shown in hex 12, it is the nature of Yin to sink, as it is the nature of Yang to rise. The pre Socratics (+ Plato in Timaeus) were aware of this; v. the model of the winnowing fan + the concept of the vortex. Yang must assimilate Yin to keep the totality intact: i.e. Yang