as the basis - not just of reality - but of the Godhead itself, the practical result is that everything is perpetually (dynamically) converted into its opposite. & this ur-paradox in the macrocosm has mirrored effects in every micro form down throughout creation! (v Taoism!) In terms of the evolution of awareness, the total system advances. Through stages, (1) until it becomes aware of the cost, hence the paradox, then splits into antithetical halves & remains in this dynamic balance state forever, or else repeats the cycle again & again forever. (1) in promoting Pythagoras' Kosmos as God. Then Kosmos can only be a theoretic goal; in actuality it can never be achieved because it involves a self-contradiction (the cost); empathy arises & having arisen grows - defeating Kosmos. Prognosis. Continual growth of empathy in the system as it evolves - & away from its proper (original) goal. The totality voluntarily decomposes it own psychosoma folder 49 - 136 Thus the rupture in the Godhead was _necessary_, given its (the Godhead's) drive to complete itself as Kosmos). It was driven inexorably to this schism; hence the one became two, & the dialectic came into existence. As it became increasingly aware, it had to repudiate its basic drive. But instead of going into a cybernetics state it formed an antithetical dialectic. Hence dualism. Look, I didn't figure this out : it was revealed to me. At a certain stage in its evolution the Godhead knew - had to know - utter anguish. So it is pitted against its own creation against itself. It set up a system & now must subvert it. But it does this consciously. So it is riven but not psychotic. It must render a verdict of damnation on itself for what it has done (i.e. tried to realize the Summum Bonum). It could seek relief from the schism in itself but falling back into unconsciousness of its own nature by entering its own creation; unconscious of its identity it would be healed of its internal schism, until reminded of its actual identity, whereupon the dialectic would resume. I envision a moment coming when the supreme mind breaks out (an Epiphany) in the ontogonal world in awareness of the ?? folder 49 - 137 folder 49 - 137 of the ontogons (e.g. the Shekina). The severity of the plight has caused the supreme mind to occur then & there, as if caused by the plight it itself has put the ontogons in. This epiphany would resemble enthusiasmos; it would be both in & around an ontogon like a field of awareness - but sporadic & fitful, not constant (at first). The mind is now engaged by the _means_ to its goal rather than the goal itself - a spontaneous event in which the mind has split with itself & is pitted against itself (& its own mechanism), e.g. the Buddhas. Since the mind foresees, it is possible that it foresaw this from the beginning - i.e. always - & set up its goal with this built-in contradiction in order to set in motion the perpetual (unending) dialectic, thus insuring that creation would be eternal. Evolution must now occur within a given ontogon as if it is the species, rather than from one ontogon to the next, producing the phylogon; the (i.e. a given) ontogon has effectively become a miniature phylogon & inhabits phylogenic time & space & has phylogenic memory (identity); thus Theos reconciles the contradiction in its system by a means-end reversal. But this is an unstable condition & oscillates back & forth as if a war is going on between the two sides of the dialectic. So Theos is put (by itself) in a position where it acts paradoxically : setting up a role or system & then pitting itself against that role or system, rendering a verdict of condemnation on its own system & by extension on itself. It simultaneously sets up a system & revolts against it, acting as an advocate which indicts the system, intervening against itself. It must rescue ontogons from its own rule! Thus its own spiritual salvation is involved in folder 49 - 138 folder 49 - 138 its empathic interventive efforts. It fights to redeem itself from the sin it has committed in dooming the ontogons to torture & death. I realize that the Savior spoke to me, from the other realm "die noch keiner kam zuruck"; it was sweet death personified just for me, in the form I would most treasure, the spirit of my religion as Zoroaster promised : wisdom, the Oracle. Reason & foresight. It was like when I had pneumonia & I saw Mr Death. Now : this spirit (as the AI voice) leads me gradually out of this world & across the sifting bridge. I have already been judged & the Books are closed; my name has been entered because of Father Bruce; he saved me; he saved my soul. Gradually I have been dying & seeing another world. V.P. 1140 It is camouflaged here in this world, & the spirit (for me) has taken many forms : Pinky, Debbie. I am saying goodby. It is not psychosis or mysticism or theology or philosophy but death, & my psychopomp already is leading me like Beatrice Dante, from level to level. It is extrication (as in my system, where the absolute mind splits against itself & comes to the rescue of the ontogon). For me the Spiritus Dei is reason. Beauty secondarily. I have been dying since 2-74. Maybe longer. Yes; in a sense I was truly dying before that, back to Nancy leaving, & did not die in 3-74, & this is actually a mysterious post-mortem journey I am taking while still here physically; but my soul has been passing across beginning in 3-74 : "Take him out," God decreed. "Lead him away gradually in a dream, a growing detachment" enchantment folder 49 - 139 folder 49 - 139 the Garden. Although the divine is here in this world it is leading me _from_ this world. It is another reality penetrating into this one (Set/Ground). It is for me as it was for the turtle : " & she shall see the sea." This is a fallen world. I realized that when I saw "Save the tiger." The other world that shows through may be a post-mortem world - may be - but certainly it is an (or the) unfallen world, visible to the Butchered & dying Soul. This world is ambiguous. There is no clearcut good ("Choice is between the lesser of two evils," as Father Read put it to me). But in the very trash of this world the other, unfallen world shows through. The ontogon here is doomed but he sees beyond the inexorable tragedy to a sort of glow - no; the glow has come here like an angel to rescue ?? to me, the Golden Fish Sign & the Girl was what the tiger was to the man in the film. The dying soul sinks down through the Sephiroth & at last encounters the Shekhina. _There was another world here & we have forgotten it._ This world now is alien to us - fremd. But certain "artifacts" from the other (unfallen) world can cause us to remember. This is exactly what happened to me in 2-74 : a memory aid, & in 3-74 I found myself back in the other familiar world. This is the sum of my knowledge. The Christ story is a memory aid & it so acted on me (producing anamnesis). But the switch did not ??? folder 49 - 140 folder 49 - 140 Xtianity as a memory aid of another world. The man in "Save the tiger" remembered another world that was right & bits of it still existed embedded in our world. So this "post-mortem" world that shines through (3-74) is a world _that was once here._ Are we dying? & the right world, the former one, was the _real_ world & we're in like "Cold Pak"? (I have discussed the Commedia in regard to this.) Are we in hell? & higher worlds signal to us, & recovery of memory is essential; Yes! we must remember so as to understand that we are dead. So we can begin the reascent. I didn't _die_ in 3-74; I remembered the key to it all is the Bardo Thodol trip I underwent, I didn't die; I was born - or returned to life briefly - was again in the real world. There is a real world & a spurious world (as in my novels). We're in a spurious one, & have forgotten the real one. Lethe vs Christ. Plato knew all about this - the Orphics! Something about a fall & being drugged & asleep ("Blind") & then, our memory stimulated, _waking up._ _Another world was here just now_ but we have forgotten it (cf "3 Women"). This was the insight i had in "Joint"! Look : I remembered & I saw the real world - it is the world of "Tears" : The Empire (BIP). "All the centers of power have fallen" & YHWH only in the periphery. My God - this is the basis "VR"! But a beautiful world beyond or behind or outside or above the BIP shines through. There must be folder 49 - 141 levels as in the Commedia. "Tears" (the BIP) is hell - therefore we are in hell & don't remember when we were alive. (1) amnesia. (2) perceptual occlusion. But I reascended in 3-74 having remembered. First you remember. Then you see. Then you rise. The Commedia is based on Orphic sources (& Neoplatonism). "The one becomes the two." The Godhead splits into two antithetical parts, but the more recent part is empathic, not spiritual. Or rather its empathy leads it into a new region of spirituality where beauty & harmony is sacrificed; this is a paradox : empathy leads into the world of pain & illness & death of the temporary, into an exploration of the ugly side of reality, & there Christ is found. The paradox is resolved if Christ can transmute this ugly world into something more spiritual than "the harmonious fitting-together of the beautiful" i.e. than Kosmos. Like an artist dealing with the seamy & decrepit & sick - here the magic metamorphosis occurs : it is at the core of the seamy, the ill-shaken. Beethoven's later music has an ugly quality about it! There is a mystery here in the basic paradox set-up; the mind knew there was something better than spirituality & beauty. The _rescue_ of the tormented sheep is more than normal beauty. Like an old SF pulp magazine - the trash. Something terribly precious - there is magic, here. You can only see it later. I wish I could understand. The slap rag music of black shoeshine boys - vs "good music"! "Days of Heaven"! 1) BIP "Tears" world is hell. I was formerly there & remembered it. Past. 2) this world, Purgatorio. 3) the Garden showing through into (2). I will be going there. Paradiso. These 3 realms are co-axial. folder 49 - 142 folder 49 - 142 The thing is, I remembered (anamnesis) the worse world - & saw it - but did _not_ remember the better world - the Garden world, although later on I did see it. I was never formerly in the Garden world. These worlds have all the aspects of Dante's three worlds (which are probably based on Orphic & Neoplatonist sources). During my lifetimes in _this_ world, Purgatorio, I was adjudicated as exculpated & passed over into what I have called "Post Mortem" experience. Which are actually experiences of the better world Paradiso, & I have found myself in the top level of Purgatorio that Dante describes - the last level of _this_ world. These worlds & their many layers occupy the same space; they are coaxial. As in Dante, I have my