- frozen just before annihilation (this annihilation was the end of the 2nd epoch of the Torah -justice + severe limitation- + its end was to make way for the 3rd epoch, that of mercy (Christ's rule/return). But the 3rd epoch [of the Torah] never arrived; for us, anyhow. A counterfeit world (or creation) such as the Gnostics describe replaced the real world - + this is the "secret stolen past the angels in one's hands". This is the secret gnosis of Gnosticism; they knew they were living in an irreal world, + that mankind is drugged or asleep (as in "Ubik" + "Maze"). Why is this the case? A diabolical stratagem by Belial to stave off the apocalypse, the Parousia + judgment. The spatiotemporal world is counterfeit -irreal- but under it/within it/behind it/above it/beyond it/outside it (as in "Ubik") lies the real world + it is not spatiotemporal; there is no spatiotemporal world; that ended with Acts, which is now a latent freezeframe. Acts: our spatiotemporal world:: Plato's Form World: sensible world. "He causes things to look different so it'd appear {folder 01 - 019 folder 01 - 019} time has passed." No time has passed, +, moreover, all change since Acts has to do only with accidents, not substance. Reticulation + arborizing in a memory system; the real world, having been destroyed, exists only in God's memory, + this world remembered is Acts; + all changes since have been mere reticulation + arborizing as elaborations of a freeze frame. Hence time is not real + space is not real. The real world is morphologically arranged, + that world is Acts as dynamic but in essence changeless - exploded through the simulated space + time we experience. Acts is real: the last true essence "frame" of history. + as to Christ: he is here as the cosmic Christ invisible to us, "camouflaged" in our landscape; he is Valis-Ubik, + speaks to us: "wachet auf!" He is the messenger. God preserves the real world in his memory (Acts). Thomas is alive now, at the time of Acts, an apostolic Xtian. The imperial church is Satan's creation. His angels surround us in a ring, keeping out reality; but messages are smuggled through (sic! "through"!) to us by the messenger from God. The divine counter-strategy (contra this irreal world) is to - deocclude us + wake us to our actual state (which may be postmortem). To break the power [...] world has over us. We are dead. Entropy. "Ubik". {folder 01 - 020 folder 01 - 020} We must remember (anamnesis). Acts; we must remember Acts. Then the Parousia will take place + the 3rd Epoch [of the Torah] will come! The Kingdom as Christ's soma is here as a meta structure but we can't see it. It is exploded through our irreal space + time; it is morphologically arranged. It is now 2000 years old by our spurious (simulated) time-reckoning: it did not come recently. The true Kerygma is: He is coming! The Kingdom is [already] here. But Satan deludes us with an irreal world. We are asleep. In 2-74 I woke up. The flying shuttle of the dialectic weaves the picture (visage, Gestalt) of the cosmic Christ, so repair/progress is going on, but not here in our spatiotemporal flux world. - The outer, exoteric lower level truth (condition) is that Christ + Satan war - in the dialectic; but the inner, higher esoteric truth is that through the dialectic, by means of enantiodromia, Christ (Holy Wisdom) uses Satan without Satan's knowledge for God's purposes. Here is how: Satan's irreal spatiotemporal world acts as a screen or grid making the Kingdom accessible by degree to those who merit it through Iranian truthfulness; i.e. who can throw off the power of the Lie by their fidelity to Christ; thus Satan unwittingly acts as a gate separating the "sheep" from the "goats" as scripture tells: he tests people. {folder 01 - 021} It is as if he has been given the task (without him knowing it) of weighing the souls -Ma'at's job- through testing; thus he is an instrument of theodicy: the accuser against whom man must contend by means of perceptive inner truthfulness - this is hard to explain but Satan winnows for God vis-a-vis the Kingdom: he bars the door (gate) to the many through illusion; the man must solve what amounts to a riddle, a paradox, a mystery, based on illusion + guile; God has granted Satan latitude: i.e. full power, as in a 2-person game. Goethe has it right: it is not a wager but is like a wager. The man by his own moral intelligence must decide -choose- correctly within the maze! Tell real from irreal (evil = the Lie = Dokos). Identify the true creation: tell it from the counterfeit. It is a moral-perceptual problem, + the key to the solution is not Pistis but Gnosis. Christ is advocate for the person + gives him cryptic clues; they must remain cryptic + fragmentary; the man himself must solve it. {folder 01 - 022 folder 01 - 022} He must earn -reason- his way into the Kingdom; it is a selective process, as Christ clearly said. "Things are seldom what they seem"; we must be smart (awake!) enough to discern the real -i.e. latent- situation. This requires what Hagia Sophia bestows: shrewdness ("an almost uncanny hunch as to the real situation"!!). There are paradoxes, clues: my big discovery is enantiodromia: something can be -as in "Deus Irae"- what it is not; this is the cryptic message of that book. "God does not work through the is but is, rather, the transmuter of the is into what it is not [enantiodromia: the eleventh datum!]. What we can learn from this is: we should not take the is for what it is, but should figure out, if we can, how it could be turned inside out: transmuted. That is the correct view of ontology: a potential, not something static + fixed. So a paradox + riddle constantly confronts us: a mystery. When a piece from our world is fitted by God into the permanent Kosmos it is converted into what it -here- is not. As if it has two "sides". This is because Satan has been given complete dominion over the is. {folder 01 - 023 folder 01 - 023} So the "is" is Satan's realm (world); the "is" transmuted (enantiodromia) is God's. This is the dialectic I saw. The secret is to view something "from the other side" + not as it is" - overtly. Heraclitus' "latent form" - crypte morphosis where the concealed truth + hence the Kingdom lies - zen realizes this. Paradox. This is the secret wisdom of the "Tao Te Ching"! The lesser -weaker- overtakes the stronger; this is Taoist enantiodromia. + Lao Tzu knew this; it is how the Tao works through the dialectic of Yin + Yang. The secret is: the servant has become the master + the master the servant. So a magician (like in Ben Jonson's "the Alchemist") is in charge. Only the still small voice -the AI voice- who is YHWH, Ho On, speaks the truth (cf "the King + the Corpse"). The "is" is Satan's, but YHWH retains the lesser portion: what the "is" is not. Look to that lesser portion; it does not blind you as does the "is". The epitome was: the xerox letter, which was not what it was ... + the still small voice spoke the truth (as to this mirror opposite-ness). Wisdom is: extrapolate from that. The missive: the AI voice. Like "the King + the Corpse". {folder 01 - 024 folder 01 - 024} Premise: Things are inside out (but will at the "apocalypse" assume their real shape). Therefore the right place to look for the Almighty is e.g. in the trash in the alley. + for Satan: in vast cathedrals, etc. Through enantiodromia they will "on that day" assume their rightful shapes - the great reversal. The Jester in the Tarot deck is the real King; the King card is the deranged one, the witless one. "Ubik" in its commercials + final theophany shows this reversal process. USA 1974 is really Rome C. 45 C.E. Christ is really here; so is the Kingdom. I found my way into it once. The long path is the short path. Ponderous books of philosophy won't help me; Burroughs' "Junky" will. That "thieves + murderers" 17th century poem of Herbert's will. Stone rejected by the builder; the ediface is discarded; the true ediface is invisible - disguised as rubble (plural constituents). That fly grooming himself - they (the divine powers) have to reveal the Kingdom to you; you can never on your own pin it down. So to search at all is to miss the point. Tricks, paradox, illusion, magic, enantiodromia. The apparently harmless xerox missive was my death warrant. The AI voice says the secret stolen has been successfully smuggled to me; I have it. But what is it? My worst book, "Deus Irae", is my best. God talked to me through a Beatles tune ("Strawberry Fields"): ("Nothing is real. Going through life with eyes closed".) A random assortment of trash blown by the wind, + there is God. Bits + pieces swept together to form a unity. - Hypnagogic: The forgery card in "Masterpiece"; if you get it you unload it right away on the next player. 3-74 {folder 01 - 025 folder 01 - 025} I already know where the Kingdom is: it is a floating principle of organization that can be any collection of things that He wants. The AI voice is -or speaks for- YHWH the God of constancy (cf "Deus Irae") Mude bin ich. Aber ich errinne mich. "God does not work through the is." God works through what Lao Tzu calls the weak, the empty; this is the same God. To cause the enantiodromia on which the world-process is based. It is never Satan who wrecks God's plans, but God who wrecks Satan's again & again. "The ape of God" whose spurious interpolation -fake world- God spoils repeatedly, God being secretly here. [illustration presented below in text format] World: Spurious creation by the magician, the liar, Satan. Klingsor's castle II The still small voice, speaking the truth: YHWH. Like the Horse's head. - USA 1974 cannot be reduced to Acts AD 45 any more than Acts AD 45 can be reduced to USA 1974: [illustration presented below in text format] USA 1974 / accidents -- Acts AD 45 / Essence - wrong USA 1974 / accidents -- Acts AD 45 / accidents II Essence - correct {folder 01 - 026} Hence: "He causes things to look different [i.e. accidents] so it'd appear time has passed". Only the accidents change! [illustration presented below in text form] ------------------------------- linear time accidents AD 45 1610 1914 1974 etc I I I I Essence BIP: Morphological arrangement exploded in space + time. In a sense, therefore, space + time are not real; the contua are coaxial. They pervade one another: at least in terms of the abstraction to the morphological (Form axes) realm (#3 or #2). You go to the recovery of another accident along the Form axis (or all of them) by - as Plato says - anamnesis. I.e. you recollect the universal, which is not in space + time + yet through its continua of accidents, in vast space-time. There is not only a universal of the BIP + the secret Xtians - there is one of myself - hence Thomas. I exist in that morphologically arranged Form world, unfallen into #4 space-time. It is an immortal soul: which in this realm it has forgotten. It is incarnated again + again + realm #4 + takes up its task contra the BIP. But when anamnesis occurs + you enter realm #3 + 2 it is all one life. {folder 01 - 027 folder 01 - 027} [illustration presented below in text