this ghostly outline was of an alternate world —and narrative— or the sacred informa¬ tional basis of this world...but I already have the answer, inasmuch as I have realized (supra) that there is no Sacred narrative infor¬ mational basis of this world, since there are Sacred narratives plural, and different reperformances of sacred rites key-punch entry into different ones. Christ; this is driving me up the wall. So either I am multiple tracking in that I am tracking two alternate programs or else I am tracking the flux, world (mundane — 18 — world) and the noumenal world of the sacred narrative, the infor¬ mation basis of our reality in illo tempore, as Eliade puts it. I guess I have to decide which. Well, the presence of Thomas suggests —not that I am tracking an alter nut., world—— but that I am tracking a world in illo tempore, because Thomas’ identity and memory-span is the phylogenic type that corrolat.es with sacred space-time; he remembered back thousands of years, and this is not an alternate world but the drear., time world of which TEARS is a replication in narrative form: phylogenic history, so to speak. We are talking about Rome and Acts and secret illegal Christians who make use of covert signs and passwords to identify themselves. Eo I am back to my original thesis that by reperforming a sacred rite I plugged into the other kind of time (actually space-time: vast space and vast time). That there are phylogenic selves is a marvel to contemplate. However, another explanation comes to my mind, one I have thought of before, the spurious world theory, the "ape of God" theory mentioned by the Britannica, in which Satan the adversary throws up an illusory world —which would be what I have been calling the mundane or flux world— to obscure the actual world, which I have been Calling sacred history (although apparently , as I say, there are more than one sacred histories hence worlds). I might note here that no one, even Eliade, has ever supposed that, we are living in two realms, an ontogenic and phylogenic, on different time-scales, this explaining the "dream time" or illo temper-; that he speaks of. Illo tempore does exist, but we are always already in it, in terms of our phylogenic selves, in relation to which our ontogenic selves are wave oscillations or episodes along a very extensive axis of births and deaths and rebirths (which may explain what the Buddha encountered when he remember all his past lives — I have the basis here for a totally new theologicalphilosophical-scientific theory, and it is alluded to, but con¬ fusedly, in VALIS). Then should I resolve this issue by stating that the illo tempore (Sacred history) space-time span is a phylogenic life in contrast to our mundane or ontogenic life, and that the phylogenic life, although possessing a continuity of personality, is made up of the sum total of ontogenic selves? In that case I could not have key-punched entry into any other Sacred narrative than the one I did. Even if others exist (which apparently they do). They exist but not for me, because my phylogenic self is tracking one and only one, that which is depicted thrice in TEARS. That the sacred history is told thrice in TEARS can be explained by Thomas' existence and his involvement with that world the phylogenic world of that particular sacred history. He knows of John Taverner and he knows the book of Acts; more, he knows the world that the book of Acts depicts. The covert materials in TEARS were not put there by God but by Thomas, writing out of the depths of his experiences. The golden fish sign coupled with the sodium pentathol brought him momentarily to the surface — awakened him within the confines of ontogenic time and world. Such has been my theory for years; I am back to where I started. If we all have phylogenic selves that track phylogenic space-time worlds, then the reperformance of a sacred archaic rite outs you in touch not only with this sacred dream tine illo tempore world of the gods but awakens the phylogenic self within you that dwells continually in that realm. This self would he the atman of Brahmanism, I suppose, or Plato's immortal, reincarnated soul. I just now read the E.B. macro article on Thomas Cromwell who John Taverner worked for us a paid agent, and it was evident to me within an instant that Thomas is/was Thomas Cromwell, and as a result I am totally stupified. Tne visit to the how Countries - but mainly, Thomas Cromwell was the- instrument by which Henry VIII broke the power of the Papacy in England; Thomas Cromwell, the E B says, virtually ruled England for years. He pitted himself against the Catholic Church and won, thus ushering in the English Reformation This is my memories of blowing up Catholic fortifications during the Thirty Years War or the War of the Spanish Lowlands. Basically the thrust of Thomas Cromwell's activities against the Catholic Church consisted in the suppression of the monasteries, and for this venture John Taverner became a paid agent. So —since the Catholic Church at that time was the Empire— Taverner was a paid agent working against the Empire; he was a totally political person, at least toward the end of his life. My unconscious self, Thomas, has to not only have known the book of Acts (which a lot of people know) but also about John Taverner (which few people know). Thomas Cromwell would know both, and he was in the Low Countries. And at the time in history that I remembered during, anamnesis. Portuguese States of America. Van Walloon. Erasmus. This now brings me back to the English Renaissance and Francis Bacon and the [I.]C. brotherhood, the enlightenment "as a victory of secret societies." I am led to this by a wholly dif¬ ferent route than ever before, but lo and behold; here it is again. My suspicion that I am dealing with some kind of ultra-advanced technology (supernatural powers) that broke the back of the Catholic Church at the time of Henry VIII, and then on into the War of the Low Countries and the Thirty Years or, Frederick the Elector and all that; which is to say the Rosicrucians. Perhaps techniques have evolved —well, they had back at the time of the Orphics— by which to gain deliberate access to phylogenic time; maybe that’s it. of course that’s it. I got into phylogenic time by accident, but certainly if the reenactment of certain Sacred mythic rites permits you to enter phylogenic time then there Is no reason to reject the idea that a concerted group exists that passes in and out of that universe, as well as sending messages back and forth in our world that relate to the other world — relate either by being in it or by talking about it, referring to it to people who know about it and enter and leave it. It seems to the perfectly possible.- that war is raging in this phylogenic space—time realm, and its effects show up here. Not only that; the participants may be recruiting here. The phylogenic realm Qna this ontogenic realm are not two separate realms; one former is the latter seen down a different space-time axis, one so vast that true constants are visible. In fact the phylogenic realm comes into existence and alters due to what happens on this plane. which is to say , all the events in the short-term ontogenic realm add up to the long-range phylogenic realm, as if Plato's world of Forms was dependent on the phenomenal world for its existence. It is Plato turned around, in a sense. So events here affect the phylogenic realm, but events here cannot be understood except in their phylogenic mode. One could say that the events happen here but their meaning is there (in the phylogenic realm); this is a Hegelian sort of view of history. That means that those who know —and those groups who Know— the phylogenic realm and its meanings and constants are going to try — do try and art successful— in controlling events in our ontogenic realm, where we do not see the phylogenic significances...which is to say we do not know the meaning of our own actions. Those who know of the phylogenic realm and can enter it at will are in a position to influence it by means of actions here in our ontogenic realm. They then are the real masters of reality. Who these people are I have no idea but they must exist, since entry into the phylogenic realm is possible, as I know from my own experience. This, then, is the secret history of the western world. It is very possible that the- war in the phylogenic realm is currently being fought between, progressive Communism and reactionary capital¬ istic imperialism. According to my assessment a victory or the part of progressive Communism would advance the clock of the phylogenic realm, and may already have done so. But another way, what we see today as a war between pro¬ gressive Communism and reactionary capitalistic imperialism is an ontogenic face within a longer-term conflict between those dedicated to freedom and the Empire (at a former time the pro¬ gressive force 'was the middleclass, the bourgeoise, versus the aristocracy, and so forth back into pre-Christian times...another example being the conflict between the Protestant forces and the Catholic League during the Thirty Years War. And, before that, between Christianity and the Roman Empire; before that, between Greece and Persia; before that, between the Hebrews and Egypt). If Valis is regarded as the Hegelian Geist of history, then it is always on the side of the forces of freedom, since as Hegel says, history is a gradual unfolding of greater and greater stages of human freedom, achieved by dialectical interaction. This was recognised by Marx and Engels and applied practically in terms of dialectical materialism. This is essentially exemplar history; the Jews view history this way, seeing YHWH's bringing the Jewish people out of their Egyptian Captivity as a timeless, in fact eternal event, always happening. However, the situation is now different; the enslaved people cannot be rescued by departing the Empire because the Empire is worldwide; instead, they must overthrow the Empire. This is precisely what the Acts archetype reveals: not an exodus of the enslaved but an infiltration into the apparatus of the Empire by the enslaved by which their emancipation is achieved. However, Acts points to an incompleteness in this process; the Empire still exists — it has not yet been successfully subverted. It still governs, reigns, rules, enslaves. The enslaved have formed a revolutionary organisation -—in Acts the apostolic Christian church-- but this organization is really ineffective at this stage. At this stage the Procurator of the Empire has arrested and is interrogating members of the organization to try to determine, the aims, strength and size of the organization (which the Empire correctly recognizes as subversive). The Empire is in the infor¬ mation—gathering stage. It is puzzled, 'hilling trie members of the revolutionary subversive organization docs not seem to be the answer; this is the message of tne gospels, killing having been the initial naive solution of the Empire. Now the Empire wants to know everything there is to know about the organization. What it finds out is virtually nothing, because the organization is guided not by human leaders but by an historical Geist. Its leader is literally dead. As I said before the members —or suspected members— of the organization Cannot give any information about themselves to the procurator. They do not know anything; they are enigmatic to themselves, as if operating on an unconscious or supraconscious basis, outside of their own awareness. They are controlled by impersonal historical forces (Hegel's Geist). Or, worse, they are governed by supernatural forces that even they do