at Mt. Sinai and is destroyed. When one considers the circumstances under which the original Torah was revealed to man, it is easy to understand why Israel would reject amendment by any human being whatever the system he offered in replacement. The circumstances of revelation, not the system itself, seems to be the legitimate issue. But in point of fact it is folder 82 - 018 folder 82 - 018 not, although the argument for this is torturous. The circumstances will be the issue, legitimate or not. Jesus must prove that he is God if his system is to be accepted -- this without regard to the system itself. Hence the doctrine of the risen Christ is crucial to the acceptance of the system, at least for antiquity. Today we could accept the system on its merits. It is accepted by countless people who deny the resurrection. On the other hand, no one who accepted the dogma of resurrection would deny the system, at least pro forma. Resurrection on the third day proved that the system of teachings did indeed originate from the same --or an equal-- source as the Mosaic Law, the Torah. (Equal or superior; the Gnostics believed it was superior, and not the same source at all.) Today we really cannot fathom this unless we are acutely religiously inclined. Paul, however, knew that he could teach nothing of Christ unless he could affirm the resurrection convincingly. The fact of the growing acceptance of Jesus' teachings is due to the fact of an acceptance of the resurrection --initially-- and not due to a belief that the system was a superior system. I would argue that because it is a superior system Jesus probably was God, but in antiquity it would be the other way around; it was a superior system because Jesus was God. We overlook this. But if Jesus were the Christ and did rise from the dead on the third day then the quality of theophany matched that of the former at Mt. Sinai. Everyone knows that only a man-god can rise from the dead. More, the body in which Jesus was resurrected was a different kind of body (this is central to Paul, and for good folder 82 - 019 folder 82 - 019 reason; for essential reason. Were it a corporeal body a trick might have been involved, an accusation still made. What we today must realize is that the sudden, early spread of Christianity was emphatically and necessarily based on a widening conviction that Jesus had risen and in an incorruptable body. It is not within historic posibility that his ethical system would have caught on in the absence of this belief. The real story of Jesus is not, Here is someone with a superior ethical system but, Here is someone who rose from the dead in another kind of body and he has given us this system to live by. If you go back and analyze what happened at Mt. Sinai, whatever system this person, this god, God Himself, has given you, you will accept it; you must accept it or perish, because God gives life and God takes life; God and life and inseparable. By his resurrection Jesus showed his power to create ethical systems backed up by the primal ground of being. The system was inseparable from the existence of the universe. For example, if the LORD at Mt. Sinai had told Moses that the people were to boil chickens in their feathers --the chickens' feathers, not the people's-- it would have been as binding on them as the decalogue, as Thou shalt not kill. But what we have with Jesus is resurrection --proof of godhood-- yoked to the finest ethical system the world knows. So for us the argument can be turned around; we today can infer resurrection from the system, not the validity of the system from resurrection. It is a different world that we inhabit, now. This is why the Torah contains the seeds of its own entropic destruction: it does contain what reasonable men understand to be mindless prescriptions. It is a vast hodgepodge and to follow every folder 82 - 020 folder 82 - 020 tittle of it is to damage your sanity. This is not true of Jesus' system. This is why Paul rightly views Jesus' teachings as the spirit, and the Law as the letter. He has it right. He fully understands the difference between the Law and Christian teachings. Paul is a reasonable man. For example, it is not cruelty that causes him to taunt the Jews for caring about oxen; he is saying that the Law is mindless in its distinctions between obsessive ritual and pure substance. It is the Law because it was revealed. What we have here are the characteristics of a mechanical or slave entity, something below the threshold of consciousness. Paul as a Jew knew this very well. His analysis of the Law is flawless, and also blasphemy. We should take the latter into account in appraising him and what he says. Speaking as Paul spoke eventually cost him his life, and it cost the lives of many other people. Jesus foresaw this, and his own payment as well. Therefore no one can say that Jesus preached and Paul followed for practical reasons. They were pitted against Mt. Sinai, which represents absolute divine power, and against the Roman Empire, which is the embodiment of worldly, secular power. Thus Paul could speak of Christianity as a kind of foolishness greater in worth than the highest wisdom of men. --- Out of ignorance I have made a basic error; I assumed that Judaism (although it did not know of original Sin) believed in the Fall; I thought this because Genesis seems very clear on this matter: Adam sins, and man is expelled from the Garden of Eden. Scripture seems clear to me on this point: we were supposed to dwell in Eden folder 82 - 021 -18- but we disobeyed God and we were expelled into misery, and we still are expelled; Eden is guarded by cherubim with flaming swords (i.e. by angry angels). I never doubted that the story of the Fall could be explicitly seen in Genesis, but Judaism does not see it. Well, are we in the Garden? No. Were we supposed to be originally? Yes; that was the plan. Did we disobey and were expelled? Scripture clearly says so. I don't see how Judaism can read Genesis any other way. "The Fall" means (1) Rebelling; and (2) Expulsion from Eden. These are not implicit in Genesis; they are explicit. Another matter: the Tree of (eternal) Life, the eating of the fruit of which would make man like "us," like the Elohim. This is precisely the fruit that Jesus offers us. So even if you discard the notion of expulsion from Eden and the possibility of return, through Christ, you have this forbidden tree the fruit of which Christ now offers you ("Your ancestors ate manna in the wilderness and they are all dead. But I offer you the bread of eternal life which is my body; I am that bread," etc). Okay. I will reject the notion of original sin and the Fall; that man now is Fallen; I will go along with Judaism because I have always balked at the notion of original sin and I can see that the notion of original sin cannot be separated from the notion of the Fall, i.e. fallen man. But there is still the Tree of Life which was denied us and which Christ (I am told by the Al voice) stole. Stole to give to us; he got it through --smuggled it past-- the angels guarding Eden. In fact he restores us to Eden. Eden as place. And I will assume that the paranormal faculties conferred on me in 3-74 or disinhibited were not restored but were adventitious (contrary to folder 82 - 022 folder 82 - 022 Calvin and the Book of Adam and Eve). But the Book of Adam and Eve explicitly describes the paranormal faculties I acquired as those they had in Eden. This is too great a coincidence to be ignored. Still, I would like to reject Paul's notion of original sin; I think this is one of the best elements in Judaism in contrast to Christianity. But if I reject original sin I reject the Fall. Okay; I reject the Fall and I say, "Restoration" is not restoration at all but the bestowing of supernatural faculties through the fruit of the Tree of Life which is Christ, the eating of which makes us like the Elohim. Now that is certainly based on scripture. Also, to get this fruit you return to the Garden; the purpose of returning you to the Garden is so that you can eat of this fruit, the fruit of the other tree of the two trees denied us -- stolen, as was the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good & Evil (the serpent's gift to us). Wait; why, of course if man didn't fall --there was no Fall-- the Torah would be totally sufficient! So the doctrine of the Torah's inadequacy is tied in with the Fall, and the doctrine of its perfect adequacy is tied in with the denial of the Fall. I can interpret the Fall as punishment, with a removal of some human faculties and the occlusion (impairment) of others without the doctrine of sin; sin has nothing to do with it -- it is a punishment for stealing the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil -- punishment by a dumb demiurge who wants to keep us enslaved -- as the Gnostics teach. So Gnosticism teaches the Fall without teaching original sin. And hereby the inadequacy of the Torah is logically supposed. folder 82 - 023 folder 82 - 023 -20- Then Judaism is even more occluded than Christianity, because by denying or ignoring the Fall Judaism has not realization that man has lost some of his faculties entirely and has had others occluded (impaired). The punishment by YHWH is totally successful, and part of the saving gnosis is contained in the Christian doctrine of the Fall because it permits us to comprehend that we are impaired -- deprived of some of our original faculties. So already, by believing in the Fall, Christianity has rolled back the cloud of enforced ignorance which the demiurge covered us with. We fell, and the idea is to regain what we lost (1) in the way of faculties; and (2) return to Eden. "The Golden Age of humanity is not in the past but in the future," Rabbi Herz writes in his notes on Genesis. Well, and (3): the fruit of the Tree of (eternal) Life, which Christ specifically offers us. Then I can see the conventional or orthodox Christianity in itself contains much of the saving gnosis, irrespective of Gnosticism. We fell; we lost Eden; we lost our faculties; Christ restores us (as Milton says; the doctrine of the Second Adam who undoes the work of the first). Judaism knows absolutely nothing of this, of the events (loss of faculties) and aim (restoration). So of course, the revelation at Mt. Sinai is considered adequate. And of course in Christianity it is not, and Christ must tell us, "But I say unto you --" etc, and then so does. If you study Judaism and contrast it to Christianity you can see, for the first time, that Christianity is Faustian, that its real but covert message is, "We were once as gods or as God, and Christ shall restore us," ideas totally absent in Judaism, as is also absent the concept that the folder 82 - 024 folder 82 - 024 -21- Messiah would be the Son of God or God Himself as Christians believe about Jesus. This latter idea is logical given the former; God took away our brightness, our