the CP, the left. Where Xtianity is illegal + forced labor camps exist. Or: is "Tears" simply how capitalism really is? imperialism. Rome. It can be argued that the resemblance between the Golden Fish Girl, 2 CP documents + my writing psycho e logically triggered me off, but this won't account for the o - connected to the Fish sign. Acts material in "Tears see the Fish sign on the day I was given sodium entathol, + the Fish sign relates to "Tears" via the Acts material - what human agency could have arranged that they'd have had to know I'd order pain pills + from which pharmacy + that I was engrammed on sexy women + The toland man book, the lish (or Fish teeth) necklaces the P.W. Collage on my wall, + they'd have to know of the Acts material in "Tears," + they'd have to arrange for Roogna write me just they, etc - impossible. to There is one point I've failed to explore. If it is Tears" + "Tears" alone which = TGlH, the girl could show up until "Tears" was published or at least it to illen. She showed up within the 2 weeks following its lease. Even if I reasoned that God worked backward in me from the outer reality situation to the inner analog is would not account for the coincidence of her coming hen she did. Also, the 2 CP documents. 4 things had occur within a short time + in the sequence which ay did 1) "Tears"; 2) the Gire; 3) CP letter A; 4) CP letter b the Girl had to display the Fish sign - not the cross say what she said, so we'll say 5. + this still does the Acts material in "Tears," except obviously explain the right hemisphere personality who she disinhibited 26 + study of "Faith of" shows that fielding the CP forgeries is not an end but a means; the end, really, is the theophany which he later witnesses + can report to her. it is the last test or barrier, as if it sums up this world (extradivine) as preface to the divine. One can only pass from the former to the latter "through" it, Here you are stopped - defeated - unless helped by a daimo "Chthonic spirit" - i.e. a tutulary psychopomp who a seems to span both realms just as Juliana knows the truth about MITHC (extradivine) + TGlH (divine) The fascist authorities know that or irreal + real!). GH is true. Juliana warns him. Tanya warns him. Not only is I his book true but because it is true danger is comin she tells him two things - the theme of danger spelled So out by Tanya Lee. Now it takes the form of setting him up as politically disloyal. This collates with the reason why Abendsen is in danger: political subversion on his part, or impuned calculatedly via a forged up document note phrased to mislead him. You know, I've been missing the whole point. The disinhibition of a right brain personality in 2-3-74 proves that (e.g. the Acts material) my writing has been a 2-mind collaboration - without me knowing t. + this may well (why not?) mean all my writing this would explain the pre‐ fuck the Xerox missive! socratic material in "Ubik" if not Ubik itself 2 the Acts material proves that Thomas adds to the material. God, I wrote about it in "Scanner"! + he is ght brain, since he is analogic {Note (+ not from out 1 side me). 2wer seele brennen ach! etc. + this being so is not going to go away. Presumably he cooperated in he Valis." Q: How does Thomas differ from the Holy Spirit Julian Jaynes: the voice of the God (Sibyl. Bicameral f rind. ➀ This is a milestone in this exegesis. But the tem late: inner analog which Thomas recognized in outer reality in 2-3-74. What if he's me living my life over gain a second time - recycled? Hence "my" precogni ion, inc. the inner template. + his knowing the Nixon So in 2-3 s transcripts were forgeries vis-a-vis the tapes he got a second chance at the Xerox missive, + this 4 "the knew what to do, + so changed his/my/our that was we course. Of course, then, he'd take over in 3-74! the whole point! 2 If Thomas is me following my death (+ returning o 1928) this would explain the post mortem eriences when he took control, as I've often reflected homas seems to be someone returned from the dead arrying with him the divine Gnosis Plato speaks of forgetting - hence the anamnesis when Thomas took t "double signal" - both worlds superim‐ ver? + the osed. I wrote about this in "world of talent," "pay‐ heck," "nwfly." This would explain how I knew I was going to meet this that is - + it would explain why I said "Georgia" instead of "Ginger; "Tears." Otherwise plus the material about Kathy in why would a right brain personality have postmortem experiences? The following are certain: 1) Thomas has knowledge of the next world. future. is 2) but Thomas is a right brain self - ana 3) logic. Proved. So he is natural as I, in the left brain, am. Then whence (1) + (2)? specifically, Thomas foresaw the Xerox missive to the exact day + knew 1) what it was; + 2) how to deal with it. Would the inner template tell him the exact day? No. Nor would it tell him that time was if the essence in handling it - getting rid of it. But anyhow what I'm saying is there's a lot more than a prior inner template; there's a whole other self, + he seems to foresee the future generally + to be in or from the next world. He could see Valis! + the plasmate! Then the template, as expressed in my writing, is just an instance - a very important one - of his knowledge of the future but the most valuable knowledge he has deals with the afterlife (v. Plato), + this apparently has shown up in my writing. Well, this would explain my idee fix about stationary figured dreaming an irreal world; Thomas (me) is dead, stationary in a Bardo Thodol state, + essentially dreaming his life here. It is o is pak of in" col Thomas - me- who t 28 o But I see something even more important than the right hemisphere personality happening: the real payoff was the breaking of the delusive power of this "world This accords exactly with MITHC + Juliana + mor Tagomi vis-a-vis abendsen + his book. This is "the one great (absolute) thought" my vast intuitive lea based on the correspondence between the inner analo + reality. Tears" is true. Thomas knows first hand "+ it is the world of Acts, which is The world of "Tears. The world the girl speaks of. The girl is saying, "Acts is true, your book is true," which is what Juliana says to abendsen. + there is danger on the way from the authorities, due to the book - the form of which Danger is spelled out by Tanya Lee: the 2 CP papers designed to trap the him. But the danger is secondary in importance to realization of the truth of his book which he had not is the realized. Yet a main purpose on her coming to his door Warn him. So she conveys two messages. Tanya Lee conveys + the two messages: the supreme leader is not as he appears. protay is in danger from the 2 CP papers (+ also that she belongs to a secret anti-gov illegal group). Abendsen in his book has stumbled onto the great a truth about their world, that it isn't correct that ithere is a delusive power hangs over it. Also, in "Faith of delusive power hanging over the world, which Tanya wants the piece of solver penetrate. When my Tagomi stares at tewelry he penetrates to the real world: "metal, smoke + So I suspected the real nature of reality when I wrote MITHC: + that there was an invisible under‐ concrete. ""metal + cement + smoke" Bardo Thodol reality how does this fit in with "Ubik," where they're actually lying the Bardo Thodol "life? "Dying souls sinking." The the dead. But Thomas knows all this, look: he n + ity of but the Acts material in "Tears." It is a matter of him to come out, which the Golden Fish does. causing t Thomas doesn't just know about that world; he is living he experiences (sees) it. If Juliana is to be believed. There an alternate world; it is the real world. it not not be worlds which are ideas in the mind of God but Fis us possibilities, lacking onto. They are as dreams are must Sankara: as hallucinations are to Maya:: Maya: reality t ous is I speculated earlier we must be preprogrammed see certain "versions" + not others. This is the "script from s referred to. I was preprogrammed for 2-3-74 he very beginning, so I was preprogrammed to write Tears." Then very likely I was preprogrammed to evelop the theme of pseudo worlds in prior books pecially "Joint." Suppose reality is regarded as what Saw that I called Valis. It grows + is alive; it world is not fitted its everything together. Our view of "kosm into 29 in its work of creating kosmos within atelos, Valis must subordinate divergent "realities" such as ours to the truth - what it is making the truth. ("I am he who causes to be.") Like actual reality in "Eye" or in "Joint" reality must break through - well, like in "Ubik" too - + ITHC + "Maze." This does not just happen because the pseudo world is breaking down. maybe instead, an alignment with reality must be engineered is syntonic with t Xerox missive Pigspurt t ours 2. Code in it + in "Tears" +writes up 3, right hemisphere self ( dystopic view of USA (which (3) experiences to this reality prisons S. dialectic as worldview basis. 6. secret revolutionary conspiratorial group blowing up (3) belongs to this group, sees (4). Is not to tell. 70 preprogrammed signals to bring (3) out (inc (1) + (2)) 80 the Xtian stuff "is a cypher, a way of talking." 9. 10, overthrow of U.S. gov their aim. Wiggens - Nixon tapes. script or inner analog nating back years containing is mplete template of disinhibiting signals to bring (3) out. 12. sense of being machine or android. Ideationless actions of dissociative type. Highly shrewd. Connected with (1). (2), (3). Bs, code in (1) not really code but info intended for (3), to ving him out. Refers to CPUSA childhood (mine). 14. (1) says (1) is forgery. So (3) sending (1) to La is not patriotic if (3) believes or knows (1) is us forgery. It is way of escaping trap described in (is). US G-2 true Xtians Pigspurt monster a Ubik/Valis - an AI o system. N.T. Logos O.T. occlusion (information). Reality pseudo-world AI system created terminals or "keith pelligs. isinhibited by a forgery which he knew was a forgery didn't know ... about him or it. The computer installed the template in him in advance so hed know it was forgery + could deal with it. He is its terminal. Christ, Holy Wisdom, is its terminal. It cannot be Pig urt, according to the inner script analog the one Pigspurt em is a forgery, + was so treated. Anyhow, if it was a forgery "There is no way human mind uld anticipate 36 he template stigmatizes the Xerox missive as a test trap, forgery. If it wasn't then the template is accidental, not a template, not correct. But Thomas acted on it, later independers reasoning caused me to conclude it was a forgery. The AI voice aid