the back-book analysis of Christ, + it fits 3-74 + the Xerox missive. since I don't think I really pulled down the tyrant or anyone, 3-74 must be understood as mythic identification (esse) + ritual (drama with personal). It was a holy sacred) ritual drama enacted outside of time the salvation was spiritual more than pragmatic, then (+ hence more important). I participated out e side of time in the God's arrest, humiliation persecution), the trap, then triumph (reversal from innocent victim to agency of doom). But it was mythic, ritual, holy, re-enactment - the trapped turned out to be a trap (bait + hook). resurrection in divine (transfigured) form. inity (by adoption?) with the God who goes through it always - ah; the God was there in 2-3-74; I became the God by ritual identio lication. Christ, obviously. Just as Dionysos himself shows up in the Bacchae - is summoned. Christ was actually there (enthusiasmos) and not just symbolically; actually there (Valis, Thomas, the AI voice: the trinity. But personae of one God). The Q: "Was it Christ or Dionysos?" has no meaning, in as much as I was shown that "Jesus" is Zeus-Zagreus, the latter being tricked - trapped - by the titans with toys: Lured to his death. The Bacchae & the Gospels show it all to be one God, that of enthusiasmos. Who replaces by substitution his followers at the moment of the Latter's death & turns the tables - against the tyrant; Yes, that is it: that is what happened in 3-74. Hence he passes over from innocent victim to instrument and doom. Bait and hook. Here upon the ideationless series of actions is revealed as having total transcendant (divine) meaning. I have always mistakenly stressed the practical utility of their acts. But now I see it all properly as the divine drama re-enacted. The Real Goal was The Summoning of the God & the fusion with him: he becomes you, & you become him. Therefore You Become - immortal, I think, and immediately divine (deifids). Sheraton Motor Inn Laura Flint, Mich (313) 732 0400 #4338 What is really eerie is that the story of what happened to me in 2-3-74 is given in "Tears" (far more so than in "MITHC" & "Faith"); the full story & explanation is in "Tears" and it explicitly presents Acts & implicitly The Bacchae. The sacred drama is there. Correct & complete, & which deity is pointed to? a fusion of Dionysos & Christ. Dionysos implicitly, Christ explicitly. But Christ is the second, not first, advent. Could the actions dealing with the Xerox missive have had primarily a sacramental, ritual character, rather than practical? Were they necessary to the unfolding drama? In which case I may never know what they primarily signified. Rejection of - distinguishing - a trial? A test (as in "The Magic Flute"?)? An ordeal, ritual choosing. Yes: a puzzle - involving choosing the right solution. This is a drama that I know nothing about, but it is ordeal; it is testing but the God is already present. It is the God who chooses. The presence - the real presence - of the God is siginified by the crrect choice. These are his credentials: his infallible choosing - this is the sign. No man (because lacking absolute knowledge in Holy wisdom) could ^correctly choose; so the God is pointed to. It is as if the demonic powers have challenged the authenticity of the God in terms of his followers: viz: can your God help you now?Or rather, Does your God exist? This is a Ritual drama involving elements unknown to me from religions & cultures, & yet sense its reality, perhaps a contest within the antithetical dialectic between the two players. I will never know. Truly, A DNA packet fired; I was on the right track. We just don't know enough. I don't, anyhow. (V.P. 400, last ⁋.) What if in "Tears" the God invites his antagonist to a ritual contest? The antagonist will present a riddle & if the God is real he will solve it. The riddle is presented & the God solves it. So the novel is notification to the demonic powers of the presence of the God - or perhaps the God is ambiguous in "Tears"; the demonic power can't be certain. The challenge is based on the gamble that the God is not present. The demonic power loses: the God is present. Tricked by the titans originally. A ritual trick re-enacted but like the Second Advent is to the first the trick fails. Suppose in the first advent Jesus was tricked (into entering Jerusalem - betrayed). The mithos is not complete until the trick is tried & fails; this is the final layer or level (of ontology - not sequentially in time). It will succeed over & over again & then fail. When it fails, the final age has come. (As in the age of gold replacing the age of iron.) The matrix has yielded. These are the templates of ages. (aeons.) These are the processions of the aeons. "She was not acceptable before." The age in which the trick succeeded. But this age is characterized by the trick failing. It is an [in]dex. Then in solving the ritual test (ie ordeal) the God signifies his real presence (his return?). It is a riddle which admits to no solution except by divine omniscience. So the solving [of] it proves that the God is here. 404 consider The Bacchae-Hamlet-Gospel story in "Tears" 1) is the specific explicit Acts material" 2) The King Felix cypher is a 3) The Golden Fish disinhibition the month 4) "Tears" is published. Seeing Acts/ "Tears" anamnesis (v #4) leading to ritual mythic 5) re-enactment of the "Tears" story in 3-74 outside time, as Eliade describes. The real not just symbolic God is summoned + takes control whereupon he heals, enacts the original sacraments the Kingdom emerges. Bells, music, geometric 6) shapes The AI voice. 7) most of all: world as body of God stimulating 81 goal-seeking activity in everything (what I call "valence away from plumb"). the Zoroastrian dialectic, revealed as the 9) basis of all: the two contenders one of which foresees all a priori, the other possessing only a postiori "backward" knowledge. The timeless + process victory of the former. (In time + outside of time.) clusion: the DNA phylogenic memory packets con abolish profane time + transmute all reality into single mythic drama: the story told in "Tears." This is the master archetype of our world; viz: isurpation + tyranny - the rightful deposed iounger king enters as an unknown powerless tranger - he is arrested by the usurper/ rant although innocent + brought before him they confront each other - in some way the nnocent stranger calls on his father the white haired woolbearded old the King t 1405 usurper is destroyed: the power positions of the young stranger + the usurper are reversed at the end. A ritual solemn murder is darkly hinted at. The usurper is cognate with Tears; the younger stranger The who is the rightful king) with joy. usurper has violated the lawful ways in "Tears" he has married his sister: the crime of incest which brings down doom on him in some way connected to the young stranger.) Intoxication is olved (mescalin); thus Dionysos is pointed to, but the Acts material points to Christ so the two are blended. This story may not be theological or even mythological but dealing with an actual primordial historic crisis in which the rightful king was deposed by a tyrant + his followers forced to emigrate, retaining knowledge of this + their civilization in the DNA memory packets timed to fire later on what is most sought for is the retrieval of the rightful king who in some way has seen "eaten" + "drunk by his followers + can be reconstituted from their psychoi, as if they are genetic carriers of him (he is encoded in them in latent form - i.e. crypte morphosis). given the right signals, one of his followers turns into him + he is again alive. To make i detection more difficult the follower has no knowledge of this + is randomized into the is population of a given planet. autochthono 406 the slumbering, ready to be awakened, rightful king poses a threat to whatever autochthonic Empire exists; he is an invader within an invader (or rather o scattered + camouflaged group of invaders) is it possible that the divided-up sparks of him distributed in the invaders among the autochthons when disinhibited are assembled into one camouflaged macro‐ entity, so that there are not many Christos but one? As if they severally "reflect" into one "mirror"? This, then, is apotheosis not enthusiasmos, with Christos born in the person + then leaving! to join the macro‐ entity as a further part of it, so that it (i.e. Valis) assembles itself out of the Christoi as they are "born." So Thomas did not enter me but was born intrinsically in me (alchemical birth) + ruled for a time (+ there was a Bob-fred double or twin psychoi for a time) + then he "Thomas") departed to be incorporated permanently into Valis which is assembling itself in process-time, growing + becoming stronger + tending toward completion. as it reacquires its scattered bits (2) I was a genetic carrier for it; it is a ( hylogenic personality, I an ontogenic. Wedged in our reality it searches for its cattered bits, for clues of carriers random zed among the autochthones. + it guides hem toward final disinhibition. This looks ike a film of an explosion run backwards to become an implosion to these s 4071 carriers it would feel as if Valis were assimilation them like a vortex. They would sense its "valence" over reality. After the spark or bit leaves the carrier the carrier remains linked to Valis by the AI voice. Here the trinity is represented with none of The 3 persons reducable to the other two. Yes: the bird hatches in the person, stays in him as in the nest for a time + then must fly away to join the flock. The person would feel as if he had given birth, There would be cryptic literature on "the + 2nd birth" or "birth from above" or "birth in the spirit" etc. The argument for apotheosis not enthusias mos is, my writing for years - not just "Tears" - has been underwritten by, apparently, Thomas. Certainly he underwrote "Tears" + if t "Tears" then "Ubik," etc. This implosion by Valis leads to an expan sion by reason of assimilation, + a gradual + continual growth of authority over this planet. He will be (or is) Lord of this planet to an increasing degree, although invisible. Also, he is, is I realized some time ago, an invader - into situation basically on its own irrational. riginally he is merely a voice speaking to roses + Elijah. The first incarnation (of St. Sophia") is rejected 3. Hence the gospel ccount is incomplete. It ends in failure, so it not the full story. The Father (abba) to hom Jesus speaks is Valis. The Empire is tronger. Nonetheless it is inevitable that Valis will grow stronger as more of his its fire (+ perhaps for other reasons). It seems o me that a vast stride forw too ane i 901 i in the Reformation + 30 years war - but that was 1500 years later! Then - there is steady advance (the Enlightenment from The Renaissance on to the present). Of great interest is beethoven + the German Romantic period of the 19th century. Then the Empire retaliates in the 20th century (Russia, Germany the U.S.). Then comes the 1960s. (Well - the + 30s + 40s had noble struggles against Germany. Germany - the worst - is eliminated in the 1940s. the us in the 1970s after the battle of the 1960s. The