it observing it. (5) When I became aware of myself as a programmed machine I became aware of Karma & began to become free. (6) When I knew I was no longer blind I was waking up. (7) When I experienced all time as simultaneous & vast space & everything interconnected I was beginning to understand. (8) But now I know even more. Everything is what it is not by Law but by virtue of its self-consistency. (9) The reality around me was as conscious as I was, & was aware of me, as I was of it. So I & it (macro & micro) were the same; I was it, & it was me. The inner was outer & the outer inner. 1) unitary. 2) in process. 3) self-motivating. 4) was or resembled my mind rather than observed. 7) simultaneity of time. 8) it was conscious. folder 49 - 157 folder 49 - 157 a unitary web in process, self-initiating, in which I participated & whose aspect (1) my mind determined, conscious, all time, simultaneous. (1) as it pertained to me I was not outside it. It was everywhere. Its self-motivation was to me most striking (e.g. "pretextual" cause; no laws were imposed _on_ it). It was equally conscious & aware throughout. Every part of it was perfectly linked together into a structure. Yet, the whole structure was epiphenomenal, a magician's trick, done for the sake of beauty, music, & dance. It could "be" (appear) any way it wanted to anyone; different ways to different people. It took an infinity of forms, all of which came into being & passed away (ontogons), leaving only constants (phylogons) as parts of the structure. The complexity of the structure increased upward (i.e. toward the macro) & downward (toward the micro) with each passing second. 4:15 a.m. hypnogogic insight : I wasn't seeing it & I wasn't seeing a projection of my own brain. What folder 49 - 158 folder 49 - 158 I was seeing was a combination of & interaction between my brain & it, so that to some extent a unique(1) field (?) came into existence; viz : I didn't observe Valis, but participated actively. Valis, then, is not it & not me. But rather it_&_ me. So of course it mirrored back my own conceptions. This was due to my participation in it. But this wasn't just projection on my part, it was an interpenetration between it & me. The significance of this new insight is very great. So Valis was not me, but I helped shape its nature _as it presented itself to me_ & mingled with me. This is not a matter of preconceptions on my part; it is an interpenetration. Hence "Thomas" took me over (its penetration of me). (1) local Valis, then, is a syzygy of me & the whatever it is, but I can only know it in the fashion that I knew it; I can't exclude myself as participant (in it). folder 49 - 159 folder 49 - 159 It had the power to actualize my thoughts (mind, brain) so that I was outside myself & thus looking at my own mind interwoven with _external_ reality; it conjured up a reality for me constructed in the image of my own mind. Thus it (Valis) has total creative power, in terms of bringing something into being ("He causes to exist whatever exists"). My mind was outside me. Valis, then, is me made into a world (by the Creator deity). He showed that he could conjure up an entire world based on my mind - infinite powers of creation. But Valis is not the Creator deity, Valis is a fusion of me _&_ the Creator deity & thus applicable to me only. By this power he can make me immortal. I now return to Xtianity; this is the esoteric Xtian Gnosis. So my belief system actually changes Valis as _it_ changes. Hence with every new theory I come up with, Valis changes - not because it's playing tricks or games but because my belief system is part of it; the intersection of the fields = me & not-me. folder 49 - 160 folder 49 - 160 Hence (& this resembles a psychotic notion but isn't) I have a certain control over my reality by thinking about it, but only because my mind links up with a greater mind. So in 3-74 there _was_ an element of paranormal powers in _me_, probably allied to precognition. But I _changed_ my outer reality. This interpenetration of my mind & its explains the "too obliging" quality of it. _This reveals the plurality world for what it is : an epiphenomenon of mind!_ If it wasn't, my mind could not have affected/altered it! 5:30 a.m. Each human brain is a different universe(1) : vast spaces. I saw mine. Hermetic alchemy. (So the vast spaces that I saw was my own inner space projected outward; it is greater than outer space.) (1) Literally, not metaphorically. I was interacting with reality at its deepest level below that of the plural epiphenomena; I joined with it (or became aware that I was [already] joined with it). It took the form of an open system biological model because it is; this is why it could interpenetrate me & me it. folder 49 - 161 So my mind returned to God from which it came initially. 3-74 was the great return (reabsorption). God (Brahman) interacted with me to form one entity made up of both of us : pure mind to which plural reality was an epiphenomenon. Can I solve it on _this_ basis? Judaism, Xtianity, & islam are (oh, & Zoroastrianism) the _revealed_ religions. God (or an angel of God) talks to you & reveals the truth. This is epiphany, not mysticism. Well, was my 3-74 experience epiphany or mysticism? It indeed was epiphany or theophany - I cite the AI voice. The AI voice represents the essence of revelation pure & simple. Brahman does not talk to you, & this aspect is so re : Buddhism & Taoism. In the Oriental religions there is no person or personality of God to have an I-thou relationship with, & yet this is precisely what happened beginning in 3-74. Also there is the historical, dialectical unfolding of God's plan of salvation (& my analysis of the nature of the schism in the Godhead, which is to say, the Fall). & the acts material in "Tears." & the Golden Fish sign. & my revelation about Freedom vs the B.I.P., & the 30 Years War, & Rome. What I am dealing with is the inbreaking of God - v. the dream in "Tears" - into history. cf Joseph Campbell's analysis of the passivity of Oriental religions vs. the dramatic good vs evil war of western religions. folder 49 - 162 folder 49 - 162 & I did originally sense that Valis is an _invader_ into our reality. Camouflaged here in the midst of the not-it. The crisis, resolution through divine intervention (Pronoia), the conversion in me - lightning swift insight into my own nature, into history & the role of the secret, real Xtians - the seeing the the historic Master plan of God's hidden existence & purpose - all mark it as Xtian. The Roman Catholic Church teaches that Pronoia is God as _immanent_ in the world, acting to aid individuals & nations. & I knew the original Xtian sacraments & enacted them with Chrissy, & _the Koine!_ Ach! the Koine marks it as Xtian vs Judaism. It was a sign. What I should keep always in mind is that I was led to YHWH by a "negative route" of acosmism, so that for me it was Moksa to grasp the role of the Creator (a term that always had meant nothing to me) as Guarantor of reality, the latter being, as I had always realized, epiphenomenal. The solution, then, to the question I perpetually raised, as to the reality of the universe, suddenly found a revealed answer in my com- folder 49 - 163 folder 49 - 163 prehension of YHWH; this came to me via Heidegger : " Why is there something instead of nothing?" I realized that there could only be one answer; for example, Brahman & his (I mean its) magical tricks only heightened the problem instead of presenting a solution; Brahmanism & Buddhism are only expressions of the _problem_ & say, "Right; it is _not_ real"! They correctly formulate the question; but I in my writing had already done that & sought an answer. i.e. which would repudiate acosmism : the apparent irreality (more properly epiphenomenality) of the universe. It really does not make sense to say that the universe is irreal unless you have something real to compare it with. So the correct formulation is not "irreal," which begs the question, but epiphenomenal, whereupon you look behind or beyond the epiphenomenon to see what its urgrund is. The answer is, the epiphenomenal is real insofar as it partakes of God & _only_ insofar as it does. Thus I have to agree with Sankara that ultimate questions regarding ontology lead back to God. folder 49 - 164 folder 49 - 164 However, God can transubstantiate the epiphenomenon into the real, by virtue of his immanent presence in it, as in the Eucharist. Thus reality is viewed as a perpetual sacrament : with the formal Eucharist as a micro enactment of a continual macrocosmic ongoing process which I actually _saw_. The real, then, is sacred, even at the trash stratum, due to this transubstantiation. 5:00 a.m. realization : there's no way of getting around it. I saw the world dissolve into Brahman : unitary & sentient - with plurality a Magician's trick (Maya). I got it to dissolve into what it really is. "They reckon ill who leave me out." God did not break through into reality - no; reality revealed itself to be what it really is : Brahman. This is reversion not invasion. The illusion relaxed. Hence I said, "I am no longer blind." This doesn't fit in with Theophany but it does with the disappearance of the tricks. "We are normally occluded" doesn't fit in with a Theophany but it does with reversion - the loss of the spell of Maya. I saw it as it really is : I saw with the ajna eye. folder 82 - 001 -1January 30, 1980 Upon reading THE TAO OF PHYSICS (Capra) I have come to some conclusions about Valis other than those I endlessly recirculate; viz: A unitary web in process, self-initiating, in which I participate and whose aspect as it pertained to me my mind determined, conscious, all times simultaneous. I was not outside it. It was everywhere. Its self-motivation was to me most striking (e.g. "pretextual" cause; no laws were imposed on it). It was equally conscious and aware throughout. Every part of it was perfectly linked together into a structure (kosmos). Yet, the whole structure was epiphenomenal, a magician's trick, done for the sake of beauty, music and dance. It could "be" (appear) any way it wanted to anyone: different ways to different people. It took an infinity of forms, all of which came into being and passed away (ontogons) leaving only constants (phylogons) as part of the structure -- hence it was in flux like a self-perfecting organism. The complexity of the structure increased upward (i.e. toward the macro) and downward (toward the micro) with each passing second. 4:15 a.m.: I wasn't seeing it and I wasn't seeing a projection of my own brain. What I was seeing was a combination of end interaction between my brain and it, so that to some extent a unique local field came into existence; viz: I didn't observe Valis but participated actively. Valis, then, is not it and not me, but rather it and me. So of course it mirrored back my own conceptions. This was due to my participation in