I saw Christ equals freedom within an otherwise closed system. This throws light on what is meant by Christ's credentials of authority - to save (i.e. to exculpate/extricate from the closed program "one by one he draws us out of this world." He is the only thing (person, entity) in the program not a product of it + not subject to its inexorable dialectic efficient dynamism so he (VALIS) is indeed an invader, + indeed the rational invading the irrational (the program needed correction). He has, also, the power to liberate other humans from the dominion of the dialectic of the project (program) which is what he did with me in 2-3-74. Once unlocked from my track ("fate") I remain permanently unlocked - I was fated by the unfolding dialectic logic of the program to die in '74, but he intervened. There is now (in Christ) a freeing variable interrupting an otherwise inexorable machine: the mesh of metal strands (of enclosing fate) gets crucially unwoven + hence rewoven, since he intervenes selectively, with an eye on the total historic process. These minute unweavings finally topple an entire government, end the Vietnam was + avert WWIII. VALIS displays characteristic's of 1) a biological organism: + 2) a computer machine - both equally. The point at which they introduced the variable was Acts! that's where stasis set in, In view of this it is obvious that the variable is Christ as the "Holy Spirit" - which is a very mysterious entity inasmuch as it has no soma, not is it an ordinary psyche. It is characterized in the N.T. as knowing everything in + outside the program - outside everything + including everything Trinitarian doctrine calls it "the same as Christ + God." So the final - order entity which runs everything has entered the program (which I saw in macroform + experienced inwardly - which does not fit doctrine - the external macroform). "No time has passed since Acts." One of my basic insights; but I can't explain what this means in terms of - Indeed there must be a hypertime. That of the upper realm? At the time of Acts the variable was introduced + that time is now (as witness "Tears"; an accurate perception of this our present world uncovers Acts. If Acts is past, present + future we are not even talking about a trans- or supra- temporal constant but no time. "He causes things to look different so it'd appear (sic) time has passed." We are the victims of spurious time which is to say pseudo- or not- time. "Look different" is quite another thing from "be different"; the looking different could be arranged by altering the collective percipients in some way: viz: "Look diffent to us." I've missed that point; if something looks different it has to look different to one or more percipients. Maybe the solution lies in this distinction / realization. We see a permutation of appearance but this could be arranged be some kind of fluctuation (?) in us. The perceived reality has in fact remained static; this is what is clearly implied, so the change probably lies in us. (Unless a third element is supposed, a [..] or dokos, etc.) So we change (+ "things" remain static) but what, then, are we? in 3-74 I became not-me (whatever that may mean) + so world ("thing") "changed" - looked different, then world is aspect-projection onto a matrix, + time is in us (time one or A). Which I believe is halving itself (like Zeno's Frog's leaps) in comparison to time C or 3. Yes; that's it: you can only speak of thime accelerating if there is a hyper time in relation to which it accelerates - + I think there is - + it was this hypertime I got into in 3-74; my subjective time (1) got severed from clock time (2), + so progressed through its accelerated accelerations ) i.e. faster + faster) until its rate was so fast that it finally approached zero actual progression as a → limit (or put another way, an infinite amount of it took place + it exhausted itself, upon which (in being absent - used up -) I entered the real hypertime view (correct view; i.e. actual view, of reality which is outside time + fixated in stasis at Acts, the dialectic having ended. This coincides with the coming into being of the Holy Spirit which I claim is the true form of Christ. Time 1 (A) is in a logorithmic spiral: like a snail shell: the golder section removed an infinite number of times. This is percipient time; hypertime ( (3) is objective real world time. The accretional permutations ("look differents") are in us + our percipient time. This is what the EB treats in its article "the perception of time" in contrast to "time" (+ brings to mind the 10-second hypnotic state counting experiment which verifies my theory, inner (percipient) time can be speeded up or slowed down as soon as it's cut off from clock time; the plurality of percipients' times are coordinated by clock time (idioi into koinos). So if our plural percipients' time 1 (A) have speeded up. So has clock time (B or 2)... both synchronized but doubting in rate progressively vis-a-vis hypertime which is the time in which objective reality exists. The program must have frozen + we just kept on truckin'. Then much of what we see (aspects of reality) is a phantom projection on our mutual parts synchronized by clock time. This phantom component originates in us + was supposed to agree with objective reality, but the two pulled more + more apart. This resembles "Ubik" uncannily, where their projected time locus departs progressively more + more from the actual locus - but in the [..] Or is it that if you die you retreat along the time axis? No; their death in "Ubik" is just a dramatic device, but they are being fed a spurious reality. What I'm saying is that much of our mutual (collective) reality is autogenerated (i.e. by us, as in "Maze" + "Ubik"). Authentic objective reality has fallen away (back) in contrast to our inner tapes, in 2-74, when I saw the Fish sign did I wake up? Did I go from a subjective reality to a truly objective one? What if the BIP isn't the program or in the program, but the program is in the BIP? + the program's rate of accelleration accellerates What if the BIP is a trans-temporal construct because we're really there, + the program is being run in it? [Diagram: program in BIP] What, then, is the BIP? It's Acts but it's also 1974 + the world of "Tears" - + God knows what + where + when "Tears" is! We're really in the BIP, but is the BIP the computer in which the program is being run, + "astral determinism" is the dialectic dynamism imparted to the program by the BIP (i.e. the machine running the program)? The machine of course, would be a constant. Whatever the BIP is, that's where we really are (i.e. "Tears" i.e Acts). + Acts is in "Tears" - they don't just resemble each other, they are each other, the "dream time." Time is expiring. Weakening - as in "Ubik." Uncovering 1) The past world (of Acts) as in "Ubik" + 2) UBIK the macro-ubiquitous information entity. UBIK is what? A titanic information, thinking construct/ organism/ entity. Am I to conclude that 2) (UBIK) generates 1) (our reality)? What is the connection between them? (2) has invaded (1)? (2) creates (1)? (1) creates (2) - obviously not. Let's turn to "Ubik." in "Ubik" UBIK (2) is breaking through into (1), invading it (in the "one direction" that Lem speaks of). This is precisely the satori I had about VALIS; viz: that it ("Zebra") had invaded our prism world - camouflaged - to free us. Then acts is a static space invaded by an information - entity: the Logos? Or - is (1) dissolving to reveal (2)? No, (2) is attacking (1) which is very real but obscured. Selfobscuring? (2) awakens us to our real situation. Somehow time is consuming itself - I even passed on into a postmortum world ("tape"). Wait - that means that one of my two selves (PKD - thomas) is now dead + on the other side - whose voice I hear; it's the not-me, whichever one that is. That's track A I'm right; I died c. 3-18-74 in track A; one of my two selves is deceased the roses + cabin by the lake one, obviously. He is now on the other side - shades of Jim Pike! Ich fürchte sohn. Jim Pike again. Acts - i.e biblical material from Jim Pike? + the Greek. + of course Jim would respond to the (Golden) fish sign. I (sic) would remember (i.e. who I really was + what I knew. He could not retain his sub rosa role/ status in me...as if until the Fish sign he had amnesia, was halfasleep. Like - note like - a former self - but actually symbiotic. Jim dies + the next book I write is full of biblical material unknown to me + a dream about a man murdered by what resembles the KKK. + the month book comes out I "remember" + a month later another personality, a vigorous xtian + freedom fighter, takes me over, who - etc + I dream that Mrs Chambers (?) is my mother. + in the roses dream I'm affluent. 1) A former person now dead. 2) He was/ is a great xtian. Adminsters the Sacrament. 3) He drank beer, called dogs he + cats she + drove funny + was well-to-do: owned a cabin + a rose garden. 4) He knew about the murders of the civil rights leaders inc Jim Pike, who he talks about. 5) He actively opposes the Nixon gov. Has a lot of fear about the authorities but campaigns against them. If he drove a car, + the rose garden + lake cabin are his memories, he lived recently. This then (i.e. Jim Pike) would answer the Q: "why me?" All I need do to make the evidence point to Jim Pike is say, "A great xtian + Freedom fighter came back from the dead (1) + took me over + imposed his personality + habits onto mine." + like, "He drove a different car + was well-to-do." + to nail it down: "He revealed that the civil rights leaders had been murdered by conspirators, + the murdered included Jim Pike," +, "He put some biblical material in my novel + esp a dream about an innocent man being murdered." (1) i.e I found myself "on the other side" - i.e. undergoing post mortem experiences. Elisha to Elija: "When you go, send me back a part of your spirit." ("So I can do the things you did - inherit your mantle." "Speak with your authority.") But mainly it was the busy activity of the personality - so much like Jim. the view of a single world of past (Acts) present + future ("Tears") as one world could be a indication that the view comes from the upper realms which is supra temporal. As Avicenna pointed out, God does not experience time as we do; he (+ the upper realm) may see it all together as one gestalt. In fact, the view expressed in "Tears" where 3 or even 4 worlds are combined (past, present, future + alternate universe) may prove that an upper realm mind underwrote the book - + that thomas is from that realm + so saw reality superimpositions. This is how the upper realm - + only the upper realm - sees our world. So rather that this being a puzzle, it is evidence. The EB article on angels says they're from the transcendent realm "above space, time, cause + effect "- which