not remember having lived this life In 3-74 before - until 2-3-74 when the crisis came would remember, inc. on into the future when the I needed missing info re the Xerox missive was available to me. So when I speak a myself as a "dying soul" who originally lived this life + am now being fed back my memories as world, this is what I mean I have buried memories of everything which has hap‐ pened to me, + this is what showed up in "MITHC" "Faith of" + "Tears" etc. This explains the 2-74 anamnesis; this world was seen as the past. So it was seen from the future (as I reasoned out, to the future it looks like the past). + of course to someone from the future - post Nixon - + the other side it would resemble/be a prison. The only criticism of this is that upon viewing it - Thomas as from the other side - it seems more likely that Thomas is my twin sister. One indication once, when Thomas was in control, I distinctly myself to be a woman. Other evidenced felt o I i t th #92 25 8 from the next world + is my "tutelary spirit. cf edie + bill ketter in "Blood money.") This would indeed account for the postmortem experiences + "two signal stered" vision, + it certainly would explain why me. If we were a preserved dying brain, + our memory contents were being fed to us as simu‐ lated world, our cognition + perception would have to be occluded. Is this the case? Yes. Can I prove it? Yes; in 3-74 my cognition + per‐ ception - +, equally crucial, memory - cleared up + what did I see? A totally different type of reality in which an intentional Ubik-like macroentity simulated the world matrix (body of natural laws which govern + regulate reality), a Brahman like being, into which substantial reality was projected by a "tape" inner in us; This inner "tape" was the true source of sub‐ stantial reality, + "external cause" was only pretextual + signal for disinhibition of intrinsic contents in us. It (external reality) not only our own psyche coming back at us but the content is consciously forgotten memory contents. anamnesis (that we lived this once before) is So required. what happened in 3-74? Obviously I awoke to true consciousness or life: regained memory, loss of percept + cognitive occlusion - + saw twin "tape" synchronization, pretextual cause, + Valis (causal train melting). I also saw that I was in a black Iron Prison, + that a constant flow of subliminal (invisible to us) information programs us, telling us what to think + do. all that I experienced in in short 2-3-74 if we add the "previous mental contents i.e. forgotten memories" as the basis of world (as tem points out) suggests that our world is simulated, that what I call Valis does it + controls the situation, that we are deliberately occluded to our real situation, + that indeed our world is as in "Ubik" a Bardo Thodol half-life state - "Ubik" again turning out to be the correct model (out of my various attempts). within this context Christ's "born from above" i.e. a second time takes on new means as does the Kingdom of God. This is precisely what happened to me in 2-3-74. By + large this state of ours consists of karmic pay off both positive + negative (mixed). Personally, got a chance to reverse my situation vis-a-vis I the police tyranny, which suggests good Karma almost of a heavenly or wish-fulfillment kind. we have a chance in this interim state to pay off karmic debt, + it would seem that this is what I've done - +, I am told, t I now have been adopted + thereby rescued If placed over one eye If the code is read out by parallaxis, the card board square would obliterate, the code (as is ellip tically alluded to in the dream: placing the cardboard square over parts of letters on license plates converting them to other letters - e.g. "B" into "P" etc. this secret is told publically - over to - by Johnny carson in an expensive suit - obviously Jason Taverner. I perform a citizen's arrest at treasure island, which is major military base, in the dream I am a goin authority figure; someone (carson) has let out a set in + I to sabotage our code how as to secret this isn't me! Buckma motion his military (us.) Arrest. a way to scuttle the code - represented by cicense plates - is made public: with a gray cardboard square (gray = colorless) anyone can do it. The red + Gold plasmate is referred to. Not the code is made public (it appears known to all, as license Plates are) but how to cook - distort void it, obliterate it, etc. so that it's worthless. This is a military matter, a crime under the jurisdiction of the military. ar license plates might be graphic symbol, too, of traffic - i.e. info traffic (in code). What strikes me is the null - theological, mystical nature of this dream. It has to do with info media (to), code, code aborting or code reading (cardboard square con‐ nected with opticians, with seeing + reading; i.e. reading the code), arrest, + military (police), +, most of all, making public a classified military / police secret dealing with code by the authorities, making it t public illegally "I want that man arrested" is in the dream. "Even if he is well-dressed my attitude + famous. The code identifies people (represented by their cars). This aborting wrecks the identify o cars, factor - throws it off: voids it by altering crucial letters (not numbers). This is anti-establishment sabotage. Anti the ruling uniformed elite by a civilian (represented by his sust). Ah - the gray card board square wrecks the transmission of the code by cooking it, at the source. Not at the receiver. Wait mere is no code if the square of cardboard is placed over the letters, since the code depends on parallaxis. dow to stop code traffic - the technique openly revealed (to the public). Wait. Isn't there a deeper message? The code in fact, not in the dream) consists of subliminal nstructions. There is a way to block transmission hence emancipate the recipients (public) "Closing one eye" - no; the block is at the source, not at the receiver. Half the signal is blocked. The signal can be blocked - simply. There is a techniques it can be done, + we are unchained. This is 153 what I in the dream as uniformed authority want quashed - disclosure of this secret to the public by someone with access to a mass medium. Are we to deduce from this dream that what I saw as plasmate messages is in fact a subliminal message system run by the police/military + not i.e. technology? directed at the us. public? God at all? Microwave radiation? We all know who makes license Plates: the state + prison is suggested. The code is not to the public advantage. Somebody is making public a simple technique of voiding subliminal information traffic used by "He should the state to keep the public imprisoned be arrested + turned over to the military police [in He is a civilian." is bay area). (which was not anticipated) the under pentathol. I became conscious of subliminal programming; it broke into consciousness. Dream suggests us, not OCCP. G2 checked over "Tears" + found they'd been successful. Final test: if I passed Xerox missive which seemed OCCP over to us G2 (which I did); but iniated by the pentathol I could see the code (plas‐ mate) etc + wrote about it in "Valis" - which was not part of the plan. The vision (actual perception) of how + that everything fits harmoniously together is the greatest perception a human can have: here indeed is God, expressed as structure, + alive. It is axiomatically impossible for This perception to arise vis-a-vis less than The whole. So when it comes it comes suddenly - like a thief in the night. Another point: this is not a way of looking at reality - since this is total perception, + co certainly is of Pythagoras' Kosmos: it is pure true total way the one 86 when this perception of the whole sets in, everything is transformed because everything is part of a whole + not something in itself. Naturally when this saturation (or freezing water into ice) point occurs - in perception info (aural + writter) is formed abual. ently, since everything is linked to gether - hence the plasmate traffic thus There naturally occurs a kind of trans‐ formation of reality into information, not because anyone is using it as information or for information but because it is information, the way Valis fits into this is that since change constantly occurs in reality This kosmos "moves" palpably as or like a living entity; change becomes visible as an inner animation (since nothing can be external to it + act on it). It creates - wills? - its own alterations, when viewed this way. So thereupon What we normally see as change becomes like a respiration by this kosmos, which even thated recognized. It is self-regulating, + if self-regulating + for all intents + purposes it possesses volition. this is precisely how we identify life. So if the whole is viewed at all, because it changes, it will "then, be viewed as alive. The concept "changes becomes a description of the Kosmos' life. It has volitional power of decision over all causal processes this too cannot be otherwise, for if they do not arise from within it, where can they arises 157 So perception of kosmos is not an idea tial realization that everything fits together but a perception welded to comprehension: it is seen, not just understood. The understanding depends on the perception which unifies the external reality + the inner analog picture (in the sense wittgenstein speaks of). The flash either comes or it is not there; there can be no partial perception of kosmos - like half of is kosmos. It is not kosmos or kosmos. Hence my analogy of saturation point where everything locks. If part of a system is alive, + controls the other part totally, then functionally the totality is controlled by life. There is an infinite series of adjustments. Every part yields to accomodate all other parts, so that any given action anywhere affects everything. This a repair in the microcosm affects the macrocosm. since there is but one cosmos the inner analog would be part of outer reality + not separate from it. we're seeing time the wrong way - backward - from form to entropy (chaos). To see structure you have to see time retrograde, + this is what I did in 3-74. There must be a parity time flow going the other way. Everything that happened had to do with my reversing time. I saw structure/God. N But God has a daughter in our fallen (going wrong way in time) world. âž€ This too is treated in "Ubik" - time regressing - i.e. retrograde. I wrote "Ubik" ifter 3-74 I was moving - + am - re grade 8) 1s i.e. part of one is moving the correct way in time. "Fall" = temporal misement toward disordy (entropy). The original rift - part of the kosmos began to move backward downward) in time. This is why 2-3-74 can be found In "MITHC" + "Faith of" not because reality is created from my memory. It was that in the 60s I remembered the Earlier (sic!) event in 2-3-74 Peo. I've solved it - about 50 things are explained by this me hypothesis, ine. e why I got out + synch in 3-74 in fact the material