related to enlarging conscious ness. Also, it shold be pointed out that the eide as ordering categories are incompatable with space, time + causation as ordering categories. Q I figured out why they are a priori knowable (i.e. innate). not because they are logical but because God used them as the timeless archetypes for creation so they pertain + are discoverable everywhere (natura naturens). Hence they showed up in "Tears" c Malebranche, then, is right. we normally see them but are unaware of seeing them (or via them); if we should realize consciously what we are doing + that they exist, then a vas blitz occurs in our mind, like the alchemical wedding, it's like Platonis alchemy. By their very natural (i.e. eternal + ubiquitous) (+ self-causing) they abolish time (eternal) stace (ubiquitous) + causation (self-causing). normal perception, then, is a sort of compromise, a mixture. 17 the intelligible archetypal ideas used in creation represent order, i.e. the very einai of creation (hen "creation" equals "order" or "Form"); in contrast the flux world represents chaos - which is still with us, Plato says in "The Timaeus according to corn‐ ford. Thus when we perceive the flux world we perceive not creation (which ure equals the imposing of order) but either chaos or some chaos (perhaps some order + some chaos, but not pure creation). Perception of absolute creation is perception of absolute order, + this is possible only when the intel‐ ligible archetypal ideas are used as the mechanism of ordering by the percipient + also seen by him as structuring the external reality in itself (observer participant: the single field). The normal ordering lategories of space, time + causation are not the actual categour used by God in creation +, if used by the percipient, do not reveal absolute order (or creation). This, then, is what my meta-abstraction" in 2-74 con‐ sisted of: a perception of (in external reality) + a use of (in ordering reality 11 in my apperception of it) the intelligible archetypal ideas outside space, time + causation, which can be known a priori + which serve (not served but serve) as the basis of order hence of creation itself (vide nout vs ananke in "the Timaeus"). it is like seeing Parmenides' unchanging ministic world; flux freezes because the eide are timeless + eternal + do not change; they are like geometrical forms. This is precisely Plato's meta‐ physics of the real (true einai) vs the "semireal" flux world, + it is apperceived by noein, so noein + einai fuse (cf Heidegger); man the percipient has reversed his fallen state + is restored, he now actually sees creation again (the creation described in genesis) rather than disorder. Space, time + causation are fallen categories of ordering, in that they allow reality to slip back into flux which is disorder or non-creation. Perception of true order is perception of natura naturens (instead of natura naturata), whereupon the will of God structuring creation becomes perceptible, what I call is This tug is the invisible non o "The tug." ths in that aligns physical template physical It reality to it as Logos. I saw this Logos or template externally as Valis + exper it ienced it internally as my "dissociated actions; it is the will of the creator ordering + shaping the reality field, it is the act of [continual] creation itself. Thus phenomenal reality is real insofar as it manis feits the eide + not real as particulars in time + space, driven by causation. Again, the eide (intelligible archetypal ideas) have two roles: (1) they actually order the external world (2) They serve as mechanisms or templates of ordering in our apperception of the real external world; thus we match inner a priori template to its correct outer actual analog (manifestation) whereupon our apperception conforms to what is perceived by virtue of the eide - the same eide identical eide because universal - both in us + outside us, unless we apperceive by the intelligible archetypal ideas (eide), as Malebranche showed, we do not really perceive at all; it is just chaos + flux. the task of our apperceiving mind is to correctly match the outer (perceived) form with the correct (i.e. same) form in us, +, as mo showed, only God acting externally + Thus internally, can accomplish this + 20 bring our perception of reality into actual agreement with reality. The a priori eide permit a perfect syn‐ chronization of reality + perception of reality through matching: eidos for eidos. Thus the mind of the percipient becomes isomorphic with world by means of the a priori ubiquitous eide, used by God as the intelligible archetypal ideas for + in creation. A human mind thus homologized to creation. Shares in the mind of the creator - which I experienced as Valis' mind in mine: it is done through vast concepts (as I discovered). Inasmuch as there is no clear distinction between e the creator's mind + the intelligible arche‐ typal ideas in that mind, that mind is experienced internally + simultaneously revealed in creation according to the "two attributes" of Spinoza: mind + matter as attributes of one substantia. We are talking about a single field or continuum involving the pecipient + that which the percipient discerns they are made one through what is common to both. The intelligible archetypal ideas (Platos eide). Thus a true, perfect + correct reality can arise or representation or occur in the human mind because of these a priori eide + only through these apriori eide (since they exist a priori in his mind, due to God) + also as the actual basis of external reality (again due to God; in fact it is proper to say that the link between the mind of the percipient + external reality is due to the common factor of God's mind since it is God's mind that contains the eide; so the eide are not logical but exist a priori in the percipient's mind + also in - as the basis of- external reality due to the ubiquity of God's mind; God is then understood to underlie reality exactly as he underlies the percipient's own mind, working through or as these eide (viz: how + in what way God's mind is distinct from these eide that it contains is impossible to say]). It is this "common essence" that gives rise to Sankara's equation of "tat tram asi," a correct equation of modified by Platos Malebranche's metaphysics. The meta-ab + straction" occurring upon apperceiving world, then, is to see world in or as Gods mind, in which all times + places are one + only the eide are distinct + real. More over, the percipient's own mind is thereupon -dissolved - in God's mind, as Sankara says lost 22 because (as I say) an apperception of the intelligible archetypes on which creation is based is an apperception of God's mind embracing - enclosing, containing - both the percipient + world. World dissolves, + so also, does the self (ego); hence I ceased to be myself. The percipient's mind is discovered to be a mode of God's mind (which also underlies Thus I as substantia) external reality). " blend Sankara with Plato, Plotinus, Spinoza + Malebranche. Ultimately, only a sort of Logos-Brahmanism does justice to 2-3-74. These intelligible archetypal ideas are for the west what the 64 hexagrams of the "I Ching" are for Taoism: recurring constants finite in number in the flux reality, + it is the task + triumph of human mind to discover (i.e. meta-abstract) these recurrent finite eternal constants (finite in number. Not ontology or duration). I can see three groupings: (1) the 64 hexagrams; (2) Platos eide; (3) Malebranche's intelligible arche s typal ideas used in creation. It would be #3 that I saw because I saw Christian apocalyptic history, but the principle is the same for all three. It is my contention that the finite number of recurring constants used as the basis for creation occur a priori in the human mind, 73 they do they can be matched up as perfect analogs to external reality by which that reality can be completely known it being isomorphic with the eide in human the mind. s That I perceived a recurrent constant I've realized since october 1980. (This is simply an example of Plato's eide.) But now it occurs to me that it is known a priori as well as existing in external reality, although how this can be I can't fathom. Yet this is what Plato specifically says; they - the eide, the universals, are recovered. they are not abstracted from particular instances but are known intelligibly as recollected from prenatal experience. What is more likely is that a match-up occurs between the eidos in the mind + that same eidos discovered in the external world. But the eidos was already in the mind - how? This simply points to what Malebranche says, that we cannot perceive the world - not really: all we really get empirically is dim, indistinct signals - which trigger off the appropriate eide in our mind; what then, was extraordinary saw one eidos in about 2-74 is that I space-time continua, not that I saw an two eidst out there. Viz: I saw it twice but yet there was only one of it; hence the "twice was illusory. This could be a malfunction. maybe you're not supposed to notice that. because the result is that creation loses its power to compell assent, that way. The eidos should not be in two places at two times is revealed is that "two places two what times" somehow means nothing. i 58 25 s Malebranche is correct about the "in celligible archetypal ideas; "they are the collective unconscious, stored away in advance in us not insterted at the time (one by one) they happen My whole remaining life supply fired in "trip - the 3 74 on my "baro Thodol phospheme graflies. I saw them (t's in. AD. Thus removed ideas"). + were a year (3-74 to 2-75) from my vision/sight (perception; as a result - in that to year - could see then I e world as it is, the "intelligible arded typal ideas" occlude - cut us off of from the Garden, which never left, we were occluded; it is here + we can't see it. Yet the 1. A. ideas are (para‐ doxically) in themselves perfect beauty. our world is the Garden compared to Paradise - i.e. being with God, + the vast discrepency is our world (viz: IA" are heaven, world-as-it-is is he go of Even but the first superimposed over the Jewis leaves such unfulfilled yearning that our world is of pain is generated wosolute blist + absolute beauty (which I perately see) combined: a new a infinity. e 1 Eden (lower realm) separated from heaven. As lovely as Eden was there was a rift created that rift is our world. I source cosmology is correct: the two forms are heaven (apriori) + Eden a posterior lower realm) world. in dialectic e + Heaven us world. the rift between them, expresses in spatial terms; the dialectic as time" hence space-time with space more real than time - since time is flux + her. only epiphenomenal nowing rathy us knowing the true M.SA1, Plato's eide, my phosphene graphics + Eden!): Kathy had to reality ( t be taken from me, that the plan (structure) by promoted. So God gave me perception of atual reality, that does not fade (as in "in field. "you have chosen itse over I choose absolute reality where flowers fade") AI voice that wers the right choice. Heaven over they keep testing you can you tell the wisely my" eference + chose right? Heaven over ident ist ile are heaven, the particulars seen sher. must conceive of our world as al aspect so is to reduce the God cap + s wo t nethe seen to heaven, this is