daughter is a replication of Valis the Mother, once an apostolic xtian. It was time for him (her?) to be born. Hence King Felix and the Acts material. "Apotheosis": "the elevation of a mortal to the rank of [G.d] God." It (3-74) was not an apotheosis of me but by means of me. Now this deitific daughter of mine (the Bird Girl) speaks to me with wise counsel, and acts as Advocate for me: ie as Paraclete for me. So the Paraclete rushed through me, making use of me (as womb), to an apotheosis in 3-74, and remains to counsel and be advocate for me, as my daughter. I was "a channel" for the divine (to re-enter the world). And I was involved in the apotheosis, too, with (as?) Thomas. IF her progeny when born enter apotheosis, she must be divine. "She" MUST be St. Sophia. {circled:"83"} "a womb for her to grow her progeny in." So my vision of the implanting laboratory needle was correct, with my brain as womb. And of course she's female -- only females directly have progeny. This is how you define female. This is a life form! (i.e. Valis, who was present at the moment of birth 3-74, the apotheosis!) She took an apostolic xtian's psyche and transferred it into me (as its new womb) for it to grow through gestation to full birth as a deity. And if an apostolic xtian is her progeny, she is Christ/Paraclete/God -- the paraclete producing the second birth; this answers the question put to Jesus, "How can a man be born again?" Thomas was born again -- in 3-74. By the Spirit. Upon his original death he must have passed into her [Jurisdiction]. She transferred him as psyche (or soul) to me at some early date in my life -- perhaps when I was a small child. The next question is, where did that progeny go when born? Is she still in me? If so, St. Sophia used me as a channel to introduce herself back into our/the world (as Mary was used). Are we talking here about an incarnation? Was it re the political events of August 1974? Duck: Water Bird. Fish God. Nommo. Yes -- the Duck feathers are like Fish skin, scales. Shiny, colored, irridescent. {circled:"1"} and I see her in a pink flannel nightgown because she is still a child -- just recently born. {circled:"1"} And so the Fish sign disinhibited her. This Bird/fish female deity may not be known to us. She is a UTI life form possessing fabulous technology; inserting Thomas into my brain was a medical {circled:"84"} procedure. There are doctors. Scientist-doctors. + our world is an ocean to them, our atmosphere like water, so she'd be a kind of aquatic bird which dives under the water - i.e. down from their world into ours. So I see her the way she sees herself. Yes -- they transferred Thomas to me, using me as a womb; he is/was one of his -- Christ's -- progeny. Christ, the Fish God Nommo. They are outside of time. This is why I saw acts + wrote about it. Thomas was transferred from there to here (then to now). He did not become awake until 2-74 jolted his memory. Before that it was as if I was picking up his dreams. So it wasn't reincarnation or even phylogenic memory; it was a scientific-medical "embryo" transfer, probably upon Thomas's death (which fits some of my early speculation). One of the disciples (one of the twelve) certainly would be "her progeny." The Paraclete came to them at Pentecost (as narrated in Acts), so the twelve passed over into the jurisdiction of the second comforter. So one of the twelve was transferred here, to our place + time, +, in 3-74, was born again -- in an apotheosis, to actively participate in events -- in history -- in this world. + then he passed on into the next world, which is why I had the postmortem experiences. But first he had business to transact here, which he did -- very effectively. This was a medical surgical technological procedure done by a very high order of life form here + unsuspected (except it was known to the early Xtians). Thomas did not get transferred to my brain, to grow there, by any natural process. To grow + at last be born (again). From the content of my writing I deduce that he was growing gradually stronger + closer to consciousness over the years. Taking control more + more. Dictating the contents of my writing. She bypassed the deceiving [bottom line(s) cut off] 15 i They see our world as toxic + us as essentially deterious. (Like in "Scanner."). It may well be that for some time, a long time, I've been giving away the magician's secrets in my by means of writing, due to hey/Thomas. "Tears" I can prove his/her/their influence on my writing. N M-W II says that "progeny" can mean "disciples." So Valis the actual mother, progenitor - was present when Thomas was born out of me in his apotheosis. He was a strange mixture of the human + the divine: afraid but brave, active but somewhat confused by the unfamiliar world he found himself in so suddenly. (1) a new thought occurs to me. What if the "trans plant" took place in 2-3-74 + not before? + the Acts material etc was put in by her as my advisor? + not by : "a womb for Thomas? No, the sentence read "grow te her to grow her progeny in." This suggests a long slow gestation period. But what if the trans fer began in 2-3-74 + he is there now (firebright)? that 2-3-74 was the beginning of the process, not the end? present ) She was for the transplant! The would have to be. In 3-74 Thomas felt her just an instant before been in a cool high moist climate, + he still thought in the koine. He was dazed, She has hot wired two psychoi into one, his + mind. ience I overheard him think, "there's someone else in my read + he's not living in this century." What this is all about is the 2nd advent, I've got it: the disciples are to be alive when Christ (St Sophia) returns) this time-jumping hot-wiring is how it's done. S I ints of t 8 short circuiting across the intervening centuries. No, I think he was transplanted into my brain when I was a child, but he remained dormant until 2-74; the cypher in "Tears" wa to tell the others to show it + trigger him in wakefulness (consciousness). Hence the Gabit leve in my brain dropped - witness the phosphene activity No, I think he was placed in my brain in 2-3-74. This would explain why Valis was present I don't know. In either case, she put the cypher in "Tears." He didn't. The presence of Valis in 3-74 suggests the trans plant was done then. A study of the description of the events in "Valis" points that way This was the triumphant blowing up of the prison: in successfully transfering Thomas here They had penetrated the prison - gotter past its defenses - as if vetting explosives into the heart of it + then racing away in glee, exhulting in what they had done consider that s-f story about reconstituting Richard strauss. Suppose this is what (with then stunning technology) they had accomplished vis-a maybe all twelve (anyhow or she got them out of Rome when vis one of the twelve went i + the early Xtians more than one that was the plan; she knew it was the police terror began coming. + she was - they were - successful. The plan slaughtened primarily is for the 12 to be here when he returns getting then out of Acts is not the goal, having then reconstituted here for his return is the God; in years of successive stages the prophecies. Hence maybe I was prepared by her (St Sophing) until thomas sort of duced across (time) So for a time Acts + Calif 1974 were (for me) tangent. (For both Thomas + me!) No, it was more like a surgical implantation two experiments: 1) interspecies symbiosis with Thomas at the time of Acts: a homoplasmate crossbonding. 2) Then a transfer of the compound psyche from Thomas' body - + the space-time Acts - to me as womb; so I am her (Valis') literal progency. I mean, thomas + the plasmate are; I'm the womb 3) This (1974) was in preparation for the cross bonding of Valis' complete mind into a human body; i.e. St Sophia born again." This appears to be in progress right about now, the original crossbonding of Thomas was with the "Holy Spirit," so I didn't just thomas, a human psyche, but a homoplasmate. The transfer of the compound psyche upon Thomas' physical death would fulfill the promise to him of immortality . I didn't see a pattern in events or changes, I saw interference, there is a huge info machine constantly feed ing info out to them + reeiving instructions + info back + when needed it can put they stress on events the Bible is used by them as basic code system. All the religious me) overtones are deliberate to make this matter appear a religious, Xtian but that is a tactic. I was fooled t caused me to phrase "Valis more than in religious terms thus no me "Tears: ill notice any noticed more Xtian in he 81 very simply I was taken over by my control ( they are very gracious; they didn't want anything to happer to me knew it was a trap. they the woman I see is their queen I'm not one of them, but I carry one of them to be born later. The AI voice is my control, but it is The queen's voice I hear - + her I this is all secular; God isn't involved. It's an invasion sees one of joy + the dance - the happy instead of the creat stern she's very much like astarte king sod the Diana's slaves - helps slaves. (0 898. A "Fairy" - an ultra terrestrial life form. This vast info machine can turn worlds into I books + books into worlds. The Bible is a book + a world, via this machine (Zebra/Valis). Acts is the last world of the Bible - or else the PTG is. both the BIP + PTG are the Bible turned into worlds they're real - as real as any world. "Tears" is the Bible hence world. These entities are operating within Bible worlds - Acts (BIP) + Kingdom of God (PTG) - alternate worlds. Trying to phase in the PTG, + phase out the BIP, when I saw the BIP - Acts, "Tears" - I saw the truth, made so by Valis. The living into constellates around the Bible which is rive (a life form related to Valis) the Bible is our world turned into info, likewise world is the Bible turned back by Valis) into world: Either PTG or BIP "they operate in + out of the two bible template worlds So both templates BIP + PTG emanate the Bible. The Acts material is in "Tears out of one secretly fed me Biblecode because any 81 but because Acts (BIP) underlay our world + I actually saw it + wrote it down; however the 2-word cypher was fed to me. The Xtians want to switch Valis (info-to-world or world-to info maching) from BIP - acts - to PTr-King dom. That's connected with St. Sophia etc. being born again. King Felix, set in bith -bix - refers to PTG as a latency within a latency (PTG within BIP within our USA 1974 world). It's like an alternate 2-source hologram world. Our world is generated by Valis out of the Bible as info source.