axis - explains (1) why we cour minds) have to generate causality (i.e. causal connectives) + (2) why causation is illusory Here, time + space cannot be conceptually separated; a "motion" in space is experienced as a "motion" in time, yet what is really thee is a progression- succession of static but differing "frames" between which there are gaks, + we fill in these gaps with what we call "causation," but more than a transfer of kinetic force from body to body is involved in this projection-perception: there is a literal spatial gap that our minds bridge perceptually + conceptually - I saw reality as it really is when I saw Valis in 3-74, + there were minite gaps in several axes: causally (I saw no causation). spatially (things did not genuinely collide) + temporally (time vanished entirely + became augmented space); what remained was multiplex loce of synchronized decisions in sequence as if I were seeing a single continuum or field being modulated (perturbed), as if by an information-bearing wave-form: it passed through the field + its sequential loci of per‐ turbations - which were in fact information came out as what we call change (thus giving rise to the notions of causation + time actually arrangement + rearrangement were involved (11 chan D-56 not force (causation: bodies colliding) + not time (a flow of some kind" there it no flow, only sequence; sequence is every thing because the syntax of the information is based on arrangement - i.e. position; hence space as a matrix is real; the field exist. in space, occupies space). So when I saw Valis I was in fact withdrawing my projections (hallucinations) of the causal connectives that render the plural static "frames" a continuous, changing homo‐ geneity: but thereupon the information can't The be discerned. It is very likely that information is coherent frame by frame; viz. each new frame changes, alters, the content of the information - this is a very rapid information processor? When with a movie, our capacity to see successive still frames as a continuous motion is desired, is a correct way of seeing, it is not correct to link the actual frames of reality into a flow, because the be thereupon information sacrificed. This must what Easteneda means by "stopping the world." Hence I saw the rest-motion modes, a binary basis, meaning derived from off-on. This also fits in with the linking-relinking; because of the enormous number of frames processed it can try out a virtual infinitude of juxtapositions which it sees (but we don't, since we see mation: it sees only successive, altered i fixed (static) arrangements. No: it doesn't sal motion; it reads each frozen frame individually probably the + of in at est as pentative - + now we come to set-ground. which is how it encodes info permanently. this is not an all-combinations random linking; this is stored info: extracted into permanence. (What I call "meta-morphemes" this is so-to-speak finished info, the factoring is over: this must be output to cadout. This well be remembered, not dis‐ carded This all explains (1) why we literally see causation (not just hold it as a theory, as we do e.g. relativity) but also (2) why even though we universally see it it is spurious, irreal. Thus, as Kant rightly supposed, time space + causation cannot be truly separated. But (as I say) we wrongly suppose space to be discontinuous (i.e. to consist of res extensal, plural discrete objects whereas in fact it is a single unified field), + we suppose time to be a continuous flow, whereas it is disjunctive. {Note the first leatization is now available to us via modern theoretical physics, the second regarding time. is certainly not, but would account for Parmenides' skepticism about the reality of motion (+ of course change). For my purposes this all world explain (1) what is really going on (Valis, the plasmate, rest-motion. linking-relinking, the MMSK, etc) + (2) why we don't perceive it. ➀ If in fact it can be said to exist at all. Now, I never would have figured out these disjunctive succesishe "frames" without Valis own help. "The reality field is at any given time complete + cannot act on a later This is of version reality field." I D-58 Cartesian occasionalism that no one has ever thought of before (since it requires an apperception of the disjunctive basis of "time" + the realization that what we see as change + motion - + not just causation - is illusory (+ yet we do not have a static universe!)). However, it is not God who supplies the missing connective. that bridge the spatiotemporal gaps but our own minds (movie film proves this). But the fundamental premise of Malebranche (& Spinoza, etc.) is correct, in that these events + this reality is either God, or God is necessary for them to be/occur. Malebranche is more right than wrong, + everyone else is far more wrong than they are right The true motive force is God viewed under the aspect of i world (thus my initial Q. is correctly phrased: "What is God's relationship to the universe + how would reality - the universe - be changed, of at all, if God did not exist? contradistinction to questions regarding in qua God or the universe qua universe). God "How do God + universe interrelate, if at (i.e. 74) This brings me back to a realization all the stupendous importance of what I call of my "unitary" view of God + reality, in which t + "God is such ideas as "afterlife" + "heaven t forr from world, in the highest firmament make no sense + do not even arise because they are, it would seem, premised faultity it is the ancient cosmology of heaven + earth (or sky + earth), supra-lunar + sublunar; it is found in Plato, Orphism; aristotle + probably goes back to sumer. B-57 It as of course the creation myth that that plaged us false the artifices + artifact modic. The decisive origin of the error can be seen when one reflects that the primary reason for supposing God at all is to get an ansover to the Q.: "How did the Earth come into being?" The answer being, "it had a creator." Thus creator + world are rethlessly bipolarized, + if the notion of world + God being in some way identical or essentially interwoven arises, the very purpose of the concept of God (i.e. creator of world) departs + we are e stuck with the brute fact of reality as such which certainly is why Spinoza is universally coathed). What I am beginning to think is that pat warrick is correct: my 3-74 experience could not have occurred before the modern theoretical physics' worldview (reality as field, as I put forth in TMITHC). They have the space part right, but that is only part of the story, it would seem (time must be drastically reappraised) Now, how (if at all) does this "succession of static fromes" fit in with my 2-74 "meta‐ bstantib"? E"ummon essence") I can ontr assume that like in fancher's script in which each android is run though all its possible aspect-variations - yet is still the same This is the case with android, one + the same reality + time; time cannot fundamentally change the erates, phylogon, the actual reality, but, as in "Ubik" + the form-axes, amounts to variations either of an accretional ature t at or 2 f net or D-60 in fancher's script, are laminated onto + things "He causes over a timeless template. to look different so it's appear time has there is passed" precisely states the case no difference between 70 AD Acts + USA 1974 in terms of what is actually there; the positions are occupied by the same mothers but one mother 3 constants ("not a- this loges the possibility in seen 3 times This is indeed a program being run that which all the variations are gone through frame by frame, Plato, folloming the lead Parmenides, being the first to grasp this. of There is absolutely not reason to assume that/God causes us to see the succession of pe static, different/reality frames as a continuous flow (proceeding through causality); this is our way of establishing (finding the or imposing) ider on flux: constants surviving from frame frame are feature-extracted (recognized). to as Plato realized, this is the only way that any kind of knowledge is possible. However, our normal level of abstraction is defective, in my opinion. Plato indicated that a much higher order of abstraction is possible which he characterized as "recovery of the permanent Forms" hich survive all frame-substitution (what we know as time). The notion of causation arises to account for change + motion ( If the level of meta-abstraction (feature-extraction) of constants sufficient, the notion of causation need not s projected because the percipient recognizes that be fact there has been no change, hence no such in thing as time. Only transient variations on the totally stable (timeless) constants. differences between successive static frames. D-61 a But maint I went to dial one axiom that "the reality field is at any given time complete and cannot act on a later are notion transfers our reality field. conception of reality as process in time to unitary field in space (which is to say, back to the antique worldview before time instead of space became the receptacle of being, before process + linear time entered + the concept -perception or projection - of causation began, but it is space totally reinterpreted. As the unitary field of quantum mechanics, not a plural discrete bodies colliding with one another - a clear idea in antiquity regarded by Malebranche as radically, fundamentally + totally wrong). This field does not change ("It is at any given time complete") but is repeatedly replaced by altered versions of itself, the explanation of this is modulation of that + field by a wave form using it as a carrier. These are like the 54,000 frames on a laser vides disc side. there are a lot of them + they are tracked (which is to say processed) very fast (from our standpoint). but they are discrete; they have no effect on each other. If this is modulation of the field it passes through field, introduced + then extracted, infer feed peo each frame is a variation of what I conceive to be absitely constants. That is, certain constant 80 Rom "terrelated in a structure underlie all frames is persist not despite the variations but in the variations (if there were no constants their would be nothing is vary). It is it possible that what I call "constants" modulated; that is hie in fact the oleality field D-62 e: modulation - cansents: arration. This indeed could be regarded as a program, then. But then the constants as such do not the supply - constitute - information; it is e o i activity, the modulation, that is information. But the implication here is that the information concerns the constants in some way, as if the modulation (variations) is a way of finding out everything possible about the constants, in which case space (the field, the constants) is totally real, + time (the modulation, the ariational is not + this is precisely in accord with my vast meta-abstraction of This is one issue put twice. 2-74 Another consideration: if no reality field can affect a later reality field, then some kind of original field configuration ("frame") still exists + can in theory be recovered (this fits in with the form-axes of "Ubik" in which no prior stage is ever lost but is somehow contained "within" later stages up to the present). Moreover, the notion "original field" is meaningful. what I saw in 2-74 (Acts) may have been a perception on my part of correction abstracted i backward ("cosmic resorption"?) as if to a zero point before any