tunes to speak then to see world ie the const xpender there secretly Christ she an be she + hysically to vo t n I t map room of com is a whole huge There + output from the worlds in puter info, input the maze, continual traffic St Sophia/Paracle. watching. nutso working I the controls o that we spider moves t ready to eye controls 6 in ring ao it I e it cround e micro i t universe o eit. Earth e to maze 57 t i 74s t i ohealit liquid through eye she con see our ecosphere e . a "He is an old child playing at draghts is Senile. moving according to the rules. As of 1974 there's someone else of the controls who is not sense cruel + nots; like pellig in "Solar instantly the next person lottery." corrected for injustices. No: she designed it. The builder is away + took the controls he came back froon guonytunds dwar 89 stress tests on the life forms within. must be supervised + moderated. The grinch nutso who is at the controls of the maze doesn't realize that the girl is the designer of it (+ equal to the builder), with the power + authority to remove him forcibly from the controls if he oversteps too far. He think she is just a sort of guide. In an advisory capacity only correct form in the micromaze is based on a comparison with the Golden rectangle; the compound stresses should always factor out to the Fibinocchis constant a terribly important discovery that our a th world (at least in 1970-4) is buict on informa contained in the Bible; + 2) that Valis turned that info into our world - it can take any book that depicts a world + turn it into that world, but the Bible is the template for our world. 3) The Bible is a life form related to Valis. 4) There is such a thing as living information which can replicate its entire corpus out of its key-lock cypher (e.g. victim-Pilate. King-Felix). 5) a secret group exists which uses Biblical information as living code to transmit reports about this world out + to get instructions back, + all This information is processed by Valis, fed into it 6) as long as the Bible exists our world can be reconstituted out of it. 7) some kind of self monitoring corrective circuit exists which examine Biblical code generated within this world to see if There is any "overstepping." In 1974 there was, + it corrected due to feedback to Valis. got such a thing as living infor There is I 96 corpus from its key-lock cypher, then Valis is to be regarded as a recepticle of being (time, space, causality - i.e. the dialectic) into which the key-lock can be fed, upon which not just the corpus of info is retrieved but, further, a world is generated out of this in formation, this bare key-lock cypher. "King Felix" is not a keylock cypher for Acts as we know it, but, rather, as it should be (Christ the King should have returned during that perion, but Acts fails to record this). Is this key-lock, then, if joined with essential acts material, to be considered a regeneration of authentic miss ing parts of the corpus? It is an edited truncated corpus fully regenerating as infor mation (which we can assume Valis will faithfully transform into world - + if the world we had in 1974 was based on the edited Acts (in which the "Felix" part was then, but the "King" part was edited out? as generated by Valis operating on the basis of incomplete information, will Valis now repair m its mission + generate the authentically intact ess o Acts world? 1) The Bible is alive: living information s 2) If part of its morphe is lost it can regenerates it from what is there if the key lock cypher is intact. 3) part of the morphe (info) is lost. it is being regenerated (retrieved) because i o The essential key-lock exist info into worlds. t Valis turns 51 it has already turned the partial Acts 61 71 - 7) In 1974 the missing crucial key-lock cypher was fed to it 8) within weeks a crucial adjustment of world - by Valis - occured. ( 9) was this due to Valis obtaining the crucial key-lock cypher from which the missing parts of the morphe of Acts could be A) regenerated first as info + B) then as world? our world? 10) The missing part, now added to this world, the Acts world, is the info about the second Advent 11) The AI voice repeatedly + specifically says, "the 2nd Advent is here." 12) this is congruent with the restored key-lock cypher. ➀ The key-lock cypher gets fed to Valis + almost instantly reality is changed . is this e perhaps because Valis has more complete information, now, on which to base its world (which is our world)? It has up to now (2-74 been deprived of crucial information. Was This deliberate. I suggest that the missing information was not written down (i.e. it wasn't ever There in the first place) but belonged only to the oral tradition which got lost. However m esis I think what is most likely is that the missing key-lock cypher was withheld from the written record for good reasons - for what beemed like good reasons. But a mishap 97 + so in essence the dialectic stopped + real time stuck. This mishap may have do with signal degeneration with Law of entropy (noise, distortion weakening loss, obliteration, cooking, etc), which suggests that we are not dealing wi God but rather with finite yet enor mously advanced entities next to whom we are pond life "cooking" is a most interesting pos sibility. Without the essential key-lock cypher "king Felix" all we get as world is the "Felix" or Rome part, i.e. the Empire, i.e. the black Iron prison - which is precisely the world depicted in "Tears" apart from both the Acts material + cypher it is (the So "BIP" info + BIP world world shown in "Tears" + the world; saw in 3-74 + remembered in 2-74 the world of Acts) is, as K.W. suggested only a partial signal (like one channe e of a stereo signal), +, in 2-3-74 the missing channel of the total signal . - (the "King" part of "King Felix) was ( Suddenly there - which accounts for the changes I saw Valis making in our out of t agrees with the changes. eality + this I would conjecture that our world is a the two that one of + hologram. alfunction 37 + 93 interestingly, the Acts material in "Tears" agrees with the world of "Tears" + agrees with what I remembered in 2-74 + saw in 3-74, but not with the key-lock cypher - but, as I say, I saw Valis + I saw it correct our reality to what seems to agree with the ker-lock cypher rather than with "Tears" or Acts. This is verified by the prophecies, + by + general consensus about the us following 3-74 Also, it should be recognized that after the key-lock cypher, the world in t Tears" changes, too, + for the better - analogous to our own world's change. The agency of this transformation is the dream - + in the dream the King preaks through into our world! Coinciding per fectly with the cypher. In fact, half the cypher is contributed by the dream + it is The missing half: the "King" half. So The dream restores the lost oral tradition by embedding the intrinsic information of e the dream (the coming of the King) into the corpus of Acts! + out of this we literally t - get the key-lock cypher. ➀ where it belongs t e what I am saying is that the dream or King material is not added to Acts but was lost, destroyed - anyhow missing; it belongs specifically where, in the Acts material. does appear in the book "Tears": near it the very end, producing a new world, one could say that the dream material follows upon - i.e. after, at the enal of 94 anyhow it comes late in Acts. "Tears" could be regarded as new scripture (dictated by the Holy Spirit) or restored lost scripture, but the main point is, our world is a projection by Valis based on scripture + if new scripture is added, or lost scripture restored, Valis can be expected to alter our world accordingly (as soon as the new scripture is fed to it) - + so it did, a month after Tears" came out. don't think the amended (new) scripture I caused Valis to amend our world accordingly, but the amendment parallels the changes which Valis made, + are at the least a written analog of that change; further, my writing may have announced the changes to the secret early true Xtians (or at least some of them), etc. My writing reflected, not caused, Valis' changes. ; the dream 2) The cypher 3) The prophecies all point to the same thing; +, in "Tears," they are embedded in Acts in the world I remem bered in 2-74 + saw in 3-74. So our world is where It's taking place. The amended scripture refers to our actual world (+ not like it seems but is wonder if also the dream, cypher + the scene with the black man at the gas station don't assassination. D ing's R if I saw re Valis. When I moved around different always (wherever I went) but from angles. It was a hologram, t new scriptine has been - is being - writter. some appeared in "Tears," which means world a change in our world, since our is made out of scripture. (Via Valis.) This is what scripture is: the info stage of world, - reValis: we see only the "one" of the "one Zero" arrangements, do not see then as ar rangements but just as change, + do not see the final cause arranger Valis. When a desired constituent is seized on we see the "one" or on mode come on as motion - what seems to us random or efficient cause motion like the frog only seeing buglike shapes. Vals has modulate powers to subsume totally efficient cause so that such causes become its instrument for self-assembly. Valis as morphe has a phoenix-like qually, rising within + out of the scrap heap of parts: the antecedent universe. Valis is obviously alive + intelligent, to us it blends into total reality as if deliberately camouflaged. What we require but don't have is set-ground discrimination by which to distinguish its contours as set Valis delivers information to us subliminally over long periods of constituent arrangement t presenting linked combinations to us for us to remember, like a vortex, Valis progressively subsumes more + more of reality into itself. It the sub has no body etccept the arrangements - sumation of constituents - of ordinary reality, thus it can be said to be a cons ou 96 This view of it is not hylozoism because one sees no life, no animation in things until Valis arranges them into itself in its process of increasing incorporation. Thus I do not deem b . something alive which Valis reality as a source is using reality to build itself. So in a sense There is nothing to see in seeing Valis. All you can see is the arrangement achieved, the act of deliberate arrangement + evidence of an arranger not independent from its act of arranging + what it arranges; i.e. it comes into existence through its actions + int what it acts on. It is clearly aware of human in that it systematically presents arrangements of information to them which govern their ideas + behaviors through a process of