is 178 totally undetected by us consciously, but totally programming us, + yet originating from us (our past). Normally, this represents a closed, deterministic system, but it can be broken - made subject to our volition if anamnesis occurs. This is the key. is A, the tutelary spirit diding A, by virtue of its control over B (via (?) new choices by A, based (unknowingly) on Karma from A, become later karma So a constant feedback loop is at world what the person must do is reconcile hims self - not to "reality" - but to himself, since he himself is the "other" with whom he is dealing. archaic contents would break into the present but since they already determine the present, paradoxically they would be the present. Recipro‐ cally, present reality would seem to be in the long term memories (in the self) which would make no sense; likewise, self would be experienced as outside as well so that world would take on the aspects of the person's mind (in my case it resem bled my earlier writing). In any case it would be as if two psychoi (A, + Ag) were blended, invading each other with two different time frames one much older than the other. To the extent that A, is overwhelmed. This resembles psychosis, but to the extent that A, invades A, there is liberation from the past; the past becomes palpable but loses its absolute reality - creating tower. Thus external reality can be tampered with the strate no sycho f two on o on 179 to each other + can operate in tandem. One could program his own karma via a dialog with A, the feedback loop does not pass through by any longer without Ag's awareness + exercise of some volitional control. Thus reality assumes a friendly aspect of the volitional The invasion of A, by A, would be reflected in a change in B brought on by altered sign nals reaching C; in effect, C is reprogrammed by this invasion, + is responsive now to the will (wishes) of Ag, so that A, is not the helpless recipient/percipient of C via B. If motion 4 alone took place (A, invading by) it would be as if reality had taken over the person + abolished him - which is to say, psychosis. But simultaneously, as invades as + liberates its own self from what has up until then been the given. Also, since as now knows that its own choices eventually percolate over into A, to become new karma it can begin to tailor its choices to produce good Karma (al though this would be a deferred process). But If A, + A, are working in tandem, A, is going to willingly receive material from A, + not contest it; the whole system serves its own needs + does not punish itself. The interesting thing is how archaic material coming back at a via C B forms the sub‐ stance concerning which my must make its decisions; this is precisely the feedback loop, the past brought forward into the present This seems to be dealt with in "Ubik," the contours of the present rolled aside to the pas reveal This mean tha tant ex 8 at any given time the present contains cryptically - stegenographically - the past to which the person is actually reacting without knowing it. It will be to the fossils elements in the present that A, would react + with which it would be familiar. was the vast written info print out which I saw in effect instructions supposed to go to C? Which I so to speak intercepted? s s rjoint" "Eye (experiences in 74! ("Ubik" "Maze" ase not from B but Stigmata" "Tears" from A "mitric? "Faith" t B I a the content of "Maze," "Ubik" usw gives knowledge as to the ur-source; its nature can be deduced from them. E.g. I wrote "Ubik," as I did "Tears," based on phylogenic memories - which broke through as memories in 2-3-74. I need look no further than the writing itself for the nature of the ur situation, since they are based on it. This is why I I write the same book over + over again. It is the dying soul descending that I remember. I Once lived at the time + place of Acts, then died "Tears" depicts that world, + the others depict the Bardo Thodol "half life" following my death. The between - incarnations existence where I encountered Ubik. These are the memories Plato speaks of as most valuable. Could it be that experiences c. 3-74 are in my "post mortem" t being a memory -like "Tears" of my life fact mortem of my post i remorie 181 existence in the pleroma following that life preceeding this one? But that doesn't + plain the "MITHC" + "Faith of" memories - if such they were. Still - it is possible that while in the pleroma between lives the soul is outside of time, + enters its new birth/life armed with pre-knowledge of what it will encounter; it has made a choice to enter that particular life + do - battle. So memories set to e t postolen be triggered (This life Acts "Ubik" twriting + 2-74 off at the (both appropriate "tears" t B time. So in 2-3-74, it was phylogenic memories flooding me + pre-knowledge obtained in B as to what I would confront in C. The virtue of this theory over the Karma one is that it explains why my phylogenic memories "happened" to get triggered of at precisely the right (necessary) time - just before the Xerox missive + just after "Tears" was published. Also, it's hard to believe I caused the Xerox missive to be sent to me. All I really know is that I knew in advance; that doesn't constitute cause why, then the very bulk + essence of my supernatural experiences in 3-74 (e.g. the theophany) can be accounted for as deriving from anamnesis of my between incarnations memory of my state in the pleroma! I remembered what I had been in that state. This is Gnostic! But this makes me a bodasatua, esp. if I returned with advanced knowledge The 3-74 isin of o This is really a new theory on my part. it means that in e.g. "Ubik" my depiction of Ubik is based on valid memory - experience in the next world! the "dying soul," then, falling down through the 10 sefiroth, is the between- incarnation soul leaving the pleroma + returning to "life" is this world; I am a Neoplatonist + Pythagorean? What I am not sure of is whether the "we are all stationary + being fed a spurious reality" refers to this life or to a remembered post mortem life - probably the former, since the life in the pleroma is real + not like this life at all. But Ubik is remembered from the pleroma. I am stigmatizing this life in favor of another, which, until, 3-74, I did not remember. This is the "dying soul descent" half life. What is important to realize is that for me the first century AD life was my real life + this is a bhodasatra life. i but suppose we make a slight change. We take the term "between life" information (mem‐ ories) + regard them as super race information, + the flow of "plasmate" info traffic as that of a super race. If Ubik is a memory, + Ubik is not God, not a theological entity, but a living entity or a construct - we are talking about both memory + knowledge of, + experience with, a vastly superior information-technology operating at this time which I had prior acquaintance with, + about which there was a memory block which was lifted, perhaps deliberately. Operations in this area take place here + they take place now, + this is e 183 It is in fact a level of traffic or technology embedded in our own but it is not our own, But I saw it + Maybe I remembered it as well. memory is a key factor.) Suppose a super race + c were here. Would it not use such technology employ such information + method of informa‐ transfer? "who did you make the record for?" ("the man who fell to Earth") "Well here it on the radio someday - we hear everything on the radio These days." + here is a very important point: I am not overhearing this traffic + these people; I am part of the traffic + part of the people) + I have the memories to prove it Perhaps the Ubik commercials have a point which I've missed: ultra information carried by commercial mass media + concealed from us normally - the Ubik messages = the type of "King Felix" cypher - so I was already aware of this "plasmate" traffic before I saw it in 3-74. Yes - the Ubik commercials are "plasmate traffic," + are everywhere + are the traffic of a The same vast computer-like entity unknown to us. covert traffic + entity is pointed to by the words in "Joint," + even in "Eye" in the final part. This is what "Eye," "Joint," + "Ubik" esp. point to: a superior computer-like entity + its traffic in our media hidden from us. "Ubik" should be studied strictly in terms of it as a study of freighted info traffic suggesting the mak use of our media by some higher agency. But to infer the nature of this agency - it is already done in "Ubik"; the Logos inted to + not ETI pos ( In "Ubik" I assume that the Logos would show p as (such] information. Now, since, i.e. in 3-74, I have seen just such info. In "Ubik" I reasoned from the entity to the info can I now There is nothing in s safely reason backward? reality which is not involved in this arrangement into info; we are speaking of the totality, of kosmos. the messages are created by joining, not by a the method of process of deconstruction, + this is Pythagoras' Kosmos, this fitting together the invasion of a regressing world by Ubik. we know why the world is regressing along the temporal form axis; they are dying souls. But what is Ubik, which brings energy + forward time + vitality + life? Is it something we normally do not see, since we do not know our real situation (Ubik balances or negates our real condition)? The success of Ubik, then, is complete, so it blends in with world, but in 3-74 I saw it as set to ground (world as ground, + regressing - i.e. dying; or was t I who was dying?). So in the post mortem state Ubik in contrast to world is visible. + I say, I wrote "Ubik" remembering a prior post mortem state. But as a matter of even greater importance was the teleological cause coming into existence of everything by intention (+ fitting together, each element limiting all others - this is Pythagoras' kosmos, + its nature is divine mind). + I exper ienced that divine intention motivating me, from inside, causing me to act! What was unusual was the the awareness on my part, not divine totality's iato hin e 185 jurisdiction. The Xtian miracle of resurrection is in fact one of transmutation, in which by some secret process of miracle, which we cannot anticipate or understand the low (in fact the lowest the dreas] are made over in an instant into the highest; so that which is most high is made out of the degraded, + in watching this process proceed we cannot see what is coming, +, when it happens, we cannot see how it is done; but it involves a joining, a fitting together into structure; + this is the Xtian miracle, + it breaks out where it is not expected; it cannot