(for example under vast stress, as I was under in 3-74) is an expression of this meta-mind. I am sure of it. I was not alone in what happened; it was as if angels --divine and partially visible-- powers were present. There may be a species mind stretching back into the past and into the future where evolved humans (imaged as the 3-eyed people?) may exist already using this faculty. When you start disrupting time you may be operating in the realm of a supratemporal composite discorporate mind -- I think I was; this is what I call Valis. But it seems to me that the intrinsic nature of the sort of talent I'm discussing would cause to come into existence a meta-mind by itself, in that it would de facto make it a meta-mind; I mean it would be unlocked from the time-span of its physical body. For one thing (here is Jung's intuition function) he would exist (his mind would exist) in alternate worlds, and this alone implies a lot; by affecting the past he would then find himself shifting across laterally (orthogonally) in time...which would explain my subcortically remembering that it had just been cool, high and moist a climate. So the mind with this talent would itself become a meta-mind, outside of causality, spanning alternate worlds, able to modify his own present reality by changed actions in the past, thus setting up alternate worlds; he would be the cause and would in turn be affected by himself as cause -- again the bootstrap phenomenon. Such a mind could act as cause to its own effect, affecting itself as if folder 82 - 042 folder 82 - 042 --13-- 3-2-80 from outside like a feedback circuit, and, upon having successfully affected itself, the self as cause would eliminate itself as if it had never existed, which again is the ex nihilo or bootstrap paradox of time travel. Minds or versions of the mind, foci of the mind, would come into existence, influence the mind and upon success render itself never having existed in the first place; but the mind would sense an adventitious other mind operating on it in its behalf. Could it not then become its own AI voice, its own tutelary spirit? It would continually monitor its own status as if in a heuristic process; yes, it would be process, not hypostasis. You would have a mind that itself would evolve the way a species evolves. It would be itself and not-itself continually. It could correct a faulty solution to a problem after the faulty solution had been applied, a sort of "smart typewriter" erase circuit, again a heuristic process where it gets to apply the best solution it has; the solution proves faulty; the mind repeats the situation --runs it by again-- with a different solution made better by knowledge derived from the faulty solution (i.e. the solution failed but it yielded the knowledge as to what should have been done). It applies a solution. The solution is defective, but knowledge is derived. The mind then goes back in time and applies a solution B based on solution A plus the knowledge derived from solution A (despite its failure). Solution B works, so the mind continues in linear time. For its B solution (which works) the mind draws on the vestigial A solution (which did not work). so underlying the B solution is the phantom record of the A solution. Sequentionally(sic), the mind was sur- folder 82 - 043 folder 82 - 043 --14-- 3-2-80 prised by the problem and employed the A solution but now it has gone back and overridden the A solution with the knowledge based on this initial failure. So on some level the mind knows of the A solution and hence perforce is bicameral. The part of the mind which employed the A solution and which possesses the knowledge derived from the A solution (and knowledge that the A solution did not work) informs the conscious part that is employing the amended solution; so the mind has its own self for a guide, speaking out of a ghostly realm where what is is also what is not. The mind is split but not split since both parts are working for a common goal. Rather, it is chambered. So the ratiocination for the B solution simply isn't there because in place of ratiocination there is certitude without sequential logical reasoning. No analytical steps are employed. The mind when it comes to employ the B solution does not have to think. The thinking took place in a realm or track that has been abolished; when that realm was erased the thinking was erased with it, leaving only the motor and speech centers active. The mind, when it employs the B solution, is its own machine, its own slave instrument, acting out a solution that was not the primary one. Put another way, during solution A the mind was cause and so had to think, but when it returned to re-edit and employ solution B it was the effect of solution A and the knowledge belatedly acquired in connection with solution A. Put a third way, suppose a normal person wishes to know what is in the book of Acts. He must locate a copy and read it. But this meta-mind simply knows the contents of the book of Acts (if he is to know it at all). How does it know it? folder 82 - 044 folder 82 - 044 -15- 3-2-80 Because he found that he had written it, and thus read it. Then he checked with a copy of the book of Acts to corroborate that it is indeed the book of Acts. But when and where and how did it originally enter his mind? There is no answer to that; it is ex nihilo: without cause. There is only effect, because the causal element has been erased. The meta-mind in its finished stage is dependent on the meta-mind in its initial staging which it knows nothing directly about, but only indirectly, the way characters in a Beckett work deduce the existence of other people. If he finds Acts or material based on Pre-Socratic thinkers in his novels he must assume that his own primary heuristic scanning device read and absorbed knowledge of these matters in the usual way, but that this track has been erased, although it leaves its mark on the extant meta-mind. By what he knows that he shouldn't know (so to speak) he can make certain deductions about the original scanning, the original normal intake of information. He did not take in more information than any other person but he can apply it retroactively and there is his advantage. Then essentially this theory about time disruption replaces the theory I put forth earlier here, that we are dead and don't know it; what I seem to be saying is that heimarmene or determinism depends on causality and that in turn depends on time, and an ability to disrupt time amounts to an ability to gain power over causality itself -- the result of which is the abolution of the twin-tape synch system that makes of us little more than DNA robots. We are not dead but we are as if dead; we are enslaved, and in a prison. The ability to disrupt folder 82 - 045 folder 82 - 045 -- 16 3-2-80 time --i.e. to make it run backward-- brings freedom of a sort that no living creature on Earth has ever had before. And I think that this is the cryptic doctrine which is the basis of my title, here: the great esoteric systems are systems in which this human ability is cultivated and brought to bear. Certainly this is true in Gnosticism, in Buddhism -- and if Buddhism then probably in the Tibetian Book of the Dead. There is no way a human can perceive that is twin-tape programmed until he begins to break that programming, because the mechanism of determinism and occlusion is so good that until the person disrupts it he can't even tell that it is there. But the power to disrupt time discloses the deterministic system as somehow unreal, a fiction. How can it have power and be a fiction? Its power depends on the ignorance it produces, and the occlusion and (perceptual and in terms of memory) being only one element. Basically, the person is enslaved because he cannot detect the machine that enslaves him; it deprives him of crucial information. There is a constant flow of information traffic around him and he can't see it, literally. Yet the information programs him. It seems to be the purpose of this machine to maintain structure (cosmos) but at the expense of the welfare and lives of the individual life forms involved. My subcortical memories of a higher, cooler, moister climate indicate that really major erasure and reinscription can tale place; the time-disrupting faculty can be very powerful. Again, it was not done by me but my myself who lived through to the end of my life, died, and returned to an earlier stage of my life, but now under taped conditions. Yet the taped conditions are a combination of servitude folder 82 - 046 --17-- 3-2-80 and opportunity, the latter if properly handled, the former if botched. Whether it will be endless repetition of prison or whether it will be, instead, self-liberation depends on what I call NFMD: the new free merit-deed which tilts the scales under altered conditions achieved by the GO situation. I cannot really abandon this theological concept in the service of upholding an explanation that relies on a belief in the paranormal powers of the individual involved. There is a cosmic dimension, and one of deity. The person has failed his first time around and is sent back. He is as ignorant the second time as the first...or is he? Doesn't his own bicameral voice whisper to him to liberate himself by an act of kindness unmerited by the recipient? There is the phantom solution A which did not work. Has the person really learned nothing? Then again he is destroyed by the instruments that destroyed him originally. This is unlikely. Surely there is a high probability that he will employ his disturbing power to save himself. This is how evolution is achieved: by making use of latent powers, making them actual. The B solution is a feed-back system that monitors the failure of A with the absolute wisdom of hindsight: knowledge that was crucial but contingent is now a priori and it is there, but buried in the person in the form of his original self grown old and then dead and then restored without memory: like Parsifal or Siegfried he does not know his own identity and must be told -- only it is himself, not Kundry or the Forest Bird who tells him. He is his own sibyl; he is in fact his own anima, watching over himself as psychopomp, hence now changed in sex to female, in accord with Zoroaster's observations about one's spirit of religion. folder 82 - 047 folder 82 - 047 -18- 3-2-80 It would not be correct to say that the second tine around, things are different from the first time around; both times are the same time, through an orthogonal intervention of needed information. Another axis of reality has to be imagined; first and second occur simultaneously in linear time. Which is to say, solution A abolishes itself as it fails and not after it fails; it is not attempted and then erased but both attempted, erased, and a second and superior solution employed simultaneously. This is as mysterious to us as the third dimension is to the flatland person. What has happened is that the correction is not separated from that which it corrects, either by time or space, hence not by causality. The person is rescued by the merit of an act that