down and I saw two spaces and two times superimposed ... what we normally mean by a double exposure. But, see, one harmonious reality was formed by the two; so the great inference of accidents --two sets of accidents-- to a common essence took place in my brain, whereupon the realization came to my brain that space and time were not the best or the only way of ordering reality but that it could better be ordered morphologically. And then I found in TEARS where the USA, the USSR, Nazi Germany and ancient Rome and melded into one society -- oh yes; to that add futuristic elements. So we have five societies, five space-time continua as a single matrix. The strangest most eerie thought just struck me. If USA 1974 and Rome AD 45 are two spatiotemporal aspects of a common essence they as aspects if superimposed would clash, not blend -- this despite the common essence; I don't know why I know this but I do. But if it's really Rome AD 45 then they would blend, because the percipient would see that USA 1974 is Rome AD 45. What I have been calling a superimposition is more like a metamorphosis. A certain building is a building in Syria in the first century AD. Reality is seen under the aspect of Rome AD 45, the Holy Land. As if reverting. I noticed palm trees and sand, the warm wind, the relaxing people ... like a scene in ancient Syria. This is like the form-reversion in UBIK. {folder 01 - 062} 10-21-80 4 No it isn't like form reversion, damn it; it was as if the real contour of the morphe became clear (didn't I say, "I am no longer blind!"?). No; I don't know that this is so, that different sets of aspects would not blend syntonically. Maybe this is the way all aspects of an eidos are: syntonic to each other and one another. Look at TEARS; it's all blended syntonically in TEARS. It might very well be the case that for each Form, all the space-time aspects blend, because after all you really have only one reality. The aspects (accidents) are only semireal. That's the point I'm missing! "The aspects (accidents) which exist in time and space are only semireal"; this was Plato's view about the flux world, since nothing in the flux world genuinely is, but comes into being and passes away constantly. The aspects are not just reality at a specific spatiotemporal locus (junction); they are only semireal. This goes to Heraclitus' point that "Latent form is the master of obvious form" (or structure). Could this be the dokos in which reality --true einai-- is veiled? Which is the same as maya? Well, then the spatiotemporal aspects would blend together since they are only semireal. Good lord; this, too, was implied by my original leap. Space and time are not real; USA 1974 and Rome AD 45 are accidents of one common essence, and by the term "accidents" something only semireal is indicated ... (and morphological arrangement is the better way of ordering reality). The aspects are only semireal; I have to get that through my head. "Things are seldom what they seem," as I often quote. Spatiotemporal accidents are only semireal ... they represented an epiphenomenon which is to say, they are derived. Derived from the common essence. So all the accidents wherever and when ever they are located in space and time simply derive from the eidos. Nothing has actually changed. This was Plato's whole point about the Form world. It did not change. 1) Space and time are not real. 2) Two sets of spaciotemporal accidents can have one common essence and if so are morphologically identical. 3) These spatiotemporal accidents are only semireal. 4) Morphological ordering is the correct way of ordering. 5) Thus the real world is Plato's Form world, and what we normally see in space and time is semireal aspects that are in constant flux hiding within them eternal constants. {folder 01 - 063} 10-21-80 5 Thus my brain realized a series of new things about reality; but further discoveries lay ahead. I am now convinced (by realizing that for Plato the spatiotemporal accidents are only semireal) that my experience was Platonist and Neo-Platonist, whatever Christian elements may have been involved. "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." I've interpreted this to mean: "He causes things to look different for the purpose of giving the impression that time has passed." But a slight change of emphasis makes it possible to read it as: "He causes things to look different; so it'd appear time has passed." That is, it is normal for him to cause things to look different; as a result it appears time has passed. All you have to do is insert a comma. "So" is the key word. "In order to cause it to appear that" becomes "so as a result," with no reference to intention, hence to deception. But what remains is, If things look different it appears that time has passed. Time-passage and looking different are identified in terms of our perception; we measure the passage of time by change, but "change" is not the same as "looking different." "Looking different" could be applied to flux by the accidents if you posited an essence underlying the accidents; if you posited Plato's two realms, the Form realm and the flux realm. What this statement by the AI voice might mean, then, is not to confuse "looking different" and actual change (in essence), and not to hold the view that time is real. In other words, the percipient should order reality morphologically, not in spatiotemporal terms. All I had to do in hearing the AI voice utter this sentence was to drop out a comma, depriving myself of the correct reading, which is, "He causes things to look different; therefore ("so" equalling "therefore") it would appear (to us) that time has passed." The point being (as I say) not to order in spatiotemporal terms; or, put another way, that this is what happened in 2-74: I saw things not look different and realized that no time had passed, that time is irreal, an irreal category of ordering reality. "So" equalling "so as a result." Here there is no hint of deception implied, only a factual statement. with my attention being called to the task of noting the difference between "looking different" and "changing." This, too, seems to pertain to Parmenides' view that change itself is irreal; that what actually exists does not change. As my reference {folder 01 - 064} books make perfectly clear, Plato's whole metaphysics came into being as a result of --and an answer to-- Parmenides. Parmenides had said that things did only "look different"; that they really hadn't changed. "Looking different" is contrasted to "change." "Looking different" is exactly what Parmenides is talking about. But then there is this additional point: that since we take "looking different" to be actual change, we hypostatize the notion of time, and as my reference books point out, our only knowledge or awareness or conception or hypostatization of the idea of time comes from our awareness of change. Yet there is no change. There are universals, Forms, supratemporal constants. Suppose we did not suppose change; suppose we were somehow conscious of or assumed the Forms. Then we would not talk about change; we would talk about things "looking different", that is, fluctuations in the accidents. Parmenides saw these accidents as wholly seeming; I mean, as without any reality. Plato responded by granting them partial reality ("semireal," as one of my books puts it); this at first struck me as a very strange concept until I realized that it is just another word for "epiphenomenal," a term that I have found essential to use. It means, simply, derived. Then the concept "Time" is a hypostatization based on assumed change; but Parmenides denies change and hence denies that the word "time" refers to anything real. With Plato, there is indeed "looking different," as there is with Parmenides; but this intermediate status is granted to the accidents; then time must have a similar intermediate status between true reality and illusion: you can order reality in terms of, by means of, time, but you will get a less accurate picture as a result ... than, for example, if you order it morphologically. The AI voice is simply telling me that it is not correct to order reality in terms of time. Then my 2-74 insight is correct in terms of Platonism and Neo-Platonism (they being derived from Parmenides). "He causes things to look different so (as a result) it'd appear time has passed." That may be what was meant. Why would recollection (anamnesis) cause you to know of the reality of the universals, the Forms? Because with true anamnesis your "former" spatiotemporal reality is here and now, superimposed, and this is the case because space and time are not real. Anamnesis, as I myself know from experience, isn't like ordinary memory; if, for example, I remember Janet, I don't see Janet. But if through anamnesis {folder 01 - 065} 10-21-80 7 I remember a "former" incarnation, my prenatal existence, it is here and it is now, even though in terms of space and time it was thousands of years ago and thousands of miles away. How can it be? This is a mystery, but it is a mystery that, paradoxically, is or contains its own solution, because when you see that other spatiotemporal continuum here and now you grasp intuitively that space and time are not real and that the plural spatiotemporal continua are mere aspects, mere seeming; what the AI voice calls "looking different." So you know about the Form realm, the eide, because you do experience this superimposition or double exposure, which can only be possible if the two spatiotemporal continua have a common essence; further, if these spatiotemporal accidents are only semireal (or as Parmenides would have it, not real at all). This is why anamnesis is so radically different from memory and so stunning an experience. It is not memory in the ordinary sense at all; it is a loss of ordering in terms of space and time. Why does this occur? Because you see something in the here and now that was part of the other continuum that was then and there; this is what Plato means by being reminded by an appropriate thing or situation. So the experience starts with perception; perception does not arise from anamnesis; anamnesis arises from perception from what I call "the disinhibiting stimulus," and am I ever right! This experience cannot --repeat cannot-- happen without such a disinhibiting stimulus. Yes, anamnesis is memory, or more precisely the removal of a block to remembering, but it must be set in motion by empirical perception, not a priori ratiocination (Plato knows this, probably because the Pythagorians and Orphics practiced it). So it isn't a prenatal existence in the pleroma; it need not be, anyhow; a "former" spatiotemporal incarnation will do fine -- may be precisely it -- ponder my theory that the morphological realm, realm #3, is exploded through our space and time. That would explain it, i.e. the disinhibiting stimulus! This exploded through our space and time, thousands of miles and years, by the morphological realm, realm #3. Boy, am I on to something here. Two strands of my exegesis have just now come together, and they work. It's exactly like the form-axes in UBIK: "The man contains --not the boy-- but the former man." I was on to it then, when I wrote UBIK. I must subliminally have noted the exploded morphological realm #3 here in our spatiotemporal realm #4. So Platonism and Neo-Platonism was proved by me then, in UBIK; it {folder 01 - 066} 10-21-80 8 didn't begin in 2-74; it peaked in 2-74. Why, then the meta-morpheme KING FELIX in TEARS