the visible "resetting" by an immateria von spacial entity, resetting of reality; in which ase I was originally right: Valis was an invader into our reality + its normal processes sequences (which ratifies Philo Judaeus + not pinoza). This would be intervention into an other vise closed or self-regulating (deterministic) system + we're back to the camouflage theme: B a 290 Spinoza's conception of reality that things cannot be otherwise than they are - that God must do what he does - represents the views of closed systems current at his time + involve unwarrented assumptions about "must." All That is necessary is to posit a monitoring system with override powers. The monitoring system can be regarded as part of one system which involves both (the monitored system would experience the override as an trusion if it thought of itself as complete. monitoring then equals corrective circuitry. The idea that there can be no intervention is some‐ thing like the idea that there can be no motion. it could even be tripped into action by some element, event or sequence in the prionary circuit, + so to speak cut in automatically. I.e. given circumstances Y Y (the override) will cut in; there is no proof it's capricious. This could consist of the "way of the cross" involving degredation or what I prefer to call compression. A strip fires along an axis (at irregulars intervals) which constitutes the way of the cross This can't be engineered or faked. It must in itself by a part of a design - predestination. This "way" involves dying! Q: how can you die + yet not die? A: this is the mystery which Xtianity unfolds; this is what Paul meant. I died - + here I mean literal physical death, + yet am alive. How? + the continuation of life was a transmuted life (as with the alchemists). A new self (Thoma) + a 2-signal world. Yet I know I literally physically died; I had post mortem experiences t was like two reality strips laminated together 293 why, the answer is: surrogation by Christ he did the dying the died - in my place. (represented by pinky.) A life was taken, but was his life, not mind. How did he do it that? Supernatural powers - higher physics. it is related to passover + the pashal lamb. somehow, reality is restructured (like in my a s-f time travel alternate world story). death, first, has to be regarded as a karmic consequence of my life's choices, which brought ne to that point. Then Christ enters, receives the blow + dies. I am spared from my own destiny. deduce that for a short time I was I fused with Christ; that would be Thomas. He was not dependent on my programming + control. But I did die. I remember the took Bardo Thodol trip. He must have entered me precisely the right instant. This is why Paul at says "death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory?" He is talking about death. It is there in 1st cor. Death t t I This is why I thought the great assize had taken place: "death is swallowed up in victory at the last trumpet." What is being described the is not a koinos event but an idios event on the individual's strip axis. There is something here about reality which we do not fathom - a "interior projection" or subjectivity, which for some reason I grasped a long time ago. (As did Heraclitus.) + this is being utilized, this idios aspect of reality - + Paul knew it This is the esoteric teaching (cf the lates secrecy theme). 894 What I'm saying is 2-3-74 is not related to the Xtian soterological experience but is it. that was what was involved: not a survival The soul but physical "resurrection," as of Paul makes clear: physical victory over death. + it is through Christ's surrogation as pure + spotless sacrifice - vicarious atonement - the person goes on living but is changed. Some sinful part of him did perish + something new took its place - + he now has Christ in him (which I hear as the AI voice). A duel psyche binary mind. + as Luther says, "this is for the desperate + the very desperate." Hence the fish sign set it off in conjun ction with the pentathol. + the hypertension the fact that I was dying. I can't say that I happened to stumble over it; the Fish sign was brought to me, + the inevitability - + necessity - of this is proved by the "MITHC" + "Faith of" material. It marked the initiation of the process. In which case what happened can't be regarded as an accidental stumbling unon. In other words the process which I now identify as the essential Xtian salvific event - triumph over death - was set in motion specifically by the original Xtian Fish sign. A very profound Q arises: is there an ad‐ antage to inducing the life strip to reach the death or compression point in, so to speak, this lifetime - let's say that somatic death is sonded normally to mental death, + after the oma dies + separated psyche experiences a transfiguration, but if the combined strip 2953 for both (soma + psyche) can be run at high speed forward + somatic death nullified in some way, then the transfiguration fires while the person is physically alive in this world + is a "second Adam" or "new man." How 1) can the strip be run forward at high speed (i.e. dysynchronized with real time + 2) how can somatic death be nullified? see, it isn't so simple. the interior tape or clock must run faster + faster - yes; + then the person gets out of synch with what is normally preset harmony with koinos events. The inner death-moment (the "Electric Ant" So strip) gets speeded up so that the person reacts to the death-stimulus (external causal event) before that event occurs. This is essential. He enters the dying state (Bardo Thodol trip) but there has been no actual death blow. Hence he dies (along the strip) but paradoxically doesn't die actually because the kill-stimulus in the outer world has yet to come. So step one is to set off high speed strip dysynchronization: strip must preceed outer world (or world as such). He would then, from Bardo Thodol trip to - well 90 whatever the phosphene graphics were. Then: actual post mortem experiences; he'd be in two realms at once - get a double exposure. He is here + re is also on the other side. Would he see God what I call Valis)? Vast spaces - the void, etc. However, although he is now in a two ource world, or two worlds, due to premature rental passage, the problem is that the actual aoinos external death blow (somatic) is on the way in real elapsed time, so his two state is world transfigured coomed to be 89 96) + short duration: specifically only the interval f speed-up of the inner tape strip vis-a-vis the koinos, which probably would be days or weels or months. (I.e. not much.) There is only lag involved. So a few months later the somatic or koinos analog to the mental moment of death will inexorably arrive. The gain is ephimeral. In fact it has little worth: it is virtually a mere curiosity or malfunction. ere is where Christ as surrogate comes in. let us conjecture that he bonded with the person at the moment of psychic - i.e. mental passage. (What I called Thomas.) Now Christ must die, physically for the person, in his place. I.e. destiny (untimely death) must be thwarted. How is this done? Okay - Christ takes over the person mentally. New actions not preprogrammed (i.e. not karmic) are initiated by Christ-in-the-person; the person's psyche + volition are pre-empted. An ex nihilo sequence of events actions, experiences) is deliberately taken up which leads the person into spacio-temporal territory not on his strip. (He is an amazed spectator to his.) Now he is free in a special sense; fate has lost its power over him ("Fate" - antecedent self + world). But is the physical death in this way circumvented? (EB: he doesn't take a plane which will crash.) is this enough? Can t be done? Later - note that it will be some time later, because the inner tape was speeded p - the death blow comes. Well, here Holy wisdom must know what to cause the person to do - while Christ has control- so that the blow will miss. Let's see - for me the inner tape ran ahead in march to the moment of death, + the somatic moment came in August 897 which is 5 months later. The dysynchroniza began in 2-74 due to the Fish sign etc. So it ran 5 months fast. Then that night I saw the room fill with pate white light was the moment in real elapsed time that I would have died. But by then my horribly elevated BP had been detected + was under control. But I sensed the presence of the angel of death + it took pinky - who had come at the time of my oral surgery, which is to say, at the same time as the Fish sign. So in August the vicarious sacrifice of the spotless lamb took place. At that moment the Holy presence departed, killed, later to return as The AI voice. (I.e. the Paraclete who, in my opinion, is the discorporate Christ.) So the first move is to speed up the inner tape. Not then death occurs but does not occur. Then Christ occupies the person's brain + initiates shrewd actions to extricate him from his actual problems/threat/danger. the person's reality situation must be physically changed + properly so; absolute wisdom is needed in engineering these changes: the person's Acts must result in existential - i.e. real t changes in his life (in my case it had to do mainly with the Xerox missive). Christ has temporarily pre-empted the person. Then for a time they function in tandem. The person is a Christos. This is enthusiasmos, not apotheosis. then death strikes + Christ dies (after being despised + humiliated; all the stations of the cross take place once again). Christ is now gone physically + as a psyche, but soon returns as the second comforter (the AI voice) person forever. who will remain with the this St il 298 we ask, what is accomplished by all this? The person first, untimely death is averted. now able to complete his work, whatever is that may be - whatever was copped off by the untimely death - hence it is called "untimely, not just "early." Second, during the period between the mental + physical death when Christ controlled the person the divine plan the Father, acting in human affairs of (history) could be aided (these would be Acts only understood by Christ/God / the Paraclete not the person); Christ would be in poss session of a physical body again, for a time + (perhaps months). Third after the physical death of Christ he would return to the person the advocate + comforter + guide him to ultimate salvation + immortality: the divine as power would have claimed the person in perpetuity Satan, as death, would have netted Christ the vicarious sacrifice once again, which Satan has no claim to. Thus Satan got nothing, + God got everything. So the link with Christ once established is permanent. God has adopted the person + the person is at Pentercost + knows through the Holy Spirit God's plan to redeem the world through the second Advent, preceeded by the fall of "Rome" - i.e. the tyrannies of this world Valis: Father Thomas: Son AI voice: Holy Spirit ote: the reason why the inner strip must be rushed forward out