preprogrammed 3-74, + preprogrammed myself to be disinhibited + remember in order to material in "MITHC" + solve the problem. "Faith of" proves this. It preprograms its own reality (the initial creation stage: the given) + then, upon receiving back its own program as external reality it must under‐ o this exact same reality; viz: it is acted on by what it created (this certainly resembles the Bardo Thodol existence!) unless or until it can 1) spot the reality as simulated; + 2) gain - regain - creative mastery over it. t macrobooster, material is fed ubli tape ( into it by self to tape, + i I t tape to Valis, + Valis back to self where it originated (+ which now has amnesia) the self wills its own world but in a very intricate wsy, not directly. By the time reality comes back at t it no longer recognizes it. However, were it to recognize it as its own amplified creation, a titanic lash in the self would of course occur: a sudden total ecognition of the true situation; self would be macro nclosing the universe, the macro-universe/micro-self eversed (i.e. macro-self + micro-universe). This is what known as Adam Kadmon. s in my case in 3-74 I realized that I had enerated out of myself the whole situation. Here is ow it works: once you experience anamnesis you emember the (earlier] conter s of your own of t 160 + so when they come back at you you recognize them. Conversely due to amnesia you do not recognize them. Hence anamnesis is all-impor‐ ant - is essential in the recognition process, the confrontation of self by its own magnified contents.. which it instantly gains power over by virtue of knowing all there is to know about it (in my case I knew the origin, meaning danger + purpose of the Xerox missive + hence what to do). In fact, the self can edit the magni fied contents by melting them at their true source: within its own self (although this probably can't be maintained for long); but this means that the self must realize that it is dead, in the Bardo Thodol state + no longer in touch with true object I've reality not emanating from itself. But via anamnesis it can remember when it actually was alive + who it was (in my case an Xtian of the first century; it is precisely the authentic Xtian technique (gnosis) to wake up to the simulated. uess of its now dying state + confound the con‐ counding illusion (Dokos or maya); i.e. break free of the "planetary powers" etc). The dying Xtian has a break out technology to short circuit this endless spiralling down through the sefiroth. The vext step is for it to fuse with the Shekhina at the lowest trash level: once it has found her the repair has begun. So you can expect the dying soul - if all goes well - to wind up in syzygy with her. 1) anamnesis. 2) recognition of reality as mag lified prior contents of the self. 3) power over that eality; its simulatedness rendered palpable. 4) vision the macro-generator Valis. 3) union with the female t ide of God, the holy presence when I first noted the resemblance between my 74 experience + my writing I did not see the significance 61 It is rather striking to realize that you're no conger [fully] alive but this is precisely the situation presented in "Ubik" + 3-74 is so like "Ubik" that I've never been able to ignore it Ubik/Valis is the macro-entity which coordinates all the idios tapes into a koinos or kosmos synchronizes them, harmonizes them, links them into objective reality, so that one reality emerges, rather than an infinitude of idioi kosmos. all the individual tapes are fed into it by all the dying selves. Unless you can trace your reality back from Ubik/Valis to your own self you will properly regard Ubik/Valis as God the creator, but there is this one further step of enlightenment: 2) t et at this (self real (Valis is a B i i a e as in "Maze," they program the computer into which they are plugged in their polyencephalic tusion - so "Maze" is in some ways more accurate than "Ubik." Clearly, I am searching for the irreducable source of reality, + I find it n the minds of the receivers (percipients). But through a very intricate process. Here is where at tvam asi + Karma both come in. in diagram (2), A + C can replace each other uddenly, but not so in (1). So (2) conforms to "ankara + Eckehart, but (1) does not. (1) is just sort of Platonism + not all that sophisticated 2) also shows why we can't simply modify reality by thinking about it; between self + eality stands c: the macro-generator which maintains kosmos. This is why magic fails For one thing there is a lag; C is utilizing vior contents of A, not current ones. studying 1685 this model one can see that although it will take a while eventually every act pays off karmically. t - seem to have independently discovered Sankara's Brahmanism: Ubik, Valis, I kosmos atmared (maya (Brahman which means I may be on the right track! So in 3-74 I (because of anamnesis) recog‐ nized external reality as prior contents of my own mind coming back at me magnified + processed (inc. linked with everyone else's reality). Also, due to anamnesis, I could remember when I really had been alive - 2000 years ago; I was really Thomas + living in the world of Acts, not 2000 years ago but now; Acts is (for me) the real world: I am a post mortem - life early secret authentic Xtian caught in the thrall of Maya (the planetary powers). I have begun the reassent however, upon the 3-74 enlightenment. 3-74 was rock bottom whereupon the Shekhing epiphanized. Well, in 3-74 (starting in 2-74) I not only briefly woke up, I came back to life - the 2nd birth: born from above - became Thomas + saw the world of Acts. I hate to belabor the point. But "Ubik" al ways turns out to be correct: the 1939 regressed world they are in is obviously based on (run‐ citer's) former thought contents! The devolution (inc. esp. regression along the form axes) is obviously the Bardo Thodol trip that the brain fed out points 169 spurious reality would get its own former a a contents fed back to it - to which I add, the computer feeding it the simulated reality would lay a veil of amnesia over the brain so that it would not recognize these prior contents: h h 3 simulate compute (brain (reality / the brain (or mind or soul) might harbor sus‐ picions for years that its reality was merely simulated before finally finding substantial support: viz: recognizing events as derived from its own memory, whereupon suspicion would be instantly radically transformed - transmuted o into comprehension. It would - especially in crisis stress situation of peril + urgency a make use of its comprehension by going to its own prior contents in order to master - gain control of - the situation, + turn the tables on it, so that rather than the situation impinging on it, it would impinge on the situation (as true author + hence master of the situation). It would act first, + then speculate at leisure. If this system didn't so precisely resemble Sankara's + Tibetian Buddhism I'd tend to reject it as too far-fetched, but it does + I don't. If there wasn't the coopback between a ne Then C would simply be immanent deity, + anamnesis would have no role to play - + we also wouldn't have the tat tvam asi formulation. Also, in what sense, then, could we call reality simulated? is 3 simulated precisely because its ur-source s our own prior thought-contents (as This is a feedback in "Ubik" + "Maze"). system! I didn't realize it. Signal ema be the in that nates from "A, is modified I B + boosted by C, is fed to a B to form a hologram-like macro field which is fed back to "A: But "A" must be divided into parts: the prior part (memory template or tape) + self to which B feeds; still, both parts are "A" normally There is a barrier (partition) between the prior memory of "A" + the current self; if this barries breaks down, "A" can "melt" its own reality (B) via signals fed to C. This is extraordinary - the implications are immense. If the term Karma is used "A" can now deliberately pre-program its own karma, rather than have karma happen to it. Is this what took place in 3-74? suppose "A" is viewed this way: He is future to A. present ter So if 3-74 is regarded an then + As A., whether it is garded as past or present. the future A, is future to it. + this A. Az is precisely what happened in 3-74: future knowledge (Ac) broke into as the soon-to-be-prior-thought-memories pinged on the reality built out of A, - which accounts for Thomas + my ideationless "dissociated behavior based on knowledge from the future. i.e. knowledge not yet available - i.e. as: the had eradicated the barrier, + as flowes on 97 the present to the past + so changed from present; the t a just present realm a 41) I 41 A2 This explains 1) the time dysfunction; + 2) the retrograde-in-time movement of contents -i.e. info is other words what we call the present is actually made up of fossil rem nants from the past. 3-74 had already long ago happened. But if the partition between A, + as breaks down, an immediate two-way flow occurs. i at present reality (Valis. e s B ae a the past invades the present + vice versa; or, the present invades the future + vice versa. In any case there is a time dysfunction. Archaic contents invade the self (A2), but the self now takes control of A, + thereby can control the external reality through C. Reality is suddenly correctly seen as being actually made up of the anterior antecedent past, but at the same time it is subject to "future" (truly present) modifications, the past pours into the "present" external reality, but the "future" pours into the self. So There is all this covert info passing back + forth. from A, to C, (to B to ag - + this is the plasmate which I saw! The "blood" of the system. If this system were so, there would i plasmate the have to be such no is 178 totally undetected by us consciously, but totally programming us, + yet originating from us (our past). Normally, this represents a closed, deterministic system, but it can be broken - made subject to our volition if anamnesis occurs. This is the key. is A, the tutelary spirit diding A, by virtue of its control over B (via (?) new choices by A, based (unknowingly) on Karma from A, become later karma So a constant feedback loop is at world what the person must do is reconcile hims self - not to "reality" - but to himself, since he himself is the "other" with whom he is dealing. archaic contents would break into the present but since they already determine the present, paradoxically they would be the present. Recipro‐ cally, present reality would seem to be in the long term memories (in the self) which would make no sense; likewise, self would be experienced as outside as well so that world would take on the aspects of the person's mind (in my case it resem bled my earlier writing). In any case it would be as if two psychoi (A, + Ag) were blended, invading each other with two different