4 realm) built it and then fell into it --taking it for real-- and got trapped; but with its a priori foresight prepared for its own restitution and salvation and rescue through the planned-on savior (salvator salvandus, in that case!). Devastating alienation: self-alienation, alienation from world (in a strange world); fragmentation of self-unity, unawareness of self, loss of intactness, distribution into world as thrownness, forgetfulness of self; breaking into pieces unaware of one another as an intact whole; self not recognizing self (the mirror phenomenon); seeing self oneself and not recognizing it; seeing self as Other. Subjugation to happenstance, to world and its subsentient laws; subjagation to illusion, i.e. the false, the empty: emptiness instead of the Abyss. The merely empty. Das Nichts. The not instead of the real. These are Gnostic categories of the destruction of ontology of self, especially the splintering and experiencing therefore of self as alien Other. This is the Fall. The recovery (anamnesis); intactness (regaining of the lost and missing parts of the self, a regathering in), the familiar, substance instead of das Nichts at the center; recognition of the Self as the Self by the Self; i.e. self-awareness; escape from the rule of the objective Other. Self speaking to Self; silence broken by internal dialog. The inner voice calling, intact self, to remind it of who it is. This is the hallmark of intactness: the Self speaking to Self in the still small voice in the dark hours of the night; the void filled by the presence of the Self, now aware of itself internally and no longer subject to the Other (the alien). Recollection as re-collection (calling ones splintered, scattered parts in, to a center). The primordial explosion reversed as a calling back together, a sort of teleological implosion, as if time were running backward. (All of Heidegger's terms apply to the fallen self: forfiture, facticiety, etc., all based on Gnosticism. And based on what I call splintering, explosion, distribution, and the failure of awareness of Self by Self; i.e. Self seen as alien other, and, worst of all, as alien other and object; Self other and reified). And seen outside, seen to be outside; grasped only from the outside. Here I am thinking of Buber's I-it versus I-Thou. The Self is not recognized as either a Thou or the missing part of Self. A double kind of Fall. Self becomes alien, self becomes an it, not a thou. The inner sound of the still small voice of the self speaking to self is replaced by external chatter. {folder 01 - 077} 10-23-80 The salvator salvandus --who is both Savior and ones real Self-- speaks cryptic clues in a still small inner voice in the night, recalling Self to Self, to re-collect it. It can only be heard when and where there is exact silence. It reminds the splintered, empty Self as to who it is, where it is, the true conditions under which it exists in subjugation and forgetfulness; cryptic clues by it to itself. That stir its memory. The name of the true Self, the Savior is -- unity. The implosion, reversal of the original explosion. The splintered Self at first does not recognize the voice and does not understand the clues. Then by degrees the Self understands the clues and recognizes the voice as the Savior's. Finally the Self recognizes the voice as its own voice (salvator salvandus) and understands the clues; is caused to remember, and, by figuring out the clues itself, understands its true condition. That it Fell; where it is now and its dasein; and that it has now been "adopted," i.e. saved. Taken back up: restored out of the spatiotemporal bondage (forfeiture). (To the Other.) It is as in VR: when Zina Pallas the loving twin removes her last mask or veil and reveals her identity, Emmanuel realizes, "It is myself. The lost part of myself, guiding me and speaking to me." Splintering (explosion) is the Fall. Recollection (re-collection) (and recognition of the other as the missing parts of Self) is the restoration. What was alien and outside and an it is familiar and inside and a Thou. This whole process of re-collection begins by a re-cognition of something outside that is suddenly and correctly seen to be familiar; this causes anamnesis, re-collection. A part of the alien other is neither alien nor other; it is familiar and it is ones. It does not stand opposed to the self as the thing, the alien, the other. All this Heidegger ontology is okay, but the missing other part (half?) of myself was literally thousands of years and thousands of miles away, so its return was a supernatural event lifting me out of time and space... into a higher realm: that of before the Fall, phylogenically. Not merely ontogenically. Also I doubt if Heidegger realized that to re-collect the Self the salvator salvandus would speak in a still small voice to the remaining splinter of the Self, speaking necessarily cryptic clues --necessarily, because the remaining Self splinter must fit the pieces together and so truly understand, not just be told). {folder 01 - 078} 10-23-80 2 But I am sure that Heidegger would agree that for the Self to re-collect itself, to regain its primordial lost unity, it would find itself in another ontological realm, a higher, more authentic one; yes, that is the term: authentic (what I call the morphologically arranged). That the portions of the splintered self could be separated by thousands of miles and thousands of years --this can only be understood by realizing that it is the very spatiotemporal world itself that was responsible for splintering the selves, and it splinters the selves in exactly this way: by exploding a given self over these illusory miles and years. When it re-collects itself it finds that in a certain true sense its pieces were not separated at all, since the categories of time and space are irreal; that which has splintered it is, paradoxically, irreal. The original vision of the fallen self is a desolate and bleak one: the self exploded into splinters distributed over thousands of miles and thousands of years, born and reborn, toiling and dying, all this in its necessary combat with an alien world, and always forgetful of itself, always cut off from itself, never intact, and always under the rule (heimarmene) of the alien world, at all the spatiotemporal loci where its splinters have been hurled; it is pluralized and completely subjugated to --enslaved by--the world which poses as real and yet is not, tyrannical as it is. It is tyrannical even though it is a delusion; that the Self is splintered and exploded is in a sense a delusion, too, needing only anamnesis (re-collection) to restore it to unity and to break the power of the spatiotemporal world over it. This re-collection to form the intact original unfallen Self is a kind of alchemy. Realm #2 does not contain a Mind (Nous), it is a Mind (and contains the Forms of realm #3). (As an integrated structure --ie kosmos). We can infer back to the Fall and discover what took place, what it consisted of and how and why it happened, by studying the nature of its reversal. Therefore I infer that the Fall consisted of an intellectual (epistemological) error, since knowledge of the truth --that the spatiotemporal universe is not real--reverses the Fall. Also the Fall consisted of the splintering of the Self into fragments exploded over space and time; I infer this because I discover it, and the remedy is re-collection of these splinters into a unity; therefore there must have been a primordial unity. {folder 01 - 079} 10-23-80 3 I discover that upon the reversal of the Fall there is morphological arrangement rather than arrangement in space and time;therefore I conclude that morphological arrangement, the realm of Plato's Forms, was the way of arranging reality and the realm from which we fell. Also since the spatiotemporal realm is irreal I find that the Fall is in a sense itself not real, that we only seem to have fallen; that in fact the remedy is to realize our actual unfallen state, which is a re-collection into unity, a recognition by the Self of its other parts, seeing then as not alien and not an it, but as parts of a its own self ("Tat tvam asi," as in Brahmanism). The irreality of this spatiotemporal realm is so great and so pervasive that even the Fall, even the splintering and self-alienation and self-reification is in itself illusory; therefore I conclude that the answer, the remedy, the solution, the antidote, the reversal, is to see the state of things, including oneself, as they really are, which is to say, to come to oneself, to wake up, to cease to be forgetful. This is a process initiated adventitiously by the salvator salvandus who is the intact Self saving itself, calling to the fallen splintered self in the silence of the night, when the chatter of this world --both outside the splintered self and inside it, its own thoughts-- is/are stilled. That the salvator salvandus can call to the splintered self shows that it a certain sense the intact self still exists, continues to exist, unfallen; so I say, The Fall itself is an illusion, paradoxically, and the fallen self needs only to begin to know this in order to wake up. So extrication is possible, because of the ontological value of knowledge, of the reversing of the original fall into ignorance and forgetfulness (the two are the same). The opposing states of ignorance and knowing are primary in terms of ontology, as Hans Jonas points out about Syrian gnosticism. It is toward this ontological state of re-collection and knowledge that the whole acosmic thrust of my ten volume meta novel has been directed, to awaken us from the irreal spatiotemporal world. For me world (the spatiotemporal universe) does not exist but Mind (Nous) does, and the Forms it contains, which exist because Mind knows them: conceives of this structure. Yet even the fragment that remains of the once intact Self flees from itself (as Heidegger says) and loses itself in the world of chatter, curiosity, things; it debases itself further because of its {folder 01 - 080} 10-23-80 4 inner void (das Nichts). I say that what it is fleeing is a vision of the truth: the bleak and desolate vision of its own fragmentation over thousands of miles and thousands of years, its splintered condition, and the condition of the splinters: in enslavement to the world-order (heimarmene), doomed to be born and die and be reborn, and always dominated by an irreal world. Hence the Self is unreal to itself and captive of an unreal world. When it can flee no farther and is forced to perceive this desolate vision it suffers what Heidegger calls Angst; this is when the bleak and desolate vision of self-alienation and loss of self, of das Nichts, breaks in on it, despite its efforts to flee. It is finally trapped, and must now face the truth about its splintered condition and its alienation -- in regard to its own nature and to the world. Its own lack of intactness is the primary source of this anxiety, because how, without being intact, can it defend itself against the alien world? It runs the imminent risk of annihilation by world, of totally vanishing, ceasing to be. And this is an accurate appraisal. Yet without this realization, without facing this, it has no chance of re-collecting itself; to re-collect itself it must face its own internal and external conditions. So the moment when it can no longer flee and evade the truth is, in fact, the moment when and where truth sets in; it is the Self's first recontact, reinvolvement, with reality. At the initial moment when the Self faces its peril it does not even know where its missing elements or sections are; it