see) combined: a new a infinity. e 1 Eden (lower realm) separated from heaven. As lovely as Eden was there was a rift created that rift is our world. I source cosmology is correct: the two forms are heaven (apriori) + Eden a posterior lower realm) world. in dialectic e + Heaven us world. the rift between them, expresses in spatial terms; the dialectic as time" hence space-time with space more real than time - since time is flux + her. only epiphenomenal nowing rathy us knowing the true M.SA1, Plato's eide, my phosphene graphics + Eden!): Kathy had to reality ( t be taken from me, that the plan (structure) by promoted. So God gave me perception of atual reality, that does not fade (as in "in field. "you have chosen itse over I choose absolute reality where flowers fade") AI voice that wers the right choice. Heaven over they keep testing you can you tell the wisely my" eference + chose right? Heaven over ident ist ile are heaven, the particulars seen sher. must conceive of our world as al aspect so is to reduce the God cap + s wo t nethe seen to heaven, this is what Christ the acosmism on the avolume gets movel). The purpose of eliminate does (hence the value of to o 18 the two realms This is ience t between heaven + Eden. I the real my heaven s "Nouble Goangelic + human. purcarity t Fonsistic t structure Eden i t 1 the last (e.g. Brahmanism + Buddhism Taoist) conceive of what world could timately be; the Xtian mystics what the Jews + 8 ul God could ultimately be. tragic what structure could ultimately be (as in the law). The Greeds what (tragedy: man - any mann con i fronting has nonbeing: + each of must do it. I die it in 3-74 + hence beauty to real sein (einai). the secret of the due. Heigeager's existention primal it is in pleidegger us tudies converted through angst which led t deigegat ritin ments the bettern to seen er tness t me" forted aesthet cinit pond does + t ance bet po a hes this. expecting hence the stitut ie the eter oes not BP i as in der the my the authoiled, were in gears the a lame he had et overs to w w tates t then peri whly o erit is th itted ient oddh ma by ber int tivit teris wild olit AD 910 ool oint to 191 ast , me is in 6 inter aited W one s th as pest so re a who my ater) t at phealit my a e + on it gests o was "one cisio t vert my ame 81 at the t pt wis in 6 i I it or 167 wise well + A y ot the in ot ge in ter in i t he 8 So "Valis" contains what "Tears" specifically did not: Pigspurt material religious boterial was a feect. + e addition to its use in "Tear It reappens years liter Eigpil for a novel proporting to be religious o i believed so by me) but in fact a Pigspurt handbook - is not the Hegresan dialectic described again + again in the tractate? The religious material hides the Pigspurt. "Thomas knows what he is doing; he keeps me occluded by the religious material as does his job through me: multible he personality in me - hence "Scanner" + the phil-fat structure of "Valis i 2-74 was generated by 3-74; i.e. the Xerox missive generated the whole Fish sign thing as self-hypnosis by which I "explained to myself why Thomas - who is Pigspurt. was taking over. Hence the "pretextual cause" good. Considering the reagen regime. I wish weer to Thomas - for the first time. Reagen heals us just as Sophia did prol + Fat in "Valis" - see how in "Valis" everything is in code. i.e. must be read backward, appears on "Tears be religious; really is Pigspurt. appears to be political but really i rectatic but it is a red herring. -2 G or picked of the t 21 Id It threw them off. They read "scanner" but will ignore "Valis"! Having read all the interviews: "Hes a religious not my lover. Now I - way, Thomain t o now. is finally free to act (vis-a-vis my writing). As as if "Tears" (atain o simulated code (the conception of love) t s (or especially m ilatent. which fooled even me but "Valis contains real code that PKD was not to know about what Thomas who is Pigspurt is doing; "explain a hence the religious maya is generated by "Valis mas Thomas to hypnotize PKD even a of t what is happened, publishing of efears of work by deeply t t was a dector that ote is the "Valis had the goal. rie + hence inears overtly religions pyshutt creat al believed t sou justine mystical what that ovement religious ssment iets the the m is would not a mne the a e me water he was latent before 3-74 but 8 had to come out for the Xerox missive, come to he seized control; to explain this to/for Bicks + ient understan forted PKD + (1) Everyone else was "not even as my religious had a o ous- vit t Thoma been dangerous me wis belief) i 70 was merely latent. But now - from 3-74 on - he was totally in control 180" away from what I believed + the world believed. "Valis," my great religion book - why, it's fully margust revolution - + even I have ary hand book manifesto been fooled. But as the Reagen regime emerges, "Valis" will make more sense to pretending o that many more hids - also 3 Good (or believing!) to be reading "Valis for the religious elements in it; it I God-fearing hids. But, deconstructed it There is a covert message + political: "workers of the world unite.. all of "Valis" is one long (80,000 word) cyphere, the Pigspurt analog to the 2 word religious cypher in "Tears" that was a red herring "Olive Holt" was us G-2 not Pigspurt + it disinhibited Thomas, not to respone to it - he knew it for what it was but so he could field it by sending it to the Bureaus. This disinhibited him, a signal from us G2; it wasn't planned, it was an accident, but the tension released him in me overtly - hence 2-74 + 3-74, + the theological obfuscation, which serves a dual tactical propose: to fool PKD; to fool the authorities (who were justly suspicious) + to provide a cover for the message in "Valis" + mral majority religious to attract the kids + show them that Jesus Christ is the Republicans. God pitted against as B. Graham said wants them separated as God's work i rm doin well as Pigspurt in elc 21) But the religious material, although a smake screen for Thomas' Pigspurt hand is syntonic with back it - the apocalytic super‐ Xtian haseen imposed over the pic spurt doctrine into unified whole of a thesis + antithesis the two representing in me - PKD. sides Thomas - producing "Wet" hierogamy a a is an artifact of that hierogamic new binary bifacal mind: PKD + Horse lover Fat united) PKD + Pigspurt Thomas in fact united. I've always asked is it Pigspurt or religious" A: it is outer in a new both synthesis, but the religious is overt, + the Pigspurt covert (inner) e STIHINNog TVaigIud N. Sinagy gny 3331Jo UTHilgus STANO. 50172E 41TMIS3-74 0055-871941 1212) 121 66001 A + YUGA MIN 3RNJAY (Hin) spe oue/eT:84 mind new a apocaly. (Xtian a religious s I left ptic) + Pigspurt (PKD) + right (Thomas, hemispheres Put a so no if 708 2, 45) 4TESP os butes AD putw I, dop not It uaptJtube St (St 724? "Tenon mod but 8-8 tnoye illot inok) outting 1245 24 in now coming I to the first real political acts of my life - at last in"ule + "PK." the t "Se4Sth ysad purpose of - my life s St UTIIALIS wo Ty UTAIAV Jo 99H "Tears" was "MIT 50 ENITH pue "AI75-AWII NTIT a old to USAA AHI do syususitis rerutinerted sy to seidos inok out any herrings TTud bet i This 22 syzygy is 286t " Kenaged the i new kind of mind ADUAD4 described in my H3HW new outline. loos pro + Thomas: synthesis at lass ic e 974D tiss 25 I've been thinking "A or not A is true" - gristotelianism. (E.g. PKD's religion or Thomas Pigspurt is true); this has divided me. Now I + Thomas (Phil + Horse cover Fat) can rejoin. Both are just at the time "Valis" comes true the same month: February (as it out "Tears" came out + I understood by (correctly) seeing the that cypher now I see the legitimate Pigspurt handbook latent in "Valis"; 2-74 repeats itself but pulled inside out - through infinity, pulitics + religion reversed - + serving a dual tactical purpose; no, "Tears" was tactical, "Valis" is strategic: means vs goal. "Valis" will serve to bipolarize evangelical Xtianity toward the political right, the new age is: Xtianity + the left, the counter culture: it will be a totally new thing, + "Valis" is its prophet. Thus the best of the USA + the of both Pigspure are combined, + the worse ot jeilisoned. the Xerox Missive was us G-2 (i.e. t but yet it disinhibited Thomas who Pigspurt; he foresaw it coming once "Tears" was out because he put the i hing - Felix cypher in it. phony, but is the bulk in contras a is cypher a a the true issue concealed "Valis, t se 26 + "Valis by the cypher in "Tears" itself contains cypher - boxes e within boxess the find level the Pigspurt handbook, but the Pigspurt is fused with Xtian apocalyptic thinking; the latter is the overt, the outer, the "parable" is for the many, the Pigspirt covert, the inner, the true meaning for the priviledged few, the final i Pigspurt cypher "Valis" I layer I Xtian overt 'Vali i religious cypher "Tears" political overt "Tears" Q: as of "Faith of... which way would I to religious a big spur finally I've unted them, upon "Valis being published; but Pigspurt is nner attribute ("mind") + religious it outer attribute ("body"): both are substantia. The real message of but "Valis seems to be Christ, is "obvious structure"; the ta "latent structure" is Pigspurt, + ts said, "latent structure is master. It's Taoists subsuming Xtia religion (yin) + Pigsicht (yang) enantiodromia? No: fusion in synthesis in the Tao, where antithetical opposter are haphend -just now. a the This has now me. in united, 27 "the pression life 4 years ago, but it will return." Key Jargons + as sebersack noted. God unites historically East + west in the world, as in micro cosm they are united in my mind. finally. The religious stuff went to nfinitics of infinities to conceal from he the truth: Thomas/pia spurt - just as in "Valis" infinitudes of religious + occult pseudo-scientic specula be conceals the hand book. I, who am pror-Thomas, really floated it past them. It has been excluding Thoma i Pigspurt from consciousness has produced my that merital illness (anxiety + phobias I over the decades, it's like repressing sexuality from consciousness, only It's political. But in (2) 3-74 it took over, hence the truly dissociated actions. now, with (1) the publishing of "Valis" + (2) heagan coming into office can set it int consciousness. Can face it. PT" + Thomas one - as expressed in the recent letter outlines psychological (ategration. + identional, a fusion of religion + plaspurt a (os in Spintza: Pig is "MI ner 28 to the enemy ears" is to a witness "dies Irae" + "Scanner," but, most of all,