eye. folder 06 - 034 folder 06 - 034 Memory is a hologram involving the entire brain, + this hologram (these holograms) are isomorphic with the external implicate order (but pass through a lensed percept system). So memory is a form of reality. Reality is an external analog of memory. They match up - link up. Resonance at a certain frequency (the Forier transform): the internal analog hologram is activated by the right wave pattern. But I say, we experience events (reality) which lay down no memory holograms. Or, if memory holograms are laid down, they can't -or don't- get called forth. I had experienced that whole Acts world (as proved by "Tears") but had no [conscious] memory of it. Until the proper external "wave pattern" triggered it off. If that "wave pattern" hadn't, I'd never have remembered. "Tears" is important because it shows that those memories were already there in 1970, but not available to me. Living two lives simultaneously? In some kind of pulsation oscillation? {Illustration: A line, below which the area is "USA 1974" and above which the area is "Acts". Another line oscillating like a sine wave above and below the first line.} Two sets of inner-outer resonances, like two signals alternating, like left-right oscillation with a stereo stylus; the left are decoded (separated) from the right + fed into separate channels from then on. This would explain the syntonic superimposition blending of the "left + right," like a mono made of two combined signals normally discrete. Then I must phase over into being Thomas + living in the world of Acts every nanosecond. Oscillation left right left right etc. Hence "Tears" which was 2-signal (left + right combined) output. "Tears" is his world plus mine. folder 06 - 035 folder 06 - 035 This is how we both can simultaneously inhabit one brain. Why he could take motor control + yet I couldn't pick up his thoughts. There must have been a "Xerox missive" in his oscillation (world) too. (No, this doesn't follow.) His thoughts bleed across. In my hypnagogic states. + in 3-74 he + his world totally broke through. + occupied mine. Strange. But this would explain my exhibiting another person's idiosyncracies, like in "Donovan's Brain." We must be stationary brains fed "taped" reality. Hence dream like. Irreal. We are 2 brained people -left-right. If our right hemisphere is destroyed our personality -self- is unaffected. Fred (right); Bob (left). Teaching-machine puzzle to solve. Training. Then, if my {illustration: sine wave oscillating between "L" and "R"} is correct (+ it is) our reality is the irreality I depict in my writing. Starting with the theoretical epistemology I finally got a startling confirm in 3-74. Hence, in 3-74, although I'd been PKD in USA 20th century almost 50 years, I had just now been Thomas in Acts, the {illustration: sine wave oscillating between "L" and "R"} model explains. Q: Do only apostolic Xtians do this? So I am atypical? Other people aren't built this way? My writing is a combined 2-signal output. Then the "melting" of causal trains was the (my) external programming resynchronizing; I was running ahead of clock time B + stimuli: reacting in advance. Due to Thomas breaking through in 2-74; some of his time got added to mine. Could "Thomas" be female? How does his voice differ from the AI voice? It doesn't. Diana, whom I saw. Whom I love. Who saved me. folder 06 - 036 The only way you could have two selves at different space-times in one brain ({illustration: sine wave oscillating between "L" and "R"}) if our reality is simulated. This is ratified by my experience of reacting to stimuli before they happened, what I call the inner-outer taped synchronization which gives the false impression that outer events cause us to respond; whereas in fact they are pretextual. {Note 2} So from two angles I arrive at the "simulated reality" conclusion. + then it resyncronized itself - a dead giveaway. Moreover, there is the "one way in-breaking" of Zebra - its camouflaged (hidden) existence within our [programmed] environment, + its plasmate + written messages; this is the true reality (there has to be something that's real). {Note 1} + then there are the "perturbations in the reality field" pointing to something outside it. + "he causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." __ {Note 1:} That is, a vast (or ubiquitous?) mind which simulates our reality; I mean, our reality is not only simulated, but within it, camouflaged, is Valis, which is aware of us, + uses us (to process information?) but which is also developing + growing + completing itself using our reality as a stockpile. If our reality is simulated, + you manage to discern that, presumably you'd see what is real instead, + so I did. __ {Note 2:} + we are programmed to respond. Programmed inwardly, with some kind of "selenoid-like" clock which synchronizes with the outer clock. Everything we are ever going to do, including die, is programmed on this intrinsic tape that's inside us (v. "The Electric Ant"). My current theory is that {...} any given moment is gene- folder 06 - 037 folder 06 - 037 rated by the thoughts -one's thoughts- in a past which one doesn't remember, + an infinite number of these worlds permutate at high velocity from frame to frame, as the constituents of info generate their negations + flipflop. We hold a very decisive power over the dialectic flipflops of this info, +, through it (the info) generate our future worlds. What is interesting is that a coherent picture (cosmology) is emerging here. 1) If one human brain can contain two (or more) minds, each in its own space-time world, each with its own memories, + normally unaware of each other, then our reality (inc. space + time + perhaps causality) must be simulated in some fundamental way, + not as it appears. We may, in fact, be stationary brains, even megabrains containing many selves. 2) I experienced a dysfunction in what appeared to be a synchronization of an inner (i.e. in me) + outer (i.e. my reality) tape system, so arranged that outer "events" (actually only signals) appeared to cause responses (acts) on my part, but in fact only disinhibited responses (acts) inwardly pre-programmed in advance. The illusion of outer cause is an illusion. Time; all we really have is the two-tape synchronization progressing like twin selenoid clocks, the outer one controlling the inner one. If (1) supra exists, this sort of structure would have to exist, but I did not deduce it a priori from (1); I experienced it, when my inner {...} desynchronized + my "responses" {...} folder 06 - 038 folder 06 - 038 of their external "causes"; or, put the other way around, the "causes" (actually signals) lagged behind the responses. Thereupon the outer system adjusted itself (or was subject to adjustment) - run super fast ahead, so that it was resynchronized with the inner tape. My experience of these twin synchronized tapes came when I + the other (or one other) self in me fused so that I saw his space time world; he had control of my motor centers; + his mind fused with mine, including his thoughts, in Greek, the lingua franca of his space-time world. I took on his characteristics + preferences + yielded to his decisions. After his mind reseparated from mine I could still occasionally hear his (or her) thoughts. He (or she) was aware of me. The cause of the fusion between him + me was due to my receiving a disinhibiting stimulus apparently highly meaningful to him; it drew him to the surface in that suddenly I experienced his memories connected to that stimulus. A month later his personality (mind) broke through into mine + I not only remembered but experienced as present his space time world, that of first century AD Roman Syria. I had access to vast theological, philosophical + cosmological knowledge from his mind, as well as his practical shrewdness. 3) Inasmuch as my reality was revealed as an external tape of some kind running (normally) in synch with my inner tape, thus presenting the semblance of - well, of a genuine world external to me + independent to me, not geared to me (when in fact some kind of intentional gearing was involved), one would a priori expect something {...} who was independent of me + folder 06 - 039 folder 06 - 039 hence not simulated to exist. In regard to this I saw, within the simulated reality an incredibly vast, active, living, intelligent entity, organism or construct camouflaged + under normal circumstances totally veiled from us. It seemed to be consuming everything in the process of assembling (self-constructing) itself, with power over time + causality. As if a sort of blood of this VALIS, an energy "plasmate" moved about in the form of living information, also totally veiled from us normally, apparently acting in a way that regulated, guided, directed + informed us by being within us + outside us. Thus we seemed to be in a sentient organism + it was in us. 4) A furiously rapid self-perpetuating dialectic seemed to drive this entire reality along, both the pre-programmed tapes + the VALIS; it seemed to underlie everything, + was intimately related to thought itself. 5) In view of this underlying thought flipflop dialectic, I came to understand that the reality preprogrammed on our individual tapes (which is to say, the unique reality which each mind individually undergoes) is either partially or even totally generated by prior thoughts on the part of the given mind involved. It thus 1) preprograms its own future 2) doesn't realize it's doing it + 3) doesn't remember the proceeding reality toward which he felt thoughts which generated his future reality. I saw this system as the basis of what is called "Karma" or "astral determinism." 6) In many respects what I saw precisely resembles the post mortem journey experienced in "The Tibetian Book of the Dead" {...} folder 06 - 040 folder 06 - 040 Bardo Thodol existence. 7) Years of research + analysis on my part regarding this has caused me to notice that the stated purpose of the Greco-Roman mystery religions (including Xtianity) was to free the initiate from "astral determinism." If the structure I've experienced is as I see it, what this would involve would be learning to pre-program one's future reality consciously, so that instead of things (events) happening to you, you would be their deliberate artificer, which means they would not happen to you at all; you would control your reality by the power of your own mind: make your own destiny, which would cause it to cease to be destiny or fate or Karma or astral determinism - even cause + effect as normally experienced + understood would be transformed. You would have the world you willed, but it would interact with other worlds of other people + affect their realities. That your mind could "perturb" your "reality field" is only possible within such a schema as I outline here. In essence you would be cooperating with VALIS, acting in harmony with it, + its will would be palpable in you through its living info "blood," the energetic plasmate. 8) The living macro entity Valis lies behind the neutral synchronized twin tapes, so it can be said that whereas simulated reality is inert, the hidden genuine reality is volitional, aware + wise. Whether this is God depends on how you conceive of him, but Valis certainly seems to have aspects commonly attributed to God. folder 06 - 041 8) Finally, I have reason to believe that VALIS desires us to overcome the determinism of our self-generated inner-outer tape simulated reality, become aware of him + act in harmony with him, regulated + informed by the plasmate -his blood- within us. In my opinion he wishes us to cease to