it possessing codes + cryptic facultes enhanced over our own. signs to identify each other - total secrecy. + a total antipathy to governments. Possibly even over throwing them. It's as if all these awake people are linked ip to a machine, entity or organism like Ubik. in information thing which has turned reality They are nto a sort of physical brain for itself. all integrated by it Doesn't this sound very much like what the AC enlightenment wished to bring about in the 7th century? Since the basis of it is knowledge? No, it's not R.C. the great clue was in Joseph Campbell's account of Ahura Mazd having a priori foresight, + Ahriman e 348 having only "backward" knowledge. This s specific, not conjecture. There is, how‐ ever, an invisible civilization within our world society; it is the Kingdom of God on Earth. It is the invisible conquest over the will by Holy Wisdom. Those who live in the Kingdom have been freed from then Karma + from Maya - illusion - i.e. they have woken up - been awakened. (Dibba cacchu.) freed from their will by the power of holy Wisdom (Logos: world reason). This blind, striving will which Schopenhauer speaks (in man + in nature) may be the rebellious striving against the God's plan or purpose, which is dealt with in the story of Satan's rebellion + the Fall. In that case what happened to me in 3-74 was that my will (+ hence personality) died + was replaced by God's intelligence, which is his basis (teleology - v. Aristotle) This was Thomas. + this is the nature of salvation: "Thy will be done" total trust in God is necessary: a surrender, an allowing in of God's reason, which not only not blind but which pos‐ is sesses absolute foresight This will is genetic programming (DNA) in which the individual counts as nothing hence is sacrificed. God's reason, how + ever, rescues the individual as such, so 3 the two are antithetical + clash head-on to be delivered over to God's reason from the domain of blind genetic will is to be transferred from the domain of death to life - the breaking of "fate" or "astral determinism" by the i God. For this transfer to occur, your genetically determined self must die, + a new self born in its place, not genetically determined but rather a microcosm of God the macro‐ cosm. but it's more than genetic programming; it pervades all reality - pointless efficient causation. But it's best seen in the point less striving in the area of creatures + humans. Only "the unmoved mover's" teleology can give it point: cause it to be truly conscious + reasonia; i.e. awake the sublinind levels in the human psyche must be made conscious, what I guess is the right hemis‐ phere, So I am saying, God is not transcen‐ dent nor nature (immanent) but has nvaded nature + works against it Spinoza to the contrary). He so-to speak combats nature - no our genetic natures - + subdues it by tugging or as on world + He imping deflecting it is not the creator. He uses creation 352 into the irrational or subrational The wise mind breaks: (the will) both in the macrocosm (universe) + in a microcosm - which is what happened to me + for me in 3-74. This is the explanation of what happene in 2-3-74 the in-breaking, into me, of the wise mind overpowering the subconscious subrational will by raising it to consciousness This appears in "Ubik" as runciter + Ubik in-breaking "one way." Thus I now know what Ubik, is, + what psychologically, is represented by its "uncanny invasion." Half-life" in cold-pac" represents our actual state of less than rational consciousness/wakefulness, from which the wise mind rouses us: wakes us up as it did me in 2-3-74 unconsciousness: consciousness: conscious ness: wise mind (ajna consciousness). unconscious: right hemisphere. It become conscious + acquires the power of speech - i.e. the AI voice. Also it became conscious as Thomas + even took over motor centers - while my normal left hemisphere attained superconsciousness t I then became consciously aware of gramming which had worked on me sub‐ liminally - like the sharks' teeth necklace. the gone. "Faith + "mitric" point to more was now conscious since my unconscious 38 I would be consciously aware of what had, all my life, been subliminal gramming/programming Okay. Then "Olive Holt" in the Xerox missive. That too. look, if there's another conscious self in me (right brain) + if it were rig spurt, it might feed me false info: i.e. "intelligence officer in the army" Bob-fret. "Warring hemispheres" as my unconscious - read right brain woke up, I sensed Pigspurt power over me, + close by upon seeing the Golden Fish sign: realization of 1) secret conspiritorial group; 2) prison or slave society like in "Tears". But of course it took the form of apostolic Xtianity vs Rome because of the disinhibiting sign. Well 3) blowing up buildings (2) with explosive. the secret conspirators were good + right, + the prison society was evil "Olive Holt" wasn't code. It was a sub‐ liminal message. "buttoned down mind" doesn't suggest Xtian enemies the taco stand "dream. I was given the Pigspurt infin disinhibited. Xerox was Pigspurt G2 because me into was militony in nature. it was Pigspurt Thomas who sent it to burea because he was tired of being used by Pigspur? even though he was Pigspurt tess wanted me to die for political reasons Heintein paramiliary group. Hence olarcon. "Solar reference to Sof. Purg me out of Sof; this con" - was the purpose. Because I was Pigspurt. There is a memory ellipsis centering around te francy - as I suspected. Anyhow between nance Francy; there is anomission of a sexual episode + So it involves a woman. Who is left out: - + I actually was mired up with those black Pigspurt, but don't remember it. anamnesis; in 2-74 - I just happened to i get back memories I'd been told under hypnosis to forget. OCCP. got them back due to the pentathol. Connected to my year of amnesia i 1971. Thomas came into existence that year - he its not right s the sum of my hypnotized periods o brain; it's post hypnotic suggestion to forget. Xero missive was indeed Pigspurt: armed. 1) Anamnesia (proving there had been amnesia, of the familiar kind 2) I year missing. 3) Secondary personality with his own habits AI voice in my head. 8) code in "Tears" 2) Xerox missive. a ads up to Pigspurt. He -me - dumpel it got oose. Not ultra sophisticated left right hemisphere. but just hypnotism + personality but up during the time hypnotized. pentathol caused me to begin to remember despite being told "you will not remember" (taco stand so could greet the yes, overcome the post hynotic suggestion to inswer the "Olive Holt - I had been told inder hypnosis to answer it. Occp army instead ontacted bureau because of having woken up - i.e. ut of hypnotized state, began day I was Iven pentathol Yes, that's why rade sounded crelechy + I sensed proximity of Pigsport 5 ss So when the Xerox missing came I wasn't supposed to have been already disinhibited as I was in 2-74) this enabled Thomas -i.e. ne - to break my post hypnotic programming + send it to the Bureau. II was literally hypnotized by the Golden Fist necklace + therefore believed - really - in Christ + so was instantly transferred to the Kingdom did the 3-eyed people talk to me, while I was hypnotized, + about which I had amnesiate were my dreams returning memories? Then in 2-74 I saw USA 1974 as I had during the period with the seyed people; I was remembering the "You will forget" belied with the 3-eyed people. + they saved me vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. 3) is probably correct, 1) Xtian a sort of compromise 2) Pigspurt between (1) + (2), involv 3) 3 eyed etis v superior technology, a civilization here secretly with its messages + - e.g. in "Tears," + their cosmological upture healing knowledge. Valis was their invisible "Valis" seems to imply this as resence. the n xplanation. (1) or (2) is possible but I think 3), although there is evidence for (2) certainly they trained me for the 3-74 threat. I am one of the 3-eyed people; adopted by hem look - the truth is, neither God nor Pigspurt an produce the dazzling events of 2-3-74 1) History records no such incidents 2) doesn't have the technology. 3) Does have it. "any s liff e itly 3 echnology would seem like magic." I.e. fairy. eneny Eviends us G2 the 3-eyed people B misunderstood A as Pigspurt 3 because of A! Technology 3-74: combat o Xerox missive ( s t t lf w info + t t h t e instructions me - up out of my inscribed unconscious. This can't be rendered verbally, just by right brain: structurally. This is the best way to understand it, because it is not an interpretation (e.g. "It was -" etc) but a I won, by + large, but representation This model suggests 3-eyed entirely.) not not Pigspurt + not God, but - well, I TI thing "Valis" concurs. That is what the book really says. The bottom line is there is a of ivilization here hidden in the midst invisibly, with its culture + messages ours + it is the 3 eyed people. saw it 3+ etc. - who see with the 3rd eye their own civilization, they have vast cosmological-theological knowledge, which they imparted to me. This high culture derives from a vast Ubik - like artity which I saw (Valis) 2 i I saw its graphics I'm easily hypnotized. Due to the pentathed the Golden Fish hypnotized me + broke my deliberately induced amnesia - I got my memories back; in the following month they returned + the personality that went with it; i.e. I woke up, + so was disinhibited before the Xerox missive arrived (which was an accided, my sodium pentathol disinhibition). Olive Holt" should have acted on me in terms of post hypnotic suggestion, + almost did, except I was awake. Somehow "Tears" is involved in all this. The year of amnesia (1968-72) is the other side of the anamnesis - probably including the taco bell stand "dream." This explains the plot of "Scanner" the Xerox missive probably was Pigspurt. + I probably was involved with black terrovists + Pigspurt. the presence of the invisible Kingdom was the first thing I grasped, in 2-74. Then a month later I had additional evidence: Valis, the plasmate + my own citizenship in the Kingdom myself as a different person, meshed with it). the two-mode passive-active system; the twin tape programming. Awareness of the Empire + its spies, its desire to know about us. + finally I saw the The need of absolute Kingdom, a year later. secrecy was impressed on me. That the Kingdom existed only by its invisibility + stealth. Consider The secret baptism + Lord's supper (the two greater sacraments) which I enacted with Chris: The two specifically specified in the N.T. This Kingdom is the truth, + the empire is the lie; these are the two antithetical realms which form our composite world. 33 2 i "The man who knew how to lose" points at great mystery, the essential Xtian mystery miracle) of death + resurrection, + shows that to some extent I understand it, because I have eved it. It is what I call "compression, an alchemical transmutation from which (com‐ pression) a sweet beauty comes, sweeter than all else: higher than act but like it. This is i what began with, to, for me with the phosphene graphics + passed on through the stages to clude all else: the Kingdom the node woman, alis itself the Golden rectangle.