two spatiotemporal sets subsumed within + by a vast total view of 2000 years of history involving cumulative dialectical struggle for a freedom. Hence it can correctly be said that I saw the same thing at two times + two places: Rome + the imperial vs gove ernment; Rome seen by my Xtian side; vs Government seen by Thomas. + buth "things" were one, hence an eidos; so I did experience Plato's anamnesis + recovered the universals. But I have missed the psycho‐ logical integrative aspects. Both selves in me had the same enemy but had never recognized it until that day. the one super‐ dea - vision of society + history - subsumed + unified the two up-to-then competing lower ideas. So thesis + antithesis flashed over into synthesis, of one higher 36 the conflict that divided me was abolishe this event was very dramatic in me, as witness the bizarre dissoliative activity + perception of reality in 3-74, what was happening was that due to this higher synthesis material - a selfexcluded from my consciousness could finally enter consciousness + be incorporated t into + as one meta-psyche (Jung's psycho but only now that logical integration). appraise the published novel "Valis" do I comprehend consciously that integration of the two worldviews in me into one higher must hang onto the Xtian worldview. I apocalyptic view of history because it + only it is a high enough synthesis to t integrate all the impulses, drives + per‐ ceptions in me. the essence of my 2-74 perception was a bipolarization of Xtianity vs the state, rather than the state + Xtianity joined; thus Xtianity becomes revolutionary, + identified with che + sem - Pigspurt seen - along a vast historical aya. + Xtianity, in that revolutionary role, is now. Thus 2000 years is collapsed. f I just remembered something revealed to me as to how God works that I haven't thought of since the beginning (3-74). It has to do with how he plays his hand (or "cards") in the dialectic. (this is hard to express.) First he causes one thing to occur. Next, sequentially in time thing two. Then thing three. There is no relationship between one, two + three (or even more; I mean, it's not just that we can't see it empirically; there is no rela‐ tionship). Then he causes thing four to occur as an accretion to the pattern. Now all four are linked together by the (this) last play. Apparently there is an adversary who loses (the "hand") when the linking occurs. note: God plays deliberately in such a way that to linking exists until the link is played, but he - + He alone - foresaw it all from the start. The antagonist, who has only a postiori knowledge, is fooled again. It's as if God is outside of linear time + does not create in time. He is building structures. but structure does not occur until the final piece is played (brought into being). Ah! Things occur before they mean anything (intrinsically; they will acquire meaning later, when structure occurs). N not A to b the progression is not logical! to C to D, etc. The progression is not the digital progression of our left hemispheres that we emplay when we think. But this i all teleology, although to not in veiled logical sequence. Hence the pattern is an extraordinarily important realization! ➀ This is up to the moment of completion. It's like a stupendous cosmic 2-person game This is a linking wherein the payoff (com‐ pleted] structure is a new thing, suddenly, as 4f quantitative additions convert abruptly into one new whole by virtue of the last crucial accretion. From this subsystem method I can infer that eventually "turn" the hierarchical conversion will This is, as the entire structure "over." saw (when I saw the accretions being fed into the MMSK) a cumulative Once a t process producing eternal structive thing is, it never ceases to be: a dynamic process involving the permanent: hence I saw seeing continuous creation. the way the 2-part basic linking is achieved is: he knows-goes through all the possible combinations before selection; therefore in all cases he chooses the best possible for actualization. the 88 the reconstitution of Christ supreme pattern - achievement. Eventually the whole of creation becomes I the This is the process cosmic] Christ saw. The whole thing is memory. i the objects one after another reming the person of Jesus. I I remember what I thought of last night + was too sleepy to put down. Viewing Male‐ branche's "vision in God" + occasional could as the case, how does my ten volume meta t i It is very, very important to realize that in "Tears" two distinct selves in me were writing two paralled but uncon nected narratives: (1) the overt, explicated political one about forced labor camps + a us ruled by 5 police marshals, the pols + nats. + (2) a latent religious narrative about Christ + Rome + St. Paul - + agapē Here, in 2-3-74 these two selves as (so to speaks thesis + antithesis ignited into one single ultra-synthesis in which the apparently conflicting elements that divided them off from each other were fused in a totally new, vast vision of history, society, God freedom, tyranny that constituted a reve‐ lation to each self. "The whole is greater than the sum of its parts" but, more, This meant psychological integration for me individuation in Jung's sense, wholeness, etc. an end to internal conflict. this synthesis combined revolutionary political activism of a marxist type with a form of Xtianity unknown to me: apoca lyptic millenarianism of a Jewish Messianic nature, involving a Zoroastrian dialectic (much as the Essenes believed in). The common link that made this synthesis possible was apparently, the Hegelian dialectic which could be discerned in apocalyptic millenarian Xtianity, Jewish eschatology + Marxism + of course Zoroastrianism: my primary vision was of a conflict tant co his in tory 8 found e.g. in the book of Daniel in which an enslaved people fight against a tyranical Empire to establish a just upon Kingdom under messianic rule. grasping this conception of history resolved my inner conflicts by this, a higher organizing principle or structure that sub‐ This all-embracing sumed all parts of me the conception of history, society, man + dialectic I put forth in "Valis" so that "Valis" is simultaneously a religious + a political novel (technically, it presents the view of active millenarianism; we must act politically to establish the Messianic Kingdom) (it will not come on its own. So "Valis" is both a broad overview + a call for positive political action essentially revolutionary.) This does not in any way involve an about face in my political stance (i.e. that which I inherited from Berkeley). It simply fuses it with my metaphysical, religious, epistemo‐ logical, philosophical views - note: "epis temological"; all my years of epistemological preoccupation are involved in this synthesis; viz: I find that Xtian apocalyptic history is the true, hidden essence of reality (which of course brings in the Messianic salvific mission of Jesus Christ + ultimately God). Thus all areas of my worldview are involved + int grated in this synthesis the political element has religious implications. t the religious element has epistemological implications. There are exceedingly profound historical ims implica e of It is in history that all this is played out. But until yesterday when I reread "Valis" once again I failed to notice just how political a book it is. All my thinking has been philosophical + theos logical; the political part just seemed to happen. For one thing, it was always there; what is new is the religious mystical part. Also, until reagan got in office the political part seemed merely theo‐ retical, but now, suddenly it seems t + the 8 immediate + vital. Suddenly "Valis vision presented in "Valis" is politically relevent, as if overnight so. This simply, is because the Empire is back + stronger + The timing of the book is worse than ever. really extraordinary but most of all the book constitutes a warning: of the imminence of divine judgment that what we see is the mani‐ festation in the contemporary mundane world of what is actually a timeless struggle between a great organism + something that is embedded inodein it that it has galvanized itself to kill. n i t stoned insight: I assimilated theology, metaphysics, epistemology + philosophy to my political beliefs. they are all changed but the political beliefs remain the same; they rality my political beliefs. They give it cosmo timeless scape; it is validated by + issues from "divine authority + o alis" is a fusion of the political theme of "Tears," the religious theme of "dies Iral + the street Patois + split personality + dope themes of it Scanner" - it logically follows the 3 previous novels. all fused together âž€ Politics. N (in "Valis Religion + philosophy my [Note actual life (in the street + other aspects: death + loss, friends. So I am right, 2-3-74 represented a flash in which the independent areas of my thinking fused into one great new synthesis in which everything I had t thought before was subsumed beneath vision of God. why, then, 2-3-74 is a natural evolution in my thinking. Three or separate four - all my major - threads came it shows in together in one new vision "Valis." I was moving ineluctably toward (if all went well) synthesis total synthesis, for the first time (in my life). "Valis" is composed of: 1) My 10 volume meta novel (epistemology). 5) history. 2) Politics 3) religion 4) My actual life all fused together into a total vision that is a structure emanating out of a mutual exchange of (between, among) these five elements up to then existing indepent of 11 one another in my mind. Suddenly they were no longer separate; suddenly they modified one another: parts of a whole So in 2-3-74 every aspect of my mental life was brought into contact with all the others, modifying, amending, reinforcing correcting, interpreting; + out of them came one interpretation of - all areas. something greater than a jungian reconciling of the opposites was involved although that was involved certainly). No that happened. that is the primary thing unction) My intuitive facult was involved to its ultimate. Yes: this is what my meta-abstraction was: the ultimate use to which the Jungian intuitive faculty the can be put: seeing in an instant relationship between + among all the separate contents (thoughts, thought This clusters/constituents) of the mind. is, psychologically, a supreme achievement: one total all-embracing total view is achieved due to one specific (added) insight (namely, one object at two - what this signified) places + times I can figure ant is that this all taught me to abruptly for the first time order reality in terms of recurrent constants (+ all that this implies + - v. Plato + the universals) confers a hunch as to the true nature call it profound. that of world + self. I He sees the same object at two places + two times. Then space + time are not real (he realizes) because It is logically impossible that the same object can be at two places + two times. What he experiences as two places + two times must in fact be one + the same space-time locus. what does this have to do with Forms? It has to do with a false impression under which he has been the laboring regarding space + time issue is space + time. It must be possible for two or more realities to "one occupy one space-time (why? space-time" signifies here-now. Why, the object in question is here - now + that object resides in two entirely different places + times; it occurs twice but is perceived once therefore both places + both times