is it? 31.5 million to 1. Then where are we now? But Jesus taught it then; the disparity was true then. But then it coincided with the real world. But it couldn't have. But this is exactly what he taught. Laws of physics involved? Evolution? There must be not only an outside world but a meta brain function coinciding with it. This is stimulated into cutting in ("waking up" "born from above"). Signal - noise. It has exactly to do with what Jesus said, but what did he say? Normally we must recirculate our own thoughts - in contrast with the rasp from outside. folder 48 - 110 folder 48 - 110 {Illustration of a loop.} A loop normally. It can only be interrupted from outside, so it must be (as I say in "VR") auto- in origin; from the person's own brain. This points to "Ubik" + cold-pac + Lem's point about world based on your own memories. It is auto-world in some way. It must not be real time, then. Which fits in with it really being Acts. "Halving time"? It's not consuming -occupying- real time. Like as with a dream. Deja vu. There's something weird going on. Recirculation that consumes no real time. Prison. Tomb. Soul. "3 Women." The rasp that can't be worked in - by another mind, so not auto-world! I.e. self-world - re Asher + the Fox. Harsh. Vs ethereal - the latter the dream. The harshness is hallmark of reality. Stubborn. Like a cramped muscle or having to pee wakes you. Socrates: "I am a goad. Gadfly - a nuisance." "Men sleep + love the sleep." What did I see when I saw Valis qua world? Did he bore into this world; but if camouflaged then syntonic; ach; we normally work him in[to the dream]; don't see him as set to ground. We don't distinguish; he wants us to distin Gradual, so as not to cause us to die of shock? What a shock! folder 48 - 111 I'm within an ace of it. The dream is penetrated + our own mind "syntonics" the penetrating thing; we cause it to blend - we do it to ourselves because we want to dream on (cf the Fox: it's beautiful). So we camouflage it or anti set/ground it, to keep the dream going. We're plugged in, as in "Maze." + someone has found us in this state - v. all my novels. Waking is dangerous for us: terrifying. Even if done gently. By the outside initiator-intervener. Socrates. Eliade. "VR". We are literally asleep ("polyencephalic fusion"). This world is our own creation, not forced on us to delude us. No. Remember my dream? Belial won + holds all the centers of power. I had to be told (from outside) because Belial makes the dream syntonic to us so we collude. (With him.) The Fall. Christ was defeated in his coming here to wake us; he was to be, even more so than Socrates the gadfly. But they killed him. Got rid of him; killed Socrates, too. It's not good vs evil but asleep vs awake, irreal + auto-world (self generated, yes: the Rati self-stimulation) vs real. Q for "YHWH": how to create the rasp. What will rasp, since most things get worked into the dream + its irreal time feed back loop, its auto feed back world. Two things necessary to maintain it 1) Loss of memory of real world 2) Perceptual/cognitive occlusion + we have these! folder 48 - 112 folder 48 - 112 If the rasp wakes you up sufficiently then 1) you remember 2) you see (lose occlusion) automatically; (1) + (2) follow automatically if the rasp works. As with normal what we call dreams: if you wake up a little you (1) remember the real world + (2) the dream world ceases to be convincing. So (1) + (2) follow if the rasp works. If "VR" is correct, then an unpleasant [actual] reality faces you (as represented by Rybus' dome) from which you flee. The supernatural beauty I saw was not the real world - which was in fact a BIP. The beauty was the awakener. No. I don't get it. Beauty beyond any in this world + the BIP! Both! Ach: the high state of true wakefulness 1) relates you to such higher levels of beauty a la Plotinus but 2) you discover you are in a prison: Our dream world ----- Prison } True reality ----------------------------- Garden } bimodel. 2 source cosmogony? Higher beauty (garden) + prison mutually exclusive? Only if your mind is working at its damped down-ness to the dream. Fact is, both BIP + Garden are real - bimodel tension of extremes, which we couldn't endure, so we took refuge in this world as compromise solution, as if to resolve the tension; it was unbearable. BIP------Our world-----Garden extreme----------------extreme folder 48 - 113 folder 48 - 113 The BIP + PTG must be sine wave pulsation: {Illustration of sine wave oscillating between BIP and PTG} Our dream world auto-produced. Risk. Shrinking from risk - hence retractile from knowing. Unity of opposites BIP + PTG. High stakes. To try for PTG you risk BIP. Could go either way. Retreat from epistemological risk. Too dangerous. Heaven and hell; Purgatorio as compromise for the faint hearted - not so much war as gamble. Like turning up the next card. Eagles: "It could be heaven, it could be hell." That's it. Strive for PTG, drop to BIP. They both are real + - yes: "VR" is correct. Final 7th battle outcome will retroactively decide; roll back through time. "VR" is correct; Valis got through to me. We must have taken refuge -run away- from the war! Consequences of losing too dangerous. "VR" is correct: we could lose [the 7th + final battle]. I see: the 7th battle is going on, + 2 realities oscillate (pulse phase) in + out until it's decided. "VR" is correct. Absolute faith in YHWH is required. Here is where primal angst enters: awareness (v. "VR") comes in: awareness of what losing would mean (BIP). Worse -no Sein- nothing! No you + no world. Cosmic death. Heidegger is correct. The risk. The universe could turn into a dream because in point of fact our universe is a dream. If you abandon it, what will cut in to replace it? The BIP! Which is also the PTG. folder 48 - 114 folder 48 - 114 The BIP + the PTG are the same, but this makes no sense. Let's see how it would be. 1) BIP = Acts. ("Tears") 2) The Holy Spirit (God) existed at the time of Acts - before Masada. Emmanuel at Acts; God was with us; he was here: viz: {Illustration of two circles "God" and "BIP" intersecting at "Acts".} God / Christ / Holy Spirit entered the prison. So you get both. We today (?) have neither. {Illustration of two boxes "God" and "Hell" linked by "Acts".} Acts is bimodular: heaven + hell joined, "law of excluded middle"; opposite "ends" of reality fused. This our world is a compromise: no God (heaven, PTG) + no hell (BIP). PTG + BIP are the extremes of reality. They've got to be fused in order to repair the rupture on the Godhead. At Acts they were (are?) fused, at Acts + only at Acts: it's unique. Yes of course; God entered our world. It failed. "VR" is correct. The two realms (!) couldn't be held together very long. So we have the rupture again that was the one preceeding Acts. {Illustration of two lines "upper" and "lower" crossing and then crossing back. The intersection area is "Acts".} Only Acts is real, but it was temporary + also permanent (bimodel solution) I mean it having been real it will always be real, if you are there, + we really are there but shrink from it: too threatening. folder 48 - 115 folder 48 - 115 You can have this: {Illustration: two boxes "PTG upper" and "BIP lower" linked by "Acts", with the comment "no das Nichts".} Or: our world: mostly das Nichts. How frightening to realize! 1) That realization is frightening, + then we see Acts + its binary nature, + that is frightening, + frightens us back to our world. We would have to face (v "VR") + Masada, the defeat! This is what we're not facing: the AD 70/73 defeat! After the Acts fusion. Acts may have been written in 70 but it deals with an earlier period. __ Okay. A second, further birth is possible, + Jesus taught this. Asher in "VR" is initially not yet 2nd born. This preceeds Xtianity, but Jesus' teachings taught it best (esp the Gnostic version). But other (mystery e.g.) religions knew it. Plato + Pythagoras knew it. Buddha knew it. This is the crux. Something rasps in from outside + we are born the second time (stage). So we are still partly in a (or the) womb. There is an outside world + a mind out there. Our world is auto-recirculated in dead (irreal) time. The real world is 1) harsh (BIP); + 2) beautiful (PTG) both. The main thing is the rasp (from outside) that can't be fitted into the dream - i.e. the world, +, upon waking you up, causes you to remember, + to see folder 48 - 116 the dream quality of the dream - i.e. world. So 1) Rasp that is from outside + can't be fitted in. 2) Dream world. Disclosed. 3) Memory (anamnesis). 4) Loss of occlusion. See different reality. 5) Restoration of true personality. 6) Set/ground. 7) Valis distinguished. It all starts with the rasp as in "VR." If the autograph is genuine it is not from -a part of- this (i.e. dream) world. If it is a fake it is part of this (fake?) world: Either it comes in from outside (a rasp?) or it doesn't. Dokos. Fake autograph, but perfect fake. Syntonic. Fox as real is from outside. {Note} So this world is dokos. Outside: the genuine. {Note:} So "outside" means unpleasant i.e. super beautiful; i.e. authentically beautiful, because what is real (i.e. from outside) is beautiful because it is real. Anything real (Sein). More beautiful than the ethereality of the dream, the irreal. Even the BIP is, if (since) it is real. So a real BIP is more beautiful than the best part of the dream because Sein = pure beauty. folder 48 - 117 folder 48 - 117 True beauty is an aspect of the real + the real only. Modern art knows this. + the reason why is because Sein (the real) = YHWH. That is why, + "VR" says so. If you ask why a real brick is more beautiful than the most ethereal dream. It is because deus sive substantia. If it is real it is YHWH. If it is not real it is not YHWH. So the real is the via ad deum. It (the real) is not the artifact -made by- of God but is God. The Roogna letter was dysyntonic: it "could not be" - i.e. it was a rasp. Could not be, given me + world. + yet I knew that the Xerox letter would follow. So there's more here than rasp. If it couldn't be, given me + [my] world, how could I know that the Xerox missive would follow - as it did? This points to incommensurates left over from a previous, cancelled track. Which is why anamnesis would be induced. It would be of the former track, the "Tears" or BIP world. "Outside" then equals something from a suppressed memory + other (different) world. Deja vu. This points -this knowing the Xerox letter would come, + it did- points to the rasp as being a case where something from a previous track got left over - i.e. it folder 48 - 118 folder 48 - 118 wasn't expunged. "This can't exist" I kept saying about the Roogna