acosmism. For "Thomas" this world is a simulation, a re-creation, a copy -- something on that order. Thus the AI voice which spoke to me originally in high school and may have informed and aided me subliminally earlier in my life, in fact during my infancy. So when I died -- sic! meant to write "die," not "Died"!-- when I die I will not (that was "Thomas" working the typewriter keys, obviously; he puts a lot into my writing; his writing; okay: our writing) when I die I will fail to separate from this world but will retrack retrograde, and be aware of my earlier, living self; "Thomas" is completely aware of the situation; were he not he could not have handled 3-74. It is possible that the desire to retrace in this world is connected with 3-74, it being a desire to tackle the Xerox missive situation once more, this time armed with later knowledge as to it being a forgery, hence what to do with it. Thus "Thomas," my postmortem self, alters his own actual life! Which is to say, solution B as an override to his original prior faulty solution A where he succumbed to the trap. But then we get into the paradoxes of time travel, the erase and feedback circuit and the "smart typewriter" model, especially the bootstrap phenomenon. folder 82 - 060 folder 82 - 060 -9- 3-3-80 So when "Thomas" seized conscious control, this world looked like the distant past to him, which it was. His religious knowledge certainly shows that there is an afterlife -- the COMMEDIA syndrome that I have noted. Thus I combine my "I am dead and in the afterlife" theory with the "I caused time to run backward via a paranormal talent" theory, in this fashion. Very good. I explain the basis of the paranormal talent. And I show why I have written --"Thomas" has written-- the ten volume acosmic two-realities meta-novel. One could reason that a breakdown in the normal separation from this world at the time of death has been turned to an advantage, which fits my earlier "punishment/opportunity" theory. "Thomas," then, sees the universe backward, as I know from 3-74, and because of 3-74 I know how it appears to him; it is very different, with information being constantly released by processes rather than absorbed, and a terrific negentropic process-system going on in which what I call phylogons are laid down by a master control entity. It is not a substantial universe (made of matter) but an information universe. Of course I saw "pretextual cause" (causality) in 3-74 when "Thomas" was in control! Reverse (backward) cause-and-effect isn't true causality at all; consider a film of an explosion run backward. Objects move, but there is no real cause --as we understand the term-- for their movement; they seem guided by a master invisible mind/hand as they --pieces, say of something that blew up-- begin to reassemble into the original entity (which in fact preceded them qua pieces). Reverse causality isn't causality, so if cause and folder 82 - 061 -10- 3-3-80 effect run backward, plural pieces are correctly viewed as actually a single entity, a unity. Well, they were once. And these plural pieces are reality (it would seem when viewed this way) but in fact (it would seem) are actually one entity whose "mind" guides all of them in teleological activity. There would seem to be an immanent mind controlling them, the plural pieces; every discrete object would seem like one bit or piece of a unitary macro-object. Animation; yes: the changes or movements by the plural pieces would seem to be actions of a sentient body. Purpose would seem to be present; purpose and unity. And no true causality, only "pretextual" cause. Pieces (objects) would collide because they seemed to want to collide, to come together or break apart. We would not see mechanical determinism but -- volition, from within reality, not imposed on it from without. The Prime Mover of Aristotle who instills goal-seeking drive -- we would think we saw that. This would all be due to the fact that effects were occurring before their causes. Rather than being able to see no sense, no pattern, we would see plenty of sense and plenty of pattern, and purpose, or even goals, plans; but no cause. We would think, "Something is faking the existence of cause, but there is no real cause." Again, causality viewed backward presents the appearance ---not of causality-- but of design and purpose, volition, sentience, and, most of all, unity; unity even in plurality, because the plural pieces would seem to possess an affinity, a mutual attraction toward one another. And this is exactly what I saw that I called Valis. Good grief; is it possible that this reverse view is the folder 82 - 062 folder 82 - 062 -11- 3-3-80 correct one? That I was right --more right than I realized-- when I said in my UK speech "that we may be seeing the universe backward"? Because when I saw time run backward I saw a clear and evident master entity; was this a mere illusion, a conclusion I jumped to because I did not understand what was actually happening to me, happening in terms of my perception of world? Or does seeing time run backward cause the image of Deity to be, as it were, flushed out into the open, out of its camouflage? If you ran a film of an explosion backward, each piece would seem to know just exactly where to go. Two phenomena: movement that is non-causal, and purpose or knowledge. And this is precisely what I saw; also, information was extruded from reality (which I explain by my analysis that reality normally incorporates information because information, ala Torah, is its source). And we know from astro physics and astonomy that the universe is one vast explosion, moving toward entropy. So if we saw time run backward we would see an explosion run backward wherever we looked, at every level. On the other hand -- suppose you played a tape and were not able to extract any pattern or information (both) out of it. And then one day you accidentally ran it backward and heard pattern and obtained information; wouldn't you leap to the conclusion that what you called "forward" and "backward" were to be reversed for proper use? Pattern as merely seeming I can understarid...but information? I mean, Valis told me about Chrissy's birth defect, during the period that I saw time run backward. Aren't I saying, Yes, there was a mind and under those circumstances it could communicate with me? This does not sound like a malfunction but rather a restoration. folder 82 - 063 folder 82 - 063 -12- 3-3-80 It sounds as if I was seeing reality properly for the first time in my life. In fact information was extruded on all sides; I mean the plasmate. In fact reality resembled a brain with the plasmate the neural circuits carrying information. If this was an erroneous view it certainly is strange that it was so coherent, that it revealed so much. Pretextual cause I can understand. The semblance of pattern or goal-seeking I can understand. But information, specifically directed at me that I vitally needed? Aw come on! What I saw was process, activity, coherence, sentience, purpose, and an incredible beauty, and I didn't just see Valis externally; I was linked to its mind directly, although I admit that that was probably "Thomas," not Valis. But still -- reality run backwards was coherent and information rich. It spoke a language everywhere. Even the animals seemed to be intelligent; yes, that's it; reality run backward became palpably intelligent. One argument could be that the immanent presence (Shekhina) works backward in time and so I saw her when I saw time run backward. In any case this is how the deterministic system (heimarmene) is overcome: by getting time to run backward. Well, I am getting back once more into the fruitless realm of pure speculation, but here is what I have accomplished that seems nailed down: I caused time to run backward and as a result what I saw assumed the characteristics of pretextual cause, purpose, and I called it Valis; so now I know what Valis is, and what my seeing it is due to. Whether in fact "Thomas" is me returning from the beyond I really don't know, but in any case some part of me is normally precog and, under enormous stress, capable of moving retrograde in time, whereupon world looks quite different. folder 82 - 064 folder 82 - 064 -13- 3-3-80 The disturbance in time perception, in which it is seen to run backward -- my realization that this is at the heart of 3-74 creates a firm basis for understanding 3-74 with certitude and precision. The material in my writing of the Sixties points definitely to a precog faculty in me, and there may indeed be another mind in me continually traveling retrograde in time; in any case, I do have an ability to obtain information from the future, and, under extreme pressure, this faculty becomes conscious, with the result that I actually see causal processes running in reverse, under which conditions what I call Valis is visible -- and under which conditions necessary information not available by ordinary/normal means is within my grasp. The purpose (or use) of this causing time to run backwardis the gaining of information from the future, not a control overreality directly; but the result is the same: it is a coping mechanism, with high survival value. I really can only speculate as to how this mechanism works (I died and began to run backward along my life track, etc., the Shekhina, etc.) but work it does and work it did, and the universe seen backward is quite another matter entirely. Causality ceases to exist and for some reason, I know not what, vast amounts of information are visible in world itself, which is really baffling. But since the information is there and retrievable when reality (time) is seen to run backward, it is not so surprising that the survival talent to so view it would arise; if there was no information to be gained under these circumstances the talent would be pointless because useless. The information so to speak generates the talent. So I know what happened, and I know why what happened caused me to see what I saw (Valis), and I know the purpose of it; all I don't folder 82 - 065 folder 82 - 065 -14- 3-3-80 know is how it was done. There seems to be --and to have always been-- another mind in my head, and it moves retrograde in time; this would be "Thomas" and this would be the AI voice, and this would explain the material in my writing of the Sixties and TEARS. Now that I have explained Valis it would seem I could drop the theological interpretation, which is really dependent on my view of Valis and my inability to understand that view, that perception; it is now simply, very simply, explicated, and with no need of theology. It started out on Saturday night when I said, "I saw time run backward." This led me to the theory of a paranormal talent that disrupted time, and this one explanation covered virtually everything, as I soon realized (coupled with the realization that I am chronically a precog, and that this precognition peaked into something qualitatively different --and conscious-- under the stress of 3-74). Finally, today, I realized that the pretextual cause that is not cause that I term Valis readily can be accounted for when time is seen to run backward: under those circumstances there is the semblance of purpose and the absence of causality, since when cause and effect occur in reverse there is no cause and effect, just pattern of movement. When Valis goes as a theological or