be "Thomas" and this would be the AI voice, and this would explain the material in my writing of the Sixties and TEARS. Now that I have explained Valis it would seem I could drop the theological interpretation, which is really dependent on my view of Valis and my inability to understand that view, that perception; it is now simply, very simply, explicated, and with no need of theology. It started out on Saturday night when I said, "I saw time run backward." This led me to the theory of a paranormal talent that disrupted time, and this one explanation covered virtually everything, as I soon realized (coupled with the realization that I am chronically a precog, and that this precognition peaked into something qualitatively different --and conscious-- under the stress of 3-74). Finally, today, I realized that the pretextual cause that is not cause that I term Valis readily can be accounted for when time is seen to run backward: under those circumstances there is the semblance of purpose and the absence of causality, since when cause and effect occur in reverse there is no cause and effect, just pattern of movement. When Valis goes as a theological or religious constituent, theology itself goes, because Valis is the heart of it. What the real issue is, here, is information that can only be gained if you can subjectively cause time hence cause and effect to run backward, because then you have in your possession now information that you need that through normal channels you can only obtain later, which is to say, too late to be of any use. So this all is a matter of survival and a faculty to promote that survival. This has to do with biological adaptation to stress, not folder 82 - 066 -15- 3-3-80 God. When my subliminal precog faculty flooded into consciousness I was totally bewildered by the radically altered perception of world that confronted me, and I took refuge in theological interpretations, deeming it an inexplicable supernatural intervention, a miracle; but in point of fact if a subliminal precog talent were to threshold it would in itself produce such a violent shift in experience of world; it would in itself with no divine constituent involved give rise to a bewildering maze of perceptual upheaval, much as the first creature to develop a lensed eye must have experienced; he must have been amazed, terrified and baffled, as I was, but, like me, thankful indeed, for inexplicable as his altered perception of reality was, he knew that it had saved his life. It would seem evident to me now, from the vantage-point of six years later, that this paranormal faculty surfacing at a time of dire need, of life-and-death crisis, was as frightening to me as the crisis itself and far more difficult to understand. Yet at the time, as I say, I knew it was saving me, and I consigned the deed to God's providence --which it may have been, in terms of species evolution and survival-- and gave thanks -- rightly so. My world became at that time bewildering and chaotic, but rich with vital information, the goal of the talent, and I put the information to use and was extricated rapidly. I knew something unfathomable was happening to me, something never before reported and very important; I was seeing the world in a way that, perhaps, no one had ever seen it before...and now I have a good idea why. Certainly, if you can subjectively cause time to run backward, you are going to see a very different world. And it was folder 82 - 067 folder 82 - 067 -16- 3-3-80 different in a way that one could not foresee; I mean the fact of the presence of vast amounts of information, especially written information; but of course this was the target of the faculty, its goal, its reason for existing. It was as if the need for this information had created the faculty out of nothing, and long in advance of the crisis. That, too, was necessary; a creature that is going to need a lensed eye cannot grow the eye the hour the predator is swooping down at him; he must grow the eye in advance so that it is ready to operate when the danger arises. All faculties are therefore in a sense precognitive, in that they foresee their own use. The material in my writing definitely points to an ability in me stretching over many years and points diametrically away from either a miracle in 3-74 or an ETI or USSR microwave incident; it was not an incident but a thresholding, and that is a crucial realization. Being able at last to point to one single factor that would explain virtually everything (and what it does not seem to explain can reasonably be consigned to the "chaotic and bizarre" aspects of such a radical new way of relating to reality) I have been able, at last, to utilize the scientific method of Parsimony: the most facts explained by the smallest hypothesis; further, this hypothesis is more sane than the florid religious ones, which always struck me as a kind of mental capitulation to the unknown, a fancy way of saying "I don't know what happened, so it must have been God." Since the purpose of the faculty is to net information it is not surprising that, when it became active, information arrived from every direction and meta-direction; in a way the explanation for that lies with the faculty, which knew that the information was out there. So the question, "How does this folder 82 - 068 folder 82 - 068 come to arise?" can perhaps be best answered by saying, "It arises because the organism knew that it was there and developed a faculty by which to receive it." This is very important because the remaining unexplained elements of 2-3-74 have mainly to do with information. But that is the point of the whole thing: information by which to survive. From a severely pragmatic viewpoint the issue as to how the information came to arise in itself is meaningless or at best can be ignored. If it is there, a faculty will arise to trap it, and it did. My reference sources say that it is not known whether time moves (and we stand still) or time stands still and we move. Well, 3-74 makes it clear that we move, and the direction of our movement can change (as acid trips show; we can slow down); and 3-74 began with my thinking coming faster and faster; my time rate was speeding up, evidentally. And then, in relation to outer events, to the world, I moved in such a way that the outer world (time) flowed backward; which is to say, change moved retrograde ("We know only that there is change," as the E of Ph put it on time). It is significant to 3-74 proper, then, vitally meaningful and inexorably related, that inner time was accellerating more and more -- perhaps due to the lithium. My precog faculty was changing, too. My whole relationship to time was changing, or, put another way, my time in relation to the outer world was changing. Perhaps I finally moved so rapidly that I overtook events so that, in relation to me, they were moving backward, in terms of Einstein's analysis of the relativity of motion. This would be the twin synchronized tapes that I talk about; this put them out of synch, the inner one sprinting ahead until the whole structure folder 82 - 069 folder 82 - 069 -18- 3-3-80 of perception underwent a metamorphosis, starting with the phosphene firing. Does any drug have this effect? I once figured out that the transformation was the opposite of that induced by acid and by superdope; there, outer events advance more and more slowly, but here there was a speeding up until time turned back on itself finally. It is not surprising that lithium acts in an opposite direction from acid, since an acid trip is psychotomimetic, and this is what you do not want. As I figured out a long time ago, my neural firing slowed down --this is exactly what lithium is designed to achieve-- and as a result outer events speeded up. But at some point there was a conversion, which is to say, they speeded up until they turned back on themselves at least in relation to me. They could only go just so fast. What I had in effect (as I've noted before) was time lapse photography effect and apparently it can only be carried so far. Which is to say, the percipient would see outer events happening faster and faster and then the transformation would set in; what in effect would be a retrograde motion in time. So there is an upper limit to this, and then something drastic happens as regards the percipient. But we are dealing with a mind that shows a long history of precognition in the first place, so this is just an enhancing of something that already goes on in that mind; in effect it would cause the precognition to threshold, and so it did. But the lithium does not explain it; the need explains it, and here is one unique thing about this faculty: by its very nature, by its intrinsic constitution, it is set apart by its ability to anticipate both the need for it and its use. Uniquely, it can tell folder 82 - 070 folder 82 - 070 when it will be needed; it cannot be surprised, and so in the final analysis it thresholded because it is in its nature to anticipate when it must threshold -- it is its own cause. It regulates itself, and transacts its own arrival. This is the paradox I noted earlier in regard to time travel; because of the boostrap aspect of the talent it is its own cause. I have felt for a couple of days that what I am dealing with now is not the issue of what happened in 3-74 but rather the mechanics of what happened, as if I have found the machine and am simply taking it apart piece by piece now that I finally have my hands on it. A simple explanation: I overran external time, caused it to run backward in relation to myself, and extracted the information from the drastically altered world that I needed. More, I can see that a decade before 3-74 I was subliminally aware of the problem that lay ahead and was already beginning to analyze it, as I am analyzing my response now. Knowing what was coming, and when, my faculty surfaced on cue and assumed motor-center control; it pre-empted my normal conscious personality and without ideation handled the situation that it had long known about. What would have been the value of knowing about it, anticipating it and studying it, and then failing to act? The precog talent is of no value if it does not lead to survival-oriented action, and for the talent as a knowing talent to do its job it had to transform itself on cue from a foreknowing to an acting. Thus its seizing control of my tongue and my motor centers when the Xerox missive arrived was as relentless and inexorable as any power a living entity can muster; the actions on 3-20-74 were locked into the years of precognition as the second and completing folder 82 - 071 -20- 3-3-80 half. Precognition was only one side of the faculty, the side that operated in advance of the situation. The other side was the rising to conscious control, the abolishing of my normal ego, the taking over of motor and speech centers, the drastic reorganization of perception so that nothing that needed to be known consciously was not known consciously. Knowing subliminally was no longer any good. The moment had arrived. My psyche reversed itself so that what