II of Faust when Faust halts a fleeting moment. _Flux_ (process) is real; the dialectic flip flops at enormous velocity, destroying each "image" as soon as it pops up. In this process only _type_ is real, & the individual creature just a flash. The mythic tragic drama is a Spiritual Ritual that breaks the Prison of Flux which erases the individual for the sake of the constant : the type. What Christ as type does is, Christ is individual as type, & turns the process inside out (which is why I said I was no longer blind, & had been seeing the universe backwards, & now I was on its outside skin, like walking on a balloon - I had it inside me, an inner-outer transform. What must be realized is that not only is the individual normally mere means, it is also not real (v. Plato & realism). "Christ" is type of the epiperson & reverses the means-end, individual-type basis & absolute time hence process (time becomes space). The individual becomes eternal; hence immortal. The suffering of the routine individual is valorized into not just _a_ tragedy-drama but _the_ tragedy-drama surpassing _all_ types. The means epiperson is revealed to be God without losing his means status (humiliation & death). The efficacy of this can only be understood if it is realized that the Platonic view of the real world of archetypes is correct, and that the phenomenal world is folder 49 - 107 folder 49 - 107 a shadow. However, it is a shadow in which the suffering of individual creatures is real (point one) & must somehow be rectified (point two); this is done through the crucifixion tragedy-drama; "Christ" is any & all creatures, _ubiquitous_ & polymorphous, as vicarious surrogate viz : the creature becomes him (or he it) & reverses the meansend, phenomenal-archetypal relationship, investing the means with true reality (rather than Flux), space instead of time, his mind - or rather "his" mind - he is not an historical person. "Christ" is a drama, a tragic event outside of time; it is (Man Gibt _always_ First Century A.D. in Palestine - hence I saw Acts. Hence in the Eucharist we eat the Body & drink the Blood & consume - & are reciprocally consumed by "Christ." Mythic identification (Homology) with the God (or eternal type of types : he is the "suffering servant" - means of the DNA : means as type). "Christ" is born in you. He comes into being if the proper stages of the Passion are correctly re-enacted. The magic occurs & the means creature becomes the God type while remaining what it is but no longer in Flux. "Christ" does not exist when this transformation occurs. Phylogenic memory & mind are assimilated to the epiperson rather than the other way around. The universe is turned inside out. So "Christ" is indeed not an avatara of a God or of God, but is creature-as-God, means exalted to type, an event that turns reality inside out. The means (creature) has assimilated the type thus stopping time - turning it into space. folder 49 - 108 folder 49 - 108 There are many mythic enactments, but Christ's is the most important since, if you know the story of the drama, you know that it is not a King or God but the epicreature who is "resurrected." (survives humiliation & death.) The element of mocking, deriding & humiliating is as important as the death, since it establishes his degraded [means] status (i.e. he is not killed by someone who knows who he is, as in the case of his "brother" Zagreus, by the Titans). "Christ" is not a God but a Man-God, a syzygy; to believe he is wholly God (Avatar) or man is to destroy the value of the drama. This means that what happened to me in 2-3-74 is _indubitably_ the Christification of the mythic tragedy-drama of the crucifixion. Eliade throws light on all this. This does not prove that there is either "Christ" or God, but rather the possibility of stopping time & reversing the roles of means & end (transient creature & Platonic type, as revealed in my sheep dream). It has to do with DNA script programming & the phylogenic self vs the means epiperson, the "Bubble" - it has to do with the weary wheel & the machinery (Law) & being freed from the machinery by this means-end, epicreature-archetype reversed. Anamnesis represents the acquisition of the phylogenic self by the epiself. The breaking through into individual consciousness of the supra-temporal archetypal consciousness, whose timeless eternal self is the real life form (& which we epipersons never see normally) folder 49 - 109 folder 49 - 109 This amounts to a revolt against the whole basic system of means-end, epicreature-archetype, ontogenic-phylogenic Flux dialectic. Like Prometheus stealing the sacred fire the ontogenic self has incorporated the phylogenic "fire" [i.e. timeless self]. The Gospels didn't write themselves. Some group of Jewish Mystics invented this system back at the time of Acts. The substitution of the Flux-mean for the typal-end; they devised this. Ideally, it would serve to free _all_ means creatures, all means (Flux) Creation, from what Paul called "the Law" & "the elemental powers' - he knew what he meant (astral determinism). What I call the twin-tape scripting (which in us is the DNA, but it is outside us, as well). The fact of the matter is that in being the expendable means, the life of the epicreature is one of agony & doom as (as in my sheep dream) it is contoured to produce the eternal type. Unless Christ occurs - & the epicreature assimilates the phylogenic type - there is no alternative hope for it. So we can regard Christ as an invading champion, entering reality, on behalf of epiphenomenality as a whole - not for this creature here only, but for epiphenomenality as a whole. Hence I say Valis, camouflaged, has invaded our world. Thus Christ is pitted against Nature which uses the individual in the service of the species, which in terms of evolution is a unique event; it has never occurred before. For the first time in the history of the planet the epicreature acquires the supratemporality of the species. It draws folder 49 - 110 folder 49 - 110 _on_ the species, rather than the normal otherway-around; it is now ontogony using phylogony! Q : How can the ontogenic be spared its role as means to the phylogenic? A : If the ontogenic can draw on the phylogenic, _reversing_ the normal means-end relationship between them. Then technically, there is the problem of _how_ this is done. It is done through the abasement drama in which the death-crisis of an ontogenic organism rises to greater [Spiritual] _worth_ than that of the type : (as revealed by my sheep dream) i.e. acquires higher meaning, & thus the type becomes subordinated to it in terms of importance. If the fate of an ontogenic organism is more important than its type, then if a mythic enactment of this is set up, the ontogenic will eat the phylogenic in terms of purpose - i.e. means-end. Christ renders a verdict of Damnation on the Platonic type system that abases the individual creature; & he assaults its mechanism. The method : the ontogon assimilates the phylogon, via a specific mythic tragic drama in which a man is God (who is above the types, they being in his mind; this is the toppling of the ancient powers). The bursting of the DNA - the ontogon taking control of itself (Homeostasis), Christ is an event, a sudden reversal of polarities between the phylogon & the ontogon. Maybe all Christ can give the ontogon is temporary participation in the phylogon (type) so that it is it - & afterward knows of its - really, then, its own - eternal existence. folder 49 - 111 If the ontogon becomes the phylogon it participates in immortality : it does not just know about the phylogon & its immortality, it actually possesses it by mythic but actual identification. The "Christ" is any time an ontogon becomes a phylogon, which is a very special situation involving a transformation in time & space & esp. memory, since memory & identity are one. But this does not occur naturally; it requires knowledge of the Christ tragedy & a belief in it that causes the person - the ontogon - to merge with the Christ of the drama (just how this works I don't know, but it has something to do with Agape under the conditions of pity & terror; Agape is the key, which is why Paul stresses it above all vicarious role-taking). The inner & outer realities exchange places; Christ is introjected & the self of the ontogon is projected. Perhaps the hermetic transform? the ontogon must _know_ - come to know - something ("Pistis'"? or "Gnosis"?). Literally he knows that Christ died for him (again the vicarious role taking, but in reverse) & rose from the dead; in antiquity did they understand this to mean he became transformed from the phenomenal realm to the realm of forms? lower to upper? Then is Christ the phylogon of our species? This fits with my vision of the artists at Disneyland all drawing the same person & rendering him in countless _"pictures"_! These would be the ontogons of which there is just one folder 49 - 112 folder 49 - 112 phylogon : Christ. In which case the crucial Gnosis is realizing (suddenly?) that one (the percipient ontogon) is Christ? That he in seeing the Christ drama is actually seeing his fate - sees it because suddenly he grasps (Moksa) that he : Christ :: ontogon : phylogon-identity that he has & has had over many ontogenic lifetimes; in other words, anamnesis occurs as phylogenic memory & hence identity comes because he recognizes the Christ drama as his own phylogenic "story"! Then the Christ story is a story about the human phylum in dramatic form, depicting its total evolutionary history over tens of thousands of years, recapitulated in the ontology of each individual _if_ anamnesis occurs. So when I saw the Golden Fish sign I knew the truth - not just about the Xtian underground - it at all - but about Christ sine myself. I knew the truth of the phylum, of which I am an ontological part. There must be some kind of brain comparison - analog - model - template - picture ala Wittgenstein that takes place; the brain applies what it sees to itself - ah! The Hermetic equation of identity of inner & outer. The brain in a _blitz_ leaps to understanding, & _becomes_ what it "sees"! This is why conversions are often lightning swift; they are Moksa. "It is true & it applies to _me_." Whereupon it _is_ true (well, it is; the proposition "it is true folder 49 - 113 folder 49 - 113 & it refers to (is) me" is correct & the ontogenic - phylogenic transform occurs. It is as if the Christ story is a memory aid - v. Joseph Campbell in his recounting of Gnostic myth, in which the disciple restores his Master's lost memories (of his own identity) by saying & doing certain cryptic things. Then the Christ story depicts the human phylum from its start tens or hundreds of thousands of years ago into its evolved far future, & when the ontogon "remembers" it he (1) extends for that length into time & into vast [i.e.global] spaces & (2) undergoes "resurrection" which is transformation into a phylogon with the knowledge of the whole phylum. He is one vast mind; he is Hagia Sophia, which is what our phylum turns out to be ("God made Man in his own image"). The thing is that seeing the Golden Fish sign caused me to think of Christ & the Christ story as _reality_, present reality & not an historical account of events that