alone can distinguish a camouflage because pat ares through the the D-137 then Fat, being Dionysos. is that which the reason-God Valis who fat/Dionysus the perceives - must combat + destroy. incredible irony is (+ newer saw this) is that only the mad God can see the This is why valid invading reason - God. injures Fat in his (Valis') rule as antitoxin. the true narrator of "Valis," then, reveals himself as the mad God Dionysos, in which case his visions, prophecies + perceptions are selfauthenticating because, being a God; he can Dionysos see what men - mortals - cannot see. notifies us of his presence + power, warns us of the peril of this situation, + supernaturally (with his Godly powers) perceives rescue for us at hand: the antitoxin, the reason-God Holy wisdom "who invades man + world + sobers the landscape" (both Gods are invisible to us, Dionysos who controls our world + renders it irrational; + the invading rational God. alis/Sophia/Logos). Yet Fat never says, v I am Dionysos speaking"; he says, "I it am mad. I am possessed by a God. Any God who possesses you is Dionysus who it madoss the logic is clear; Dionysos is speaking, +, as I say, this is why he (1) knows the situation (world irrationality); + (2) the solution: the invasion by Valis, whom he correctly identifies the rational invading the irrational as an as Fat's powers are that if a God. He t antitoxin. mad, as he says, but he is also a God. Which s does not say. But which can be deduced. he then (as I jokingly suggest in the Platt interview) was I insane (i.e. possessed by Dionysos) up to 2-74, +, upon "Thomas" for the first time invading me, become sane is 0-138 was not, then, invaded by biosis on 2-74 but was invaded by the reason. God" I sobered up. I must have gone mad (to be precise about it) sometime back in the 50s or 60s, perhaps due to the speed, then completely gone nuts around 19ga when nancy became psychotic; I was psychotic when I wrote "Tears" in '70, + certainly also in '71 '70 + '73, + then in early '74 my psychotic "speed" -self collapsed + This a submerged sane-self invaded it would corrolate with "Valis" + the "eight years of projecting horselover Fat" - as clute "Wwhis confession of sustained psychosis say) "For 8 years]," which Sophia healed; viz: I she caused Phil Dick + Horselover Fat to merge back together an one unified sand person - a Healing miracle proving her really to be the Messiah. the narrative technique, then, is very complex + mysterious + tricky, as clute notes. may well be unique in the history of it literature (I meant it to be). or: Did 2-3-74 constitute - not a sobering up - but a manifestation of the mad God's power when caught in a snare? i e e e ut s s Dionysos did not go away; he fully seized control + revealed himself, as in "The Bacchae"? In other words revealed PKD to be - not a mad human; but a human possessed by a man but very powerful God? In which case (very obviously) he himself is Valis, + to impune rationality to Valis is an artful device, an obfuscation? There are not 2 Gods, here, only one, in two modes: (1) latent; (2) active D-139 this would certainly explain why "Tears" is in fact "the Bacchae" + Dionysus himself in me + us me wrote it. + his true power lashed out in 2-3-74 when he found himself in a traps a carefully laid snare; he discerned it with super‐ natural powers; + his true memory returned (my anamnesis); he is, after all, immortal. No wonder I could see set/ground, etc. No; i.e. what no human has ever reported seeing before. + remembered! (3) ➀ I - he, Dionysus - abolished space + time + causation, knew a priori, + perturbed the reality field + prophecied under stress + under sodium pentathol the remembered/recovered my real identity. "God who took me over in 2-3-74" was my own intrinsic nature (which "the Bacchae" substrate in "Tears" verifies) epiphanizing. (2) So I was the author of the time + causation dysfunctions I observed! As I have often conjectured + they 3. This is why I saw ancient crete; there, of Dionysos started out. Then the irrational deity who Fat talks about ("Yaldabaoth") is himself - is me I 2-3-74 was not enthusiasmos; it was an epiphany; "Tears" proves that, + it proves by which God? Oh my God - then my 10 volume meta‐ vor el, my whole 30 year Corpus, is the work if the mad God; it is reality viewed by a by the - mad God Dionysos. But what I see a plost important of all hi io p lies as D-10 forth in "Valis," are then probably true; Dionysos Acts as an oracle, like Apollo. This is one of his supernatural powers. this realization makes more reasonable (if such can be said) that I would be in poss estion of such revelatory knowledge! then I am (as clauden first suggested) a Shaman, periodically taken over by the God, given his powers + able to prophecy. Now: what about the "Jesus is/was a cypher for Zeus-Zagreus," + the Acts material in "Tears" along with "the Bacchae"? these are not two deities but one? o i + "St Sophia will be born again"; suddenly I don't see this as mere psychosis (as I always sort of did). think we are dealing with deity here + have been at least latently (esp in my writing) for decades; with 2-3-74 being restored full identity, powers + memory. Under the duress of the lethal snare in 2-3-74, in the face of imminent death, Dionysos in me (as me!) broke loose, broke his bonds of amnesia + lost his human form, + limitations. Then I am what I call Valis. (As I have always realized was one very real possibility, but I couldn't ever say how this could be.) my (sic) meta-abstraction of 2-74, then, was, very simply, recollection (anamnesis) of my own nature fidentity: that was my realization. + that nature soon ineluctably broke through - the phosphene graphics "trip." A final extraordinary thought. If I as Dionysos (Zeus-Zagreus) put "the Bacchae" + Acts material in "Tears," which I certainly did, then I put the King-Felix cypher in + it probably refers to me + says, "I am here. D-141 am in it referring to myself. - No wonder I was intoxicated + manic in the spring of '74 when my true nature epiphinated. Then 11-17-80 was Zeus talking to me: My Father. Well, it would appear I was right supra when I said that Dionysus is the real author of "Valis." But he is the true author con‐ by + large of my whole corpus of works, Hence stantly moving toward apotheosis. "Valis" is the culmination of my career, not a sharp break, as Gregg Rickman realized. + as Jim Hanes said, "Phil Dick has been in seeking God for years in his writing; "vei" he has found him." Corrolate this with what Gregg Rickman finds in terms of This all shees a wholly my savior theme. new light on my agapē theme (which is the core of my writing, its axis) + my "human vs android" discrimination - as eschatological judge. This certainly makes my corpus of opi, culminating in "Valis" + its prophecies a am not I remarkable, unitary artifact. Dionysos; I am a shaman under his power. but he is, by + large, + ever increasingly over the years, the actual author of my opus. + my so years of writing amounts to one continuous rising curre of self-awareness, quantum-leap eaking (epiphanizing) in 2-3-74 + "Valis." Ur ntil "Valis" it was latent, but then all at once it is explicit, if properly read + under‐ oding although I do not explicitly say, t This is digaysis writing tis"; nonetheless is. The expernational insights in strate." D-148 that one last best gift. I think if he hadn't mentioned the little animals caught in traps It brought back that part of "the Bacchae" that I love so. I have a clear conception, intellectually, of a sort of fusion between the Dionysus of "the Bacchae." Jesus of the Gospels + YHWH, + although + may be mad I am under the profound sense that this one entity resied me + that I have seen him - it has been several times, +, most recently, as what I call (1) void; (2) Valis; (3) "I--[am]." Now I have forgotten. But that I grieve shows all too well what I no longer see. It is, in a sense, a clear measure of my worship, that I suffer the loss so. Surely hell is, as I said to michael bishop, to have known God + now to have lost what about my him. But can I ever lose him? + my sense Cartesian analytical proposition of just the other day (1) that everyone + every‐ thing I ever loved was really God + that, since I can discover him in world - as in "Ubik" I can trace has autographs - I can find them again since "them" is "him" However, having figured that out, + they read "willows" + probably definitative just had a colossal inight about my meta‐ t abstraction. It had to do - not with world primarily - but with my own identity (in the sense of ontological nature, not e.g. my name). my nature spanned + embraced Acts + USA 1974, This is why they as world (plural spatiotemporal sets) fused syntonically my nature opened out in time as it did later in space. This is of course not reincarnation; it is an immortal vast non-episodic nature (if it was reincarna im I would not have seen Acts, as I have often noters. I encompassed This vast a B-74? then, especially the prophecies, are probably I would be "the stranger" legitimate in "the Bacchae" priest of Dionysos, able to draw on has power when imprisoned threatened). So Valis is a God who (or is here, + who I am associated with + in some respects identical with (at certains times); I have a dual identity, like Jesus: part man, part God, an avatar. In me + as me, Dionysos ("Jesus") walks the Earth. the God who I have seen + long for as forth in "Willows") is my father fut Abba, whom I have seen. Yes, Valis is a the Father (as in it-so), but in some real sense I am identical with him; yet also separate. I can therefore know him (1-17I know Abba, to a real degue I know 80). his nature; I am little compared with hims t ate yes; the AI voice said, not+ t t have been adopted"; I forgot that totally it emed macrometal inite an i i t test realit t didn't it have to do with my giving to the night Platt was here; Covenant House? Yes: you have been adopted. (obviously as e n son + heix of God.) o a of little importance It is probably what I write now: "Valis" contains the major revelations + prophecies, upon my recovery of my identity looking back on my crushing depression of resterday I can see that it was "willows" that set it off - "the last gift is the best, the gift of forgetfulness." The book recalled to me what I have forgotten + why I must forget it. paradoxically, by describing it so well, grahame does it recall it to me bolishe. -149 reality field, as I say, this is not reincarnation; it is my own actual identity in the sense of esse. Thomas + PKD are parts of one integrated whole, which is why Acts + USA 1974 were: the