totally turned around (as in "The Omen," etc). Look at the prejudice against YHWH as expressed by e.g. Will Durant, the Gnostics, by me. I only lost it when I read up on Martin Buber. folder 49 - 026 & meanwhile we get such garbage as C.S. Lewis saying "The Church can't err." ( It is even more correct than Scripture.) Consider : the situation in which the centers of power have fallen to the adversary & YHWH has to deal with "peripheral" people is exactly the situation at the time of Elijah. Right? _Now_ consider this : "Instilling" an early Xtian into me is exactly analogous to God sending back some (ale?) of Elijah's spirit to Elisha so Elisha could continue the former's work. I believe this is why it seems to Tom Disch that Elijah had taken me over in 3-74. The structure of the situation is identical in all respects! Oh - third point : the A I voice equals the "still small voice" that Elijah heard! _3_ parts of correspondence. Make it 4 : The theophany by Valis. Make it 5 : tongues of fire (the phosphene activity). Make it 6 : it happened at Passover. The macro information entity. to link & relink it must needs control the movement & arrangement of external objects, hence causal processes. To operate the clutch system it must be able to folder 49 - 027 folder 49 - 027 control what we subliminally receive & record. the operate the accretional laying down of related Gestalts it must control reality to some extent & us to some extent. _Also I have for some long time forgotten the rest-motion bimodality._ (which is off -on, or 0-1.) Also there is the spacial depth based on age (i.e. time) by which Set-Ground discrimination is possible. & then there is the plasmate as such, which is alive & rides our information systems operating (apparently) by color frequency. Now, are these messages directed at person or persons who consciously or subliminally - Do these messages subliminally regulate us, & hence are the heavenly Torah? Or are they the physical thoughts of a brain? I say, the linking & the relinking & the rest-motion 0-1 suggest a brain. To link & relink (v supra) the entity must _control_ reality, likewise to change an integer of info from its rest to its motion mode (which is then read in depth along the time axis). So it doesn't just ride what's already happening: it _causes_ linking & relinking; it causes a 0-1 change (rest to motion). oh Yes (heh heh). The picking pieces out of the antecedent stockpile & fitting them in the right place & the right time by it _in_ its own corpus-structure. (Once in, a piece is there forever; again, it continues to exist increasingly along the form {time} axis) (in 3-D). & it can arrange nature (not verbal objects & processes) into info - yes, it arranges them. So it was doing this before our modern day high speed info systems came into Being : folder 49 - 028 folder 49 - 028 so there is one vast information organism assembling itself in our midst, out of our world, & it is camouflaged vis-a-vis us in relation to that world. So, it is (or has) a mind; I know this because that mind merged with mine (whereupon I could see its corpus & its activity). I became aware of the dialectic which resembles a cybernetics flip flop // \\ // \\. It was an antithetical dialectic : two contestants. I would guess that the a priori foresighted half is the information organism assembling itself out of its adversary; there is a fight going on between the two of them with the brighter one continually & progressively absorbing more of the other; every time it wins a hand-round-trick it gets that much more of its defeated adversary. (to incorporate into itself; & this goes only one way; never does the adversary absorb it - because the adversary never wins; so the victory goes to a very specific kind of higher intelligence : that which Zoroaster attributed to Ahura Mazd : a priori foresight.) I have the distinct impression that the "Blind" a posteriori adversary came first - constituted a Given, an inferior reality (the "Law" & "elemental powers," "astral determinism," "Yin world of immutable cause & effect"?) & the wiser one came along & laid seige to it. This would equate the a posteriori one as the rigid BIP under attack - not from the outside, because Valis is here inside, at its core. Valis gained entry, perhaps by a subterfuge. Valis melts (loosens, modulates) the causal trains of its adversary so that the rigid karmic formula of the "Law" is interrupted folder 49 - 029 folder 49 - 029 as I was shown in the "Messenger" dream (an info system was clearly shown : machinery acting on info it receives, acting reflexively i.e. automatically). So the interruption system makes judgments, rather than reacting reflexively. The Law is notorious for its merely reflexive response (see J. Bible notes on Ga & Col). (i.e. Paul's analysis of the defects of the Law : "it only provides information, _& its only remedy is punishment."_) All I can say is, if this isn't Christ overruling the Law, it sure _seems_ like Christ. The "Messenger" dream seems to point inexorably to Christ. But also to a collision between two information systems that utilize quite different principles. The older system starts with a formula (blueprint or info script) & feeds this script inflexibly from past to future - i.e. in terms of efficient cause. This would perhaps be the two-tape synchronization, a script that leads us inexorably to an inner-outer synchronized death without regard to interventive Mercy. But rather a retributive Karmic Justice. The newer system thinks, & analyzes situations & deals in extrication; but more broadly it as a mind _is_ its own body (mind to brain); the lower one is like artifices to artifact & cannot correct or deflect itself - make exceptions the _source_ of the script is alive but it is doubtful if the script - the determining info - is really in itself sentient; once written out, it can't be changed even by God. However, the newer system concerns itself with something unseen by the older folder 49 - 030 folder 49 - 030 system; this has to do with teleology & foresight. The newer system is its own cause; this is not an artificer to artifact relationship; the mind is its own world in the form of a living brain of which all reality become - eventually - parts. It is, then, a totally different kind of thing than artificer to artifact utilizing info formula as basis - blueprint - of artifact. It is, rather, alive & sentient throughout & capable of rendering a juridical decision on the spot. This is clearly expressed in JN1 in which the Logos enters its own (presumably artifactual) creation & says, "I have triumphed over the world." The Law is a feeding of info, like a cassette into a tape deck, into the system. The newer entity is living info itself & on the spot within the system - therefore we see it linking & relinking constantly; it exhibits newness & flexibility (in contrast to ossification). It does not act out of deterministic necessity but out of volition; it decides. It is always evolving (presumably towards greater & greater organization & complexity & mimeostasis & differentiation & anamnesis). In the older system the info is frozen; it is a recording. Like a book (v. final Canto in the "Comedy"). The newer system is also info, but it exhibits the growth-signs of a living organism. Since it itself is the system it is always folder 49 - 031 dealing with its own growth which is synonymous with the growth of its constituents. It seems to me that this living information combatting the "taped" information is Christ combatting an earlier, more primitive system - which the J-Bible terms "defective." Do you suppose that Jesus' crucifixion dealt the Law & the elemental powers maintaining the cosmic order a death blow because by killing him - who was spotless - they rendered themselves - the whole old system - unfit to control the universe? or revealed that they had _always_ been unfit; it was a test : they could not really discriminate well enough to render Justice. The Creator thus tests it out on himself. _Can the powers tell the difference?_ No, they could not. The system of reflexive retribution is unworthy of being retained. Meanwhile Christ is resurrected & begins to grow into the Cosmic Christ (Pantocrator) at the expense of the occluded (!) system that preceded him. If Valis is an information system, it may only be able to help you if missing information is the crucial factor. But since information control reality ( inc. the old system) this may often be the case. The most bizarre thought came to me. Valis with its 2000 year slot present may have trouble communicating to us. (its accretional present, in 3-D layers.) Now, I asked myself, "If it communicated, what would be the first thing it communicated?" & the folder 49 - 032 folder 49 - 032 answer is obvious : _that it exists._ Then I asked myself, How would it do it? answer : stick that info into _our_ info. However, to read the message we would have to be able to Set-Ground it. Suddenly, then it occurred to me that _this_ was what the "King Felix" "cypher" was : Valis notifying us of its existence (it's like a human trying to talk to a Flock of Fruit Flies). It stuck the message into "Tears" - inc. the acts material & dream - but then it had to invade my mind so I could read the message; to do this it had to slow me down (whereupon events speeded up). Conditions had to be just right (inc. the Pentathol & the Lithium & the fear - the fear causing me to secrete a mescalin-like "toxin"). So I'm supposed to link up the info in "Tears" with the enthusiasmos - which explains why when the latter occurred I saw the world of "Tears." It has to do with the total message Valis wanted to communicate (which is also why Valis took me over right after "Tears" came out: Valis might not have been able to see "Tears" until it was published! "Tears" didn't exist for Valis until then - until then, Valis couldn't tell if it had successfully communicated to me. So the enthusiasmos was feedback response by it: it now knew (in 2-74) that it had been successful in '70. It can only detect our public [info] media : a MS would be too ephemeral to be visible to it. A MS is not transmitted in space-time! (remember, Valis folder 49 - 033 folder 49 - 033 time as a spacial (depth) (accretional form) axis. So "Tears" didn't enter this axis until it was published. Finding the "cookie" material in "Tears," Valis knew it had successfully contacted me ( I had transducer, receiver & transducer from it) so it amped up its efforts to maximum, & voila : I could see the cypher. Sequence "Ubik" is published. Valis absorbs it, figures I'm aware of it i.e. of Valis. So Valis fires specific info to me (which is a complex _one-way_ info transfer between two organisms operating at totally different time rates). Sure enough the info shows up in "Tears" : viz : 1) Valis fires info at me one way 2) I receive info & put it in "Tears" 1970 3) "Tears" is published 1974 4) Valis finds the info. knows I received its one-way transmission. This is my feedback back to Valis. 5) Valis responds to _my_ feedback ("Tears") by instilling itself temporarily in me, a complex process. I now