the cosmic implications of transubstantiation ibreak a stick + there is Jesus." I have not usually stressed the human side enough. Aplatoni orld, but onto the phenomenal or impressed is e b (30 in this case the phenomenon, the man Jesus, has been pressed onto the cosmos at an ontological level; thus I experienced him (i.e. Thomas) as a man with human - individual traits + fears + habits. This reverses the normal order in which the archetype is eternal + the individual nothing - fleeting. But it is precisely this fleeting individual - vs e.g. the DNA genetic encoding - that Jesus saves + makes immortal. (As I have previously realized.) For him the individual is not pendable as it is in nature; to the contrary: So Jesus combats Schopenhauer's will which is irrational + which has no use for the individual creature except to subordinate it as an instru‐ ment for its (the wills) own perpetuation. This is what is meant by salvation: making the individual safe from the DNA will. This is the dialectic between the invading rational (Jesus) + the archaic irrational genetic will Thus I have been wrong to think only in terms of Christ; it is Jesus the Christ he is as much individual creature (specific man) as he is the son of] God; he is a method by which God extends perpetuation to the individual as well as the species (nature - DNA - takes care of the species). behind phenomenal reality lies information (v. "Joint"). In "Ubik" it is clear that this infor‐ mation is a sentient entity that is the Logos. This is the plasmate, i.e. Jesus Christ could the technical solution to the perpetua of the individual lie in anamnesis? Later on he is retrieved, like supposedly erased information on a tape which has been rerecorded on again + again? (This certainly would be Thomas! hypnagogic: "one of us is deali The two selves in me. It must be me + my sister. 939 you go back in time (anamnesis) to effect The 2nd birth. (Eliade). Back into sacred time of the deeds of the supernaturals. By going back you remember your misdeeds + burn up your Karma. (The new spiritual being born is free of Karma.) + the world is renewed (BIP turned The reborn person is into PTG, apparently). immortal, which Eliade says means that he lives longer often there is an ordeal involved. By going back, the person is actually present at the time of the origins. Wouldn't that make Thomas my new (second-born) self? Phil origins + Thomas I suddenly solved the Xerox missive puzzle. logically, a priori, it was (would have to be) a forgery, + my brain as computer knew it. But in fact a posteriori) it was Pigspurt, another part of my t brain using paranormal powers, factored out "Olive Holt" symbolizing Pigspurt. So a priori + a posteriori knowledge contradicted each other (+ still do); however, as logically-determined (iron‐ clad) as forgery is (the Roogna letter being harmless) none the less it is Pigspout. This is one of those rare cases where deductive logic is wrong + empirical knowledge is correct In reading over charles Platt's interview I flash on this view of reality. we are in something like cryonic suspension as in "Ubik" "Maze" "Stigmata" "Eye" "Joint" subjected to random (or deranged) cruelty into + This closed system Valis (Ubik) invades to liberate 160 us from the wanton, cruel conditions inflicted on vs; Valis is rational + benign. This is what is meant by "salvation." It intervenes at the point where the deranged controllers (or controller: JamesJames) of the program is about to deliver the coup de gras. If Eliade were to study my 2-3-74 experience + exegesis he would find that it conformed to general anamnesis mythos, but he would note that there is one unusual element: 1) perception of Valis + conclusion drawn by me that Valis is camouflaged into nature - which in itself is not an unusual idea; it is what Eliade calls the "Hainowele" concept (P104/5) - but that I conceive of this (i.e. Valis camouflaged into the landscape + "transubstantiating" it) as Christ - this is not a usual Xtian belief but is found {Note in the rural "cosmic Xtianity" of Southeastern Europe which is a survival of very archaic pre-Xtian modes of thought (in my dream of the great fish who swims to the shore to be sliced up to feed humans (causing him pain) I recapitulate the hainowele myth because when the dismembered parts of her body are buried they turn into previously unknown plants especially tubers which Not to some extent people depend on for food is who 2) that I conceive of this Christ - entity assimilating the landscape (while remaining camouflaged) being infor‐ mation (cf "Joint") (cf "Ubik") would fascinate Eliade. 3) that as in "Ubik" I conceive of this information being the basis for retrieving the past would fascinate him "; that I conceive of Valis as the rational invading the irrational would fascinate him: here is the hero myth, The hero conquering primordial chaos! Thus the landscape there is momen sadise it is God, is redention, " "!) o 461 So for me the world is not running down but has a vast teleology guiding it to pure kosmos (in Pythagoras' sense of the term). This also fits in with the "three ages" theory. The final one being the best: the age of freedom under the direction of the Holy Spirit. groaching da Fiore But the strange thing is that when you wake up, kosmos is already there now (Eliade writes at great length about myths of waking up.) Okay - the Holy Spirit enters you + puts you in contact with Valis (kosmos): the con‐ guring hero. There is a secret Kingdom within the Empire, not outside it, but at its citadel. i.e. right here. It is a question of structure Its like the grid (the Acts material) in "Tears"; when you employ it - interpose it between you + the book - read: reality - a totally different 32 the story emerges. You are no longer blind; grid permits you to see correctly I am convinced that the [physical] immortality offered by Christ consists of of the person phylogenic recapitulation (retrieval) achieved through anamnesis - continuity of identity such as the Buddha experienced +, further, that the self linked through a number of lifetimes is a Christos being free of the tyranny of time + space + equipped with a vast store of knowledge i perhaps incorporation into a master macro self. The born again experience retrieval of this is the successful master (phylogenic) self. in 412 The phylogenic master self is the accre of all the former selves (in my case Thomas), + exists in paratione or hyper‐ time - a different kind of time entirely from linear time. Being aware that it has existed in the path, that physical death does not kill it - that it whe its exemplar Christ will be resurrected - It knows it will continued to exist into the future. is it possible that in this hyper‐ time the future already exists, + its future selves can "come bad" (into the present) + all it? Why not? The phylogenic master self acting as a tutelary spirit to a given temporary self. 4:30 am bypnagogic thought: without Valis we wouldn't even exist: we're like a light show (it projects) Christ dies + enter, nature It's rational that the Xerox missive was a forgery + irrational that it was Pigspurt. So the more you study it the wronger you get. Hence ratiocination at the time or later was a blind alley. Hence ideationless "dissociative" motor center + speech center action had to pre-empt reasoned cortical response, the cerebral cortex was baffled + had to bow out. What happened at was that my right hemisphere dise 463 empirical evidence (a posteriori) which it could not convey across the corpus collosive, + so the right hemisphere had to assume dominance - which it did + then later it was able to transliminate the "Olive Holt" material. The digital left hemisphere reasoned correctly but to the wrong conclusion. i The info in "Tears" extractable only by means The Acts grid; the underground (i.e. Taverner is of guilty). Pigspurt? Millenialism. it were a forgery there would be no reason If not to look at it. Did I successfully block off the right hemisphere personality ("Thomas")? He woke up but he couldn't link up with the woman who sent the Xerox missive. So as a result he could get no instructions. None strident radio - post hypnotic suggestion. Dis‐ sociated motor Acts. Underground - Acts grid. Alternate personality remembering blowing up buildings. That could not have been an actual memory of the first century AD. The dialectic as basis of reality disinhibition into is different universe" MITHC" Pigspurt, not Xtian." by shiny metal jewelry. "Faith" dialectic. Information system. Messages. "Ubik" underground. Something to do with cypher B "Tears" something to do with information "Joint" - as 2 personalities, opposed to each other. Scanner" political underground in police state "Frolix 8 that links up with powerful outside help. police state overthrown. "Stigmata" - Xtian God as evil - opiate (drug). The eucharist regarded as diabolical. V. "Neusky"! Catholic as true enemy. (Mefyffe.) "exe" - There really isn't steganographic religious material inis "Tears" The Acts material sequence ana 964 argument against religion (Xtianity) as the explanation, since the Acts material is a means by which further info is extracted, + this further info has to do with a revolution ary subversive underground: Taverner is guilty of what the authorities suspect him of: if you bring in "Scanner," unknown even to himself. did Thomas defect? Decided he didn't want to go home? Had too good a thing going here? + told all he knew: his expert analysis of party strategy vis-a-vis us Sof. It wasn't me overriding him but his decision. He feared the Xerox missives arrival: the summons: official. What he was doing -contacting the Bureau- scared him, but going home scared him more. My God - he had quarreled with Lem; he'd be disciplined! He had gotten out of line + knew it. This is what the Xerox missive was all about: the heat. ("intelligence officer in the army.") I am afraid that if you go on the AI voice. Military intel‐ ligence is involved, which is serious. I'm afraid that the info in "Tears" extracted by the Acts grid points to Pigspurt; this can especially be clearly seen when "Frolix 8" is blended in, i.e.: the underground in both novels homogenized. Pigspurt thereby (the collation) becomes evident. the cordonite underground is thus carried out further in "Tears" although without the Acts grid you can't discern it. What "Tears" adds is a distinctly soviet element (e.g. the 5 marshals). (FLC, micken quinn, etc). (Specifically it is set in contemporary america.) (There has been a Soviet takeover.) The revolution by the cordinite underground in "Frolix 8" becomes successful in "Tears" - has taken power. 4655 Taverner i.e. the underground [Felix Buckman s (represented by Paul) Paul Paul winds up as the state, at the point that Jaso Taverner ceases to be Paul Buckman) + Felix Buckman becomes back on to Felix not underground Paul; i.e. the revolution not Paul not Paul has successfully taken (represented as/by Paul) place, + the revolutionaries the start are in power who were not in power at So this book does not entirely deal at the end. with an underground, but rather an underground which winds up in the seat of authority - associated with 5 marshals + forced labor camps, i.e. a Soviet ie ized america. Message, then: the revolution has been successful. Now, if we identify the revolutionaries as Pigspurt s Pigspurt, we are depicting as take-over of America we see it happen during the book. This is rather a serious