I There wouldn't be code in a us forgery. Not only ded it contain code but I knew it would, how. It was Pigspout, but us G-2 was monitoring its progress toward me, + the trouble would have come from them. "An intelligence officer in the army [was waiting for an excuse to bust me). No - it was Boehme's blitz. Realization that 1) my writing was true; + 2) what this implied: where: Acts. What: Logos That's it where/when: Acts ("Tears") what Logos ("Ubik" our situation is as described in "Ubik"; we are dying disciples, the intering trip to the Kingdom infinitely prolonged. code" in Xerox missive was plasmate t telling me what to do II by cooking the text galvific message: the Logos communicating wer e i one. It was occp. "Olive Holt" wasn't see cypher but info to me to help one the stress situation (Xerox missive problem, was used to induce blitz 'inner-outer fusion, self 8 find for the OCCP + code elements as out weighing the religious + supernatural no that was real but a blitz occurred described in MITHC: Tagomi + the park. t see another part of 2-3-74 which I wrote about forgot that. Just views "Tears" as an alternate world novel, which it is. Okay, "Tears" = TGLH. Scine where abendily is (our world). + told by a duck haired girl who comes to the door that his writing is true It's the acosmism as theme in my writing. I 1) realized it was true; + then 2) proved it. My o writing is true because acosmism is true sorry - ich bin der retter und dir Schopfer. It was in the service of problem-solving but it was Boehme's blitz. Tagomi in the park proves it. But the year missive was Pigspout espeonage. + it had been intercepted by us t t So it was from the G2 + then passed on to me. t a an intelligence officer in the army" - but occp origin. passed on to see what I did with it (not so much to trap me; they assumed me guilty + com had enough in me already. But to their plate that changes surprise I sent it to bill A.S. their minds. In another hour they would have has the house. supra: "I knew what it meant that my books come true." + what does it mean? Dib ich dor schapter bin; I'm writing me own script that proves this is Bardo Thodol "Ubik" I write the events I as in t I achieved what want which I will. The Hermetual sought I 16 i two things came for me, as I knew both t would, but I didn't know if (1) would she did. come in time. 41) My guardian - tutulary - spirit guide psychopomp (the pharmacy girl) (2) My doom (the Xerox missive). + as I realized it, Boehme's blitz occurred the twin spirits of Zoroastrianism Light vs dark. Hence the post mortem experiences; my psychopomp had met me + conducted t me to safety across the narrow bridge she the spirit of liberty (leanore). It was like a race between 2 runners. she won. Here is the missing piece: the huge open books I saw were the Qumran scrolls Jim saw; they, as plasmate, transferred from Jim to me: the info (as I guessed) is alive. This was not an + it comes from cave I. accident; the divine power planned on it. lost Gnosis of the ancients is in "Valis" The it reconstituted itself in my head - it's especially valuable attacked to my previous writing but which contained nothing new (i.e. nothing which had been lost). one - hence unique - utterly complex thought in me unifying every brain circuit, which produced kosmos in me hence connected to the macro- or outer universe - both as parts of I Gestait! Absolute use of my unique intuitive function. The potential essed). So anything the actual became one (had + as, esp. my writing. that was possible became - i.e. w It's tempting to say I got the gray concrete + metal smoke + burning scene in MITHC" from the Tibetan book of the deal - which also appears in "Eye which I wrote before I reas; TBOTD" o m e i 9 s t a asternate [words Thodol Bardo world girl at door ("Joint" state. Metal Tagomi i Juliana + concrete I i t n d girl at door a a 3-74. burning metal Tanya Lee. words is + concrete. t Jewelry 2 CP test nean words - Eye" papers, God t n ) t is te your book pharmacy (neon words) is true gim). Jewelry. t Bardo your book is a Good t ithe true. Alternate a world. God t is f a close reading of MITHC shows it is not an al ternate world novel. there is only one real world: ours. Juliana finds (figures?) This out + tells abendson that his book is true. By implication, their world is a pseudo-world. Hence MITHC is an early pseudo world novel of mind like "Joint" + "Eye" + i) tigmata" "Ubik" + "Maze." Now, if in 2-3-74 I had an perience combining abendson's + Tagomis, + found myself in "Tears," does that make this a pseude‐ world, a dokos over "Tears"? I think it does. I think this is the whole point, it is a matrix entity about which there can be varying views some false, one correct, + "Tears" is correct these are not true alternate worlds. How these dokos views come into existence I do not know, or is there just the one Dokos world which we normally experience, beyond which or under which lies "Tears"? Then TGlH to MITHC as is "Tears" to our world - a vast mystery? + one about t which I have no theory. "Tears" depicts a tyranny! since I didn't know the future (2-3-74) I can only suppose that another self exists in me which no: only knew the future but the true state of affairs s potential worlds (my writing) became actual + I intuitively grasped the significance of this as it began o happen around me. This must be a Bardo Thodol If I was making use of acosmism to pre-program y reality, then 3-74 was an opportunity, which I sought (despite my tension + fear) Did I not want to + try to lure my enemy out into the open? Hence 3-74 was disinhibition or payoff time, with all systems brought to bear on the situation. Perhaps I was as much hunter at that moment as quarry: manipulating a crucial situation for my own ends. again: leaving aside the question of How/why 2-3-74 was an analog in real life of situations in my fictional prior writing, I assess that in 2-74 i I flashed (the blitz) on the resemblance - a flashing which quantum-leaped in 3-74 as additional factors popped into existence, + I drew certain broad theoretic cal conclusions, mainly subliminally, very radical conclusions (to a great extent I know not what). Anyhow these intuitions or conclusions or realizations produced certain spectacular results. Probably I jumped to the conclusion that there is no reality as usually defined; + 2nd, that each of us either by + large generates or pre-programs his reality, or that some other source mimics his expectations in some kind of effectively seamless synchronization - in either case it is a spurious reality essentially, + the possibility exist that he can gain volitional control over this mimick reality or its generator: lastly, that he is a micros form of the macro - reality generator (Atman-Brahman) le experiences himself, then, as creator God, continually illing problems into existence which he must confront solve. My prior fictional writing shows that I had conceived down to exact details an intricate solution to long term highly serious problem confronting me. conceived the solution over a decade before the prob in surfaced (but may have been there unseen by me). seem to have produced a perturbation in the reality held, a kind of vortex which brought into being this utricately - crafted final solution. But in solving he problem by manipulating reality this way caused me to confront myself as not who or what imagined myself to be - or a t i radical conclusions" seemed to include an intuition that reality could be tricked (so to speak) into contradicting itself; viz: if it assumes a perpet ually obliging form for the purpose of simulating the semblance of verisimillituce, then via the right approach this very obliging quality can be turned against it in terms of continuity, its continuity, since it cannot withhold its obliging or mimicking quality. All you need do is totally believe that pattern y exists + if X is potentially real, it will pass over into the actual. This requires a push-pull relationship between the person + reality. He can't say will a blue phoenix into existence ex nihilo; the into person must enter a progressive intricate dialog with reality in which "there is feedback between both parties (this assumes sentience, volition + intentionality in reality). Reality testing, not its absence, is required, He is feeling out its soft or flexible parts, where It will yield, how much + in what way If I find reality resembling down to precise details my previous fiction, I instantly intuit mimickry on its part, not precognition on mine. Upon intuiting This (subliminally) I set up a rapid push-pull reality - testing which very soon had reality mimicking te novel of mine after another, as if unable to make which is a good description p its mind. The problex poser is now posed a problem in return. What is disclosed here is that very quality which I assign to Valis: camouflage, + it is dependent on the contents f human minds for its knowledge of what morphe to assume so in a sense the human, at least poten tially, has great power: over reality itself. The animate can mimic the inanimate, but not the other way around. I believe we are dying souls in a simulated world, surrounded by projections, but, beyond the simulated world, a vast mind tending to our wefare + dealing out justice. but what happened with me was that a single complex thought locked my total mind, conscious + unconscious, into realization p se. 19 suppose - more precisely than suspecting acosmism I (unconsciously) suspected some form of simulation which involves a prototype to be imitated). When laid down in my fiction began to a pattern in reality emerge did I at once intuit mimickry? (I con‐ signed all the funny stuff to reality, rather than assuming supernatural powers on my part.) A basic premise of my writing was verified: Jamesm: "... This nightmarish uncertainly; this reality fluctuation... in which the psychic world as it were goes outside, + reappears in the form of simulacry or of some photographically cunning reproduction of But in 2-3-74 reality was too the external. obliging. "Joint" points to intimations of failure be consistent on reality's part - just tiny bits to here + there. I expected the events of 2-3-74 but when they began to occur my unconscious remembered the writing + saw a fallacy; reality is not supposed to do that it read my expectations but they had been written down (an unusual situation). Even so, it took over 5 years to find the written matrix, at least consciously. of course - the expectations which preprogram reality must be outside consciousness (or everyone would catch on). But my unconscious ideas pass on to paper (right hemisphere). In 2-74 + growingly so my right hemisphere saw its own conceptual "script" materialize externally, +, understanding to what still lay ahead + (2) what that which already had happene - e.g. the Xerox missive - meant, seized motor control; + its psyche predominated, to utilize the opportunity So between 2-74 + the 20th