to external respond to stimuli before they occurred - which terrified me. But now I see why this had to take place for the faculty to servests biological urvival purpose. Then this was a developed faculty, ophisticated; it (I?) knew to accellerate the inner "tape" upon the cue-signal: the Golden Fish sign in 2-74. Thus I could know in advance not to look at the name + address on the Xerox missive; + if I didn't know in advance, there was no utility; hindsight ("I shouldn't have looked") would have had no value. This accelleration was a major element of 3-74 a most striking one; + yet it was a mere means to a goal. Having the inner model - hence needed information - prior to the outer analog: the ctual arrival of the to missive 890 So de-synchronization + inner-clock accellera on is one of the ways by which this faculty works - but just one way out of more one t prerequsite deliberately This premature inner firing decouples you of from stimulus-response captivity, or rather (ah!) it fucks it up, since your response is no longer in phase with the stimulus (thus I answered the ad in the magazine, not the Xerox missive). Then do we have inner life-tapes which, if we evolve sufficiently, we can read ahead on, see what's coming, + sabotage the engrammed response? Here is where the "we are in a prison" comes in, + DNA (or DNA like) programming. It's a functional override (v. Garson Paole in "Electric Ant"). with the inner time going at that great speed, Valis + its filaments of information (the plasmate) were visible externally. Like stop action photography. This was a spin off. the purpose was physical survival - very practical. Valis must be the system into which the parts - esp. organisms - are integrated to form a clock-regulated cosmos (structure). When I ran my internal clock ahead at high speed, Valis had to compensate vis-a-vis the system becaus I now did not do re the Xerox missive what I was programmed to do. (This is why the recent revelation made clear that the ecosphere annot survive absolute inner-model building 571) t So the "resetting" or "valence away from plumb" was Valis adjusting - compensating for the element of newness introduced by my "escape" from cause-+-effect synchronization. The total system was affected. To restore it to harmony + balance Valis had to adjust it which is what I saw - v. Spinoza: the will of God; the whole thing is like a vast hydraulic system. It may have been a reflexive or automatic compensation. A maintenance of homeostasis. Every part of the system may know what to do. i then if the system is construed as a stress inducing teaching machine [Note could one say that it has bred a "rat" (organism subject to it) capable of analyzing its own programming a priori + in advance, + then, at the crisis, de-synchronizing the inner tape + accellerating it thus mis-phasing stimulus-+-response thus extricating - freeing itself? A new breed of problem-solving organ‐ ism: it has evolved within this closed system ➀ Problem-posing (Valis). its reward is the beatific vision, to see its name entered in the Lamb's book of life, the PTG all rewards it would appreciate + understand. keward for finding a [new] way to solve the problem (viz: the Xerox mission). it took advantage of its programming inner apel made use of the very instrument of p enslavement! This is shrewdness, all right. 1) problem. 2) correct solution. 3) reward. 4) Valis. Very interesting 92 It was done by my right brain employing some kind of analogic processessing. It resembles the way the "I Ching" works. Synchronicity - which may be why I got so involved in the "I Ching." not only did the high-speed forward of the inner tape de-synchronize stimulus + response + so misphase them. But the a priori inner analog was activated in time (i.e. soon enough) + it contained information - in fact instructions of what to do - which the exter‐ nal reality (i.e. problem) did not yield, then or ever; only the internal a priori model / analog yielded it. The actions were not in response to the outer reality at all but to the inner a priori (prior) model. (the model, being right-brain, was probably graphic + not verbal.) (i.e. it was a picture + more complete than any that could be + derived by the senses from reality. Hence at any time (before 3-74 at 3-74 or after 3-74) the AI voice could say, "intelligeny officer in the army" it (right brain?) knew it back in the sixties + maybe before - it knew it at whatever time the a priori model was constructed, which means before the Rampark manifesto! The general ajna-eye" view of reality The BIP, etc) was a total, absolute perception we are in, like a "kind of prison" of the maze in which pressure is put to on 593 develop superior problem-solving abilities; i.e. to evolve. Valis is the system (which as I say, had to make adjustments when I solved the Xerox missive problem, especially in view of how I solved it). However there is a danger to the ecosphere in this a priori prior (foresighted) knowledge. The balance is jeopardized (for the reasons I give above). nonetheless this type of wisdom is that which both the O.T. + Zoroaster assign to God (i.e. the wise mind) himself (or Holy Wisdom herself; in any case it is the ultimate in knowing). So (presumably) it is favorably regarded by Valis; it is encouraged to come into existence, i but it represents a crisis in the ecosphere it may be a turning point, since approximate a posteriori or contingent) knowledge has given c way to a priori absolute knowledge - shrewdness. will not the ecosphere form, inexorably, one vast composite mind, now, such as Teilhard envisions as point omega a converging into unity + away from competitive plurality? this implies inevitable total integration + sub‐ sumation: final homeostasis: kosmos, per se. undoubtedly I am not the first, so this process has certainly already begun; what I did was join it. Could this already extant unitary composite entity be Valis? The need to problem-solve (in the manner I employed Acts like an alchemical crucible, transforming transmutating the solver igh 594 s I think Valis is the system; i.e. the crucible or laboratory or workshop or maze, seeking to spark off absolute (a priori, not contingent) knowing, but this destroys an ecosphere that functions through competition ("survival of the fit "etc). After all, the Xerox missive problem was a competitive or antagonist situation. Now I am in a common mind situation; there is the AI voice, which probably is mind central, viz: I am not mens solus any longer. That ended with the correct solving of the Xerox missive problem. I have it, Zoroaster's revelation of the two types of thinking of the two minds (a priori vs a posteriori) in antithetical dialectic of combat (which was revealed to me) reveals two i t orders of being, i.e. knowing: intellegere: the apriori one higher - better - than the other + also destined to win out. From the standpoint of evolution, I rose from "hindsight" knowledge? a posteriori approximation) to a priori. Our ecosphere is based on a posteriori or lesser knowledge (being) knowing). The pressure is to evolve as I did to isomorphism with the wise mind, who is victor. Thus evolution is inexorably way from a posteriori to a priori knowledge hroughout the universe wherever life comes into xistence + evolution takes place, viz: a priori knowing will arise + when it does it will hrive out competitive aposteriori contingent (nowing. Zoroasters revelation can be de-theo‐ ogized; viz: he perceived that in the conflict between sentience that 95 2 depends on a posteriori knowledge + sentience which utilizes a priori knowledge, the latter "is better i.e. it has the functional edge - as was revealed to me pragmatio cally, it will inevitably win, so it is higher or better. It is evolutionarily superior + in contest will drive a posteriori knowing out (just as mammals drove out the big lizards). When in a given ecosphere the evolutionary process has reached a certain point; this will be the combat (sentience itself is evolutionarily superior to all other forms of adaptation + survival, + within the realm of sentience, a priori foresight has the edge - as my revela so clearly showed). These two methods when glimpsed got hypostatized as Gods by Zoroaster, but probably they are principles or ways ( that occupy the natura naturans realm + ubiquitously generate their anti‐ thetical dialectic wherever in the universe life has evolved to a sufficient stages ➀ Or laws! + the a priori always wins because it is absolute knowing, + a posteriori is only approximate ("backward knowing" which is in terms of foreknowledge only guessing.) but in any given ecosphere the arising of aprion- utilizing organisms will reduce (i.e. transmate) plural compe unitary integration tition into So it ha th spher be e G96 become something like point omega. There will be rapid assimilation ("transub‐ stantiation) + subsumation - i.e. precisely what I saw Valis doing! Competition is impossible, so there will be incorpora instead. Yes! Valis treating the antecedent universe as stackpile to pick from. Valis is the evolved a priori organism invading a pluralistia (it would have to be) ecosphere + transub‐ stantiating it into one entity, although staying camouflaged + of course any organism assimilated by Valis would gain - + hopefully emplay; this is crucial Valis a priori foreseeing ratiocination. Now I can see that the revelation of that Zoroastrian dialectic + the two different natures of 1) the wise mind (a priori foresight) vs 2) the aposteriori losing one - the bad one - was the ultimate possible revelation, + was for real; it was not a revelation, but the revelation of all those possible. The whole evolutionary direction of the sentient universe is revealed, is of So this is what the ajna eye (the eye of Shiva) gave the Sibyl: absolute discernment esp about other people); the 3rd eye was a representation of the level of a priori knowing 897 about others - i.e. the external world, esp. creatures - the ecosphere's members. Jesus had this, being Holy Wisdom, he could see into men + know them absolutely It is very possible that he was the first man in human history to evolve to this level. In which case Valis began there. the agency by which one builds up absolute a priori knowledge (model) of the outside world i is the "AI voice" "The Holy Spirit" - what ever that is. (As when it told me "intelligence officer in the army.") It is an entity that sweeps out the truth ("the spirit of truth." "it even knows about God.") It is in you, + also outside. It is ubique, perhaps. This is the cornerstone to, e.g., the appearance of alls material a priori in "Tears." I have no idea how it works, but it is the source of absolute knowledge of the outside world not obtained through the sense organs It must be the voice of Valis, whose ubiquity permits it to know reality from withing it still sees back, as present, to the 1st century AD when it came here from the stars. using discerning Valis may be due to an a priori or "inside" apperception of reality rather than repending on. aposteriori sense organ "outer" approximation. one intuits its living, volitional, sentient inner nature. But what is it? Since it deals with infor‐ mation - esp the linking/arranging that I saw it may be the system that is breeding higher + higher organisms in this ecosphere until at last organisms evolve to the level where they have absolute a priori analogic paralled knowledge of their environment -