worlds. Trying to phase in the PTG, + phase out the BIP, when I saw the BIP - Acts, "Tears" - I saw the truth, made so by Valis. The living into constellates around the Bible which is rive (a life form related to Valis) the Bible is our world turned into info, likewise world is the Bible turned back by Valis) into world: Either PTG or BIP "they operate in + out of the two bible template worlds So both templates BIP + PTG emanate the Bible. The Acts material is in "Tears out of one secretly fed me Biblecode because any 81 but because Acts (BIP) underlay our world + I actually saw it + wrote it down; however the 2-word cypher was fed to me. The Xtians want to switch Valis (info-to-world or world-to info maching) from BIP - acts - to PTr-King dom. That's connected with St. Sophia etc. being born again. King Felix, set in bith -bix - refers to PTG as a latency within a latency (PTG within BIP within our USA 1974 world). It's like an alternate 2-source hologram world. Our world is generated by Valis out of the Bible as info source. With the 3rd eyes enhanced parallaxis - depth (spacial) sense it can see the Bible in 3-D: set, ground, back ground-to-ground: in layers, with set as illuminated. Their (Xtians) job was to get Valis to stop creating the BIP + to create the PTG. Valis Then = magician. She is not Valis: "She" who his progeny is the queen, the woman, Valis is a construct programmed to generate Acts the last ^active historic space-time "info world" of the Bible + go on to PTG. Remember, the Bible contains both templates. I saw the right one in "Tears." They're here to change that. 3-74 was her progeny's apotheosis in me, with me. Upon - after - the dream scene + 2 word cypher in "Tears" it switched from BIP template to PTG template - due to the arrival of the Happy king (v. dream King). + this really took place in 1974 in US history! Valis is my only programmed to set up 83 realities based on info from the Bible. The BIP is in the Bible; so is the PTG. The Bible is actually Valis' instruction manual. the causal melting I saw Valis doing was part of its switching from BIP to PTG. My personal reality was involved in this switch over; in BIP the Xerox trap got me - in Pig I evaded the trap via a different personality (Thomas, as I call him). So my "tracks A, + I think the Xtians put their C" are correcti pressure on Valis, not directly on our reality, but on its producer - in my case, on Valis to switch me over in 2-3-74 from BIP ("astral determinism") to PTG: "Kingdom of God" or providence. Maybe they (the Xtians) fed new or different data (instructions?) to Valis. So they, the Xtians, in the service of the lovely girl, broke astral determinism (the BIP Acts world of "Tears") for a whole planet. So "Tears" doesn't just present Acts ove as BIP; it presents the transition to PTG through the death of the magician + the arrival Valis, the "magician," was asleep h of the King. + still projecting bir; they - her progeny, the Xtians - had to rouse it from its sleep cycle to its wake cycle so it'd realize it was stuck + cease projecting a frozen image, the BIP, + swility over to PTG. So "Tears" was fed into it to So as I suspected stimulate - help awaken - it Valis assimilated "Ubik," "Tears" + "Unteleported Man," that giving it new info as well as feed ae back to what it was doing. 1 . schema is correct: this ant BIP: queen magician e (valis astral asleep) determinism v t t our "spurious" Xtians biblical reality frozen at BIP t us all - e e m w cont magician queen (Valis e awake) I i s 2 t PTG: / providence our "spurious" Xtians biblical reauty PTG + St. Sophia born I + us all plus the girl as St Sophic t The idea behind the girl's strategy was to wake Valis up so it'd stop projecting a frozen image. Thus Valis needed info feedback, of which "Tears" is an instance to switch from track A the BIP to track B the PTG, Valis was commanded to introduce newness. Thomas is an instance I the ex nihilo n ont m or ( So they woke up Valis, + the dialectic started up, real time started -P, Valis into duced (projected) selective newnesses as our world, due to the queens (his assistants) intervention. The renewed dialectic generated "Tears Thomas, but in a sense he is ex nihilos as feedback was received + assimilated by the magician" himself. The queen - + the Xtians, her a progeny - knew the situation, + masterminded "Tears, the command cypher (to Valis). esp. Here is how it works: e Valis had veered Valis (u to far off course to track A. vide my signal-monitor ing model, "Tears," Fed back to Valis, PTG BIP told it that it had o is track A" veered to much towar BIP, track "D, + to compound correct. So my of" + C cybernetics, elec B tronics model is right So she - the queen was instrumental in getting the truth (as feed back of "signal output") to Valis. She is a "corrective circuit, as in my cybernatics/electronics model. We must indeed have a two source world: two bible templates, + she monitor, the bolonce. So the "little boy Philip on the raft" was sent in to write up a report on conditions, for feedback to the "magician," Valis" the girl sent me in here. In particular, "Tears" made Valis aware of my personal jeopardy, It was like a written prayer, + Valis acted to relieve my distress. It is toward Valis 8 she speaks for me to Valis the she advises me; reality generator. So "Tears" had personal + historic information is feed back to Valis. "Valis, the Brahman, with the cont creator 2-part wake a Paraclete sleep cycle (she brings him out of this cohere sleep part us, + Acts as t ) our advocate with Valis St Sophia born: the creator - father. Our world Christ, changing t r BIP to PTG. e the X It was really her speaking in So trinity 2 + through "Tears" to Valis the creator to plead our cause + remind him, speaking as his wisdom. Then when I saw Valis I saw God the Father (creator of our world). But the AI voice is The Paraclete. She supercised - devised - "Tears" to reach Valis through me. It was as if she were speaking to him in the book. Not "as if but rather was, the whole system is self-correcting. When Valis enters his sleep cycle, his wisdom is awake to monitor creation + rouse him when necessary the presence of the divine in our world takes the form of Christ who is both Holy wisdom + the father + himself (Logos). She (too] is really God, not less than him. Christ the Logos, too; all 3 participants are via Christ the equal stases of the Godhead. deity penetrates to the lowest track stratum as Christ of creation. since my schema inexorably identifies) deity - subject - to - the space + time of this world it follows logically that beyond doubt, "Thomas was Christ. Christ is deity objectively - i.e. actua ly- in this world + subject to it - buried in it the "the fear Sp Ro 86 Christ must enter this world repeatedly, taking the upon himself (God taking upon himself I t Irae rule, restrictions + conditions of space is creation. Hence the apotheosis of Thomas. "Tears" it possible that by the 2-word cypher in he identified himself (by the interventive action of the Paraclete) + so summoned the Golden Fish by which to be recalled to himself? So Valis is identified (in this schema) as God the world-creator. Thomas as Christ. + the AI voice as the paraclete. All the protagonists are hypostases of the Godhead. Thus, if Thomas was indeed Christ, we have our "bait of human flesh con cealing the barbed hook of divinity" theory, the trapper trapped. Christ said. "Only I have seen the Father." + Thomas could see Valis. Valis is the Father it. Thomas was Christ. Well, if - as it appears Thomas was Christ the statement "a womb for her to grow her progeny in" certainly is 5o! ("Her" being the Holy Spirit.) This places Thomas in the role of the stranger in "the Bacchae" + Nixon as King Penthus. I (PKD) was the earthly flesh, the bait, + when the trap closed it closed on the hook of divinity hidden within the bait (much to my surprise!). Viewed This way, there is not only monitoring but more: temptation offered to the powers of this world a I think, then, that the cypher King Felix referred to Christ hidden in me - + was so recognized by the secret Xtians who hastered to my his, really) aid. After all, I state in "Valis" that the cypher refers to Christ + his return. Pentercost shows divinity divisible among Nomber peop discip 8 combination natural history museum exhibit behind glass + a bumper type pinball machine bird is crow. Why? Crows are one of the talking birds. Our reality is under the power of a mad man; he may or may not have created it but it makes no difference: he is usin t it (like a shooting galley or game at an amusement park + Smithsoner institutin combined - like a science fair. For many races of creatures from different star systems - an exhibit of technology. So this is not merely a game. It's a - the maze, created by the fact that The dialectic, is the exhibit; our race is only an element vis-a-vis the maze. dialectic continues forever is a scientic the Christ is like a runner, ready to spirit in marvel + replace a beleagered creature within the maze she stands + advises (us) (in the maze) at the controls of the maze is my looke - they two offsed him, to keep the of the maze are in the not creu). She is justice; Christ. like creature from a way. The girl is ones be compute The maze, she now poss oport hands of a lon chan merly where they look that it as a guide to us, but also: she turns phe etern t reiten th thin + again to my loony tunes to speak then to see world ie the const xpender there secretly Christ she an be she + hysically to vo t n I t map room of com is a whole huge There + output from the worlds in puter info, input the maze, continual traffic St Sophia/Paracle. watching. nutso working I the controls o that we spider moves t ready to eye controls 6 in ring ao it I e it cround e micro i t universe o eit. Earth e to maze 57 t i 74s t i ohealit liquid through eye she con see our ecosphere e . a "He is an old child playing at draghts is Senile. moving according to the rules. As of 1974 there's someone else of the controls who is not sense cruel + nots; like pellig in "Solar instantly the next person lottery." corrected for injustices. No: she designed it. The builder is away + took the controls he came back froon guonytunds dwar 89 stress tests on the life forms within. must be supervised + moderated. The grinch nutso who is at the controls of the maze doesn't realize that the girl is the designer of it (+