wrong. Consider Jn 1. It could be the wisdom-word entering its own creation & expanding. It talks (i.e. the AI Voice) about St. Sophia & YHWH. & I heard the bells, & the animals changed. Just the one dream alone - the Messenger dream. & the dream about the Citadels of Power long ago having fallen to the darkness. All my speculation, in my books, which resemble it, deal with God, not ETIs: viz: Ubik. Specifically Ubik & also "Stigmata" & "Faith of". In view of this I find for St. Sophia-Logos-YHWH, not ETI or UTI. Plus the Biblical material in "Tears". The Theophany in "Ubik" is of an information entity made up of YHWH & his wisdom(Christ), word(Logos) & "I am" (i.e. YHWH). I may have put "word" in deliberately, but I didn't know about the "I am" referring to the Tetragrammaton. & in the "He has been transplanted" colloquy it showed me the Tetragrammaton. Is there any possibility that the God who created us was unable to bring us fully alive, & our "second birth" is another deity (Christ) who brings us fully alive? In which case the law and the elemental-planetary-powers are the dim, mechan[ical] folder 49 - 005 folder 49 - 005 system the original creation employs to govern our reality - the occlusion. The twin synchronized tapes; this is expressed by & through the DNA, & programmed, "android" lives. This would be Yaldabaoth. The system works to some extent, but we are not fully alive, not fully born, & doomed to scripted death ("your ancestors ate manna in the wilderness & they are all dead." This doesn't sound as if Jesus speaks for the O.T. God). He who frees us -- causes us to be fully alive; i.e. born the 2nd time -- is the invading deity Valis. But -- wait! I saw how the "Messenger" Flummoxes the Law : by inserting the blank sheet between the bill of particulars & the retributive legal machinery. So he (Christ/Valis) is working against the original system; this is not an evolution of the system but a sabotaging (it really is!) of the system; why, info is prevented from reaching the receiving processor! This is functionally bitheism. I mean, pragmatically how does it differ from antithetical -- well, I saw the dialectic, & it is antithetical. The original system -- Law, etc. -- is a tyranny : the BIP we are prisoners. Christ frees us. & who is it imprisons us? Well, who is the source of the Law & the elemental powers? It is YHWH. Perhaps the system has ossified? But the dialectic was that of antitheses -- this was my fundamental revelation & I must stay with it. How can the heavenly Torah, the original info which is the source that reality is based on be something bad? & yet the "Messenger" dream makes it folder 49 - 006 clear: this very same info, as a bill of particulars condemning a person to karmic punishment, is prevented from reaching the procession by a "messenger"- a very Gnostic-sounding term!! [figure: torah, messenger's blank sheet, retributive karmic procession] Okay, here's a thought. Reality equals the "necessity" deterministic system that Spinoza supposes is God & God's will. God (YHWH) created it, & it operates by means of the law. Law=reality=God. Okay, but: the law kills. & it is occluding & tyrannical. Okay, the Buddha is right: enlightenment (moksa) equals deliverance from this law/tyranny/reality. _This_ is what the messenger brings. "Whatever exists" is not a boon but a burden! YHWH indeed is "He [?] causes to exist whatever exists" but this existence--typified by the law--means tyranny & death, the weary wheel. It is a cause-&-effect retributive system that the _savior_ mercifully interrupts; the system = fate, awake, astral determinism. How about _that_? Moksa means folder 49 - 007 folder 49 - 007 waking up (ajna eye) & seeing the Prison we're in, & the messages of hope delivered to us _from outside the physical universe_. (i.e. from the upper realm or pleroma.) The soul must be freed from its tomb. The messenger's blank insertion aborts the very machinery which is the basis of reality, which guarantees reality. Then Christ's kingdom is a magic kingdom a fairyland (as John Allegro suspected; what I saw in 3-74 was due to a divine intoxication -- e.g. the colors & bells & lights. It's beautiful but - not real? Magic. right here in the midst of harsh gray BIP reality. I escaped to it or was placed in it by Christ because reality was too retributive. _Mercy_ was involved. "Grey truth is now her painted toy's Yet still she turns her restless head." Intoxication - Dionysos - Christ - vs YHWH. Body & Blood vs Manna. Peaceable Kingdom = Intoxication, magic ? dream. vs Rybus Rommey barfing up her guts. (YHWH's Law : reality.) The higher "reality" is a dream - well, which is better? Tyrannical Law? or to see what i saw in 3-74? ("I am no longer blind!") folder 49 - 008 folder 49 - 008 no wonder I sensed Diana, Queen of the fairies, & sensed fairyland! It's "I am" vs Diana's magic -- what I saw through the 1:.618034 door! Masc vs feminine; the AI voice & Christ are female (Shekhina). 2 sides of God? Solar? Lunar? Of the two I prefer the Kingdom -- But: what if, to be in it, you have to be enchanted? If it's bipolarized to sein, do I still prefer it? The secret known by the early Xtians : how to induce the secretion of a Mescalin-like auto-toxin, which I did, probably due mainly to stress & fear & awareness of imminent death -- plus the pentathol, plus the Gold Fish sign. Once this Mescalin auto-toxin is secreted, you find yourself in another realm : the Kingdom (re Castaneda.) Apollo vs Dionysos 9:30 insight : the true Xtians (in abolishing the Law & the elemental powers) abolished the structure that keeps reality together. This is what the Messenger did. They abolished the hold reality had over them ("receiving the spirit") but this would short-circuit reality per se, or anyhow portions thereof. This is what I saw that I called Valis. It was a folder 49 - 009 folder 49 - 009 loosening of causality itself. hence a loosening of the mechanism insuring reality. When I saw "3 Women" I realized this & got scared because I then understood. So I retreat hastily & in fear to YHWH : the final bulwark against non being : the implications for reality as a whole (in what I saw that I called Valis) was suddenly clear to me. Yet I would gladly return to the Kingdom if I could. Christ actually suspends causality. Therefore I figure that Valis was Christ, in as much as Valis was suspending causality, replacing it with himself. He is an invader lodged at the core of the machinery of world. What replaced causality was what I call "pretextual cause" : the sentience & volition operations of Valis, who cannot have been YHWH who operates through the Law (as Spinoza pointed out). Therefore it is said that "Xtians are _in_ the world but not _of_ the world." Boy, am I on to something here. Now again consider my acosmic writing. Have I been trying to dissolve the immutable Yin world of cause-&-effect? but my epistemological search leads me to YHWH as the Guarantor of reality : yet it was Christ who saved me from the world! folder 49 - 010 folder 49 - 010 So the immortality that Xtianity confers amounts to a suspension or short-circuiting of causal law, & of time itself (hence in 2-3-74 I saw another time & place; there was a massive dysfunction involving time & reality - for me, at least). There was even death & the after-life while I was still alive ( due to the speeding up or slowing down of my inner tape). Christ figured out how to bilk the rigid system of time, causality & death. He bilks it out of some of its doomed victims! He can be conceived of as snatching us, the victims, out of the jaws of the machinery. But (forgive me) to do this he must render the Law void, hence the world irreal. But if the machinery is occluding, tyrannical, & driving you inexorably toward death, then what he does is the epitome of mercy. But it seems to me 1) there is an anti-worldly quality here; & 2) in fact a split with the reality principle. There would have to be. That's the whole point! Obviously he shares his eternal life with you ("I am the bread of eternal life" etc). (Whereas your ancestors ate manna in the wilderness & they are all dead.") The doctrine of original sin is a cunning way of saying that under the Law - reality system - we are all doomed. It artfully places the blame on us, but the message is clear : some kind of extrication is necessary or we will _all_ die horribly. To repent, then, means to recognize that under the law we are going to inevitably be terribly punished - & need to be extricated. But Christ doesn't just intoxicate you, like a mescalin trip; he actually short-circuits folder 49 - 011 external cause-&-effect insofar as it affects you, & time (& space?)as well, & foils programmed death through (1) his wisdom & (2) his spotless surrogation. So more than getting loaded (cf John Allegro) is involved. Valis is both in you (holy spirit) & in the world in macroform (Valis i.e. the cosmic Christ, the Pantocrator, under whose reign the wheels of the cosmic order are put into a free spin, no longer grinding along in their karmic, retributive way. So the Kingdom is indeed his Kingdom. i.e. he says of it, "My Kingdom" & significantly, "is not of this world ." His death on the cross would have started the short-circuiting off inasmuch as the elemental powers chewed up -- claimed -- an actually spotless victim: ergo, they are proven wrong -- unjust, retributive for the sake of retribution & not justice; their true nature (darkness) is revealed. He -- Christ -- has proven his case against the powers that govern this cause & effect world. Now the ancient powers themselves are judged, & found wanting in Justice (which was their sole claim to legitimacy). Okay. So now I understand. I know that Valis was/is Christ, & I know what he saved me from & how. But it would seem that the Gnostics are right to bipolarize the O.T. & N.T. Pragmatically, Christ pits himself against the powers & Law of this world that YHWH set up. folder 49 - 012 folder 49 - 012 This is the story of the regent who rules the Kingdom in a tyrannical, unjust way. The real King in disguise enters the Kingdom secretly & mingles. The wicked regent seizes him & torments him. Whereupon (1) the real King knows the truth; & (2) has _proved_ the true state of affairs; & (3) pits himself against the wicked regent whom he, the real King, appointed, which means he - the real King - can successfully do it. The Key for Freedom is to remember. Which is to say, remember how it was before the tyranny began : how it ought to be. One wakes up from the tyranny & occlusion (the talking horse's head). Thus Christ induces anamnesis as the major key to the solution. It is a going back in time (thus annulling time's tyranny) to before the wicked regent's occludding tyranny. A waking up. However, YHWH now has the feed back news of the true state of affairs & he himself in-breaks to depose the powers he himself installed. total rectification - of the whole system - is in the offing. So the Kingdom isn't just an auto-intoxicated state; actual causality affecting time, death, & occlusion,