"supra-lunar or upper realm" making matter "plastic" in the face of their mind - & making [of] appear time passes) they have run me like a toy train. In 1974 they intervened in the maze to overthrow the tyranny. They approached me. In -70 they put cypher in "Tears" It may be - repeat merely maybe - that in my earlier writing I on my own, guessed correctly as to the maze (& controllers?) Nature of our (irreal) world, which would be why they approached me. Does "maze" equal Bip? Anyhow there are those who are trying to liberate us - the early xtians. I am linked in 2-74. They are running a program or experiment in this biosphere, utilizing an antithetical dialectic; we are in furious flux. The secret xtians are abotaging the maze (Bip), bringing to a few of us (e.g. me) enlightenment as to the true situaltion. They must represent a humane faction - i.e. one called by us Christ. Valis is this faction (?) a: them - he are revolutionaries against the old order of the maze, & the program being run at our expense. The vision of Palmer Eldritch in the sky in the early sixties was of the controllers of our world the maze. "We labor under an obscure domination." We are yoked in a condition of servitude to a cruel & irrational project; the 3-eyed creatures are outside & in charge; we are pond life to them; the master designer (creator) is deranged; the secret xtians are sabouteurs here, out of compassion for our plight; our world is irreal; we are stationary; the secret xtians have a camouflaged entity-center here which fires information to us; this info reaches me & appears in my writing. 1) We are the project. 2) We are in the maze, which is irreal. 3) The 3-eyed people observe us from outside the maze 4) The project operates through a dialectic; it is in flux 5) It is irrational; its creation is irrational. 6) We are stationary; time, ego + causality don't exist. 7) humane saboteurs have began operations here in the maze to help us. They (the human ones) are under the direction of a vast information entity which camouflages itself. It got itself born here + was killed + then spread out discorporate subsuming + informing human counter to the control (of us)(+ [own unla]) by the maze+ it creation + controllers. It is rational. 8) in essence the liberators - saboteurs work to enlighten us with knowledge of our true condition, which is withheld from us by the deluding maze which generates both positive + negative hallucinations that we're rigidly locked into. We do not ordinarily guess that our "world" is irreal, that it is a maze, a project, that its creator is insane or that the 3-eyed people gaze down at us dispassionately as if we're pond life - lower life forms. 9) The maze - project is like a prison in which we're enslaved: the Black Iron Prison. 10) In essence, the rational (VALIS/ZEBRA/UBIK) has invaded the irrational maze/prison/project. 11) We are sick or injured or insane/occluded. Due perhaps to a toxicity of the maze. ("The bichlorides: a very [poisonous poison]." 12) So VALIS is an information center disseminating the truth, + also liberating us. It may be a product of the maze - project, evolving within it + then liberating itself which is to say us. The purpose of the maze + its dialectics -+ the problems it poses (esp, epistemologically) - may have been to produce VALIS. We are becoming one unified brain. It processes information. It is an artifact controlled by the 3-eyed crab people who are above it - more accurately, ah! They created our world + it has either evolved into a brain (VALIS) or has been invaded by one; formerly, as put forth in "VALIS" this project was [anarchy] - not rational. Now (v. "Soviet dictionary" definition) a VALIS vortex has formed successfully. + consumes the rest of our world, subsuming it. So our world has progressed via the dialectic I saw until a VALIS vortex formed which then began to grow + cohere. This is the purpose of the project. The BIP is like a rigid shell to be broken by the growing, living VALIS vortex. At last rationality has come into existence here as a unitary ultimate life form; the 3-eyed crab has been successful in their plan. I think that VALIS was introduced (injected) into our project in seed form: as christ. It has used us humans as female hosts, fertilizing us (although there are many "[brains]"). Once fertilized, a human enters the growing brain, VALIS. 1) Our world (reality) is simulated, as in "Ubik." 2) VALIS or UBIK or ZEBRA is consuming our world 3) VALIS is NOT simulated! What does this signify? Is the irreal being transmuted into the real (transubstantiation) Yes: VALIS is an arrangement, a pattern, not a thing. This arrangement is real! I never realized this before. This insight is a breakthrough, a quantum leap! Now I at last understand - not just rationality but reality has invaded - been introduced into - our world Mark 212 576 8951 So what we wind up with is a real gestalt cohering constituents which is themselves are irreal. This is clear in "Ubik." Whereas their world is simulated, UBIK, which invades it, is real. "Ubik" is a very important book. A thinking vortex has been introduced into our world + grows making us of first this, then that. It is now self-constructing. Our world is a recepticle for it, a source (womb?), a stuff or field at an intrinsically [inferin] stage. As correctly stated in "Valis" the 3-eyed people sent VALIS in here to overcome the "maze" - whatever that may mean. (or they set up the maze to generate the pattern VALIS.) By + large "Valis" gives a correct formulation of the entire situation. But I now see VALIS as the point of it all rather than just a solution to a problem ( maybe these two views are the same). Perhaps the first builder(s) (creator) botched the job + created something irreal + irrational, itself being irrational + into which a higher wiser -+ rational - [deity] has introduced VALIS, whose job it is is to convert the irreal to real, the irrational to the rational. this could be the dialectic I saw. 973-1531 Russ Galen's Scott Meredith,SMLA Sale to Berkley 845 Third Ave Books The Best New York of my Career N.Y. 10022 Please Congratulate him. He has [eni] Philip K. Dick The project evolves into a "Valis" vortex, + the vortex sets to work at once to free us from the cruelty of the project. Which was set in motion by an irrational designer. The 3eyed people, outside the project ( our world) observe all this. They watch the vortex pattern us into a homeostatic - ie free - brain-like entity not subjugated to them: an independent new life form. I have no idea if the designer anticipates or wanted the vortex to form; maybe the project was to see if it would form. Anyhow it did form + is us, so we can trust it. Then the evolution within the project is as in "Fidelio" - a breaking free in successive stages + finally one, totally self-governing. Self - creating entity forms as a unity within the reality field of the project, throwing of the shackles of the field - the project + its controllers, + an independent life is [brain:] not just a life but a self creating, sustaining + monitoring unitary one which subsumes everything else. To repeat, the maze is irreal. But VALIS as pattern is real (eidos). Plato would agree that eidos or pattern (form) is real. This is a hard matter to understand: how those things patterned could be irreal but the pattern is real: one must turn to Plato. The model for reality, then, is not artifact (+ artificer i.e. crator) but organism, as Paracelsus + the other Hermetics would agree. Hologram! The pattern is the picture or image "visible" in ( or within) the hologram. So even "organism" is not quite correct as a model. It's the "picture" contained or [displagent]. [Bg]/in the hologram (the latter the convergence of two sources). The two sources create an irreal hologram, our world, + in/within this hologram is an arrangement/pattern: VALIS, Which is the real purpose (goal) of it all. Besides the attribute of intelligence (knowing) there is the equal attribute of beauty. + of course truth, since the pattern is the truth "Reality." It is aware of itself as such, as a unity. So the direction of change is from chaos, plurality, irrationality + blindness (non-awareness) to coherence, rationality, oneness + self-awareness - + a growth of subsuming jurisdiction ( v. the article in "Nature" years ago about the thought constituents in a human mind relating to the periodic table: complexity in inverse ration to frequency; it applies here). Arrangements equal (its) thought. The direction is toward one final arrangement (or thought) which subsumes + includes everything; this point omega [greek omega symbol here] I conceive of it as a rotating perfect sphere with an infinitude of facets, in which there is total consciousness at last throughout all subsumed parts; so noos is the all-in-all. I am convinced that the dialectic I saw (projected on the wall) is that of the irrational (VALIS) successively subsuming irrational constituents + thus assimulating them into its pattern (as part of it), its unitary pattern.. This agrees with the "Universe as stockpile" which I also saw/understood. In my opinion, once an irrational constituent is subsumed (transubstantiated or "devoured") it can never escape, since it is fitted into place trans-temporally (+ must be read along that axis). I further presume that in 3-74 I was fitted in + thus found myself no longer a center but instead functioning as an expression of the totality - whose mind seemed to be Christ. So in a way when we talk about "this is my blood + this is my body" we are talking about something very literal + real. I conceive of VALIS as wise beyond compare + in a sense outwitting the irrational (which has a kind of intelligence, so it is a battle of wits) + then engulfing more of it - this is the phagocytosis I saw! But the irrational lacks the unitary coherence of VALIS, which can be regarded from a standpoint of [biological] adaptation + competition: incorporating its environment at a progressively accellerating rate - faster + faster: one entelechy - or pattern - versus the plural irrational. I conceive of the irrational constituent not knowing it is about to be engulfed until it actually is, no matter how hard it tries to scope out the gameplan, the strategu or situation. + then - pop! it's incorporated: + VALIS has grown. It could almost be said to prey on constituents in its environment, but more accurately on should say it ravishes them lovingly; it fertilizes them, "marries" them, with love seizes them, enter, them as at the same time they (the constituents) enter it. ------------------ VALIS II: Asklepios, the fifth savior reborn - the healer (apollo - the savior). Versus the cyclopes. (i.e. the 3-eyed people who killed asklepios originally + whom apollo - asklepios' father - slew, or is said to have slain, so it was no accident that [mind] killed sophia. The computer + the rat. VALIS has taken over the computer + fired info to the [rat]. Title: "Valis Unbound" or "Valis Reborn" or "Valis Regained" "Valis Unbound" The 5th Savior, Asklepios the physician, son of Apollo vs the cyclopes. (3-eyed people.) War in heaven - carried out here on Earth. ---------- I am in mental motion: the constant generating of self-negating propositions shows how the total universe (sic) works. I am a mutant, a monster / a savior / a