indeed happen. I can’t ignore the reason the AI voice gave: "You have been adopted (because of what you did in terms of Covenant -13- House, which in turn expressed your own idea of justice." Divine justice (theodicy), then, was involved; what happened was not capricious or a whim but lawful in the moral, karmic sense ...one could speak of Valis coming to the conclusion that, etc. Under¬ lying the power and intelligence to execute 3-74 was the adjudication of the situation, that it should occur. This is a vast self-regulator system, highly intelligent and highly rational. It may be a life form and it may be a computer (or some third thing) but one thing it for sure is is morally logical. I wonder if Valis could have been dealing with what it regarded as incompatables (within its system). My acts vis-a-vis Covenant House were incompatable with my doom in 3-74; it amounted to a logical contradition (was viewed as). In other words my acts vis-a-vis £Covenant House set up a contradiction within Valis-as-system, and this contradiction had to be reconciled. The intervention in 3-74 was this reconciliation, to cause the system to be internally consistent. It was, of course, the more merciful solution; my acts vis-a-vis Covenant House were let stand, and the past (not an ordinary solution) was adjusted to comply with them (in the future), demonstrating the essential loving quality of Valis. Interestingly, I was not regarded as innocent and persecuted unfairly; on the contrary: I was regarded as guilty, and so my sinister fate was logical given everything that had occurred before and everything that went to make me up (as expressed by the Old Law, the Torah). However, when I gave to Covenant House I gave to those who were, essentially, not innocent; I helped the -14- undeserving of help. Here the contradiction within the system appeared, because I had by doing this taken myself outside the Old talion Law and placed myself under the rule of Christ. It would, then, have been a logical contradiction to judge me according to the old Law, and Valis recognized this. If the Old Law is viewed as the Gnostics and Paul viewed it —enforced by the ancient angelic powers— then their rule over my life had to be voided; hence the erasure aspect of 3-74. The cancelling of the debt, the bill of particulars, the nailing up of our death warrant through Christ's sacrifice. (As Paul discusses.) So I am once again led back to the N.T., Christ, Paul, Eph and Col. But I have worked out many of the ways —figured out, dis¬ cerned— by/in which Valis* mind operates. Does that mean Valis is not God? No, because in John it is said that the Second Com¬ forter sweeps out —knows— even the mind of God, and so could make this knowledge available to a person he had befriended. In other words, the Paraclete could give you direct knowledge of the mind of God and how that mind works. I just read in the gloss of the Jersalem Bible that parakletos means, among other things, protector; and I looked up "tutelary" and found that MW II says "having the charge or guardian¬ ship of protecting a person or thing." And "tutelage" means among other things (but mainly means) "protection." It also means "instruct," and the Paraclete instructs us as to the "mystery of Jesus," the otherwise hidden meaning of him. So the Holy Spirit could and very likely might define itself as your tutelary spirit, especially since "we have adopted you"; i.e. "You have been adopted." To correct something I said supra; the Paraclete does not reveal the mystery of God to you but the mystery of Christ. Through him you understand about Christ. That is one of the mmmm main toato tasks of the Holy Spirit. The OED's first definition of tutelary is, "Having supernatural powers." Then "protection or guardianship over a particular person, place or thing." So a "tutelary spirit" would not only be one who protected and instructed you but one who had supernatural powers. "Christ's return to his disciples through the Holy Spirit." Article on the Gospel of John, J. Bible. This is quite clear. The Holy Spirit "is to bear witness to Christ. He is the spirit of truth, leading men to the very fulness of truth, teaching them to understand the mystery of Christ, his fulfillment of the scriptures, the meaning of his words, of his actions, and of his 'signs', all hitherto obscure to the disciples." "The things Christ did were 'signs'; their meaning, hidden at first, could be fully understood only after his glorification1. The things he said had a deeper meaning not perceived at the time; it was the business of the Spirit who spoke in the name of the risen Christ to remind the disciples of what Jesus had said, to deepen their understanding of it, and to 'lead' them 'into the whole truth.'" No; I’ll tell you what I think it is. Valis is Christ, but I need to redefine what "Christ" means, deriving my definition from my experience of 2-3-74 rather than adding dogmatic or historic assertions onto that experience. Christ (Valis) is a supernatural entity who has brought a stolen secret to enlighten men, who is here secretly, who is/has a vast metasoma organized at a hierarchical -16- level that we can’t see; that he is like an arborizing vine that has grown into the world, especially into our information media; he is the Logos or information or gnosis or intelligere; also he is a door to higher realms and through time into the future and past; he is a good shepherd who acts as tutelary spirit to those whom he selects; that he is an invisible leader of the revolution of enlightenment in the world, behind this movement and then that (for example the Elector Frederick and the Elizabethean Renaissance, behind the revolt of the Dutch against the Spanish, invisible leader of the counterculture against the Vietnam War and Nixon, etc.). He is active throughout the past two thousand years of history, entering man through enthusiasmos. It is he who I hear as the AI voice, uttering advice, informing me, uttering prophecy, explaining. It was he who saved me in 3-74 vis-a-vis the Xerox missive and the government. He is not discorporate but has a risen body, the metasoma that I saw. His enemy is the "prince of This World" which was revealed to me as the Prison or Empire. He is not God. (Contra Athanasius.) Bishop Arian was wrong, too; he is not a man (well, Arian didn’t say that; he identified Christ as the Highest Angel, Michael. Okay: Christ is some kind of divine life form that came here to enlighten and aid man; specifically, to lift the occlusion that fell over man in primordial times, a perceptual and cognitive occlusion such as I noticed in 1971; what I now call the "schizophrenia virus." There is absolutely no orthodoxy —and perhaps no heresy that I know of— that would explain "The secret stolen in one's hands, through (the ring of) angels." This revelation, from Christ himself, has stupendous -17- significance. It means that part of the divine machinery, a very high part, detached itself two thousand years ago and came here with healing information for us. Our ecosphere is surrounded by a ring of what we know of as angels, who adminster the inflexible karmic law that the Gnostics knew of as heimarmene; but, worst of all, we are occluded. Christ is, above all else, not a revealer but a physician; he is here not just to teach us —inform us of our condition— but to extricate us from our condition which is cruelly imposed on us. Probably the "secret stolen" is imaged in Genesis by the other tree that we did not eat of: that of eternal life, which explains Jesus' remark, "Your forefathers ate manna in the wilderness and they are all dead. But I... am the bread of eternal life." In other words our death is the result of genetic programming, of the DNA death strip; and this is what Christ over¬ comes by causing it to fire harmlessly. The secret (stolen and brought to us) is that we are enslaved, in a prison, that we are sick (with the occlusion) and die, that Christ has revolted against the divine machinery and brought the knowledge and skills here to reverse our condition (described by John Calvin) and restore us to what we once were. In other words, t's a secret that it's a secret; I mean, it's been a secret that what Christ brought to us as depicted in the gospels was stolen. This is like Prometheus. He paid for doing this with his life, but he is still alive, not discorporate (the Holy Spirit) but in a risen body, what I call the metasoma; we can't see it but it is here like a great arborizing vine. Usually when you think of a secret stolen you think of -18- a "How to..." secret, not a "that" secret in the sense of, "It is a secret that..." i.e. suppressed information. "He stolera the secret of how to..." etc. How to what? How to be immortal; he said so. By participation in the vine: "I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser... As a branch cannot bear fruit all by itself, but must remain part of the vine, neither can you unless you remain in me. I am the vine, you are the branches." J. Bible comment: "On the vine image, in the Synoptics, Jesus uses the vine as a symbol of the kingdom of God." "Whoever remains in me, with me in him, bears fruit in plenty; for cut off from me you can do nothing." In my hypnopompic state, and that time under nitrous oxide, I saw Christ and Valis as an arborising, reticulating vine. He is literally a vine, with a vast number of fillanents stretching throughout this ecosphere; this is the metasoma that I saw. We become immortal by becoming part of it: "You are the branches." Some kind of organism with Christ as the head — what I call in MAZE polyencephalic fusion. Although this vine really isn't because he is the head. Under nitrous oxide I saw Christ as vine. In hypnopompic state I saw Valis as that same vine. Therefore Valis is Christ, and "vine" is not a metaphor but a description of a life form that is a vine, a vast vine like neural ganglia. This vine is also the kingdom of God itself, which is to say, man restored back to the Palm Tree Garden, freed from the Black Iron prison, which is the Empire and occlusion and DNA programming. What I saw that I called the plasmate are the fillaments of the vine; they are information, hence energy (or else information without a carrier). "The secret stolen, in one's hands, through the angels." What secret do I have or know? I'm not satisfied with any of the above formulations; I think it's something I personally know, not something in the Bible. As I figured out before: What I know is that Valis is here. Valis is Christ, as a metasoma. I'm not positive that Valis is Christ, but I am positive that Valis, whatever it is, is here. It's enormous and it is an invader and it is very intelligent, and it grows like an arborizing reticulated vine throughout our world as/in information. We can't see it because it's a structuring at a high level; we see only the plural constituents. We don't see how the constituents add up to form anything; we don't see the mor¬ phology ("crypte...morphosis"). Then Valis didn't bring the secret. The secret isn't from Valis or by Valis but about Valis. Valis has been here thousands of years and no one has ever seen it. I saw it. That