historic archetype key: slave revolts, + what is sanity + what madness? Xtianity as the ultimate - + ultimately success ful - slave revolt because ultimately led (by the mysterious immortal + ubique entity Christ). It falls to this man + then that to be Christ within a given historic situation. Christ so to speaks breaks out, is aroused (by what I call Valis, which seems to be the final governing force totally with Christ as its agent) Valis is superior technology. "God God is a superior technology, but who is using it I have no idea. I realized this last night. Spinoza's argument that God works through - not contra- natural causes could lead to the conclusion, upon seeing a miracle, that a high technology was involved. Almost every‐ thing that I saw had to do with information processing, + it seemed as if natural law has This was the strange utilized. At least pretextually. thing. This is what gave rise to my idea of camou‐ flage. The true agency wraps itself within the natural. It's like a play. The phone must ring if someone is to pick it up + say hello. (Even though in fact there is no one there.) So who is fooled? Why, it is we who are fooled; we imagine true cause, te not pretextual cause the whole system is an eaborate deception w but of course 320 really just memory tapes fed back - so of course there is charade. We must respond in - i.e. specific + determined - ways precisely certain to "events" in order for the next "events" to occur naturally. But this is exactly what Valis interfered with in 3-74 vis-a-vis the Xerox missive? Or did it interfere? Did it not perhaps step up to a transliminal level what normally does subliminally? + - wasn't it at that point consciously aware of layers So my dissician I in me normally subliminal? behavior was simply something happering led within my awareness that normally happens all the time outside of awareness? the objective of the behavior was important enough to justify a disclosure of how it operates + that it operates Then what happened was that 1) I woke up: + 2) being awake, saw how the pretextual cause works in terms of locking our reactions in to stimuli as they pop up. This explains the monumental (+ nerve-shattering) dysfunction where I reacted to the awake element is all stimuli in advance. now the Xtian activity seems to important, here. center around making me literally conscious of how the Wait. I had recognized the Golden Fish sign girl as part of my memory contents - subliminally, + paradoxically I began to struggle to rouse myself. it was connected with the pentathol. Once the arousal process began it had its own dynamism, its own logical unfolding. I became aware of another self in me ("Thomas") who had controlled me for years (e.g. material put into the writing). Maybe Thomas didn't wake up; I did, + became aware of him + his power in/over me, the total structure a was laid bare my psyche personality in you sees to it that you Thom 361 respond in certain ways to events (actually stimuli). He effects the synchronization. Well, Then I say that Valis is [a visible part of] a vastly sophisticated technology. Thomas inside you links up with what? Why, with Valis outside, + forms an integration. Valis transferred the info about Chrissy to Thomas who then spoke; as world is to Valis I am to Thomas. world PKD home as a t t Valis is integrated with Thomas, not me with world; these are husks within which the real agencies are camouflaged. is Thomas perhaps an ultra- or phylogenic self? Or: have we been infiltrated internally (via the plasmate) by such as Thomas analo gously to Valis' macro-invasion? So Thomas, This, all the Thomases, are Valis internalized. then, is a technological take over by a life form This is the "astral determinism" of the ancients which the mystery religions + Xtianity broke. In which case I was aroused. This specifically is what was involved in 2-3-74: to the fact that I was not master in my own house. This makes of Xtianity + Christ something uniquely important, in a very practical way Aroused (by Christ) I overpowered my program ring vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. That must be it was conscious of the conflict in me, the tug. that moment I was fully aroused; ergo, I it overruled my programming, it did not over‐ ule me, as I have tended to suppose. My act at once set up a perturbation in the reality ield since I had not done what I es 322 supposed to do; hence reality was so to speak thrown off track. It quickly adjusted (i.e. reset) itself to re-integrate; this is what I calls Valis: seeing reality as sentient + volitional: it took note of my altered response + compensated accordingly, which I saw. (The "random variable" introduced within a closed system, but actually a very purposeful variable.) perhaps in sending the Xerox missive to the Bureau I was simply free to do the rational as contrasted to programmed) thing. Tess felt This way: it was a logical reaction not necessarily based on any complex multi-level logic. Forgery or not it should have gone to the Bureau. But, see, the intervention of Christ was related to the fact that it was a forgery, was in fact a vicious trap where no response could be bent into the semblance of a treasonable response The first step in waking me up was the producing of anamnesis; whereupon the shock of recognizing "reality" as my own memories would begin to arouse me (from my hypnoidal slumber). the Bardo Thodol trip, the radio the So phosphene graphics, etc., were natural steps in the developing arousal process which had its culmination in true wakefulness a couple of days before the Xerox missive arrived hence I was no longer occluded + saw reality as it actually was: Valis, the plasmate, + Thomas in me - + of course the long term memories. Now let us consider my statement, "I am no longer blind! For the first time I can seely I was awake. It is as simple as that. + I course I saw the world radically th 323) This is scary. There is perceptual occlusion + amnesia, all right - + what is called "astral determinism" (programming); + - reality is spurious, as I write about, a situation which is a mixture of "Eye" "Joint" "Stigmata." "Ubik" + "Maze. It is as if I were in the "polyencephalic fusion" of "Maze" + was roused temporarily to deal with a lethal situation, the lethal aspect of which depended on my being asleep - + responding in a programmed way. What are we really, then? Sleeping gods? divine beings who have been enchanted, a spell cast on us by evil powers, so that we have forgotten, + fallen into slumber? Where‐ upon we are enslaved: caused to do whatever the evil power (thanatos) wishes us to do? is Hence Paul says, "Death, where is thy sting? ("Death is swallowed up in victory.") did a part of the cosmos sink, + us with it? + the divine light was extinguished by the infernal darkness? anamnesis doesn't just involve remembering your forgotten thought or memory contents it involves regain memory + hence recognizing reality s as your own former (forgotten) mempies fed back to you. This recognition causes a blitz which, further, causes you to realize you are in a Bardo Thodol state this further causes you to wake up, even if only temporarily So the sequence is 1) remember: 824 2) recognize; 3) understand [your actual state], + 4) wake up - whereupon 3) you throw off your programming + 8) deal freely with the situation presented you, + master it producing so 7) escape from (untimely] death. that you in toto what has happened is have been delivered from the Kingdom of death + transferred to the Kingdom of life - what we call Christ's domain. the Xtian magic, then, is really more accurately an anti-magic. The King dom of life (or God) is real, + this domain is not What the ancients called the state of sin may be a state of heavy metal poisoning, damage to neuro‐ receptor sites (poisonous intoxication). in which case arousal is a kind of Meta-surgery + Christ a physician using a high medical technology (i.e. "we need medical attention" + "the bichlorides are... etc) in which case no epistemological insight in my writing outweighs the study of brain impairment caused by "substance D" in "Scanner," which, if course, was based on observatio personal experience - i.e. on reality on actual impairment. 3215 two-psyche theme in "Scanner" is in fact secondary to the impairment theme, the "I'll come back thursday" theme. I have overlooked this! I have in fact forgotten i This is terribly important: my whole sense of "OCCP microwave telepathic satettile mind control was my attempt, + a quite wrong one, to explain what I had discovered (as I woke up]: i.e. our being enslaved by an inner mind programming. That it could be a life form (the plas to which mate?) I never guessed. we are host. My impression, my basic sense, of the situation, was something evil has correct occluded us als ob heavy metal ietoxication + poisoning as depicted i in "Scanner"! It was this that I threw off in 2-3-74 due to Christ The physician. So 2-3-74 could be viewed as my throwing off the occlusion Mellow Jello depicted in "Scanner. just increased it. I washed it out. 8:00 am realization: were like those in cold-pac - + Valis is on the other side of the glass screens 06 So the impairment prduced in us is as But when I depicted it in "Scanner." I wrote "scanner" I did not know what it would be like to lose the impairment. This is what happened to me in 3-74. Our myths about the Fall depict us as once having been -i.e. having been originally - in this intact state (v. Calvin). The occlusion is necessary 1) if we are to take our spurious world as real (which requires that we have amnesia) + 2) respond properly to stimuli. Meanwhile living information - the plasmate - makes use of us to proliferate it self +, I guess, reproduce. Then I can think of two things the AI voice in me might be 1) The voice of this life form to which I am host. I.e. what I call "Thomas" a 2) The voice of my own real self as it be comes briefly conscious. Note: it is a superior life form which has ken us over, not a mere virus. It thinks. ta The real life form is it, primarily expressed as Valis "on the other side of the glass. It structures everything into subsections of itself. This fits my impression upon reading the first half of "Valis" that we are under the domination of the 3-eyed cyborg people. We as a planet are a slave system into which Christ has come as a marksman + liberator, who wakes up those he desires to save thus he dis‐ rupts the functioning of the mechanism in which we are routinely killed off by DNA death strips inside us. He adopts us. He does not overthrow 2 The mechanism but takes some of us out of it Eventually he will depose the mechanism + may have begun this already. Its power to bind is by him, diminished. This is done in his role of advo cate. The waking self of 3-74 - me awake - speaks now as the AI voice. Me asleep - I am programmed + occluded, controlled by pretextual cause; but Thus its My covert waking self advises me. relation to my sleeping self is that