with the unscrambling into set (Acts) + ground (USA 1974). (Or inner-outer, covert-overt). cannot overemphasize: this is why I I saw Acts, rather than just remembering it - + then in 3-74 it burst through into my consciousness as Thomas; my God he tracks the Acts "signal"! It's like a two channel transmission, Jeter's term "the second signal" is right on, but it is not added; it is discriminated Then my "two source cosmogony" is correct, by + large. I would have been more correct if I'd said "cosmology" or "reality" rather than "cosmogony" but I'm close enough. meta-abstracting: comprehension that two "Sets" are working off one "common essence." Are they spatiotemporal? They are aspects, all right. But I'm not sure if they're spatiotemporal. Well, based on the form - organization of reality this issue is moot. 10 Then we did fall asleep; in 2-74 I woke up - under pentathol, upon "anamnesis, i.e. my memory block was removed. But it is not memory of the past but the present, which explains Thomas' fear of the Romans: yet another supra-temporal Eidos acting as the basis of both worlds. For him Romans's for me G-2. Hence "Tears" exists in both realms Acts 45 + USA 1974; with the unscrambled (discrimination grid) I could see the part of "Tears" that exists in Thomas' world, just as we have two "sets" working off one axis (common essence) Acts carries simultaneous messages or existences in both realms; in 3-74 I read ie Tears" as it appears in Thomas' realm (aspect). The dissociated Acts" vis-a-vis the Xerox missive were the other "set" acting on this by synchronizing this world with it. "the secret stolen, past the angell angelo Gnosticism in the case: "Tears" + "Valis are for the same purpose: to tell us the we are in a prison (BIP = FLC). hessenger. Makes you remember. But the + "Valis" political orientation in "Tears" identical! In "Valis" the news (FLC) given (augmented by) overt is "Tears" in + authority tim say upi 11 "Tears" for Nixon. "Valis," even more explicits is for reagan. The Gnostic message. For this they saved me from the Xerox missive - same reason they gave one the Gnosis: so I'd publish it 1) The Rhipidon society forms after Nixon's overthrow. 2) Sophia gives them their commission at that late time vis-Ã -vis the grim King. 3) The society is anti M-16! Which can mean anti-wars remember how I analyzed in a letter to Pat how the parallel unrelated themes in "Tears" had become in "Valis" one explicit totality, well, now read supra about the two streams (or themes) in "Tears" serving two worlds coperating off a common exis/essence). Christ is in that other aspects set, signal, world. Hence he is here yet "camouflaged as the Acts material in "Tears" is both pertain to the other, covert set. The Acts realm (set) is spiritual. USA 1974 Acts AD les (combined equal signal signal for total reality roove t The 5th savior Fat is looking for will lead the resistance against the regime (the BIP) like che. This time it won't just be an a deposing of the regime; the revolution of the 16 will take over the government + rule in its place, this did not happer in the 60's, once Nixon was out the counter culture dissolved - because all its leaders had been killed (as the Sibyl pointed out). So the 5th savior replaces them + leads the revolution to overthrow the regime (the BIP) reason himself. This is what "Valis" is all about; it fal preaches revolution. This is why the reagan tyranny is necessary for/in the divine plan: so that the revolution started in the 60s will be completed. I must -thave a right to- claim divine sanction see "Valis" as a Bible, a political handbook, a basic text copping to the like man's redbook. saw Christ is in order to t fact that show my authority for preaching political revolution: we must not only overthrow the regime, we must muss seize power in its plac of me Cho is I already have in "Valis"; in confirm, 1 the suspicions rassed by "Tears"! progress is taking place. Deposing Nixon was not enough, we meltel away; it was "business as usual." now we will take over, after a ter rible battle with the regime. I must stand behind "Valis" theologically + politically - a wholly new thing: the invisible secret true Xtians are surfacing, + I am one of them) they've existed for some time but in secret, now they come into me oper. "Valis" is a manifesto. to circumvent the laws regard sedition we must be sure to declare ourselves as a religious, not political, group. This is an essential tactic. We must appea to Xtian Millenarianism: apocalyptic history: a total precise restoration of original apostolic Xtianity (my God; our two ages are phasing together! more + more! As they did in me, the microcosm they now phase together as/in the Macrocosm. So, as it says in "Valis" the final the true Xtian. a are here. day. (at first) but secret hould bith be 14 now public - for the first time: e in/through "Valis"! It fits vis vis historical events, the battle ff surfaces for what it actually is, ontologically. This is what has happened: what was covert is now becoming overt because the final time are here. "The divinal invasion" is a follow - up to "Valis" regarding this. It depicts the Government deposed, + YHWH; arrival that 2 pages about "all that Jazz" is my conclusion + victory: saw Christ here without I the 2nd signal (Christ as Joe gidean). I have found the 5th savior," in normal suffering man (as the the Britannica says; this is the victory + goal of Xtianity; what its ultimate disclosure is. visine eye drops - Christ (Valis Ubik the ordinary people of the movement are Christ; he is or in us. "You will have no us Gods but your selves." as Sophia said. Ji.e. gidean. I received a part of Jim: Spirit, to carry on his worl by expressing his message in ie 18 Then all that covert info traffic by Valis is for + in the other aspect operating off the same axis (essence) that our aspect operates off of. (The cooking + riding of RF signals, etc. This is absolutely + indubitably the Kingdom that Jesus spoke of. In no way is it past; it is right here now, which is specifically what the girl + the Golden Fish sign told me. + Christ is there in that other reality (as I describe in that Letter I wrote recently to Pat immediately s upon rereading "Valis.") (illo tempore, as called it.) + the Acts material in "Tears" proves I didn't see it just due to the power of suggestion. If Acts AD 45 was a retrieval of memory, the secret Xtians + Christ (Valis, the plasmate) would not be here; there would be no set ground to discriminate. But the whole point of my 2-74 + 3-74 revelation was: the true secret Xtians are here; this is precisely what I understood - + later seeing the covert info traffic + Valis + the plasmate proves it. USA 1974 + Acts are coaxial. But "Acts" does not - apparently - actually refer to Rome c. AD 45 but is a view of our world. Then what about "The Romans" + the koine? No; it is done through the eide. This strikes me as correct. It is very t e strange - two "aspects" working off the same axis or essence, with its own message traffic phased or blended into ours. As if both worlds use the same carriers. 17 I have never heard of anything like this outside of s-f alternate world stories. We live in a two-component reality of which we see only the "upper" (outer) component. This diagram is correct. signal 45; 45" signal It's as if two worlds are one two running off one basis. USA outs 1974 we're normally tuned into just one. Is our world concealed from those in the other one, or do they see both? I'll bet they - wait; we are the "they." e.g. me + Thomas. But my reasoning is correct that Acts is not in the past: since I unscram bled the total reality into set/ground, + Valis + the plasmate + the cypher are here + now. by appealing to the doctrine of Forms in contrast to particulars I can explain how two worlds can work off the same basis or "common essence." But nonetheless this whole situation (if I understand it correctly) is simply appallingly strange. Take, for instance, my perception expressed in the previous pages that e.g. "Tears" contains two paralled messages, one for each "aspect" but utilizing the one common carrier (+ by extension this applies to what I have spoken of as "the riding + looking of our t media, RF signals etc. in general" (Hence saw this "second signal" when I performed the set-ground discrimination - by means of what I call "the Acts grid/lens." Suppose wrote pat badger this model with what I I she recently as to my reaction to rereading "Valis that two paralled realities are depicted, one we nor‐ in which Christ is not (the one ") were he mally see) + the other ("illo tempore retur dia 18 + in "Valis" Horselover Fat gets into this "illo tempore"; both realms are put forth explicitly. Christ will never return in This realm; Fat is looking for the fifti savior in terms of where - i.e. space; but the fact is, it is in the other realm that Christ exists - exists now; I inferred all this from rereading "Valis"; it was not my view when I wrote it. The merging of Fat's mind with Thomas' amounts to a per‐ ceptual merging of the two realms. Time (i.e. the past) + space have nothing to do with it. This is clear from a careful reading of what I in fact do say - put forth - in "Valis t irrespective of my beliefs or intents when wrote it. Now, as regards this other realm we're talking specifically + precisely about Xtian apocalypsis. + this in turn specifically involves either the Parousia or at least the expectation of the Parousia. Now, when I wrote "Valis" I hadn't read The E.B. article on Messianic movements, which is What is involved in the other realm. How far along is the process? Did I not see Valis? + did I not identify Valis as Christ? Then we are talking about realized eschatology, but it is a covert realization - why? Does this fit in with the secrecy theme of mark? I can only conclude that there is no mass salvation. It does not work that way. Why, this means Christ did in fact return (at the time of Acts. So the other realm is at that time + place. It is the time + place of Acts because that is when + where he returned Christ 9 My good God - then look at what "Valis discloses: not only is it a hand book + manifesto for revolution but it states that Christ is in some strange but real sense here ("camouflaged," as I put it in "Valis"). What an extraordinary concept: Christ here camouflaged. The eidos is firmly anchored here + now. Acts is here + now, working, like our aspect, off this eidos or rather these eide. My satori on the way to the post office is decisive; it is based on invincible logic - a logical realization that, having come to me, I cannot lose; it is one-way - which explains why it struck so forcibly, uniquely so. What saw that I call "Acts" cannot be there + then; it must be here + now. It was it not "recovered" by memory (anamnesis). was perceived due to a