talk about memory we're talking about perceptual or template memory. The templates exist is space & "template" equals Plato's form (supra-temporal), through which & only through which can the flux be apprehended rightly. "Remember" equal "retain in view perceptually." If you can't retain (remember) the template (eidos) You can't see what the laminations in flux ("time") makes no sense. One here is now no longer seen just the phenomenal world. But the upper reality, of eternal forms. If the totality of laminations is seen (remembered) the eternal template emerges. the via to the template is through seeing all at once the laminations past & future (now there is no present, just the passing flux). there is [dibba cakkhu]. What we call "the present" is one given lamination, the previous ones gone from sight into the "past" & the future ones not yet here. But still merely latent or potential in the "future"; e.g. the bip emerges only when the past (acts) the the present (circa 1974) & the future ("tears") are superimposed - as states in "Valis"; this - the bip - is the transtemporal constant or eidos. A whole new idea of what the melting of causal trains (modulation) (or of "astrue determinism ") was which I saw in : 3-74 Noos persuading ananke. with ananke, of course, as the blind causal change determinism necessity process overtaken by sentient mind. "Matter is plastic in the face of mind." Normally these meltings or modulations go unnoticed & appear as normal causal trains not interfered with. this is the dialectic. Noos & Ananke are permanent qualities in the universe (Reason vs chaos or the [irckatirnal]) Set to Ground! Upper & Lower realms! Plato's two realms, the eternal vs the phenomenal. [Diagram] The salvator salvandus (ZEBRA/VALIS) invades this, the lower realm. Breaks the hold of astral determinism over the person by causing him to remember, & already, upon this anamnesis, the person is restored to what he originally was & begins his re-assent. The recollection restores his lost nature. He is freed from the power of this realm already - physically freed - & also he knows about his theme origin & nature. [Diagram] The savior is an actual entity who imposes his will over the irrational lower (cause-effect) realm in order to extricate the person, who is assimilated to the savior as part of him. I just realized something terribly important. In melting the causal trains ZEBRA not only frees you from astral determinism physically but also discloses the fact that in some way these causal, deterministic processes (& the objects comprising them?) are not real but merely hologram-like. In seeing these ostensibly "hard" processes "melt" one understands that they are merely seeming, & subject to a "non-hard" volitional sentient mind. Is this not a freeing of the person's mind in conjuction with the literal physical freeing? His body is freed & his mind is freed (of illusion; i.e. - the power of illusion over him is broken by being unmasked: this, too, is knowledge, & of the highest - the very highest - order). The acosmism as a view is induced - correctly - in the person. Freed physically & freed mentally- the whole of him freed when he witnesses a "melting" which extricates him on these dual levels - freedom from his psychophysical totality. What could conceivably free him mine? This comprises one total single revelation (gnosis, an applies, practical gnosis). Thus hereby lies the ontological salvific power of Gnosis; it has a fully practical side. It is possible that the salvific power of Gnosis stem from this correct revelation of a cosmism: this is why it saves, & this (i.e. acosmism) is the (pre-revelation along with that of our celestial home & the saving [here] who does the melting. (& hence is the revealer to us), the causal trains are not just called "irreal" (news [of this]) & not even just shown to be but made to be it is irreality in the face of the mind of the savior. So acosmism, the melting of the power of material reality , & the savior are interlocked , & with this one understands why the savior is here. Otherwise, why does the Gnosis have the ontological salvific power - if it didn't disclose on the most practical level possible - the truth of things; irreality. I see how it works. The world is irreal - not intrinsically - but in relation to something more real. Which has the power to make the world plastic. So to view the world as irreal (illusion) is to (without knowing it) be elevated to the higher levels of the savior even before you know he exists. Acosmism as a view is actually a partial, nascent view of the savior & his reality. This means that in my writing my [crani] theme of acosmism already a partial road to the Savior. Thus acosmism & the gnostic gnosis cannot be separated: the gnosis gives you power over the world, reversing it [cohesive] power over you. What the Savior [does] is present you wuth a visible practical demonstration of 1) his presence; 2) his power to reduce the reality of world to zero, & thus revealed [its] deluding dikes hologrammatic [nature] & finally. [Is] the person to sense that he himself is th evortex is to be elevated to identity with the Savior (ZEBRA). In summation, the gnostic salvation is extrication from this world. Literally & pragmatically through a [sat] of absolute knowing. Here is the secret Of the true early xtians: their (virtually technological) power over the world, reversing the role of human & world; instead of it having the power. Via the Savior the human now has the power. Does the 2 space-times superimposition also demonstrate this mere hologrammic quality of world? & therefore must be regarded as a further freeing demostration. No, I think this is a disclosure of the true nature of world: as prism. The implications of this "creation" [et] al acosmism are enormous: a power exists which either reveals the world as irreal or actually unmakes it - in either case this power is effective against its reversal of the original creation: savior as anticreator of world! This dovetails with the disclosure - analysis in "Valis" - the 2 people living in my head but in different centuries - that we cannot really be here (what we take as [anid] can't be real).(at least as we experience it.) In "Valis" it is carefully shown that it [(could) cant] be real. He who discreates the world is shiva, the judge & destroyer who sees with his eye of discernment all that really is. I see 3 stages: 1)astral determinism: [Diagram] self { - world 2) ZEBRA intervenes: [Diagram] self - world melting causal trains which make up the [astpme detla being] by outside intervention (ZEBRA) 3) Self seen as ZEBRA: [Diagram] self - } world Self as source of the unter which melts the causal trains comprising the astral [deterioratism] In rereading the previous pages I am deeply impressed by this realization as to the significance - not just of the melting - but conveyed by it. IF the world is not real, the disclosure of this info is disclosure of the highest order. It is outranked only by the steplock disclosures of the Savior's presence. To say, purely theoretically, " the world is not real" means little because the intent is. "But it has the power to compel perceptual - experiential - assent, & so equal to reality"; but here in the melting, that power is broken; & it is broken in a particular way: Causal processes are modulated in a way demonstrating their irreality. They lose their power precisely because they are not real, so "real" & "power" are admitted to be equal to each other, & "irreal" & "powerless" likewise. Something not subject to them has invaded them. Ergo, they are part of a lower realm, & it of a higher, which can overrule the lower (& in the demonstration did). This immediately leads to the realization that the coercive power of the lower realm constitutes a deceiving prism for us! at once the entire situation is evident. Only within this context can the "there's someone else in my head & he's living in another century" be understood. Here is a specific instance of something which cannot be there if the world exists in any form like it appears to. So, logically, if the statement is true, we are led to infer from it something like the above overview of world. So what we have is an overview of world correlates with a particular instance promoting that overview & sensible in terms of it. Overview & instance dovetail. Overview predicts instance. instance demands such an overview. Acosmism is pointed to be both, ala "Ubik." Irresistably, I can come to no other conclusion. Reality is a field onto which our senses have falsely locked & which now coerces us [,] & must be demonstrably broken from outside in a way in which we can witness ("a perturbation in the reality field, a vortex"). If we witness this, then its power to compel assent is undermined & its coercive hold impaired the instance cited must not be dissmissed, now. The reasoning human brain compares the melting; which it witnesses to the 2 space-time continum superimposition & its existence formulates in instance & can draw only one conclusion. Melting, the time superimposition & the instance - sentence (if rebanded as there, as a given) comprise a critique of the reality itself & not our concepts of that reality merely. We have empirical evidence that the reality is only seeming. The only solution is acosmisms, not a replacement cosmology most interesting of all, some force, presence or entity, seems to have deliberately exposed the nature of this irreality for our benefit while simultaneously (in doing this per se perhaps) breaking the hold of that "reality" over us. If the hold is regarded as the very exposure & release will be seen as salvific in themselves, a salient working by the entitiy. The enslavement to a spurious reality will be viewed as an ontological reduction of our nature, & the interventive entity as providing an ontological remedy. The two balance each other as dialectic with the remedy tending to nullify the original condition, as is its intent: this is not an accidental disclosure , a mere breakdown; this is an assualt on a prison. It is not logically plausible that a disrupting agent of the field could be the creation of the field, for the reasons that Spinoza gives. The field has been attacked invaded & not only deprived of its power, but its fraudulant nature calculatedly disclosed to the former victims, in order to enlighten him as to his state of enslavement. The dialectic which I saw was antithetical, not complementary. Unless an antithetical dialectic is conceived of the situation is impossible to understand. When I saw the dialectic I did no see one principle above it. I can infer it if I wish, but I did not see it; what I saw looked like conflict. It looked like a fight to the finish with one side blind but powerful. The view that an upper & lower realm exist is platonist, but that stride (antithetical dialectic) exists between them is Qumran & Gnostic & Catharist, & esp. mystery religions (the irruption of the supra lunar into the sublunar, an invasion & overpowering.) I just realized after writing the above, as I recall the perturbation in the reality field that I saw, & the melting, that it was the advocate - whatever else might be there or not there, that is so - externalized & real. I must infer the nature of the advocate from my experience, rather than from scripture when necessary. The vortex seemed an extension a me-as-a-field, or at least close to me: tangent to me - & also in