+ communism. + something to do with drugs Scanner" shows how bitterly (before 2-3-74!) I resented what had been done to me - this shows up in the last sections of the novel us tie tely is the attitude which caused me to burn Thomas by contacting the Bureau. Now, it seems impossible that that had been written before 2-3-74, but it was. Just before. e I figured it out. The sodium pentathol + golden Fish were unplanned (obviously, at least by mundane agencies). But the combination caused the dissociation to begin to break down - + added the religious aspect - quite by chance. I wasn't supposed to remember - until the Xerox missive came, + then I PKD) was supposed to as in 33 way, without ideation within conscious. ness. (As I did with the ad.) But the process begun the day in Feb, the pentathos + Golden Fish, changed things. Thomas + his memories broke into [my] consciousness - would have without the Xerox missive coming. This is because, partly, "Tears" had just been pub‐ lished + I knew subliminally there was code - political code - in "Tears" + so knew that the contact would come soon. Had it not been for the pentathol + Golden Fish I would have acted reflexively to the Xerox missive: I would have responded to it - answered it the way I answered the religious freak ad. This is what caused 3-20-74 to misfire I was conscious of Thomas + his memories + sensed OCCP. Things were happening on a conscious level which should have operated entirely outside of awareness (the sort of dissociated behavior which H.S. Sullivan discusses). But due to 2-74 I was aware what I was doing instead of being in a hypnoidal trance, view it in the psycho‐ logical terms that sullivan writes of. Dissocia of ted behavior should be entirely outside the awareness of the person. But the pentathol + Fish sign brought it into awareness but in a religious mode - hence partial awareness, but was enough to short circuit my automatic response to the Xerox missive. So I don't know - + will never know what I was 17 supposed to do because I didn't answer the Xerox missive + hence never made contact with OCCP to get my instructions. I knew So I did not do my + did not job. my instructions Thomas' to answer is pro e i 81 missive had just been a disinhibiting stimulus (like the card in "Manchurian candidate") it wouldn't have had to s include a name + address to write to So I never linked up. I foiled them into Thomas by getting the Xerox missive out of the house before I could see the name + esp. the address - once I got it out of the house, ratess, there was nothing Thomas could do - + I knew it. That's why I had to act so swiftly. A dual purpose was served: 1) to get the name + address to the Bureau 2) to prevent Thomas from seeing it. it was u.s. G2 there'd have been no It harm in me (or Thomas) seeing it before turning it over to the Bureau. ideally, I shouldn't have reacquired the memories + personality of Thomas before the Xerox missive came: I should have been unprepared. But the dissociated material breaking in prepared me; I picked up Thomas anticipation. His ratiocination "Thomas" is not a was available to me. psyche but a dissociated part of me (v. 4. S. Sullivan). But deliberately created It was an incredible piece of bad luck for Soviet militory intelligence that just before the contact was to be made I was given a big hit of pentathol + saw the Golden Fish sign, by a pretty darkhaired goal. This shifted awareness + hence a measure of just enough control to me, PKD in 3-74. tro ke to 50 So I have no idea what I would have been ordered to do had I responded to the Xerox missive. Turn over the scientic data to them probably. All those pages + pages of diagrams + writing. ("We are DNA memor coils who have recorded + stored experiential info, but there is a failure to play back.) Here is the crucial insight. I had re t corded + stored, but failed to play back when The trigger-signal was given; in fact I did worse than merely fail to play back. by the time I saw the alive Holt cypher. the missive was no longer in my hands but, horrors, was in LA. At the copshop. The Olive Holt cypher, when transliminated, was intended to bring out Thomas (not the Golden Fish!). He came out but could not respond. Instead he arced across + answered an ad in "psychology Today" - totally shorted out. He was in complete motor control, but without the missive + the address on it what could he do? It took a couple of days to bring him fully out, + by then the missive was beyond his reach. Suppose that weekend (it came on Weds; on Friday the cypher got transliminated; on sat he acted, but uselessly) the missive was still around robot-like, "I" would have answered i begun to feed my memorized info - oh Yes - I sent my phone number to the martyr t against the CP world "Tears" revealed that the info had success fully been given to me, + I had memorized it The Acts material in "Tears" + the philo‐ Sophy in "Ubik" show that Thomas has a wide theological + philo education. Like Buckman, he is a cultivated man (Buckman is a projection of Thomas). I just thought of a telling clue: in Canada in '72 I had an obsessive interest n the book "The man churian candidate." why, back in '72? What did I suspect (about myself)? folder 49 - 001 underestimated the power of an external-to-the-person world Guarantor. (my worlds in my writing were solipsistic.) (well, no, not in "Stigmata". It looks more & more as if "Stigmata" is correct.) Via my writing I must have signaled YHWH, & he responded. He is indeed a world Generator, _which he must feed directly to our senses._ So we are in a cold-pac situation : "Joint" - info basis "Stigmata" - plural worlds manufactured "Ubik" - our situation & the entity which manufactures the worlds "Maze" - we're plugged in as a Group. But in "Maze" when they see the Building each of them sees something different. So YHWH does not generate the universe but plural universes; the Buddhist idealists are correct.This is Brahman - hence I saw camouflage, a posing as world. This is why "3 Women" scared me so; I understood. This explains the revision in 3-74 ala "3 Women." If I was correct in my formulations in my books, then I _might_ encounter such a deity as in "Stigmata" & "Ubik" - & I did, in 3-74. I presume (1) a multiplicity of worlds; (2) subjective worlds; & (3) an entity responsible. This entity controls everything: he has total power over us & his worlds: he is shoe deep into the fabric of the worlds. Like marbling in beef. Like look at how it's into our media, & the linking, the clutch, the two takes, etc. _Obliging_ is the word I came up with originally. Too obliging. It's now fitting my info processing model folder 49 - 002 folder 49 - 002 & there are two inclusions necessary to cause a dream to seem real : (1) of memory; & (2) of perception of defects/limitations in world. This is important. I know from 2-74 that my memories are not my real ones, the world I see not the real world. But the mind that generates all this simply generates another me-outof-many worlds when this me goes : it provided me with what (in my writing) I assumed was really the case. It should not have done that : (1) there was little chance that my model was correct. (2) my model called for a certain "psychic-morphic" quality & for plurality & subjectivity. I discovered camouflage. That's it - The Key - all I know is there is a macro-mind and it generates worlds. But for the macro to mirror the micro - that is impossible unless (1) there are many (subjective) worlds generated, & (2) camouflage i.e. mimicry. I am going to call a halt to this process of infinite regression and say, yes, it (3-74) was a genuine theophany, that YHWH took a form syntonic to me which I would understand _as communication_ by one mind (his) to mine (me). His name "he causes to exist whatever exists" points to YHWH as the deity manufacturing himself (but not in his real form, but one syntonic to me). So I can't say, "this is what he _is"_ but I can say "this is what he _does"._ folder 49 - 003 folder 49 - 003 He as macrocosm mirrored my total mind back to me; only God could know me well enough to (1) know my view of deity; & (2) take that form in theophany. So in perceiving - experiencing - God I am also encountering my deepest most authentic (actual) self! Wait. Could there be another possibility explaining why in knowing God I know (encounter) my _own_ mind? I thought of it the other night, late, but couldn't get up to write it down : Tat Tvam Asi. Homology. What I have said is that when I encountered God I encountered my (deepest & most authentic) self. The comprehending is that which it comprehends. This is the only possible explanation for "Ubik" & the acts material in "Tears". Homology. My journey, then, was as much inward (!) as outward. This also points to the hermetic macro-micro-cosm identity! I am it writ small; it is me writ large. Then my perception of Valis & the plasmate was equal to seeing my own brain as well as mind; that's what I was seeing, what with all the information and its processing; viz : mind expressed physically is _brain_. The linking-&-relinking are neural "switchboard" connections; like with the clutch & the laying down of accretional related templates along the form axis. folder 49 - 004 folder 49 - 004 (1004) We (1) don't have a long enough present -- perceptual memory -- & (2) it needs to be seen speeded up. It is thinking, & and its thoughts are physical information. This may be Teilhard de Chardin's Omega Point. Or is it, as I long ago surmised, an invader & camouflaged in our reality? a Macro-organism! Everything hinges on the question of whether it creates reality or has invaded it. No; wrong. Consider Jn 1. It could be the wisdom-word entering its own creation & expanding. It talks (i.e. the AI Voice) about St. Sophia & YHWH. & I heard the bells, & the animals changed. Just the one dream alone - the Messenger dream. & the dream about the Citadels of Power long ago having fallen to the darkness. All my speculation, in my books, which resemble it, deal with God, not ETIs: viz: Ubik. Specifically Ubik & also "Stigmata" & "Faith of". In view of this I find for St. Sophia-Logos-YHWH, not ETI or UTI. Plus the Biblical material in "Tears". The Theophany in "Ubik" is of an information entity made up of YHWH & his wisdom(Christ), word(Logos) & "I am" (i.e. YHWH). I may have put "word" in deliberately, but I didn't know about the "I am" referring to the Tetragrammaton. & in the "He has been transplanted" colloquy it showed me the Tetragrammaton. Is there any possibility that the God who created us was unable to bring us fully alive, & our "second birth" is another deity (Christ) who brings us fully alive? In which case the law and the elemental-planetary-powers are the dim, mechan[ical] folder 49