nature." This is a prime task of the Holy Spirit. What was disclosed to me by the Acts grid/lens is what the spirit knows, + the disclosure carries his stamp of authority. I am then to regard this disclosure as of divine origin (which I do). It is not a view, nor one that I figured out. What the revelation has done is call me to my role + task in terms of history (that was my sense of it from the beginning: history, the historical context: around 3-74 to 8-74 everything I did seemed/was steeped in historic meaning - e.g. the letters I wrote to Charles Wiggens + the Wall Street Journal, the whole business about removing Nixon from office. I sensed that vast supernatural forces underlay my actions, + this realization about the Acts grid/lens + its effect explains why. I probably was right! We are talking about the assault on the Empire (+ all this is in "Valis"!). You know, in a sense this is an "unspiritual" Xtianity. It has nothing to do with sin + the soul + another world. It has to do with the Messiah, his kingdom to be established by supernatural means, but with political, social, historical + economic implications, a universal Jewish eschatological kingdom here, ruled by God or by the Messiah, following the defeat (overthrow!) of the gentile world-order. What distinguishes it from all other political-social-economic historical movements is that it is led -not by a man or by men- but by the Messiah himself - i.e. Valis / the Holy Spirit. So my seeing Valis is of utter + absolute significance; here is the cephalos of the Kingdom, + the fact that it can operate in humans -hence through them- is proved by how I was used, acted through. Lord, now consider the AI voice - its prophecies, + its saying who the Xerox missive was from. This is all very practical + real, + involves enormous numbers of human lives + their fates ... e.g. my life was saved, + I was sent into the struggle to act at the spirit's direction. Although there were spiritual elements in 2-3-74 to 2-75 they gave me no intimation of what I was to experience in 11-17-80, which was truly totally spiritual. This is exactly what made me retrospectively doubt for a time if 2-3-74 had any connection with God at all or whether it was intrigued by secret societies possessing ultra-advanced technology. The fact is 2-74 to 2-75 for all its beauty + all its religious elements -its holy elements- really had to do with world, world as the arena of combat between two antithetical contending powers - + not God. But the "char Freitag Zauber" elements in 2-74 - 2-75 were enough to convince me - at least until 11-17-80. I saw the peaceable Kingdom! I even mention the Jehovah's Witnesses in "Valis"! But of course it had to do with world; it is here that the fight takes place + the deeds must be done, the work, the goal sought for: here, not in the afterlife. This world is to be annexed back to God, Augustine's view notwithstanding. This is, after all, a world still largely under the control of the dark power. As God pointed out to me, this life here is an ordeal. So a disclosure of the real history would disclose strife, not peace + harmony (but joyful combat -the blowing up of prisons- is also revealed). That the Kingdom has to do with world is a primary, not a secondary revelation. {Note} This is the workshop + the place of the battle. Here is where the Messianic Kingdom will be located after terrible troubles. (Some of which we have already seen.) {Note:} + the struggle to achieve it. In some ways Zionism is more right on than post-Constantine Xtianity; I am now very glad I turned to Judaism in "VR" as the solution to the problems posed in "Valis." I was on the right track, because in "VR" the battle is here; my God, I base "VR" on the Qumrán view of eschatological history, which the E.B. discusses as the peak of Jewish Messianic movements! + the Qumrán dualism is allied with the the 4th Gospel; I have been right on target, to reject Xtianity in favor of Qumrán! Because Xtianity as we know it (sin, salvation, born again, the afterlife) has nothing to do with the issue at hand, which is the return of the Messiah + the founding of the Messianic [fifth] Kingdom, upon the defeat of the sons of Darkness! I went in exactly the right direction in following "Valis" with a study of Jewish Messianic thinking mixed, as it is in "VR," with certain Xtian views regarding the Holy Spirit (never so identified in "VR" but elliptically referring, by its inclusion, to Joachim's 3rd age). It could have been unwise to reveal the agapē-nature of Abba to me in 2-3-74, because at that time the struggle here in this world was in full progress; the powerful blow against the Empire + its crafty king had to be delivered, it was a time for war + struggle + lucidity. I note in my recent notes that I say that upon the 11-17-80 disclosure of God's infinite love -causing infinite bliss- world is of no importance to me. This would have been a dangerous stance for me to take in 3-74 to 8-74, both in terms of my own safety + life + in terms of historic events; so this may be why I was treated only to a disclosure of superior (supernatural) intelligence, not love. {Note} I don't know, I'm just speculating. But surely I would have withdrawn into an other-worldly stance + not cared about events here, including my own fate. There is a time for each different thing. (This would explain the difference between 2-3-74 + 11-17-80 that Platt noted that caused him to laud the former + stigmatize the latter, so maybe my theorizing is correct; had the theophany of 11-17-80 taken place in 1974 I would have been neutralized + paralyzed in terms of political action.) {Note:} In other words the true, final, spiritual, otherworldly disclosure -such as is found in Dante's Paradiso toward the end- had to be withheld for 6 more years. When I first flashed on the fact that Acts is a decoding lens/grid, by which information can be read, I frankly did not see just how much information + in how many ways. 1) Set-ground discrimination that reveals the plasmate - i.e. cypher, the cooking + riding of our communication media. 2) Valis. 3) The "reversal of value signs" that uncover the actual but normally concealed (latent) history of the past 2000 years. 4) This blurs off into the Holy Spirit itself, which provides the lens/grid as part (but not all) of its task or recalling Christ + explaining the true meaning of Jesus' words -his cryptic parables, etc- to the 12. For example, the mind of Christ is disclosed: the dialectic, the macrometasomakosmos, the "2nd signal," the linking + relinking, the rest-motion modes, the clutch, etc. It is hard to say how much comes from the grid. If I am right in my comprehension of all this it seems to combine Jewish Messianic Kingdom expectations + the cosmic Christ of the captivity letters - a combination that produces a synthesis so extraordinary in its implications as to defy comprehension. The spirit is revealing that a totally new kind of kosmos in which nothing passes away (as things do in the flux world) is being constructed out of the flux world; it is alive; it is the corpus Christi; + this is the Messianic Kingdom: an organism or meta-structure (soma) that replaces blind causation with its vastly intelligent volition, + plurality with total integration, + a reworking of the basic categories of space + time; + this is already here but not completed; it is camouflaged from us as its combat with the old cosmos -disintegrating (entropic) cosmos- continues. We will be living (+ are already partly living) in an intelligent reality with which we can communicate. As a radical departure from the world we have always known - well, this is highly radical, but it is found in the (1) captivity letters of Paul; + (2) in Jewish Messianic-Kingdom expectations, esp of the Qumrán people. What we will be seeing is a reannexing of the [fallen] secular (mundane) cosmos back to the holy realm: penetrated by the sacred, exactly as I depict in "Ubik"! So the real story -as revealed by the spirit- can't be reduced to either Jewish Messianic-Kingdom-in-this-world expectations nor to the Cosmic Christ of Paul's captivity letters, it is both together + hence more than either (for example, it resembles Teilhard de Chardin's theories a little, but -again- something more + something different is involved ... like, for him there is no dismantling + assimilation of the old universe, no feeding of the flux realm into the corpus Christi where nothing perishes, + no need to be politically active in overthrowing the Empire). This is a very mystical -indeed so!- political activism. Frankly, I've never read anything like it. + yet I posit a real + very active secret authentic Xtian underground made up of people like myself + somehow related to the R.C. + the secret societies of the enlightenment (although I can't prove it); + they must know what I know, + more. + of course: "He has been transplanted + is alive"! The biggest news of all! I now consider it proven that Valis is Christ; I come at the situation from two main directions: 1) What the Acts grid/lens revealed to me is specifically what the Holy Spirit reveals - he + no other. (I do not even make use of detail-items in this proof.) 2) The God who spoke to me in theophany is specifically the God whom Christ spoke of + revealed to the world, i.e. the Christian God. He + no other. Thus I close in from both directions. Having done this I can add all the many Christian details starting with the Golden Fish Sign; there are too many to list here + I know them by heart; but I will cite one: the great "hotel" ledger in which my name was entered which I construe to be the Lamb's Book of Life. (Well, let me add the "messenger" revelation - the blank sheet of paper inserted by him in the retribution machine in place of your bill of particulars + the St. Sophia prophecy. Plus the reason given as to why I was helped -it is specifically a Christian act, not just charity on my part but rather having to do with a specifically Christian attitude in giving- + the statement about me being adopted. + knowing the early sacraments of the church.) One thing I realize is that genuine Christianity is very practical (e.g. political) + also very mysterious + mystical (e.g. the captivity letters). But the summation of it is to know God's nature as agapē, + that this nature is annexing the world (cf the last scenes in "Tears"), achieved through Christ who first acts as Revealer of God + then, after the crucifixion, acts in his cosmic capacity as God's warrior against Satan + Satan's power in the world, dismantles the world, assimilates it into his own mystical body + thus restores it to God (this is a feeble summation, but the twin thrust is: Christ breaks Satan's power; Christ restores world to God the Father thus healing the primordial damage known to us as the Fall). (In this battle we are both participant -we act as agent for God against Satan- + recipient of the victory: {Note} Christ frees us from Satan's [world] power + transfers us from that iron prison of immutable cause-+-effect to the love + freedom + bliss of the Palm Tree Garden