"Thomas." This would explain why when I'm loaded I always write, "Ich bin der retter." + why in 3-74 I could see ➀ topologically congruent it (Valis). pronoia. 3-74 was, after all, the greatent crisis in my life. Valis foresaw it years in advance. What about the Acts material in "Tears"? Doesn't this point to Christianity? There, perhaps, as a com‐ munication to me? It narrows down the source of my help, the pronoia. That + the Golden Fish + the sacraments Chrissy + I performed. If this is a postmortem half life world ala "Ubik" (+ in real time outside it's actually a long time in the future) (+ Valis is/runs the program) it is a reward program for me; I deduce this from the fact of the intervention in 3-74 when the ultimate crisis which originall killed me came up again: triumph where there originally had been failure. As I have noted, This would explain the after life other world episodes following 3-74; I was bonded to an alternate psyhe which failed + perished. Since Thomas understood what was happening in 3-74 + could cope with it, obviously he was the "second time around psyche which did not perish, ergo, have been Thomas since he took over in 3-74; he sradually settled in, phased in. The non-Thomas psyche who he overruled + pre-empted died + is now on the other side. So Thomas had already gone had failed + through it once before, then died 258 back from the back, given a second chance: overruled his died. other side; viz: self 3/74 previous t This time o + 1928 "Thomas" coped o successfully I did not die + lives on. So 2 parallel psychoi existed in this world until 3-74 when one - the original one - died had post mortem experiences, to 1928 Then came back as a repressed unconscious psyche, writing the books + stories (e.g. "MITHC "Faith" "Ubik") + then emerging to the surface taking over in 3-74 at the moment that the + original psyche (his earlier self) died. It therefore Thomas' voice I heard in high school, my was own adult future self returned from the other Then I have never lived this - post 3-74 side. part of my life before. So right now I'm bonded to my earlier self which - no; it could go right back to 1928 as soon as it died circa 3-74, be reborn. What then is the AI voice? A tutelary Spirit. I think it could be my earlier self now on the other side (the "upper realm"). There, on the other side, it has access to all knowledge. But I would remember; the AI voice could now (post 3-74) be my own memory (this explains my writing "Scanner," which I wrote before 3-74). I think that since c. 3-74 my other earlier psyche is on the other side + recalls things to me. my previous post mortem existence: it (as earlier me) has knowledge of the next world. So my life up to 3-74 was so to speak on tape in a certain very real way, but isn't after 3-74, which explains my sense of breaking "astral determinism" in 3-74. If anyone returned from death + lived his life over to the point where his untimely death occurred he'd have this feeling that it was programmed. + that following the previously terminal crisis it ceased to be determined + became free. This instead of "Ginger" a George 2 i Ah - when I saw world as Valis I was in both realms - this + the other / next - simul taneously; hence my sense of 2 signals, like stereo. + this is why USA 1974 looked old (+ like a prison) to Thomas; this explains the 2-view superimposition to him it happened a He long time ago. may I may have spent quite awhile in the next world before coming t back. 374 t 1928 on a oth The unbroken line expresses what appears externally as an uninterrupted psyche's life line, since at the moment - it failed (c. 3-74) it replaced point itself! Based on information acquired later than 3-74; I suddenly reckon that I did not die 3-74 but lived on to learn what the Xerox in missive was: it succeeded, as I learned belatedly. but their after my death (whenever that was) I was able to go back + underlie my conscious pre mortem earlier self. This could still be the situation; I could be the earlier self again + the AI voice, as before, is my later post mortem s self, having died + returned death 3-74 -0 t 128 3 in assad nyhow, the broken line represents a psyche which underwent the original experience of succumbing to The Xerox missive, later (too late) learning what it was. This is why the AI voice could know + say "[it came from) an intelligence officer in the army? in this version of my life I might never know. So in a sense this knowledge is not later since knowledge but alternate world knowledge. My self from that alternate world (track) saw this world as a prison, I'd guess that the Xerox missive managed to put him into prison. From his standpoint, when he returned he returned to a literal prison world. No wonder I thought it was Jim Pike: it was something from the other side: my future self, trailing clouds along. Thomas is not from the past but rather from the future. So the ____ logical and theological material in my writing is based in later post mortem experience and is possibly accurate. Ubik is probably a correct picture of ___;___ based on 3-74, I already know that. So in 3-74 I experienced my future post mprtem self and his world. Hense VALIS and all the co,ological knowledge. This is the preciuous between incarnations knowledge that Plato speaks of. Only I wasn't recalling it from the past but from the future. That is where I am going to be going. The case spaces, God and the void. What an extraordinary experience -- to be in this world as a soul in the next. No wonder this wolrd has always seemed stimulated to me! Then I am one of the few people who hsad ever lived who has actual experience with/of God, due to my post mortwm self returning as my tutelary spirit and taking over at the crisis in 3-74. VALIS/Ubik is indeed God. And I have already long ago put this knowledge in my writing. So my theology and philosophy carries unique experiential authoirty, although of course I cannot prove it. But how do I know “Thomas” is my sister? After all the AI voice is female. ___ the Keller CHildren in ____ add that to “scanner” this would explain, why me? I’ve got it . 1) "MITHC" "Faith" "Ubik" & "Tears" show memories of 3-74 prior to 3-74 (so 3-74 was my own forgotten memories fed back to me as simulated reality & I recgonized them - this was the Blitz: anamnesis.) But at 3-74 I solved the Xerox missive problem based on memories (ie knowledge) still future to 3-74. In other words, here it is 5 years later & the AI voice says “ intelligence officer in the army.” I still don’t have that information (through legitimate channels) But I had it subliminally, in 3-74, 5 years ago, & acted on it. The issue is not what memories I had in 3-74, as I experienced and understood it in 3-74, prior to 3-74, but what memories at 3-74 (& not prior to it) I had & still have from the future to 3-74. Because it is that which saved me; viz: {Diagram: Prior books & stories, 3-74, future memories & knowledge needed to solve the Xerox Missive} For example, is the Gordon Rand letter a clue to & being u.s. & not c.p.? WIll I learn more & more? Since I learned that the Roogna letter was harmless and could reason logically then that the xerox missive was u.s. - But in 3-74 I did not know that. My solution in 3-74 wasn’t based on material in “Faith”, but on information still to come. A very great mystery is pointed to, because this is not mere precognition; I experienced a return of buried - lost and blocked - very archaic memories in 2-3-74 as I recgonized the situation (ie I had seen it before & unconsciously knew all there was to know - at least enough to solve it. The material in the prior writing merely verifies this hypothesis). There is a curious level to the Xerox missive hinted at in “Faith.” Chien is a Government official. He thinks he is studying the writing of someone to see if he is genuinely loyal or if he is subversive. Actually he himself is being tested without knowing it. Let us read “me” for the u.s. student, let us read the framer & sender of the xerox missive as “Comrade Chien." His, the government officials, ideological identity is in fact under scrutiny. Well, wasn’t I trying to smoke my enemy out into the open? Hadn’t I been sending up trial balloons? I was ^am as curious about them (those who hit my house) as they were/are about me. My recent dream about the "Gary Corp." planting its classified papers in my broken-into gray metal locked box (files) mailbox (Gary = Sperry-Rand = Gordon Rand) Shows that some part of my brain has put the hit on my house, the xerox missive & the Gordon Rand letter together. The last of the 3 rules out CP; if it can be tied to the Xerox missive I have it, & the dream does tie them together. Certainly the hit in '71 wasn’t CP. But just based on what I know (or believe, if you will), now I’d have reason to suspect the xerox missive as U.S. Suppose the Gordon Rand letter had arrived at 3-20-74, or thereabouts. Suppose it had arrived instead of the Roogna letter! The material in the writing prior to 3-74 is not the mystery but a clue to the solution of the mystery. Another self in me all that time, not just at 2-3-74, although taking over in 3-74, armed with future knowledge and still in me; still so armed, still occasionally speaking to me: a sibyl. The material in the books shows that my other psyche did not analyze the 3-74 situation: It remembered it, & remembered into the future to know facts on which to base its solution. 3:30 a.m. thought: suppose what I saw - VALIS - was not God but the will of God. The importance of this: God himself is even more vast than I had previously realized. & it recalls Xenophanes' statement, "One God there is, who by the thought of his mind wields all things.” It gives me a deeper conception of him, if VALIS was just an effect. & it was this that came to my rescue! A mere expression of his will. -- The whole thrust - basis - of my 3-74 experiences of VALIS has to do with what Aristotle called final cases or teleology. What does it mean if you see teleology operating in intimate nature? It obviously points to purpose which points to a mind which has both intention, implying plan & knolwedge, & the power to "stimulate": (2) He (Aristotle) did hold that change & order needed explanation. God is the transcendent unmoved mover who causes change & also stimulates the world & all its parts to achieve proper goals. This unmoved mover causes change & inspires goal seeking without himself undergoing any changes. "(1)" Aristotle held that the existence of the world did not require any reference to a transcendent or ultimate power.”* EB This fits exactly what I experienced. Aristotle held that god, the prime mover, was/is immaterial & did not occupy