intended for (3), to ving him out. Refers to CPUSA childhood (mine). 14. (1) says (1) is forgery. So (3) sending (1) to La is not patriotic if (3) believes or knows (1) is us forgery. It is way of escaping trap described in (is). US G-2 true Xtians Pigspurt monster a Ubik/Valis - an AI o system. N.T. Logos O.T. occlusion (information). Reality pseudo-world AI system created terminals or "keith pelligs. isinhibited by a forgery which he knew was a forgery didn't know ... about him or it. The computer installed the template in him in advance so hed know it was forgery + could deal with it. He is its terminal. Christ, Holy Wisdom, is its terminal. It cannot be Pig urt, according to the inner script analog the one Pigspurt em is a forgery, + was so treated. Anyhow, if it was a forgery "There is no way human mind uld anticipate 36 he template stigmatizes the Xerox missive as a test trap, forgery. If it wasn't then the template is accidental, not a template, not correct. But Thomas acted on it, later independers reasoning caused me to conclude it was a forgery. The AI voice aid it was, + who really sent it. That it was a forgery + a wap is at the heart of the template throw that out + you throw it all out. The dissociated behavior, right brain over. de, was based on the prior template; i.e. the analysis ( recog is uition) + solution (actions). The template was built up during my lifetime by the enhancement, suppression + clutch grid. conclude once more that only the divine could achieve this i The forged CP activated Also, for the template to be immediated the appearance at documents would have to be a preceded by my door of a pretter, dark-haired girl with precious metal the Jewelry who mentioned her husband in connection with Jewelry - + this would start the analog comparison in ad vance. Her appearance would warn me of the danger to come This could not be arranged. Even arranging it backward in time from the situation, how could you have anne go into the Jewelry pusiness - to give me the source for the you'd have to have plenary Jewelry motif in MITHC? both inner + outer. I don't see how even some kind of logical coherency power over reality, precognition would suffice is necessary. The totality of reality is involved - which was my unitary macrothought that turned my mind into kosmos Yes which included outer kosmos (there is only one kosmos) It was my intative leap to a comprehension of that which " imagined" I had never heard of: Pythagoras' Kosmos. I it in Paracelsus use of the term. I perceived that everything outside + inside (human minds) fitted together, forming a single thing which was intentional I have a point to make. The Xerox missive was not a problem in the usual, larger sense of the term but a deliberately fabricated puzzle in the strict sense, like a math or logic puzzle. However, it involved two further aspects: 1) my life depended on solving it. 2) the puzzle was deliberately fabricated in such a way that unless you knew the answer you could not solve it. So it was There was an answer, but puzzle. an unfair given the conditions + terms of the puzzle that answer could not be derived. You would have to know the answer to find the answer; hence the puzzle was so to speak a closed system, like a car with The doorkey inside + the door locked; you would need to have the key to get the key; more precisely, you would have to begin with the fact you were trying to determin in my opinion that made this puzzl into a very special kind of puzzle. It was a trap but unlike most traps there was a way out - if you knew the way out before you started looking for it. Now, from the standpoint of the physical survival of the organism posed this puzzle, it would be necessary that he know in advance the solution he was trying to obtain: viz: the solution would have to precede the puzzle in time. He would have to possess the solution before the puzzle was posed, although he might not know it (he might not recognize the solution as a solution but just as information). Now, as I discovered, I solved the Xerox missive puzzle by reason of unconsciou 4 possessing the solution years in advance Thus when the Xerox missive came my union scious recognized the solution for what it was + acted on it outside conscious aware ness. It added the facts it possessed to the situation + knew what to say + do the utility of this in survival terms is obvious, but the mechanism is obscure. what was done can be seen, but not how fact, we know of no how. Nonetheless this took place. + not only was the solution laid down precisely + accurately years in advance of the problem but it was organized in such a way that my unconscious would see its applicability even before the puzzle arrived, due to an intricate syst tem of forewarning, not logically con‐ nected to the puzzle but accidentally contingent to it - related by association, which is how memory works. in my opinion (to summarize) a very great mind of some undetermined + recognized sort became interested in the puzzle long in advance of its - the puzzles formation - hence a mind not bound by time + possessing total + perfect knowledge of the future. I term it somewhat like a computer being pure thought (intellegere). In addition it was able to provide me with the solution, so not only did it qua mind exist but also it could influence + inform me without my knowing. When the puzzle was posed, this great mind either became or had so well previously influenced + me informed me that I responded als ob - as if - I were it: viz: either it took me over + solved through me, or I behaved as a surrogate of it: modeled on it by it over a 40 year period. I find for the latter although at the time I believed the former since I didn't know of the teaching over four decades. If it was simply going to pre-empi it wouldn't need to teach + inform me me in advance. But what is this great mind which not only knows everything but which also has the power to shape humans their o i 33 s reality along merciful + benign lines? It wove into me the solution out of the prior experiences in my life, back to my childhood. she says: "Your book (novel) is true - it is the real world, + this one isn't. + the authorities are after you because of I their move will take the Form of 2 CP papers which are a test, is trap, are forgeries. +: "the way to cross a over to the real world - a Bardo Thodol trip - is to gaze at this precious metal jewelry - after which you will see + be in, for a time, the real world." (Which you have written about as fiction.") So the solution to the puzzle is subsumed into a larger awareness having to do with the truth of my novel + the way by which I can pass over into the world of that novel. Not only that novel but other works of mine assume the aspect of world; in particula become aware of Ubik the vast benign information I processing thinking entity which aids, sustains +, above all, informs humans. It takes the form of world; or, world is really it. Later I realize that I have seen the merciful + benign thinking entity whose fore‐ sight provided me with the solution in advance of the puzzle. I had written about it - as fiction. So my awareness of the solution is connected to an awareness of the truth of a number of things in my writing, + I am now living in a world which includes ome of my writing like a continuous field so that my wind + its mind are interrelated: I suspect it of having secretly written portions of my work, + I see t in or as world. Thus it is both in me + outsialy + if it is world it is also me. I am a form he t takes; if it stealthily replaces world with itself it as also at some earlier time replaced me with it. ell, or else I was really it from the start + only esumed my real shape when the problem arrived. So t + world are one; it + I are one; thus I + world i the one - finally; there is only it, posing problems to itself + ingeniously solving them 34 Had I not seen Valis I would have to ultimately posit its existence - but a thinking entity manifested itself in macroform outside me + in macroform within me (e.g. grid of suppression enhancement, clutch written words oral AI voice, not - I personality who problem. solved), so I experienced it in fact. Is it coincidence that logically I must posit a vast problem-solving entity + also experienced one - + in addition had fully described it in "Ubik"? Valis is logically necessary to explain the 1) preprogrammed solution to the puzzle 2) I wrote about such an entity in 1968 3) I experienced it in 1974 If it modeled me on itself there is no way I can answer the ontological question "to what extent, if any, was I it?" This fits in withe mimickry theme it mimics reality; either I mimicked it or it mimi‐ cked me. If my mimickry was involuntary + penetrated all the way into + through me then for all intents + purposes I became it is this the same is it becoming me? I'd say yes. The decades of laying down the solution to the puzzle would then have a larger goal or effect: my transformation - or reversin into it (I could only know that the transformation amounted to a reversion of I could be sure that at some prior time I had formerly been it. As a matte fact, the anamnesis points directly to this [Note to it of being a reversion. It then solved the puzzle by means a reversion - reconstitution - of its primordial f nature. In which case - its primordial nature being a superior one - one could regard the net effect of the puzzle + the successful effort to salve as being this reversion; in which case it could t be argued that the function or utility of the puzzle was to require it the thinking macromind to regain its forgotten powers (hence nature), + know itself for what it really is. To have solved the puzzle would force recognition on it that it could solve, This could not happen unless it possessed a ➀ otherwise, why the anamnesis more than human nature s the implication here is that intellectual puzzle solving is so basic to its nature that it could not resist bringing to bear all its latent faculties in the service of solving the puzzle - since thee, was a solution. One could argue that ot might be willing to endure the human condition pain, grief, loss, injury, defeat + death, but o its nature was/is such that a puzzle like this challenged it - + solving the puzzle was to it more valuable than concealing its identity, then it may have posed the puzzle, for that purpose: as the crucial key which would restore it to its primordial state. The entire situation, puzzle + all, Then can be construed