know his own identity and must be told -- only it is himself, not Kundry or the Forest Bird who tells him. He is his own sibyl; he is in fact his own anima, watching over himself as psychopomp, hence now changed in sex to female, in accord with Zoroaster's observations about one's spirit of religion. folder 82 - 047 folder 82 - 047 -18- 3-2-80 It would not be correct to say that the second tine around, things are different from the first time around; both times are the same time, through an orthogonal intervention of needed information. Another axis of reality has to be imagined; first and second occur simultaneously in linear time. Which is to say, solution A abolishes itself as it fails and not after it fails; it is not attempted and then erased but both attempted, erased, and a second and superior solution employed simultaneously. This is as mysterious to us as the third dimension is to the flatland person. What has happened is that the correction is not separated from that which it corrects, either by time or space, hence not by causality. The person is rescued by the merit of an act that he will not live to commit -- an impossible situation from the normal standpoint. Perhaps it can be understood if solution A which does not work is supposed as occurring in a falsework or hypothetical, not actual, universe: a sort of tentative sketch off the canvas. Or what if it is supposed that no linear time elapses within the period in which solution A takes place; solution a occurs at a point rather than a line. The correction does not lag; it is as fast as the faulty solution that it overtakes. In other words, the faulty solution is overrun as it unfolds. This is impossible but it is the case. It is like a spider who can only toss a web strand across a distance between bushes if he has already tossed a strand across that distance. The solution must precede the problem, and therein lies the mystery. How can it be? But it is so; the solution to the Xerox missive of 3-74 shows up in novels and a story I wrote folder 82 - 048 folder 82 - 048 -19- 3-2-80 as much as ten years earlier. The problem is formulated; the right solution is formulated (especially in PENULTIMATE TRUTH, and for all I know, it shows up elsewhere in my writing as well, places I have not as yet looked). The mind that is retracking its life has plenty of leisure time in which to formulate the problem and develop a successful answer. folder 82 - 049 folder 82 - 049 -20- 3-2-80 The material relevant to 3-74 by showing up in my writing of the Sixties shows that the time disruption did not begin in 3-74; had it, there would be no prior material in the writing. The material in the prior writing is a strong argument for my original contention that there is a long-range second tracking, extending back at least a decade before 3-74 and probably farther. Thus 3-74 did not represent a "local" disturbance setting in, limited to that time. Whatever happened began long before that. Thus I return to my initial contention in this article that I lived out my life having failed to solve the Xerox missive problem, died, returned in some fashion, very likely --as I initially contended-- to a simulation of my own actual world, a re-creation generated and maintained by a central mind Valis and constituting an afterlife in which I was judged according to the FNMD that I could build up in the free period following the GO event of 3-74. Again, I did not begin suddenly at the 3-74 crisis to disrupt time; no -- I tracked from solution A to the end of my life, entered the postmortem world, lost my memories (on a conscious level) and was placed back in what I conceive to be a sophisticated simulation of my original actual world. However, I did effect a time disruption at the crisis of 3-74, which (as I said supra) was the point in linear time at which I began the disruption in order to make use of the subliminal memories and knowledge available to me from the previous, initial tracking (there had to have been such; that is, after all, the whole point of this article). (The time disruption posits such a previous tracking and the faulty solution A; I repeat this for the sake of clarity.) (Which is to say, the time disruption folder 82 - 050 folder 82 - 050 -21- 3-2-80 exposed the previous, initial tracking; it cannot be considered without consideration of the previous, initial tracking and its coming to the surface in the form of vital information on which solution B was based.) Then what I call a "time disruption" boils down to a purposeful uncovering of the initial tracking, with information disclosed to me that came to me later in linear time --perhaps years later-- during the initial tracking; I mean, knowledge that the Xerox letter was a U.S. G-2 forgery was not available to me in 3-74 either at the initial tracking or at the second tracking -- except in that it became available to me at the second tracking because I had continued on the course of the initial tracking INTO THE LINEAR TIME FUTURE TO 3-74, i.e. to my death. Then the "time disruption" was not a sucking in of the future but an uncovering --an anamnesis-- of memories in me buried down deep of the initial tracking. This is not the same thing, quite, as a sucking-in of future information without regard to the notion of plural repeat trackings of the same linear time. I really did not pull anything toward me from the future; the future was actually past vis-a-vis the entire second tracking. What we have is layers of memory WITHIN ME and not in the outside world. So 3-74 (solution B) amounted to an uncovering and retrieval of memories that were in me a decade earlier, having shown up in my writing. That material written in the Sixties sort of shoots down the time disruption theory as I supra expressed it, the idea that I became a kind of vacuum into which future events flowed. Excavation, internal to me, was involved, not a reaching forward into the true linear time of the external world. In other words memory. Real folder 82 - 051 -22- 3-2-80 memory, which is to say, anamnesis in the most proper sense of the term. Nonetheless my analysis of the situation where the second tracking (solution B) overran the initial tracking and solution A is correct; that part is excellent and should not be discarded. The second tracking eradicated the first AT THE LINEAR TIME THAT THE FIRST AND ITS FAULTY SOLUTION OCCURRED. This is still a kind of "smart typewriter" system; the analogy still holds. There seems to have been an elegant erase circuit predicated on repeated trackings of the same stretch of linear time, predicated on an original going-on to the end and then a return to a period long before 3-74. But, interestingly, this really rules out paranormal talent --which I dilated on and rejoiced over supra-- because I certainly did not send myself back in time to retrack my life! So the primary premise that I expressed in the opening pages of this article (pages 1 and 2) appears to be correct, and the "paranormal talent" is really the manifestation (as I originally said) of "Thomas" waking up to face the Xerox missive a second time armed with knowledge that would not develop until months or years in the future (but to him past). (Of the first tracking.) folder 82 - 052 folder 82 - 052 -1- 3-3-80 What about the statement "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed"? Is time a kind of energy-information that appears as living information (i.e. the plasmate), poured into the material system, and can be extracted back out again as information; and this is what I did: saw it in its true original form (i.e. as written and spoken information). Hence all the info traffic that I saw that we normally don't see; the info turns into causality. This is why I saw cause as pretextual; its information basis was visible me. The information is a formula as basis for creation; the Torah? So this time disruption talent that I speak of operates in terms of extracting the original information that is, will be, and has been poured into the material system; I so to speak reversed the pouring-in process and got it as it is before it becomes time. The material system, then, is a transducer; it accepts the information and converts it into cause-and-effect, i.e. change ("things looking different"); the informational basis of time consists of instructions to reality. I deconstructed this mechanism; I saw how it works, based on my precog talent. This explains the plasmate; it was info; it was energy; it was sentient and alive and self-replicating, and it fed itself into everything -- e.g. our media and TEARS. It is time! If I saw time run backward it would disgorge this plasmate rather than accept it. Instead of info being converted into causality, causality would convert into info; info would come into existence rather than pass out of existence. This is the reversing of the cosmogonical process that Eliade speaks of. Reality yields up time as primal folder 82 - 053 folder 82 - 053 -2- 3-3-80 info, rather than absorbing it. Instead of info becoming reality, reality reverts (!) to info, its primal state. Hence time is said to run backward. Instead of Torah as the basis for creation, creation becomes converted (back) into Torah (earth back to water back to fire back to air; reverse of normal cosmogony or time -- but this is expressed in terms of vast units; i.e. long, long intervals, not just hours or days or months or even years, but hundreds even thousands of years, all the way to the illo tempore, the beginning of creation and then back to the void that preceded it!). A separating rather than a combining, reality separating into set and ground, back into its two sources. Instead of time being poured into a material system it was extracted out, v. Eliade. Reality was breaking down into its components as it ran backward. So KING FELIX is normally fed in, out derived out; when I saw it as color and set I saw what I had fed into the text -- but this is an incredibly valuable experience, and sensationally edifying. It shows what the universe is made up out of. No wonder I experienced a vast mind moving retrograde in time! I was seeing (experiencing) the reality process itself moving backward to its origins; and I did (which proves this analysis is correct) find myself at the origins, the illo tempore. But I think this reverse process began ahead in the future vis-a-vis 3-74 when I experienced it; I felt the future coming backward, unwinding and catching me up in its retrograde momentum. So some of the information yielded up was about the future, hence had been the future. Information was extracted that had not yet been fed in, and I utilized a lot of it. folder 82 - 054 folder 82 - 054 -3- 3-3-80 Then the animals spoke because everything spoke; everything turned into its basic constituent: information (which has to do with language). This, too, would explain the medical information. As to, specifically, the information about Chrissy's birth defect, why, that experience was with the ursatz or urgrund of reality which is a knowing entity, but which knows by absorption; I reversed that and it expressed knowledge rather than acquired. So Valis normally learns (absorbs) information rather than