and without ideation handled the situation that it had long known about. What would have been the value of knowing about it, anticipating it and studying it, and then failing to act? The precog talent is of no value if it does not lead to survival-oriented action, and for the talent as a knowing talent to do its job it had to transform itself on cue from a foreknowing to an acting. Thus its seizing control of my tongue and my motor centers when the Xerox missive arrived was as relentless and inexorable as any power a living entity can muster; the actions on 3-20-74 were locked into the years of precognition as the second and completing folder 82 - 071 -20- 3-3-80 half. Precognition was only one side of the faculty, the side that operated in advance of the situation. The other side was the rising to conscious control, the abolishing of my normal ego, the taking over of motor and speech centers, the drastic reorganization of perception so that nothing that needed to be known consciously was not known consciously. Knowing subliminally was no longer any good. The moment had arrived. My psyche reversed itself so that what had been latent became actual and what had been in conscious control for forty some years was simply obliterated. I have been expecting this, the faculty said. And now I will handle it. Get out of my way. It did not ask me; it told me. It became me. I was abolished. The faculty had anticipated and analyzed --as it so well shows in THE PENULTIMATE TRUTH-- and now its hour had come. I myself, I got to see the universe as it sees it: bloody with information, a constant flow of traffic everywhere as if in a giant brain; in fact, to the faculty, reality is a giant brain whose information content the faculty plunders for its own use, and, having acquired the information, in the right time period, it acts on it, against the universe itself if necessary. This is a survival tool. The workshop in which it was built is the workshop of dying organisms that did not develop such a talent, that could not see or acquire the information or if they did when the moment came to act they could not act on it -- they knew what was going to happen and then they knew what was happening but they could not get it together and fight the antagonist off. The final stage, that of seizing motor and speech centers, simply indicates the success of the faculty; its dynamism is found at the heart of the folder 82 - 072 folder 82 - 072 -21 3-3-80 faculty in its unconscious or latent stage where it foreknew and analyzed. My ego, consciousness, went like an obsolete species whose time was over; I made way for the next generator of life which could do battle because it had long ago figured out who was after its neck and why and how and, most of all, what the proper response was. So it is in the nature of the faculty, this faculty, to know when it is needed and to advance to control without negotiation and without explanation. But it let me see the world as it sees it, and what it sees is not what we see. The faculty has power over the outer world such as we cannot imagine, and, I realized even at the time in 3-74, it has complete power over me -- if there is a me any more, now that the faculty has once come into conscious operation. I just read the foregoing over, and something struck me with enormous force. The article goes on and it goes on, and then suddenly I realized that it is saying, I have had the paranormal faculty known as precognition for years, for at least a decade. Nobody knows how precognition works, and it is one of the main, one of the best-known, paranormal talents (called "premonition"). No one in fact has ever explained how any paranormal (Psi) talent works. Okay. Fine. Got it? I'm a precog. I've been a precog for years, but of course like everyone else I can't say how it works. Can't I? 3-74 (my analysis of 3-74) shows for the first time in the history of parapsychology how precognition works: because due to unique, uniquely dire stress and fear and pain and pressure and lithium and sodium pentathol and orthomolecular vitamins and god knows what else, the mechanism of precognition --which is always an outside-of-conscious-control-and folder 82 - 073 folder 82 - 073 -22- 3-3-80 awareness talent-- which is to say an unconscious talent, became conscious. I, a precog, suffered a typical stress psychosis where my unconscious swamped my conscious mind and replaced it, dissolving my ego --which is what happens in psychosis; I experienced what is called "schizophrenic reaction"-- and this is important because due to this the unconscious precog faculty became conscious and I could see the world consciously as I usually (always in fact) saw it only subconsciously, i.e. outside my field of awareness, and it consisted of this: my precognition (and this probably holds true for all precognition in whoever it exists) experiences time as running backward. And this, my experience of 3-74, ratifies that Yes, I am a precog; but now we know how precognition --probably all precognition-- works, although we're stuck with having to explain how the hell someone can experience time as running backward. But nonetheless this is shatteringly important, that a chronic precog should have a model psychosis, have his talent enter --even take over-- consciousness; and then experience a totally new way of perceiving reality -- and then study this experience day after day, year after year for six years, writing hundreds of thousands of words of notes about it, and doing vast research, and finally, exactly six years after the thresholding, realize what happened: that time ran backward, and that is it. So see: if a part of your mind experiences time as running backward of course you will be a precog. One could almost infer this; it is almost a tautology: "A precog experiences time running backward." But what a difference between saying it and consciously experiencing it. Has any precog ever had a model psychosis and thereupon consciously experienced the world of his talent in which time runs backward? folder 82 - 074 folder 82 - 074 -23- 3-3-80 Maybe it's never happened before. Or maybe it's happened before but the person could never figure out what the hell he experienced; good god, it's taken me six years, and I merely just happened to state the case, Saturday night, in conversation - and heard what I had said! Heard myself say it, and realized, "That's it." Well, VALIS will get published, here and in the UK and in France, and someday maybe I can explain what I've figured out starting last Saturday night (today is Monday). Certainly it's not made clear in VALIS, because I simply didn't know. Now I do. I'm a precog, and, what is more, I know why. But I don't know how; I mean, how do I get time to run backward? It probably always runs backward for a portion of my mind. "Thomas" is always with me. It is so absolutely logical that if a precog had his unconscious talent flood into consciousness he would find that that part of him experienced time running backward. I know I am right. And the flooding into consciousness of this ability was so that it could act; it seized speech and motor centers purposefully, as a fulfillment of its regular foreknowing functioning. The talent became the person; it swept the person away as if it, the talent, were itself a person, another person in my head; hence I call it "Thomas." It had its own idiosyncracies -- like beer instead of wine. What a vast mystery, and how thrilling. And what a strange world it or he inhabits; how differently he sees/experiences reality! What a privilege for me, to be overwhelmed by this talent and to see the world as it does. But how strange... folder 82 - 075 folder 82 - 075 -1- 3-4-80 Causing time to run backward (subjectively); disruption time. This the cause of precognition. Is there a chance that -- okay. The ability to disrupt time arises as a means by which the organism acquires information that it otherwise could not acquire (or would not acquire until too late). Is it possible, at all possible, that as the forward motion of time is reduced, that as time is stopped, rather than run backward, that at a certain critical point Valis stands out, no longer camouflaged, and Valis is Deity? This experience was not what the ability sought; it seeks information, but in the process it sees Deity; and here is the reason: a stopping of time is an entering of eternity, which is the realm of God. We're talking about a percept faculty equal to the lensed eye. What an advance it would be, and what might it see! The flow of linear time obscures (camouflages) the Deity, or, put another way, the central control entity; or, put another way, that which reality really is (pantheism). It normally is not stabilized. Then this time disruption talent pays off (perhaps) even more than I had realized. It is generally believed that the realm of Deity is the realm lying outside of time. Is it then so surprising that in stopping time you would see the Deity? Its operations are subliminal in humans. It engrams us subliminally; subliminal to us, not to it. There is an additional point, which fits very well with my thoughts about "Thomas" last night: those who are in eternity and not time are dead, are in the postmortem world. So this whole anti-theological argument (that I didn't see Deity; I disrupted time, made folder 82 - 076 -2- 3-4-80 it run backward, made it stand still or nearly still which is to say, abolished time) can --I suddenly realize-- but turned around to become a strong argument (unintentially made) for Deity. Which is as follows: this is how you would expect to see Deity: if you could halt time, i.e. enter eternity. So all my efforst of yesterday to eject Deity as explanation of what Valis is -- abruptly it returns by the back door, and stronger as an argument than ever. I disrupted time. I halted time. I made (or saw) time run backward. And thereupon I saw Valis, who I suspect is Deity anyhow. Voila; Valis is Deity, based on 23 pages of careful reasoning as of yesterday. Reasoning designed to prove the opposite. Anyhow last night as I was going to sleep I got to thinking how strongly I am persuaded that "Thomas" is me in the postmortem world. So two thrusts are here directed toward the postmortem world. There is another point, regarding the "extruded" information. No, I like my earlier reasoning. In normal forward-moving time Valis knows; i.e. information passes to it. It receives information as the center of a network of "neural" conduits bringing it knowledge. Messages flow to it. But seen reversed, messages are extruded. Anyhow, the information about Chrissy's birth defect. Am I saying that under normal circumstances Valis could not extrude, which is to say, express that information to me/me/someone? Yes I am saying that; I am saying that normally Valis would have received the information so that Valis would have known; but, under the reversed circumstances, Valis declared --conveyed-- the information. Now, there is another way of viewing this transaction: in terms of my faculty, whose job it is to acquire information. Perhaps the faculty is more active than folder 82 - 077 folder 82 - 077 -3- 3-4-80 I realized; active as compared to passive. Maybe it actively derived the information, got it out of Valis. But