entity. It converts reality back to its formulation + answers. It does not study reality; it is transformed into reality + can be transformed back (retrieved as information again, which equals "answer"). {Illustration: "Info/Torah" with arrow to "Reality/World" with arrow to "Info/Torah"} If I were to guess, I'd guess that reality is a storage mode for the information. Reality isn't problem-solving; Torah is. I don't think reality is to Torah as performance of symphony is to score; I think reality is a container for the information. If God is intelligere - the info is trapped in reality. Suspended, in infinite complexity. Tape or LP or chip is material. Info is poured into reality + can be extracted back out: retrieved. Transactions take place. Information processing transactions. The info is here, it entered + leaves. The key use of reality is memory, which means impression (what I call modulation). A record. Well, that certainly sheds light on 3-74 + the Xerox missive situation as info processing, a basic function of the system behind the phenomenal world. Yes - I passed over into the info processing system behind the phenomenal world, where the real transactions take place. Or it came forward. The system seized on the Xerox missive as vital info by which to solve a problem; it extracted the info. folder 48 - 135 folder 48 - 135 I have seen the "plasmate" - the info passing through reality, so I know that reality is a system whose purpose has to do with the processing of this info. (Torah.) There is a controlling mind whom we call God who "creates" the system (reality) + who can change the system + (under unusual circumstances) can speak to humans. Whether this mind is in the system or outside it I don't know, but it is superior to the system. The key term regarding the info (Torah) is: answers, + the mind that sees + reads the answers. My anamnesis was a partaking on my part of a larger mind than my own, stretching over 1000s of years + vast spaces, perhaps related to (or being) the controlling mind, which can see the info (Torah). This would be the ultimate mind: to read the info output. Not just to know what comes in as input, or to feed in input but to read -see + understand- the output. Then I was merged with the controlling mind (YHWH)! To see the readout is to be outside the system (reality); hence I seemed to be dead + having postmortem experiences; I was outside the world. Then my 3-74 experience wasn't mystical but rather one of the absolute, actual, ultimate, real purpose (function) of the system as if I were outside or above it, part of the mind using it or reading folder 48 - 136 its output. I saw reality as it is -as it's used for- + availed myself of its answering ultimate-function, its ability to handle informational problems. Valis must be the mind using it, to which it (reality, the system) is subordinated. Valis is YHWH the creator + sustainer of the system + also user of it + its output. Valis did not come into the system, nor was it already in the system (immanent); no: I was taken outside (not of course spacially in the normal sense but still in some sense spacially) {Note} the system so that I could see it as system, + the info it processes, so that I could use it as YHWH uses it: to process info, with input + output; the solution to the Xerox missive was output: an answer. {Note:} Vast time + space + identity / self or my part. In other words I used the system from outside to get an answer, as folder 48 - 137 folder 48 - 137 YHWH uses it. Doesn't this info processing fit in with the voice I hear being like an AI voice? It would be the voice of the - system? 1) Plasmate (Torah): living information 2) AI voice 3) The solving of the Xerox missive problem {Note} by a meta-entity (item (4)?) The Hebrew printout 4) Valis as or in the system, communicating with me (e.g. info about Chrissy). {Note:} No, it didn't solve; it knew what the Xerox missive was, who sent it, + what to do with it; + it did it, not me. 5) The freighting of our communications media. 6) 2-part linking to form messages. Who is this info from? Whom to? It is processed here in our world. 7) The huge pages of books. The cereal package. 8) Cosmological knowledge inc. the dialectic Is it possible that every metaphenomenon that I have experienced had to do with information? 9) Even the anamnesis has to do with info - remembered info. Sacraments of the early church - the Koine. 10) Knowledge about the Nixon tapes. 11) The Sibyl's statements. 12) Dreams telling me about the Xerox missive Conclusion: the lifting of the percept occlusion permitted me to see much of this 13) Perception of the BIP world + the secret Xtians: the true situation, the true world 14) Set/Ground (different space) 15) The hieroglyphs "of God." folder 48 - 138 folder 48 - 138 This is why I originally envisioned an information satellite. But it's ubiquitous knowledge - why doesn't it take, say, the form of the AI voice alone? My "supernatural tutelary guide" could have handled it all. There certainly is no precedent for information taking so many forms. It wasn't put there just for me; I am sure: take the King-Felix cypher. Except maybe cabala. Could all the diverse manifestations be varigated transductions of one omnipresent entity? My idea of the Bible as 3-D code: that points to the Torah. It is either Judaism or Judiasm-Xtian, with Xtianity viewed as a mystical sect of Judaism: "The Way". But Paul said "The Law (Torah?) can't save" + it does save. As for original sin: Wisdom 2:24: "But God created man for immortality, + made him the image of his own eternal self; it was the devil's spite that brought death into the world, + the experience of it is reserved for those who take his side. (3). But the souls of the just are in God's hand, + torment shall not touch them. In the eyes of the foolish they seemed to be dead," etc. Compare Romans 5:12: "Well then, sin entered the world through one man, + through sin death, + thus death has spread through the whole human race because everyone has sinned." J. Bible note - Ws 2:24: From this Paul concludes that sin has entered into all men through the first fall. We have here the doctrine of original sin." But Ws 2:24 says "it is reserved for those who take his side" + Ws 3 says "But the souls of the just are in God's hand." Paul's doctrine goes against scripture. folder 48 - 139 folder 48 - 139 So I have scriptural support for dismissing Paul's doctrine of original sin. + when that goes, the doctrine of vicarious atonement goes (i.e. "Christ died for our sins"). + when that goes, the purpose of the crucifixion goes; I believe it accomplished nothing, nor was it intended to (viz: "she was not acceptable before"). The world rejected St. Sophia - Holy Wisdom. God's Wisdom. If the fall could occur through man's free will, man could reject God's Holy Wisdom through that same free will. If it is argued that the first advent couldn't fail because God cannot err, then how could the original fall have taken place? Didn't God foresee it? Didn't he have the power to prevent it? Obviously things can go wrong. The remedy -the 1st advent- failed to work, + is being (at this time) tried again. What I construe in the "He has been transplanted + is alive" is God bred into the human race (symbiosis). This accords with 2-3-74, Valis, my sense of being female + a host or womb, + esp. "Firebright," the "pearl buried in the field"; God is the pearl + man the field. I.e. not transplanted to Earth -3-74 showed me he is already here on Earth- but transplanted into a human womb. Not only do I have scriptural support to refute Paul, I am using the citation that the Catholic church identifies as the citation Paul based his doctrine on. Paul evades the clear + evident actual meaning of the citation, + the Church fails to go ahead in the context - i.e. Ws 3:1. So Paul is not just not backed up; he is refuted by his own citation. folder 48 - 140 folder 48 - 140 I must assume that if I am an authentic early Xtian, I part company before Paul came along - which means before the whole doctrine of the purpose (sic) of the crucifixion. This is pretty early. Sin isn't an issue. The interbreeding of Holy Wisdom with the human race is the issue. Which I experienced for a limited time starting in 3-74. Also (I suspect) Jesus did not mean to deny the Torah, as Paul says was intended (e.g. "The Law can't save.") This would be why I'm a fish Xtian + not a cross (crucifixion) Xtian. Then "born again" cannot mean "freed from sin." It means something else or nothing - maybe interspecies symbiosis but it has nothing to do with sin; viz: "I was a sinner but now I am saved"; this means nothing; each man was always free to choose God or Belial... without the experience I went through in 2-3-74. + this means that man can be saved by routes other than Christ... e.g. Torah or Moksa. {phone numbers of several persons} folder 48 - 141 YHWH's prime role: to keep reality from becoming dreamlike. For me in 3-74 it became dreamlike. YHWH had ushered in, for me, an experience of the actual (viz: how things really are): the universe is a dream which YHWH causes to seem real to us (partly done by hobbling our memory, cognition + perception), indubitably real. Actually the universe is some kind of projection, but - YHWH is real (instead); thus he unveiled the ultimate mystery to me: disclosed the ultimate fact: his reality + the universe's unreality. In 3-74 I fell through the universe to him; at him (Valis) I stopped falling. Few humans could fall through like that + remain sane, but I was prepared via my decades of epistemology (acosmism). Still, I was very frightened as I rushed forward on + on (Bardo Thodol trip). What if I'd never stopped falling? I had no guarantee at that point. What we seem really to have here is an information hologram extensive in space + driven by time. This is the ultimate fear: falling through the universe. This is what YHWH protects us against. It shows absolute trust of me by him to let me see how it really is. But the falling through the universe is not as it might seem a withdrawal of YHWH; on the contrary it leads to YHWH. YHWH hasn't vanished; the universe has. YHWH is there in its place. It's like an all or nothing bet. If the universe goes, will anything remain, + if so, will it be more or will it be less than the universe? folder 48 - 142 folder 48 - 142 ___ I just remembered an insight I had while asleep. If (note: if) it appears that our world (reality) is based on -i.e. is in fact- information (so-to-speak hologramized) then probably it is recycled memory fed back to us + we lived it once before as actual reality. + my analysis of 3-74 does show it to be, apparently, indeed based on information: is information. Everything that I experienced (2-3-74) could be explained on this basis: the erase had not been complete in my case, + in 2-74 (1) memory returned, + in 3-74