October 10, 1978 Kerygma at this point: We created a fake world, went down into it voluntarily, and voluntarily shed our memories, and can't get back out, but would like to. However, foreseeing this we providentially laid down clues in advance, to remind us, when the going got too tough. These reminders would not only restore our memories of identity but also our powers, which we voluntarily let get occluded. Thus we descended into difficulties but not into a closed trap. We were brave, and willing to suffer, but not foolish. Perhaps we made an intellectual error in taking this delusional world for real, or deciding to take it for real; in any case we were smart enough to set up the machinery for automatic extrication. Our motive for descending could be that we would not force our creatures to endure anything we would not endure. And for us to endure it we would have to strip ourselves of memory and supernatural (divine) faculties, and be like our creatures in every way -- except that our reminder-clues would eventually start the extricating process, given enough time. I cannot believe that we made a moral error; i.e. sinned and were expelled from the gardenland, exiled to the prison, by our own creator. How could our creator occlude us, exile us, place us in the prison? How could he be responsible for taking the garden away from us? I do not believe it. Somehow we got trapped by the prison; i.e. trapped by the narrow, dark world, under the vast, light-filled garden. After much thought I am convinced that we chose to get trapped, although by setting up clues to remind us we kept it from being a trap. It is a prison with a door which we carefully left open by which to make our escape. The Savior is our own undescended self, our own unexiled and unoccluded self; i.e. our pristine self. We are all the parties involved: the creator, the master magician who rules this prison realm, the savior. We are the creatures to be saved. Tat tvam asi, is what I say. The fact that we are in a prison does not prove that we made a moral error. That is faulty reasoning, occluded reasoning -- typically occluded reasoning. I admit that we may have originally made an epistemological error in taking this realm to be real, which it is not. But in the final analysis I think it was a deliberate choice. Therefore we have this consolation: our suffering was voluntarily assumed. I have evidence of the reminder-clues; this evidence serves then as evidence of a voluntary coming here, and a foreknowing of the problems involved, the possibility of getting stuck and needing an automatic way back out. I reason back from the clues to the original situation: inductive reasoning but still convincing to me. Had it been an accidental or involuntary "intellectual error" would those reminder-clues have been set up beforehand? folder 20 - 002 folder 20 - 002 "The First Book of Adam + Eve": "...+ God commanded him [Adam] to dwell there in a cave in a rock - the Cave of Treasures below the garden. "...+ as they came to [the Cave of Treasures] Adam wept over himself + said to Eve, 'Look at this cave that is to be our prison in this world, + a place of punishment! What is it compared with the garden? What is its narrowness compared with the space of the other? What is this rock, by the side of those groves? What is the gloom of this cavern, compared with the light of the garden? What is this overhanging ledge of rock to shelter us, compared with the mercy of the Lord that overshadowed us? What is the soil of this cave compared with the garden-land? This earth, strewed with stones, + that, planted with delicious fruit trees?' + Adam said to Eve, 'Look at thine eyes, + at mine, which afore beheld angels in heaven, praising; + they, too, without ceasing. But now we do not see as we did; our eyes have become flesh; they cannot see in like manner as they saw before.' + Adam said again to Eve, 'What is our body today, compared to what it was in former days, when we dwelt in the garden?' After this Adam did not like to enter the cave, under the overhanging rock, nor would he ever have entered it. But he bowed to God's orders; + said to himself, folder 20 - 003 folder 20 - 003 'Unless I enter the cave, I shall again be a transgressor.' "Adam raised his eyes + saw the rock + the roof of the cave that covered him overhead, so that he could see neither heaven, nor God's creatures. So he wept..." "+ the Lord said unto Adam + Eve, 'You transgressed of your own free will, until you came out of the garden in which I had placed you. Of your own free will you transgressed through your desire for divinity, greatness, + an exalted state, such as I have; so that I deprived you of the bright nature in which you then were + I made you come out of the garden to this land, rough + full of trouble.' "Then Adam wept + said, 'O God, when we dwelt in the garden, + our hearts were lifted up, we saw the angels that sang praises in heaven, but now we do not see as we were used to do; no, when we entered the cave, all creation became hidden from us.' Then God the Lord said unto Adam, 'When thou wast under subjugation to me, thou hadst a bright nature within thee, + for that reason couldst thou see things afar off. But after thy transgression thy bright nature was withdrawn from thee; + it was not left to thee to see things afar off, but only near at hand, after the ability of the flesh, for it is brutish.' But God said unto Adam, 'I have made thee a promise; when that promise is fulfilled, I folder 20 - 004 folder 20 - 004 will bring thee back into the garden, thee + thy righteous seed.' + God ceased to commune with Adam. "[They] came + entered the Cave of Treasures. But when in it Adam could not see Eve; he only heard the noise she made. Neither could she see Adam, but heard the noise he made. "[He] said to Eve, 'Where art thou?' + she said unto him, 'Lo, I am standing in this darkness.' He then said to her, 'Remember the bright nature in which we lived, when we abode in the garden? O Eve! Remember the glory that rested on us in the garden. O Eve! Remember the trees that overshadowed us in the garden while we moved among them. O Eve! Remember that while we were in the garden, we knew neither night nor day. Think of the Tree of Life, from below which flowed the water, + that shed luster over us! Remember, o Eve, the garden-land + the brightness thereof! Think, oh think of that garden in which was no darkness, while we dwelt therein. Whereas no sooner did we come into this Cave of Treasures than darkness compassed us round about; until we could no longer see each other; + all the pleasure of this life has come to an end.' "'For I [God] made thee of the light, + I willed to bring out children of light from thee + like unto thee. But thou didst not keep one day my commandment. folder 20 - 005 folder 20 - 005 "...until the fulfillment of my covenant; when I will save thee + bring thee back again into the garden, into the abode of light which thee longest for, wherein is no darkness. I will bring thee to it - in the kingdom of heaven. All this misery that thou hast been made to take upon thee because of thy transgression, will not free thee from the hand of Satan, + will not save thee. But I will. When I shall come down from heaven, + shall become flesh of thy seed, + take upon me the infirmity from which thou sufferest, then the darkness that came upon thee is this cave shall come upon Me in the grave, when I am the flesh of thy seed. + I, who am without years, shall be subject to the reckoning of the years, of times, of months, + of days, + I shall be reckoned as one of the sons of men, in order to save thee." ___ Thus the occlusion of faculties, but the promise of restoration, back to the garden, which is the Kingdom. It is specifically said, we are now in a dark prison which is small - + the garden was vast. (Cf. my sense of augmented space in 3-74, as well as my perception that we were living in a prison; + then eleven months later I was briefly in the Garden.) So small dark prison + perceptual occlusion vs vast garden of light + full perception: 1) BIP vs the PTG 2) Occlusion (blindness) vs seeing what is afar [Note] Exactly what I experienced. [Note] i.e. higher levels of creation! folder 20 - 006 So my contrast of the BIP / PTG, occlusion or blindness / seeing higher levels of creation is a basic Jewish-Christian substratum of worldview - one of the most basic, + entirely in accord with orthodoxy. By 2-74 to 2-75 experience was a restoration 1) of my faculties (i.e. myself to what I originally was); + 2) I was removed from the BIP + from the power of the BIP + restored to the Garden, the Kingdom of God, in fulfillment of God's promise, via Christ. My original bright nature (of light) was restored, + I was taken back home: to where I originally came from. Restored person, restored place. All conditions, inner (me) + outer (world) as they should be + had once been. Out of the dark narrow prison. Is there a causal relationship between restored person + restored place? Can you have one without the other? + if causally connected, which is cause + which is effect, or are they just inner-outer parallel equals? A dual (binary) restoration? Am I one of the "Second Adam" race? + how many other people has this happened to? More important, does my inner (self) / outer (world) restoration signify (signal) that the time of the fulfillment of God's promise (of salvation) has at last (historically, generally) come? I have reason indeed to believe that it has come: 1) The St. Sophia prophecy. 2) The Buddha prophecy. 3) The Head Apollo prophecy. 4) The "the time you've waited for has come" statement 5) The dream + code in "Tears" 6) The AI voice + my 2-74 - 2-75 experience in themselves 7) The overthrow by God of Nixon. folder 20 - 007 folder 20 - 007 This list of seven indications is overwhelmingly impressive. What other conclusion than that the 2nd Advent has come could be reached? If I reject this, I must assume I am unique in the whole scheme of things, which is absurd. Obviously I am not unique, an anomaly - obviously I + my experience are part of a vast supernatural unfolding. What I feel I've established here in these six pages is: 1) The BIP which I saw in 3-74 + realized we're in, is the "Cave of Treasures" to which we were exiled when we were expelled from the Garden. In some sense it is beneath the Garden. 2) The PTG which I entered briefly in 2-75 is our original home, the Garden-land. 3) The augmentation of my faculties in 3-74 was in fact a restoration of me to the original unfallen proper state associated with our first place (Garden)