it only briefly + ellipti cally. I explicated it saw, understood + fully reported the goal of all transcending I process, world tself. B-24 my decades of writing are merely prolog to this. Universe not as God (as with Spinoza) but in God, by the act of becoming means of Christ, through (as macro‐ I correctly but it) transubstantiation. As if I am the only person ever to really understand the real meaning + purpose of the Lord's supper: restoration of the cosmos back into God from which it fell. My perception as Valis in me perceiving world as itself (in terms of syntactical information) shows that in fact restoration has occurred: world is reclaimed (if it was in fact ever lost) to + as Valis (Emyeh / Logos). since this is the Parousia then this selfperception verifies that the Parousia has indeed taken place or else Spinoza was right all along: "Deus sive substantia sive natura" - but here dynamic process gives way to steady state + the view in "Valis" is of dynamic process: "the irrational universe invaded by the rational the Logos + transubstantiated into the Lord term "Lord" referring either to Christ or God. Note: cosmic resorption: "surpassing the act of creation itself." Creation as an entropic fall (The flip-flop of through endless splitting the dialectic). In cosmic resorption, world does not cease bec omes God, whereupon Spinoza's it B-25 equation becomes dynamically true (as I say, we call this event, act or process "Christ"). (the logofication of world.) to repeat: when Valis was in me the case wasn't just that I got very intelligent; Valis saw world as intelligent + as itself: one continuum. you could say, "I became so smart that I could see that it [i.e. world] is smart"; this is cosmic repair. This is the system (1) perceiving itself (subject object identity); + (2) perceiving itself correctly. (Up to then it - as me - had perceived itself - as world - but not correctly.) But it (in + as me) was smart enough to see that (1) upon perceiving world, world adjusted + changed in response to this perception; but (2) had not occurred to me as a realization, yet: (1) implies is a trapped-loop self-perception that this Now (hereby) it can be seen that I was right supra when I figured out that somehow caused the Parousia by a very long sequence s of merciless reasoning somehow obtaining from time to time crucial responses from the world (but the logic was the master). Parousia is both a realization +, simul taneously, the event that the realization concerns... since this is a self-aware system (its self-perceptions/realizations are events). Gince it is a system that primarily knows. itself as its central act.) (Activity. This is implied by "I am" itself; it cannot say "I am" unless it knows itself. + (in my opinion) the requirement for self-knowledge sets B-26 splitting Paradox" off a dynamic "map process leading to ever-increasing internal complexity (the macrometasomakosmos in savings 48518 process). checking 57445 i t 105963 G-1 in "Valis" the testimony is to no than more + no less what the eleven testified to in Acts that the spirit of the risen Lord returned to them (as had been promised - + which they had not what, then, we believed). This is Acts. are told to do is be wakeful, alert + to wait for his return (the Parousia). It is imminent. + now, since my writing "Valis." I am told (3-18-81) that in fact he has returned. "Valis" is just prior to the - Parousia; we wait. But several years have passed. Now he has returned, I am told; so cosmic time has passed from acts to the Parousia. Valis is not Christ but the Holy Spirit, as at Pentercost, as at the time + place of Acts, which is why I saw Acts. But now (I learned this month!) he has returned. The promise is fulfilled, + the divine invasion" depicts it (but very il poorly). The waiting (with which "Valis" ended) is now over, + the Parousia has taken place - + the Holy Mother church knows it. Thus these events (2-3-74, then the prophecies by the AI voice, then 11-17-80, then 3-18-81) are sequential. Time is passing. It is certainly true that 3-18-81 explains -3-74. 2-3-74 could not/would not have occurred if the Parousia were not at hand (i.e. the time of Acts - Pentercost! - had to be). ut 2-3-74 precedes 3-18-81 + the Parousing 3-18-81 is both explanation of 2-3-74 + a further development a rogressis G-2 time. It is very clear from the ending of "Valis" that the Parousia is imminent 3-18-81 is not in any but not yet. sense a prophecy of the Parousia; it is pure + simple a revelation that the Parousia has now come. So (as I say) we have both analysis + progression. 3-18-81 explains 2-3-74 (+ by extension "Valis") by saying -revealing - what has come next. Again, 2-3-74 is the time of Acts: shortly after the resurrection + the time shortle before the second coming, 3-18-81 is implied of the Holy Spirit. the ending of "Valis." by Maybe it's because I've been working on the dea for the Jim Pike book, but I can see I absolutely clearly in rereading "Valis" that Valis is the Holy Spirit + so it is the time (+ place) of pentercost, i.e. acts. but now we have passed on to the Parousia. I have no idea which is cause + which is effect, but Acts + the Holy Spirit can't be separated. The fact of their waiting at the ending makes this clear, but (I think) what really made it clear was 3-18-81 which is the anticipated Parousias "Valis" is clearly the setup for it. 1) There is enthusiasmos - i.e. the divine enters you (the Holy Spirit does this). 2) It recalls Jesus to you - his life 3) It reveals the mysteries - the mean‐ s- to you of Christ. 4) It is your advocate + comforter. 5) it placed the in the correct stance of alert waiting. -3 6) It is somehow God + yet is not; some‐ how Christ + yet is not. 7) It knows all things. surely someone in the world who knows about the Holy Spirit will recognize that This is what "Valis" is about (but the humble author did not). Look at their stance at the end; it is that of the eleven at the time of Acts - in fact "Valis" is a retelling of the story of the spirit of the risen Lord returning to the grieving disciples; Horselover Fat's grief is over the death of a friend - he seeks this dead, lost friend in + as the savior; to this lonely grieving man, a paradigm of the eleven after the crucifixion, there suddenly returns the spirit, turning grief + loss into joy + the recovery. The rhipidon society is the eleven. death of gloria is the death of Jesus. No one has noticed this, including me. The spirit inspires Fat with faith so that he looks forward to the without Parousia, not backward to the crucifixion intending it, in "Valis" I retold Acts. So for a second time, Acts appears in my writing as the Urwelt, the real world. How can it be that I, even I did not notice this: that I had depicted the grieving disciples (Horselover Fat) after the death of Jesus (Gloria) to whom the Holy Spirit returns, changing grief to joy + loss to recovery, +, most of all, turning him toward the future to wait alently for the Parousia? It is the absolute triumph of the spirit, of Xtian ty itself, to see the crucified + risen Lord in + as ne needs ( of + trash of the alley. This is not a relative triumph; this is its very triumph itself - + I have this story, the grief + loss by the disciples turned to joy + recovery by the Holy Spirit, who is Christ returned to them (as the J. Bible says) +, finally to have seen the miracle of transubstantiation in the debris of the alley. in fact (to reason backward) the fact that due to Valis/Thomas i did see the crucified + risen Christ in + as the debris of the alley proved that Valis was the Holy Spirit, for this is the glory + victory + task of the Holy Spirit, to accomplish this keeping this in mind I reread Sophia's charge to the rhipide- society; It is Christ giving the Kerygma to the apostles, but it is a new Kerygma; it is Now: "You will take his power from him, by my authority. Go + do this + i will be with you." The Kerygma has to do with the very earthly Kingdom that Jesus did not plan to establish; this Kerygma is millinarian: the disciples will take away the power of "the King t Tears, the tyrant"; in doing this they of risk prison. Thus the millenial Kingdom that was hoped for two thousand years ago but was not to be established then is to be established now; "the time you've waited for has comer" inherent in Sophia's Kerygma is the G-5 final great confrontation between good + evil (depicted as wisdom + power). God in the Form of Holy Wisdom will lead + direct his hosts himself: he/she will always be with them, even when they do not know it. significantly she says," this has not been I your world but I will make it your world, will change it for you. Fear not. What assails you will perish + you will thrive." that this is revolutionary millenarianism is certain; it contrasts with the first Advent in which "the stone uncut by human hands" was not thrown at the giant with feet of clay (symbolizing the procession of Empires who ophose Christ). This, then i.e. her new Kerygma, shows this not to be a retelling of the first Advent, but depicts, instead, the the second Advent. So one can see in this second advent as an overlay of the firit; but despite the overlay the first is still visible. (There is the death the grieving "eleven" (Horselover Fat). the return of the resurrected Christ to him / them as the Holy Spirit, grief turned to joy, looking backward turned to anticipation. + there is the new Kerygma: specifically that of the second Advent. Thus the original story - i.e. of the first t Advent - is retained but transformed crucially it is the time + place of Acts but also of C-1974 the two superimposed, with time collapsed USA, that the first Advent is now + leads so with no long lapse of time into the promised These are not two second Advent - as if advents but one (which is how the O.T. prophets saw -correctly saw - them t Hence I understand why I saw Acts + USA 1974 superimposed; the two spatiotemporal continua in a single historical became unified narrative happening at the "same" place + mysteriously. the "same" time. Here, then, i G-6 the explanation of what puzzled me the most: the "common essence" of the two spatiotemporal sets, the "meta-abstraction"; it is because in a supernatural way both advents are essentially one. There is could have had any worth no way that "Valis. e as scripture (II without Sophia's Kerygma; with i out that it would simply be a retelling set in modern times of Advent one. Any biplical scholar of apocalyptic literature would discern this change -or addition or progression or departure - at once. The so-to-speak missing material (unfulfilled O.T. prophecy) (that failed to occur at the first Advent) is now added; + yet it still is (as I say) mysteriously (to repeat) the First Advent - as if there are not two advents but one. The same story is told again,