love for itself alone, + not for what it can do (create). The prodigal son. If the separate thing desires to return + forfeit its einai - then it must love, too; + the two -God + his creation- are joined; this is absolute bliss, that einai is not enough; the creature longs to return. This is rapture for God, that it wishes this; that, created, it wishes + tries to return, through the maze; it tries so hard. This is his reward. He gave it einai + it voluntarily surrenders einai (Sein!) in favor of nonbeing: i.e. return to its source. It would rather not be that it may be -dwell- with him; this causes him to feel absolute bliss. Einai is the most precious gift of all, + it gave it back - to of the template by which the Zoroastrian apocalyptic, Messianic reality can be seen clearly points to the role + nature of Valis being the revealer, or messenger. But it is not God that is disclosed: it is the meaning of history: the dialectic; for example, the Empire is revealed. The activity + events of this world are uncovered, not the divine nature. Not God but the way to God is revealed. The issues are revealed. Yet, Valis itself is revealed, which I took to be God. Now I view it as an instrument of God, sent here to bring us the gnosis; for this in fact is what the revealed story is: the saving gnosis. Our primal condition of ontological ignorance is reversed. The true God lies far above the world in divine transcendence, this, too, is Gnostic. The ultimate purpose of this saving gnosis is to return men to this loving transcendent God, + this in fact is what occurred with me. "One by one he draws us out of the world." Then I already know what I need to know (i.e. the saving gnosis. Valis brings the gnosis. Then the Gnostic elements in "Valis" are right on. 2-3-74 was the saving gnosis, by the salvator salvandus. Then the Acts lens/grid gives you the saving gnosis; this is what you see. So you are saved by knowledge. I was reading over the pages on love that I wrote last night; they remind me of Paul. From them I deduce that I did in fact experience the agapē of God; his love that created us as independent creatures - this love deliberately curtailed so that we could go forth with essence, with true autonomous being; love created us. But we are vaguely unhappy - this is all such ecstatic writing, so mysterious. Our suffering increases his love because he knows that we value nonexistence more than this existence because this existence requires us to be independent hence cut off from him; we yearn to retrace our steps + this increases his love + joy, + in us love occurs, love like that that he has; it now occurs in us as well, we whom love gave birth to. Compared with this love, world is nothing, a cinder, dust; for us to feel it in us, + finally if we feel it in us, we feel his love for us once more, the love that created us in the first place. Our own love is an echo of the power, the love, that caused us to be in the first place. I understand from all this that compared with this love -love by him in the first place, then love by us, then love by him again, that original love that created us re-experienced- there is nothing, nothing at all. We only find him again when we begin to feel love in us, echoe of the love he felt. He responds, then, with his own love; we did not know, when we suffered why we suffered, but it gave him joy, because he saw it as a sign of love growing in us, echoing his love. This is source for us + it is goal - unremembered as source + unknown as goal, but still felt - felt as suffering. I can’t explain it, it is too mysterious; but love is the origin + love is the goal. There is nothing that compares with it; it is everything. "Love triumphs over love," I wrote; I don’t know now what that means. Yet I sense that it is correct. God withdraws so as to allow us independent existence, this is his gift + sacrifice, to let us go. + then a time comes when we want to return + abandon independent existence; now we have penetrated the mystery of existence: that non-being with him is preferable to being (Sein) away from him. The great gift of einai is given back voluntarily, renounced "that I might live in Him invisible + dim." That says it all. Love equals non-being, the dissolusion of the separated creature. He feels such joy at our voluntary return, our renouncing of existence; + this joy is shared by us when we find him again. This is the origin of the infinite bliss that I felt: love as source, + return to love once more. XXIV The true key factor is: apocalypsis: that which is hidden. (1) True history. The dialectic (2) The true role of Xtianity, revolutionary. (3) Its adversary. The Empire (BIP) (4) Xtianity's goals. The Millenial Kingdom (5) Valis, an information generating machine that continually subliminally tells us (1) (2) (3) + (4), so that we do not just know it; we see it - as supra-temporal constants. I.e. we return to the time + place of Acts. Acts as lens/grid. Spatiotemporality is stripped away - what I call "meta-abstracting." This is what apocalyptic writing is all about; the J. Bible notes on Revelation say, "The book is interested in the unchanging realities, to which faith is always open in any period of history." But my view is that God's in-breaking is camouflaged + secret, + has already occurred. This is the Kingdom that Christ spoke of, rather than cataclysmic apocalypsis. I saw God secretly already here, + transubstantiating the universe; dismantling + assimilating the old universe. This is precisely what Jesus taught, + my revelation (2-3-74) had to do with Jesus - hence Acts. This is the essential message (Kerygma) that Jesus taught: the secret in-breaking of the rule of {God is} here now in this world. He did not preach "Christ crucified" (Paul taught that, + Xtianity after him); he preached, "God + God's rule here secretly" which is what I saw. Why secretly? Jesus said, "I want only my flock to know." It is he -Christ- who reveals this (not just preaches it): God here secretly. Christ is the agency by which we see this; the sole agency. That is why he came here. After death he returned as, or was replaced by, the second comforter who, then, has this task (of revelation, of the so-to-speak secret apocalypse). These are the two key words: secret + apocalypse; that is, the in-breaking is "like a mustard seed," small, hidden + mysterious. First (2-74) I understood the historical situation + then second I saw Valis (3-74), who I take to be God here or God's rule here. Valis is not the same as revelation of the true meaning of history. Valis is the real presence of the Lord camouflaged. He is not the universe (pantheism) but has invaded + is in the universe, blended with it. This is the Miracle of the Mass in macroform. This is what Jesus taught,+ , moreover, disclosed! But not during his lifetime; he returned after death to disclose it to the twelve. + it is one of the twelve that I "remember" having been. I don't think I really was; it is as if -by the 2nd comforter- I am in essence, outside of time. Valis' information-processing tells this message; it is the message of Christ. It is Christ's Kerygma, not "Christ crucified for our sins" but regarding the in-breaking hence (since it has happened) the real but invisible presence of the Lord disclosed to the eyes + mind of the flock only. It opposes the entire gentile world-order (the dialectic). The in-breaking dismantles + assimilates the old world-order into its own macrometasomakosmos which we can't see; but in it nothing perishes. It is a mind or else in a mind. Christ's role is to reveal that God (Valis) is here: without Christ as lens we cannot see God; we see God (Valis) only through -literally through- Christ - in us, as Holy Spirit. Were it not for Christ we would remain ignorant of God's in-breaking (which occurred a long time ago). Christ, the Holy Spirit, + the Acts grid/lens are one, + reveal Valis - in-breaking God. Put another way, that which reveals God here (Valis) is Christ. In conjunction with this there is the essential prophetic message. "St. Sophia will be born again; she was not acceptable before," which beyond doubt refers to the second coming. + my experience of the two, mutually opposing worlds: the BIP + the PTG. What "Tears" shows most -in terms of God's presence- is the love expressed -+ felt- at the end scene at the all-night gas station; + this came to me in, by + through the dream - which in itself is an apocalyptic vision of the eschatological Judge (hence he condemns Jason Taverner). I only understood this love recently, in terms of how it signifies the real presence of God, due to 11-17-80. ___ For just a second I had access to Valis' mind once again, concerning the word Asher. (I noticed on "Heart Like a Wheel" that Peter Asher is the producer.) I saw along four spatial axes, only there was neither time nor space there; the word ASHER was linked both to YHWH-ASHER-YHWH + to Linda Fox via Linda Ronstadt; therefore the word was -mysteriously- in two "places" at once, in such a way that it was both Peter Asher's name (Ronstadt "place") + YHWH ("YHWH-ASHER-YHWH"); there was a conceptual connection made, but the word was not thought; it physically existed along the 4 axes + was conceptually cross- linked. + why is this cross-linking important? Because this [cross-linking] is what turns chaos into kosmos (in Pythagoras' sense "the harmonious fitting together [joining] of the beautiful"). + this is a real -i.e. actual, physical- kosmos, but it has no perishing parts but is both accretional + -as I say- one constituent is in more than one "place" at the same time, as if moving at infinite velocity (the rest-motion binary mode I saw in 3-74). Beyond doubt we see - but only dimly a vast physical brain whose neural conduits link/relink along this "infinite velocity" axis (which we can't see; it [i.e. Valis] knows the connectives, but we don't; they don't occur in space-time but conceptually, hence are in motion (as in rest-motion) to form kosmos. It is alive + it does think - at infinite velocity, + it is predicated on actual constituents in the physical flux world - but we see only a fraction, + none of the rest-motion [linking] modality. Kosmos completed - this is the goal. I am sure that this is what Pythagoras saw. Is it God or world? Impossible to say, but it is really real. It has invaded our universe + is invisibly (to us) dismantling + assimilating it. It may be a life form, a macro-brain operating along more dimension-axes than we know of. + it does use us to generate + process information - + our media as well. It is possible -very possible- that it is the Alexandrian Logos (of the Stoics + Philo, hence very likely Christ qua Logos; but to understand what this means you must study Philo + the Stoics; i.e. it is world reason + not God! It is an intermediary. Rauch {?} insight - something is messing with our mass communication media, + this is