itself and it lays down new accretional layers at an incredibly rapid rate; and it retains the past as what I call phylogons. The more complex it grows the better the ratio it has twixt it and its environment, since the complexity of its environment doesn't evolve as rapidly. It uses objects as language, which is to say, information; so I say, It is an information life form. It probably has intricate subsections that assemble separately and then swim together to -7- form the one unitary organism (being unitary is its basis, which is why we can't see it; we see the plural constituents, as if seeing molecules -—many molecules— instead of one cat). It works by means of a dialectic utilizing the principle of enantiodromia, again and again, probably faster and faster — and certainly, for sure, each time involving a larger and more inclusive and complex pattern to be converted (into itself). I've worked all this out; I just don't know what to call it, besides Valis or Ubik. Just what I worked out tonight —that we still see the two constituents that it links rather than the unitary meta-constituent that goes into its metasoma— should prove this isn't just hot air I'm spouting. To see it we have to cease to see normal plurality and see one contour, one pattern, one metasoma. But we continue to see the plural constituents at our hierarchical level, not the meta-units at its higher level. When the two constituents are linked they take a quantum upward leap and become a single unitary meta-constituent, but we see no change...so its metasoma may range over the whole planet, made up of combinations of our objects and processes; it can duplicated our causation, simulate it. This is the most emancipated and profitable way to view Valis, rather than viewing it theologically (which is an obsolete model) or metaphysically (which is pragmatically useless to us) (however epistemologically true). And what are the most complex objects that it can structure into meta-units? Why, human brains. It can arrange them into endless combinations, like neural cells. -8- I say, "The basis of Valis is that it unites" (two of our plural constituents into one meta-units, while we still see the two constituents). This is because it is negentropic, and working diametrically against entropy. It is a life form that is evolving very rapidly; it’s relationship to time is totally different from ours -- i.e. its relationship to change. It does it see change as we do; for instance it remembers everything; it does not, therefore, lose the past but adds onto it. It is one quantum leap upward hierarchically in levels of reality (ontology) and invisible to us, but here...invisible because its soma consists of structure, not some substantia; so in a sense it is immaterial (although consisting of material things, but primarily using them as language/information). Of course it is negentropic; it is a life form. Damn it; can't I finally drop the theology and the metaphysics and deal in levels of homeostasis, hierarchies of organization, in such terms as complexity, evolution, assimilation, reticulation, arborization, enantiodromia, etc., and not Christ and such? Plato likewise? The Realm of Forms — that sort of stuff? It (Valis) is only in the "Realm of Forms" in that it is a quantum leap up heirarchically in terms of organization so that it is a meta-entity compared with us and our perception of reality. Our perception of reality does not include it and its metasoma. 8-26-80 The next level up of structure as a level cannot be dis¬ tinguished by us (normally); not just Valis but that entire realm. -9- It has something to do with structure by functional integration and that means juxtaposition with discreteness retained at our level; we can't read reality at this higher level (like, our level is the morphemes and its level is the sentence comprised by an aggregate of morphemes). Contour, set/ground, pattern, shape, boundary — these are the key terms. What at our level is not alive is at the next level alive or behaves as if alive (organically). It is an organism whose constituents in themselves are not alike (unlike a human being whose individual cells are alive, its "cells" are not alive). So Valis as mind controls the space-time field and causation in which these objects exist, and utilizes synchronization to produce its biological effects. This is indeed precisely a pertur¬ bation of the reality field, the objects no longer plural objects but as an aggregative composing a (i.e. one) field. Unless they exist —can and do exist— as a field such an entity as Valis would be impossible, so Newtonian physics are not employed, but, rather, some kind of very advanced quantum mechanics much of which has to do with principles of what we call synchronicity (not fully understood by us but seemingly acausal in terms of efficient —-antecedent-— cause). This explains all the latent information — synchronization due to temporary, rapid linking, which is what I call information metabolism. It (Valis) seems to try out all combinations of infor¬ mation meta-morphemes possible at enormous speed very much like an artificial thinking (computing) system. Thus in a sense it is very inefficient but very thorough. This behavior shows up, too, in the rest-motion binary mode method as if when it accepts a constituent as on (motion) it goes down the line of offs (rest) in a global search. -10- Although inefficient in contrast to the lightning leap intuitive process we humans often employ, Valis would be precisely rational because totally complete in its search of choices: all possibilities gone through mechanically; high speed, then, is a factor needed (and which it does have). It cannot be wrong because it eliminates all the wrong combinations, a sort of trial and error, trial and error, and then the selection itself. The "latent informa¬ tion," then, could well be tried and then discarded combinations: found not to be right. It scans every constituent it has at its disposal, and probably it has every constituent that exists at its disposal — connected with its world-of-the-phylons memory system which is a perfect memory system. Scans and selects, which is to say identifies (recognises), and always promoting the flux we know of as change, which is to say, time itself. It has complete power over time (i.e. change). It doesn't, in fact, exist in time at all...at least not as we do. It may scan so fast that no time elapses. In that case there is a remote possibility (but a real one) that all change that occurs within our ecosphere is the result of this choice-scanning and infinite linking in which one combination, the best one, is finally hit upon, so-to-speak "mechanically" or methodically; Valis may investigate every combination in a non-time interval --- Valis would then equal a self-governing ecosphere ruled by internal decision that would seem to us as necessity, not decision, because we did not see —could not see— the trial-anderror "global search" selection process. Now, isn't this specifically what I saw when I externally perceived Valis (in contrast to my -11- period of being fused directly with its mind)? I saw causation as volition, giving rise in my mind to the concept of Valis or Zebra; I saw causation not as causation at all, but volition which is to say choice. But when our minds were joined I may have seen the mechanics of this choice (which meant I was outside of our normal time). This somewhat recalls Leibnitz's notion of this as "The best of all possible worlds," but put on a more practical, rational basis. Valis does not scan all the nanmin choices that might exist; it scans all the choices (combinations) that do exist. This is where Spinoza's necessity enters. The choice (i.e. a given change) can only derive from what is there already; nothing is ex nihilo (I have figured out that 3-74 consisted to a very great degree in the future determining the past, 3-74 being the past, which gave the appearance of miracle; but in fact it was simply causation in the reverse temporal direction from the usual; unusual but not against the laws of physics... some kind of ultimate physics unknown to us but perhaps related to quantum mechanics). But there is more to 3-74 than causation working backward from the future to the past; there is Valis' mind itself assuming control of the situation, which I how I come to know about Valis in the first place. This is something like preemptive editing of reality, this taking control overtly (not taking control but taking control overtly). Valis must have wanted me to know of its existence and something of its nature, perhaps due to my writing UBIK. Since there is such a resemblance. I just can't get over the impression that the message is, If you ask the right questions you will be rewarded with (the right) answers. Nonetheless the past (3-74) was made to agree with the future (somewhere around 1978); that I am sure of. It seems to me that the essence of this is the "best choice" factor that I note above. Having me be alive in 1978 and giving to Covenant House is a best choice out of the possible choices, but to have it be, the past required an editing overlay or override. This was done. So Valis is not infallable; it can so-to-speak err and then reverse itself; this suggests —not God— but an intelligent but finite system (as Spinoza rightly saw, a miracles argues against the existence of God, not for). Of course I really don’t know if it was an error, but I am sure what did in fact finally (note: finally) happen was dictated by the "best of all possible choices" doctrine. The efficient causes did not lead up to nor add up to 3-74; that, too, is clear. Well, then a sort of grafting took place, from another source; the future, in view of the fact that the total past lacked the necessary ingredients; this is why it seemed to be a miracle. The totality of all that came before 3-74 did not add up to 3-74; this gave it an ex nihilo aspect, but it did have a cause; the future. That means that Valis has the future (at least what is future to us) available to it, which realization reinforces my belief that Valis is not in time as we are nor perhaps not in time at all. One thing that 3-74 was NOT was a malfunction; if anything it was a hyperfunction. A demonstration of Valis' power to cause to yield up within a situation the best possible outcome. That it was possible is proved by the fact that it did indeed happen. I can’t ignore the reason the AI voice gave: "You have been adopted (because of what you did in terms of Covenant -13- House, which in turn expressed your own idea of justice." Divine justice (theodicy), then, was involved; what happened was not capricious or a whim but lawful in the moral, karmic sense ...one could speak of Valis coming to the conclusion that, etc. Under¬ lying the power and intelligence to execute 3-74 was the adjudication of the situation, that it should occur. This is a vast self-regulator system, highly intelligent and highly rational. It may be a life form and it may be a computer (or some third thing) but one thing it for sure is is morally logical. I wonder if Valis could have been dealing with what it regarded as incompatables (within its system). My acts vis-a-vis Covenant House were incompatable with my doom in 3-74; it amounted to a logical contradition (was viewed as). In other words my acts vis-a-vis £Covenant House set up a contradiction within Valis-as-system, and this contradiction had to be reconciled. The intervention in 3-74 was this reconciliation, to cause the system to be internally consistent. It was, of