genocide. As a report on conditions here it is not fiction but it does not relate surface truths. Contemplate it & imagine it as what it is: a report - analysis - of our world sent back to the outside by someone who managed to get past "Scotland Yard" (the "Warders") & inside. It is a somber read-out & it is accurate. Consider what the appropriate response to such a report would be. Actually the report is merely a confirm, part of a precise feedback system (this is why I had to do eleven drafts, specifically of the last section). The corrective circuit itself was the two of us, Thomas & me, doing the plumbing, the analysis; that's part of its job. This explains the sacredness about Thomas; he is a microform of the corrective circuit (the Lord of Light), so in a sense the Lord himself entered this world, as Thomas who entered as me. Thus one component of the corrective circuit informs the entire circuit outside. Hence the firing of meta circuits is 3-74. Initiated by the stimulus of 2-74, the Lord himself remembers himself, disinhibited by himself, in the service of himself. This is a typical, archetypal way by which he enters a Kingdom (which has become a tyranny) in disguise. (In this case, even to himself.) He is humiliated & attacked by the [agents of] the tyrant, then draws up a bill of particulars &, as the trap closes, reveals the "hook of divinity baited with the human flesh." {circled:"21"} Holy wisdom says, "I will accompany you even down into the prison." This is what Thomas did in coming here: went down into a prison world, & holy wisdom (the AI voice) accompanied him & guided him, giving him counsel. "Valis assimilated 3 of my books" the voice told me. As soon as it assimilated "Tears" it had the feedback information it had sought when it sent Thomas here. The "overstepping" had been getting worse & worse, but it needed the "King Felix" fix to identify as a specific regression of form, to identify the nature & degree of form regression precisely. "King Felix" gave Valis (the correction circuit) precise information (& also of course accurate). You might say a specialist was necessary to determine this (ie Thomas). A "component" possessing the necessary template. This is really a technical matter: template & eidos matched. Comparison between wave form & "picture" of wave form -- the electronics/cybernetics model holds perfectly, here. This really was not a matter of interpretation or evaluation by Thomas; It did not. It did. There may have been other "components" here incorporating other, different templates which did not match; Thomas has the one which did, & notified Valis of the match. Valis would already have been aware of "overstepping" (signal degeneration) but needed a technically precise wave form-picture match (eidos-template). This conforms to the story told in "Unteleported man." Fifty possibilities at Whale's Mouth are considered to comprise all possibilities, & the [?] is sent to 1) determine which one of the fifty it is; and then 2) notify Earth - in cypher! (& it turns out to be more or less the same as "King Felix" indicates: Garrison State with forced labor. {circled:"22"} So "Unteleported" depicts Thomas' mission and why that mission is necessay. Acts tells: the church (the true apostolic Xtians) persecuted. So "Tears" certainly could be a request for help -- "King Felix" a request for correction. Which either then came or had already begun to come. Wait. The self-monitoring corrective circuit would always monitor its signal. If the signal degenerated too much 1) there would be automatic response by components reporting that degeneration had occurred; & 2) in what way precisely the signal had degenerated. Let us suppose that Thomas possessed (or was) the particular template "King Felix" or rather Acts, since "King Felix" is the ident cypher for Acts. Since the precise form reversion was to Acts (in spatio-temporal terms), Thomas was tripped (among all the monitoring components taking soundings) because Acts was his eidos template, & so he transmitted (his particular cypher), instead of one of the others transmitting. In "Unteleported Man" one spy possesses 50 cyphers. But I think in this case Thomas was one component out of X number & was tripped; the only unique thing about him was the particular template he was or has; it was activated by my unconscious recognition of what I saw. I was programmed only to recognize this one "wave form"--as indicated by the finding at Whale's Mouth. My finding ("frequency" [is?] "Garrison state" or Acts, this is why I wasn't activated prior to "Tears," ie prior to 1970. Had the signal not degenerated in that one particular way, I would not have transmitted my cypher, the golden fish sign would not have shown up; 2-3-74 would never have occurred. {circled:"23"} This realization is very exciting. It suggests that many people may contain latent templates outside of their conscious selves, & these templates get activated only if a signal degeneration (from reversion) occurs within their sight which precisely matches their {caret} specific template; if such a match occurs they perform certain actions, in response, instinctively, which generates info which gets fed to Valis the correction circuit. The fact of Person P. firing qua firing is proof to Valis that 1) signal degeneration has occurred; and 2) in precisely what fashion if it had degenerated in another fashion, Person P would not have fired but Person Q, etc. The firing of/by Person P. does not depend on any judgement or decision or evaluation (opinion) on his part. But is {caret} based on something built into him as a circuit element. He cannot fire (respond) unless what he sees matches his template -- which he doesn't even suspect he has, or that anyone has. Valis knows that Person P. cannot fire unless his template encounters an eidos match, a precise match, & then what Person P. does is totally programmed as with instinctive responses to external disinhibiting stimuli in "lower" animals. So the Golden Fish sign did not cause me to fire, but, rather, brought all this into consciousness: my job was done in writing "Tears." The Golden Fish so to speak restored my blocked memories, like a post hypnotic suggestion: "When you see X you will remember. But not until you see X." It {circled:"24"} was a case of remembering (anamnesis) not of doing anything. This part of me which had done the thing -- outside of conscious awareness -- was brought into consciousness. This is what [Hal?] wanted to achieve with sodium pentathol, so in fact sodium pentathol did act to bring it into consciousness as he had anticipated -- but the proper stimulus was also necessary, so anamnesis could never have occured by accident. We could almost speak of such a serious signal degeneration {caret} as bringing on a warning light: activating a "protection" device which fired a signal to the corrective circuit (Valis) this particular signal degeneration was not just any degeneration, & the correction which took place was a major -- in fact unique -- event in history: the most powerful man who ever lived, elected by the biggest mandate in US history, deposed along with his entire power apparatus. Nonetheless I supplied precise information to the corrective circuit, info based on my specific unconscious template, using a cypher supplied me in an extraordinary dream. This part -- the dream -- must never be overlooked. This is a major source of verification for this entire line of thinking. Voice: "Valis [as corrective circuit] cut in." So its an added circuit (& added info or signal?) what K. W. calls "the missing other stereo channel with the rest of the info?" No; cut in, not along with. Cut in means cut in not [illegible] {circled:"25"} implies interruption of dialectic signal. or: a circuit, previously off, not active, broke into. Yes; as I noted long ago, Valis invaded; ie cut in. This might be like an interruption of the dialectic. of its logical efficient-cause progression? "Cut in" doesn't mean "added to" [the signal] but replaced. Yes, that's it. Valis cut in replacing the efficient cause dialectic. For how long I don't know. Yes, this fits the mimickry! Valis replaced ("transsubstantiated") objects & causal processes: it looked like them but (as in "Colony") it was Valis imitating them. Taking their place and hence behaving differently. This is a major thought. This agrees with a basic perception I had of Valis, this replacing (with itself). In a sense it replaced me (with Thomas), so it can "cut in" as/with even humans. Like Jory cutting in when Runciter was talking to Ella. Signal from source A cut into & replaced by signal from source B -- only in this case we don't know, due to the mimickry this is an invasion! It's cutting in to replace something bad, not something good. Taking its place. Hence the "False work" removed, as I saw in 3-74. It's different (or there would be no point in cutting in). The "False work" was replaced by {circled:"26"} something mimicking it, but [somewhat and crucially] different, so as to alter reality [in my model the signal restored to correct shape]. This must be how it corrects the degenerated signal. By invading (cutting in) & replacing sections of reality with itself. It can impinge on our percept systems so that we see an unchanged reality; it may work directly on our minds. Then he is here. It's all just signal anyhow. He has invaded a closed system (from without) because that closed system is running down (entropy); nothing new is coming into it; thus, in Jung's analysis, it is psychotic -- as I say in "Valis"! Newness not generated by the efficient cause dialectic must be periodically fed into this closed system. The BIP is the image of stagnation. Blowing it up equals introducing something new from outside the closed system -- ie Valis invading. Or, as in "Ubik" it regresses back along the form axis. Valis is to us as Ubik is to those in half-life: negentropic & "breaking through one-way, from the other side" -- ie outside. Exactly like the situation in Ubik, where they're headed into entropy, so Ubik breaks in. That's it -- in "Ubik"; that's the model! The dialectic falls inevitably into entropy -- the BIP "Ubik" is the most important book written since "Timaeus". {circled:"27"} This is what Valis did for me in 3-74; my dialectic had run down (out) and it (Valis) added the adventitious new. This is what is meant by "birth from the spirit" or "born again." I was a closed system running down. "Astral determinism" & "Fate" designate the inexerorable outcome of a closed system. This is why I became not-I. Without Valis (Ubik) there is, literally, regression along a form axis, exactly as in "Ubik." This is true of individuals (eg [...?]) and societies (eg USA 1974). (& me in 1974). So perhaps we should speak of signal decay as well as distortion. Feedback is needed: Valis, eg, fed me back 3 of my own books, and much else. Signal strengthening resulted, and a motion forward. So I (!) did die in 3-74, but was reborn: "in God we are created; in Christ we die; in the Holy Spirit we live again"! And the congealed old fights the new (as in "American Hot Wax")! It correctly sees it as an invader, but regards it as friend. (This is how it viewed my writing and me.) So via my template I detected signal decay, and notified Valis via "Tears." Or rather I identified the precise nature of the form reversion. Just as Ubik energizes them, so Valis energizes us with the ex nihilo new. Valis is conscious energy (living info). Cuts in and boosts the signal back into integrity -- ie motion forward. So there is a factor of heat loss in the dialectic's flip-flops: a principle of