If substance A disappeared and was replaced by substance B, then it would be correct to deduce that time had passed, but in fact A and B are two ways that one thing looks. So it is a false deduction that time has passed, because in point of fact there has been no change; the same thing is still there. This is what the AI voice was trying to convey to me. The difference is between B replacing A, and the same thing looking different, which does not involve the passage of time. But the sentence seems to suggest deception. He (whoever "he" is) wants us to think time has passed. I was thinking about this last night. Time dilation. Was this part of the quantum leap my brain made in 2-74? Did I abstract Acts AD 45 and USA 1974 and see a common substance --so that Acts AD 45 and USA 1974 were actually identical, but simply looked different-- and this meant (besides that there is a Form world beyond the world of appearances) that time is irreal, or rather the passage of time is irreal? That in fact we are being deceived? And I saw, literally saw, through the deception? Because otherwise Acts AD45 and USA 1974 couldn't be made to superimpose, coincide, meld, comingle? I've thought about this for over six years, the possibility of deception; that was my brute, crude, original thought: "It is still really AD 45! I can see it!" Recently my Platonist reasoning shows that at least in the Platonist metaphysical sense this is so. But the Platonist appeal to the Form world does not imply deception. Is this the "secret stolen"? I would then be returned to Christianity and would have to preach that the Lie rules us; the Parousia is the issue, here, and this {folder 01 - 054} 10-20-80 6 fits in with the prophecies by the AI voice and the dream in TEARS. Is the real world trying to break through to us? Are we like the people in UBIK? By means of time dilation, by means of causing things to look different, we have been persuaded that the Parousia did not come as/when promised -- the amazing power of the Lie. Perhaps a "spurious interpolation" into God's creation is involved. Then my Platonist solution is thrown back once more to Christianity. In 2-74 when I saw the golden fish sign I didn't remember that at one time (formerly, in a previous life) I had been a secret Christian; no -- Rome existed now, and that personality existed now. Rome was now and Rome was here, and it was AD 45 (approximately), even though I could still also see USA 1974. I wrote in my notes last night that everything in this realm (number 4) is seen backward or that it pretends; nothing seems to be what it really is. I spoke of one enantiodromia engineered by God or Christ, one after another, again and again, moving toward the great final reversal when everything reversed and we saw world as it is and not backward, not as it pretends to be. It is perhaps like the situation in EYE. Dimly beyond the irreal world the ghostly outline of the real world can be discerned. And it seems nearly frozen, due to our subjective time dilation. How does this fit in with the continual reticulation and arborizing of the phylogons? Why, because the phylogons are constants. There is no real change in what I call the meta-soma; reticulation and arborizing are not changes but merely articulation of what is already there. These are ramifications of constants, and "constants" signifies unchange. Except for the reticulation and arborizing, the meta-soma is static. It is like Parmenides' perfect sphere. And the dialectic --which produces the process of reticulation and arborizing-- is the antithetical combat between the Wise Mind that knows a priori, and the dark counterplayer who controls the "is," has all the power, but knows only empirically; this would be Christ and Satan trading blows. (None of this is found in Plato.) Reticulation and arborizing could be considered "looking different," not substantial change. The meta-soma is the true reality and it is frozen; I saw it. Yes, it constantly looks different, due to the reticulation and arborizing. But is this change? Does time actually pass? {folder 01 - 055} 10-20-80 7 Is what I took to be Plato's Form world of the eternal, then, actually the real world? And the real world is frozen -- in relation to us, that is; due to time dilation (for us). In other words I saw the world as it is (this doesn't posit a hierarchical order of realms ala Plotinus), and it is frozen in contrast to the flux that we see, the flux that is not substantial change but only "looking different." Yes, if we are in a time dilation state where only seeming change takes place and no actual time passes, if we got a glimpse of the real world it would seem frozen, like a freeze frame. And it might easily be mistaken for Plato's form world --except that the flux world would feed into it, rather than it (the Form world) acting as archetype to image, as Plato describes! Because the relation between the two realms is not as Plato's schema calls for. Which is why there is this one crucial thing revealed to me that not only is different from Platonist metaphysics but is in fact a reversal of it. Shit; it's what I call "the eleventh datum" again. If I saw our world, the flux world, feeding into the eternal world, rather than the eternal world acting as archetype to image --then I haven't seen the Platonist schema at all. Enantiodromia has hit me in my thinking. Wham. What we experience (suppose to be) as linear time is actually only reticulation and arborizing of frozen constants; like during an acid trip time will stop and what you see reticulates and arborizes, although no time passes. Details are filled in totally. Then the meta-soma -- why, then the whole "second signal" and "set/ground" -- I was seeing the real world, not a meta-world or a postmortem world, but the plain old simple everyday world as viewed from the standpoint of titanic time-dilation! Hence the dialectic is here, in what I call realm 4, but not in realm 3 or 2 or 1. I saw the real world minus the element of change; and it resembles Pythagoras' kosmos ... which is natural. In relationship to us it --the ordinary everyday world-- is frozen. And the cosmic adversaries fight it out, and every game adds reticulation and arborization to the real world ... then what is Valis? I figured out that Valis has invaded our world and is camouflaged here invisible to us. Isn't Valis then Christ? Here in our spurious world of fake change, where the dialectic is active? Between him and Satan? "The secret stolen, through the angels, in one's hands." {folder 01 - 056} 10-20-80 8 I have continually asked, "Where is this reticulated arborizing meta-soma?" well, it's the real world. And where are we? In a subrealm of some kind; UBIK is the paradigm. Or MAZE. Or EYE. All of my ten meta-novels. And Varley's story. Consider the time dilation in that! Well, it's also in EYE, so I thought of it first. still ... Then the eidos (Form) the Black Iron Prison -- why, TEARS simply states the case; the BIP appears to be an eternal form because in relation to us real time has stopped at that point. At the point where, in Acts, the Christians attack Rome. But I am right that Acts AD 45 and USA 1974 are two accident matrices based on a common essence; but that common essence is the real world, which in itself is not frozen in time; it's just frozen in relation to us, as if we'd all taken a huge huge hit of super LSD. So the sight of the Christian fish sign awoke me out of my sleep. I remembered being Thomas. And I was afraid of the Romans; I had to conceal the fact that I'm a Christian. I, as Thomas, was at that time still living in Rome under the eyes of the Romans who were the enemy. And who had all the power. But gradually my identity as Phil Dick returned; USA 1975 returned; I forgot; I again slept. "He causes ... " Simon Magus? Belial? Satan? Ahriman? Then the Parousia has probably come. No; as Thomas I knew that Jesus had just died and was about to return. But now the AI voice says: "The time you've waited for has come. The work is complete. The final world is here. He has been transplanted and is alive." So now the Parousia has come! This is the announcement of the parousia! But we see nothing; we sleep. Of course I kept saying, "I am no longer blind!" This was literally so! We literally are blind to the real world; we see it not. When I said, "I was blind" I meant just that. The phosphene firing. My sight was returning. My eyesight. We're under a spell. This is no information virus; this is blindness. Exactly as in EYE; private worlds. Idios kosmos. Shit! Shit! Shit! It's the work of a magician. The "Form world" is simply the real world. The AI voice speaks the truth ... from far off. Like a distant radio transmitter. Contact with the real world, as in UBIK!!! And Valis equals Ubik, as I've long realized. And Ubik equals Christ; this is clear from the final chapter intro. {folder 01 - 057} 10-20-80 9 Now consider STIGMATA -- which was based on my actually seeing that visage in the sky as the cosmic lord of this world. The master magician, identified with YHWH, whose world isn't real at all; shades of Gnosticism! Is this the real basis of Gnostic acosmism, the presence of the Palmer Eldritch magician-figure and his irreal world that replaces the real one? The master magician of STIGMATA and his irreal hallucinogenic worlds; the messages in UBIK getting through to you from the real world; the polyencephalic fusion of MAZE; the mockup at a different time in JOINT; the private worlds of EYE; the Acts material in TEARS, and the forced labor camps -- and you add the stories such as "Faith of ... " The .618034 doorway. Was that to the real world? It seemed to show ancient Greece on the far side; i.e. the actual present. The Greco-Roman Mediterranian world. My last glimpse as it moved away; no: as I fell back into this subrealm of hyperflux. So this is Satan's world (as in VALIS) and Christ/Valis/YHWH invades it. This is why realm #3 is exploded through thousands of years of our time. Realm #3 is the real world. So a message there that is intact is exploded here through thousands of our dilated time years. Like the meta-morpheme in TEARS -- one morpheme in a message. I see. A message is transmitted from the real world (realm #3) to our world. In realm #3 the real world it takes a minute. Here, it spans 2000 years. Look at the communications problem. Whole civilizations rise and fall while they --in realm #3-- transmit one message to us. The message is exploded over the span of two thousand of our years so although they're aware of us, how can they communicate with us? This is dealt with in Varley's story. But incorrectly! They'd have to speed up a message so that the total message was transmitted in a billionth of a second by their real elapsed time. Maybe that's how the AI voice works. All its messages to me were transmitted in a single billionth of a second and arrive spread out over years. Now I'm getting fanciful. But still -- They would try to