inner + on tape because it is repeated outer, + it is t + irreal The only persons who B 121) out of this are those whom Christ becomes: This is the new ad hoc self living beyond The sharply defined death point on the tape. Christ is authentic - i.e. living - self injected into a simulation, a program being run. (Newness ex nihilo.) I gather that the program (s?) is/are being run again + again with the introduction of the newness we call "Christ. upon the newness past the sharplly defined death point the ABC model comes t to an end. But C is replaced by some two thing - someone - better: the Paraclete. psychoi are involved, + one is beyond the grave in the next world or upper realm which means outside of time + hence knows all, + so world c is like some vast information center. in its matrix state as recorded information.) B, having lived + died + being returned for a rerun - when anamnesis occurs he views This world from the vantage point of the next, so it (this world) assumes the aspect of an ancient black Iron prison (to which has returned) superimposed onto his unen‐ he lightened "not born again" perception of it. it is the past + the present simultaneously since it really is his past, to which he has been sent back: these are antecedent memories This world. He recognizes it for what it is: something from his distant past. Yes, this what it literally is, right here around him now is distant past - as well as his simulated esent. But this pastness has paradoxically ow come to its end: all which lite 222) is genuinely new, non-deterministic + new. Hence the Xtian arcana is filled with mysterious terms like, "born again." "Christ died for you (this refers to the sharply defined moment when the simulation reaches both its end + its climax + death - the occurs; but Christ dies for you original person dying + leaving the world + paradoxically resurrected in/as you. So that death is overcome (in a sense It is time which is overcome; one escapes from the taped time). What dies is the "old man" or "Adam" who simultaneosly is Christ who has descended to become this "old man," who is mortal. The mysterious term "sin" + "the sting of death is since may refer to the error originally committed at the sharply defined point where the person missed the mark + took a wrong what s term - thanatous - now rectified t must be realized is that the rectification is not of an event which is occurring or might occur but which did occur. simply put, Christ dies for you, + you are replaced by a new self which has no past + authentic life begins for the first time, everything before was just a simulation: two synchronized tapes. you know, this whole thing resembles a program being run in which the element of free will plays no role. At least, not until the harply defined point arrives. This is the Pythagorean "Y. Everything up to it is in 22) its coming about, as if there is this one key proving crisis, for which everything prior was sequences of lessons learned for preparatory. teleological purposes: for this moment, now subliminal but either learned or not learned, like training given a soldier for combat. then at the proving moment, these systems either cut in + world effectively or they do not. They recognize their goal (purpose for existing). It is now a matter of "instinct" (sub‐ cortical learned response - not conscious. meta-conscious, as with Zen. A higher center than the ego. Functionally, everything prior to this moment (of action) is a simulative, like simulated battle conditions (this is very Zoroastrian). The person didn't plan it, foresee it; the wise mind did. This has to posit a wise mind: Valis or Ubik. Events, experiences, painful ones which make no sense at the time, are for this purpose of the wise mind. 4:15 am realization: the diploid two s ton t i psychoi brain "mutant" I've depicted very strongly resembles the "doublethink: type of advanced CP mind Occorwell describes (Hegelian dialectic, etc, relativity of truth. + the "advance memory traces" laid down are mainly in "Faith of" which deals with the OCCP. circuits programmed to time at a certain time + situation involving ostensible OCCP letter (contact). Doublethink personality disclosed who Acts politically to over throw the us Gov. + it was "Faith of" which got me into trouble with us G-2 look what this might imply about "Scan er." Free -- cop = KGB. with "Tears" supplying he Soviet society BG (Buckman.) The Xtian con as the true CP shows up as Mcfyfe in "Eyed This is beyond the l iber eft as 24 i represented by Marsha: seeming CP but truly not. Mefyfe = Buckman = Fred? 3-74 disclosed to me (sic) a second brain which processed information (i.e. it thought) dif‐ ferently from me, had its own personality + memories + could take motor control away from me; +, subsequently, I could pick up its conclusions (thoughts), so it is still there. In conjunction with me it + I can hold two mutually exclusive propositions simultaneously, with the result that there is no real "truth" for it in most matters but rather a selection on the basis of preference so that belief becomes subject to voluntary control. some kind of infinite oscillation of ideational con‐ a dialectic - is thus generated, which seems tent to synchronize the aggregate thinking + perceptions of these two brains into a macro, external dialectic process which may be the actual nature of reality (Cf Heisenbery + the observer-participant universe). as a totality it therefore has no ideology, no system of beliefs or worldview but selects what it wants (although in its earlier formative stages its will, or ability to act, is paralyzed, in sharp contrast to linear thinkers who "know what is true). now, if the above is so, you would expect it to show up in my writing, + this turns out to be exactly the case (as Spinrad discusses); there is no reality but only a multiplicity of subjective projected worlds, an epistemological reletavism. 3-74 discloses so much about this other mind as being independent + complete in every way, even capable of complex actions on its own (problem solving). Its life is not a vestigial one. Where The value of having these two minds comes in is when certain knowledge is unavailable, a So one truth out of alternates can't be known a at this point the linear mind falls back 27 i on its own (autogenerated) belief system as a substitute for knowledge about the outside world. Here it is no longer relating to reality. This is a common -even ubiquitous - situation; its I ideology becomes its basis for action, untestable ideology which only reflects it + imprisons it. However, it believes that it knows. It lacks the self-correcting dialectic which dismisses each + every proposition by entertaining its opposite, its antithesis. So the linear mind becomes progressively more ossified, after an initial period of growth; it freezes over (equal to mental death; it dies mentally long before it dies biologically, the latter life outlasting the former). except for 3-74 I would have no idea that a distinct separate second mind existed in my brain (by which the above is accomplished). + that in extreme instances my psyche can be pre‐ empted by it. The biological utility of this system can be seen in this unusual situation, + also although less well) in its normal binary manner c of functioning. If the dialectical philosophers' view of reality as a yin/Yang process is correct, the utility of this binary mind is enormous, one could say that the mono linear mind does not apprehend reality as it is at all, but exists in a prison of its own accretional belief system (dogma), with its freedom of choice insidiously + progressively more + more encroached on. In fact in a very real sense it is not locked into reality at all, + only was briefly before its belief system came into being. It now dwells in a pseudo world of its own hypostases. But the binary mind instantly dissolves its own hypostases as fast as they are formed. The binary mind is characterized by 1) know‐ that it does not know; but 2) being able to select among the partial systems + as an act of will make the ones it chooses "true. 820 PKD "Thomas" PKD center of con‐ center of Christ s sciousness a I conscious ness sies lives This creates a very perplexing condition. One is alive, but one has died. One is alive but he is a different person (personality). Meanwhile, having died - + being yet alive - he dwells in two realms at the same time, one of them post mortem with vast spaces. He senses the presence of God. There are two signals making up world, not one. He seems to be Christ but he is not. He hears an inner voice of another byche which is Christ. He + it are in some kind of symbiosis. Christ is moving more + more into the next world carrying one's old self with/as him. one is losing his old self. What has happened is that at the hour of the person's determined (fated) death, Christ has replaced him by becoming him, + accepts the fatal blow in his place as him; Christ has become the center of consciousness for that "once born" personality, + perishes, whereupon the person is born again ex nihilo (although there is a period of short duration in which Christ - + - the - old-personality + he-as-new-person dwell side by side in the brain, in a para-relationship, which is very perplexing an experience to him. Someone else is in his brain, more powerful than he, + in control of motor centers. This s occurs during the death "hour." Then the one psyche duly dies, in accord with ananke, but it is Christ who dies voluntarily as surrogate lamb, taking the old personality with him. at the moment of [Christ's) death the world Meltes" in a fabulous way, taking on the life of Christ in macroform. This is the resurrected Christ, now cosmic. (It resembles Ubik; it is he s, everywhere.) Meanwhile the person, who is renewed lies on past his fated moment of death. Astral Paul calls determinism, what "the old law or "planetary powers" has) have been chea to a 27) 2 victim due to the surrogative divine interven of God (Christ); again they fell for the "hook of divinity hidden in the bait of humanity." they cannot keep Christ their own creator, + release him, so he is inevitably resurrected once more + they have lost. This is the mechanism by which Xtianity successfully accomplishes what all the Greco Roman mystery religions sought for + promised: the escape by the initiate from "astral determinism" or untimely death. (It's probably a death strip in The DNA programmed into us. It probably has a bio f hemical clock basis.) In a sense Christ can be conceived of as a super surgeon or doctor attacking (so to speak) the death strip by absorbing its firings himself. At the time the death strip in the DNA is activated, there are two psychoi in the brain side by side one having entered adventitiously, + the strip being tropic to the old or historical of the two psychoi kills it + not the other - where the center consciousness (the soul?) is now located, having of been laterally transferred deftly almost (?) by a sort of advanced technology. The new psyche is exempt from the power of the death strip. Gradually the new psyche accomodates to the brain + memories of the