has set clues in his own path to trigger off his true memory and powers. Then we will find ourselves judged for the way we treated him, as told in the N.T. He who was our victim, our object, will be our judge. In 3-74 I sat down on the judgment seat, when I remembered. And what about those who set the trap for me in 3-74, the trap that went back to the raid on my house on 11/17/71? Beware when you set out a trap; you may trap Dionysos, the patron God of small trapped animals. folder 21 - page 1 folder 21 - page 1 My radical epistemological structure discloses the magnitude of the task the Holy Spirit performs for us; it is nothing less than the lifting of an irreal world imposed on us without our being aware of it; abolishing a severe + unrecognized occlusion which lies within us (as analog of the spurious world); he breaks the power of the master magician who imposes the delusional world on us, + the unrecognized occlusion in us; he reveals the actual world; he reveals the macrobrain (God) to us; he reveals our nature; that of microisomorphism of the Parousia; that the ostensibly long-term space, time + world we've been locked into is nonexistent; he brings back our true memories + hence true identities; he shows us the Cosmic Christ reuniting the falling lower realm, operating by mere mechanical laws, to the sentient upper realm into one thinking volitional cosmos once more; he unveils the literal, actual nature of salvation [Note] (which is now unknown to us); he reveals our historic destiny; he gives us understanding of our original nature restored by Christ in us + as us [Note2], + his own identity as Christ, + the identity of us all as God. [Note] Freedom from synchronized two tape inner-outer determinism which reduces us to the level of reflex machines - which Christ breaks. [Note2] He causes us to understand how the vicarious sacrifice acts to exculpate us - how + from what (i.e. our fallen nature is comprehended, + our original nature in contrast). folder 21 - page 2 folder 21 - page 2 We become aware that despite all of Christ's admonitions we ceased to watch + fell asleep; we are asleep now. Only the Holy Spirit can rouse us from this sleep: we hear Christ calling through his (the Spirit's) activity in us. The Holy Spirit bonds in syzygy (or symbiosis) with us + we there are born from above - a second birth into what I call a homoplasmate, an entity which is part of human + part spirit, a new life form of which Jesus was the first in history. This is in microform an analog of the reuniting of the lower + upper realms into one sentient volitional cosmos-organism. The fallen human is without true volition; he is controlled by what Paul called the planery powers, which is some kind of two-track inner-outer determinism which reduces us to mere reflex machines. We are enslaved machines in an irreal world; we suffer from a pervasive perceptual + cognitive occlusion which we are not even aware of; even our memories (+ hence identities) are spurious. 1) Irreal world (which we wrongly take to be real) 2) Fake time + place (ontological categories) 3) Pervasive occlusion (which we're unaware of) 4) Determined by mechanical control into reflex machines (totally enslaved) 5) Spurious memory + identity (loss of true self) 6) Unable to see what really does exist (loss of real world + God) folder 21 - page 3 folder 21 - page 3 I now see our fallen state as consisting of four basic deformations: 1) Irreal world which we accept as real. This cuts us off from the truly real world. 2) Perceptual occlusion which prevents us from accurate reality-testing, so that we ourselves reinforce the convincingness of the irreal world. 3) Pervasive deterministic enslavement which reduces us to the level of reflex machines lacking true volition. We are totally unaware of this. 4) Amnesia which cuts us off from our true memory-systems which in turn robs us of our authentic identities. Notice that in all four cases the false has replaced the authentic. What we see is false. How we perceive it is impaired. Choice is only seeming; i.e. freedom is an illusion. And we are not who + what we imagine ourselves to be; our true nature has been taken away + replaced by a spurious one. The key term is inauthentic. It is as if one evil is operating in four ways. + in all four ways areas we are totally oblivious to the deformity. 1) We never question the reality of the world (+ its time + space) that we experience. 2) We have no insight regarding our occlusion. We have no idea that we are occluded. 3) The "astral determinism" which enslaves us operates totally outside of our awareness. 4) It never occurs to us that we have false memories + hence counterfeit identities. In summation, no aspect of the problem impinges on our consciousness. Why? Well, if you examine folder 21 - page 4 these four areas you discover that they interlock + are self-perpetuating + -reinforcing. What the four areas of deformity add up to is control. Control of us from outside. 1) Something generates the irreal world with its fake time + space. 2) Something occludes us, + in a manner which bars us from monitoring the occlusion. 3) Something so curtails our volition that we are unable to get a standpoint to challenge the above two. 4) Something insures that any incongruity which would give the irrealities away is not only not noticed, but if noticed, forgotten. Only when all four deformities are removed -only afterwards- can we then see that they were present in the first place. Thus the concept of "salvation" remains meaningless to us until after we are saved (i.e. the four deformities removed + our whole, genuine or healthy nature restored). There is nothing in our fallen state which discloses that state. Hence, I say, we cannot rescue ourselves or extricate ourselves; it must be done by a totally adventitious savior. Put another way, the fallen state, by its very nature, insures its own self-perpetuation. I do not think this is accidental. We are in the grip of something calculated. I deduce from the perfect + total interlocking of these four basic deformities a deliberate controlling power. We somehow have become absolute victims of it - except that there is also a salvitic power at work, which the deformity prevents us from perceiving. So to us, not only is the four-fold deformity a folder 21 - page 5 folder 21 - page 5 metaphysical proposition, but so is the salvitic entity, upon whom we are totally dependent for extrication. The deformity in its four aspects cuts us off from it completely. For instance, there is no way I can demonstrate to anyone what I experienced in 2-3/74. No proof that (1) we are in a fallen condition + desperately need salvation or (2) that that salvation exists - + what it would achieve - can be given. Everything depends on the initiation of God, a God whom we cannot perceive, due to the four-fold deformity. Therefore, who is saved (+ by logical extension, who not) depends totally on God. Is this an argument for predestination? It certainly is an argument for the essential need of grace in regard to salvation. As to predestination - I was told by Christ himself that we are doomed either to be saved or doomed not to be, which is to say, He chooses (selects out) whom He will. There is no evidence that merit on our parts is involved (at least on any scale we know of). I have reason to believe that He is choosing a Little Flock; as the Good Shepard He knows His own sheep + they know him, know his voice: they hear it + know it. The other night He told me that he had called me [indeed] + called me, then, by name - "Philip". Well, - amen. Because as a child I felt compassion for a beetle I had been tormenting + ceased to torment it. But He caused me to feel that compassion, that agape. Again, the initiative was His. He wanted to save me! That's it. folder 21 - page 6 folder 21 - page 6 He wishes to save us but there is some kind of theodicy involved which we don't understand - as with Osiris + Ma'at, + with Ormazd. Certain things must occur in sequence. There is structure + order involved, +, especially, a plan (or Logos). Normally conceived of as yoked to a sterile + formal moralism, this plan gets reduced in our minds to the level of our own legalisms. A better model is that of the great artificer who makes the best possible use of us as "materials". An intricate ladder of teaching, shaping, choosing, etc. seems to me involved, a sort of path with a near infinitude of possible branchings. A dialectical interaction between God + Man takes place at each step: God presents, Man studies + selects; + then the next step follows. These are like (but only like) vast accretional causal or Karmic chains stretching over thousands of years, a maturation process. This makes me think of the Great Branching Vine I saw under nitrous oxide, by means of which I understood so well. __ The more I contemplate this 4-pronged deformation the more the coherency, the logic, impresses me. 1) If an irreal world is to pass muster, a perceptual occlusion would be necessary - or else there would be visible external breakdowns: failures. 2) For the occlusion to be effective it would folder 21 - page 7 folder 21 - page 7 have to be of such a pervasive nature as to block self-monitoring (v. "Scanner") i.e. block perception of its existence. 3) To insure the stability of these two interlocking deformations, some kind of limiting, a stricture on freedom, on open choice, would be needed; otherwise the occlusion might be accidentally aborted, which would then disclose the primary irreality: that of world. 4) Interference (tampering with, blocking) memory would insure the stricture's functioning outside of awareness. All of these deformities would have to function outside of awareness. Now, what is the weak link? If one falls all fall. If memory is restored (anamnesis) the restorative process would begin to self-generate: gain momentum. In my case, (4) went (or came) first. I remembered that (1) -i.e. world- wasn't so (true or real). Within a month (3) -the stricture- got out of synch, + at once (2) -the occlusion- went. So these are four aspects of a primary debasement distributed over all needed crucial areas; they stand or fall together. This just cannot be an accidental structure. What it consists of is a totally consistent self-perpetuating deception the upshot of which is that the person is a mere object that (1) sees what he is programmed to see; (2) does what he is programmed to do; (3) believes what he is programmed to believe; + (4) is what he is programmed to be. But there is every reason to believe that (1) it was not always so; + (2) it is unnatural. folder 21 - 010 folder 21 - 010 Who gains by this? What is the pay off, + to whom? I see at once. Growth is absolutely halted. Time itself is stopped. "Nothing new ever again came into his mind after that" - Jung's definition of psychosis. It is like a world or cosmic psychosis. + that which specifically is blocked is the return of the rightful king + the establishment of the Just Kingdom. At the critical moment in history, just after the resurrected Christ departs this world + the Holy Spirit