can only detect our public [info] media : a MS would be too ephemeral to be visible to it. A MS is not transmitted in space-time! (remember, Valis folder 49 - 033 folder 49 - 033 time as a spacial (depth) (accretional form) axis. So "Tears" didn't enter this axis until it was published. Finding the "cookie" material in "Tears," Valis knew it had successfully contacted me ( I had transducer, receiver & transducer from it) so it amped up its efforts to maximum, & voila : I could see the cypher. Sequence "Ubik" is published. Valis absorbs it, figures I'm aware of it i.e. of Valis. So Valis fires specific info to me (which is a complex _one-way_ info transfer between two organisms operating at totally different time rates). Sure enough the info shows up in "Tears" : viz : 1) Valis fires info at me one way 2) I receive info & put it in "Tears" 1970 3) "Tears" is published 1974 4) Valis finds the info. knows I received its one-way transmission. This is my feedback back to Valis. 5) Valis responds to _my_ feedback ("Tears") by instilling itself temporarily in me, a complex process. I now know of its existence & we are in _two_-way info-transfer : i.e. dialog, a typescript MS is "idios" to Valis; it can't see it. It can only see long-term "Koine" info. What I called "phylogenic memory & self was my being put on its time scale. Valis can move back & forward along the temporal axis as we do through space. It is all now, but distributes as are objects in space are to us. (they don't occupy the same space). folder 49 - 034 folder 49 - 034 Valis doesn't have a one-locus lens system perception of reality: Valis is ubique, & so when an objects flops from rest to move, it hasn't moved in space (for Valis there is no here vs there) But has ceased to exist - in time, seen by Valis as spacial depth. _Our_ 3 dimensions of space are seen as pattern arrangement : an Omni-present is. So the only motion is along the 4th spacial axis : time : viz coming into being (whereupon the object is at rest, & passing out of being (motion); also accretional laminations are laid down on the object as it undergoes changes - the form axis of "Ubik"! "Earlier" is seen as beneath; "Later" as above, like records stacked on a spindle. Valis uses the rest-motion binary system to think with. During the entire lifetime of an object, Valis can see it, but when it passes out of existence it suddenly _moves_; yet it still exists for Valis because Valis retains the past as lower levels in space, wherein the object is at rest. So the only motion that Valis sees is when something comes into existence & passes out of existence. Otherwise-speaking, when an object is moved in _our_ 3-D space, it is stationary to Valis, since Valis is not stationed in one spacial locus : one spot here, vs all the "theres." Motion in the 3 spacial axes are stationary permutations of arrangement in which there is no motion. as folder 49 - 035 folder 49 - 035 we watch a stationary object change, like a cooking pie or a burning candle. All reality to Valis is a stationary single pattern that per mutates like a baking pie : but when a part moves, it has ceased to exist in what to us is time. So it sees time as motion, & spacial "motion" as stationary permutations, since Valis is ubique (viz : if I were everywhere I'd see no motion, but I would see change. this is evident. what is not evident is that when an object ceases to exist in time. for an omnipresent entity it would for the first & only time move!) So when an object moves in space - as _all_ objects in the reality field move about in space - Valis sees change but not motion. Things come into existence & pass away in time, not space. But since Valis scans time as we scan space, the object moves at its inception & moves at its demise, but still exists, along its "stationary" accretional layers; it just doesn't move. So there is ceaseless motion as Valis' world, as there is in ours, but it consists of just motion qua motion ; the object doesn't go anywhere; it just becomes so-to-speak activated. It is placed-in or removed, so Valis' world is anything but static. It must resemble the phosphene Flashcut permutations of a stationary pattern, displaying certain constants amid the Flux-Flicker. The shorter-lived an object the more it moves - long-lived objects appear stationary. (even though they move in our space). The Bible would be folder 49 - 036 really stationary. Valis could clearly see it would hold still throughout the motion of objects coming into existence & passing away. Valis would see all copies & editions & translations of a given book as a single object, stationary for as long as copies existed. Hypnagogic revelation : To participate in Valis' mind at any one point in time would be to always have known Valis back through time, because this is how Valis experiences time. So I wrote about Valis for years before the actual encounter took place in time. In particular "Ubik," but "echoes" of it show up as early as "Joint." This revelation is absolute, itself derives from Valis' mind! Because there would be future echoes : _after_ the fusion with Valis : post-fusion reception of Valis' thinking _&_ perception of world. Hence I write about events _before_ I experience them! It's derived from my 3-74 fusion with Valis. This fusion in 3-74 _changed my past_; hence my sense - quite accurate - of a retroactive time dysfunction. I may have willed the retroaction time dysfunction myself, during my fusion with Valis. Hence the "taco stand" time warp in '71 in which I was in Fullerton in '74! Now I understand it - in '74 (3-74) & deliberately altered the tragic period 1970-1972. folder 49 - 037 folder 49 - 037 Since Valis fused with me due to something I did in '70 (write "Tears") _not_ something I did in "74 (when the fusion occurred) it is possible that originally I typed up & sent off "Tears" - & it was published - while I remained in Vancouver, not having gone to Orange County. But I amped time retroactively & went to Orange County instead; Thomas, then, was me as I would have been - was - in '74 had I stayed on in Canada. But I linked up all the way back to '71 to program myself to decide to leave Canada in 4-72 & fly down to Orange County. The "taco stand" link up worked in me subliminally, in as much as I had (while in Canada) already been in Fullerton & _liked_ it (I _liked_ "Mexico" - the taco stand experience). It caused me to become tropic vis-à-vis "Mexico" i.e. the South Land. Hence the different me, Thomas, who had been driving a different car & drank beer - English beer in Canada. a much more hard-boiled, shrewder, more energetic me. Valis is not outside our reality system. Its memories go back to Egyptian Crete & then to the stars. It is here. It is a macro-life form. It has invaded our world (planet) & is camouflaged in it. Okay, this retroactive echoing of the 3-74 fusion with Valis explains why Valis itself _&_ its perception of world resembles my earlier writing; Valis isn't mimicking my writing, then. folder 49 - 038 folder 49 - 038 Valis is in the midst of what for it is a vast single permutating pattern (1) the only motion in it being along our time axis. Valis sees it as a high speed change system that Valis systematically selects parts from, which it incorporates into itself. 1) No, it is not a pattern - Valis sees _itself_ as pattern, since all its constituents are subordinated to a central control, but it sees the rest of reality as a chaotic stockpile which is static along the (our) 3 spacial axes in terms of motion; objects evolve along a form axis, as in "Ubik." Thus they are discrete & available for Valis' use. Since Valis is everywhere it does not have to move an object to incorporate it into itself. This is a higher info system preying off an older lower one; this is the cause of the cooking & the modulating & the riding that I saw : the investing of our Ground by Valis' set. The older system must deal with situations by the Book - i.e. there are no unique situations, but only designated classes into which every situation must fall : in one class or another, so basically it sorts & classifies, & operates reflexively upon having made its sole Judgment, which is merely one of identifying which category a situation falls into of the totality of already known classifications. This is specifically what we think of as a machine intelligence. Okay, it has a solution for every problem that will ever occur, but these are formula solutions; the answer is known in advance . It is a good system, as far as it goes, it supplies endless information, but it regulates punitively, since everyone strays from the Law everyone is directed, like salmon, to doom. folder 49 - 039 folder 49 - 039 Valis must have control over much of reality in order to do the Linking & reLinking. P1034 : "Valis uses the rest-motion binary system to think with." The rest-motion mechanism is along the time axis, & "motion" is when an object ceases to exist. Now consider the Linking & reLinking, which requires that Valis have control over reality. I am led to the conclusion that Valis uses our reality as a brain, & events in our reality are its thoughts. Therefore Valis must be able to direct our every move through the twin-tape system & the clutch engramming system which permits Valis to teach us subliminally. Thus our "motion" movement is predetermined - i.e. our death. Now, this indicates something about 3-74. Valis rewrote reality in that Valis altered my "motion" moment - which required quite a bit of doing, since it was meshed into a complex system. Valis had to take over me & my environment personally, which amounts to brain (macro-brain) surgery. My 3-74 experience of being overridden was an overt experience of being thought : what normally takes place below our threshold of awareness became palpable to me - Well, I woke up! & found myself being acted through - I always had been, but being asleep (like everyone else) I wasn't aware of it. Then the mind that took me over was/is indeed the macro-mind of the total system that thinks by means of our actions as information. folder 49 - 040 folder 49 - 040 The override consisted of the mac mind's thoughts determining reality, inc. me living on past 3-74; the thoughts govern the configuration of reality, not the other way around (reality as brain). Valis simply _thought_ me through the lethal crisis; what I saw that I called Valis was his thoughts causing changes in external reality -i.e. Valis' brain. I was actually seeing thoughts determining what is the case in the reality field. To get me through the 3-74 crisis all it had to do was think me through, & I was aware of being controlled by the thoughts of some ultra-entity/mind. That _all_ of reality was its brain didn't occur to me until I read Xenophanes. Well, the mind that fused with mine is that of the total system to which reality is subordinated as a brain. Now, I wonder : did this entity invade & take over our reality for its brain? Its