revolutionary character of the Third Age contra Christianity. Spiritual knowledge has been "stolen" and given to us directly: "in one's hands"; that is, directly to us, without a church or priest or written scriptures acting as intermediaries. I’ve solved it. It is as if each of us will have a Torah inside his head, his own brain. Why, this is why VALIS REGAINED is so anti-Christian 1 The only way I knew to be a believer but anti-Christian was to take up the position of JudaismI The Keys to the Kingdom have been put directly in "one’s hands," not in that of Peter's any longer; not in the apostles' hands but "one's"!!! One's own. Only the words SECRET and STOLEN could convey to me the revolutionary character of this Third Age. The secret stolen: taken away from the church, all churches, the apostles’ successors, and handed to "one," i.e. to each average person. We will become bicameral minds, again; two-brained, with bilateral hemispheric parity. So -26- SCANNER is relevant to VALIS and VALEIS REGAINED. Bob Arctor was a faulty beginning of the two-brained human of the third age...and SCANNER deals with the occlusion of the second age and first age. WHY did I never realize it? The voice that Arctor hears in his head speaking German — that is the AI voice, the bicameral voice of the two-brained person, the voice first beginning to break though* to the left hemisphere! Then "Thomas" taking me over was absolutely for sure my right hemisphere becoming conscious, which explains the drastic drop in GABA fluid and neural firing. And of course the "dissociated" acts. When Thomas was in control there was bilateral hemispheric parity; the two hemispheres did not compete; the right one took control (which was fine with me, there in the left). It's all beginning to fit together. My right-brain self saw the Olive Holt subliminal cypher in the Xerox missive and knew what to do; later on the information crossed my corpus collosum, in hypnopompic state. But basically it was a spiritual experience of the Holy Spirit; I became a person of the Third Age, a religious anarchist who obtains Torah inwardly (enthusiasmos). I see now why I "remembered" being an apostolic Xtian of the time of Acts: it was because the Spirit had brought me the keys it brought the original apostoles at Pentecost just after Jesus’ death. This is also why I felt that Jesus had just now gone away and would soon return, and my mood was one of joy. So I am equating Joachim's Third Age with bilateral hemis¬ pheric brain parity! -27- The Savior of the Third Age, unlike Jesus, will not be in human form; he will (as Jesus says) be everywhere, like "lightning." Another human savior would replicate the Second Age, No — something different is meant. Everywhere. Ubique. I suddenly have the eerie feeling that Christ is meant but a different kind of Christ from Jesus entirely. A metaorganism. Did I see him when I saw Valis? Because he should be visible (perceptible) to every person in the Third Age —or rather of the Third Age— wherever that person is specially. The revolution h isn't against Christ, it's against the Christian churches, the establishment of Christianity. Just as Jesus called God Abba, father. So in the Third Age, via the Spirit you can see the Cosmic Christ yourself; what need, then, would you have of a church or a priest? This is the lifting of the occlusion: you can now see the ubiquitous Cosmic Christ because the occlusion has lifted, and this has to do with brain function, circuit-firing. (Ajna eye.) Christ as secret ruler of the world available directly to the believer, without human mediation. And in the believer God as the Spirit; both Christ and the Spirit are equally God. God outside and God inside. An apotheosis of reality inner and outer. The "He has been transplanted and is alive" and then seeing the Sacred Tetragrammaton is notification to me to go out and preach the good news — which I did in the form of VALIS REGAINED. That will be published, even if VALIS isn't. I'll add an additional speculation: this (3-74) all has to do with the firing of certain DNA instructions, held in readiness (inhibited) for thousands of years. Until the proper time came. Hence the fish sign’s effect, a combination of factors in fact. Of course: the Third Age means (greater) freedom! The whole course of history is seen as momentum toward greater and greater individual autonomy, which equals freedom (as was revealed to me); this is the essence of Sacred History. EB macro-article on Christianity, page 489: "In the N.T. the Christian is depicted as the person who is filled with the powers of the Holy Spirit. The view of the gifts of the Spirit stands in a direct relationship with the understanding of man as the image of God. For the believing Christian of the original period of the church, the Holy Spirit was the Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ, who is already now made manifest in his body, the community of the faithful, as the miraculous principle of life of the new eon." There is a separate article on the "reborn man" and nowhere in it is the Holy Spirit mentioned; it has to do with conversion at a given time and place, but it doesn't have to do with the Holy Spirit. Likewise there is an article on "the decision for Christ" which comes as the result of hearing a sermon and then repenting your sins. 3-74 is neither of the latter. I can't say whether the Holy Spirit is the Spirit of Christ, but I tend to think so because I tend to think that in 3-74 I experienced the living Christ; either was the Holy Spirit or by means of —through— the Holy Spirit; and all of this acted as a doorway to God Himself, So for me the distinctions between the persons of the Trinity are erased in terms of my experience. -29- Christ exists in the world but only the Spirit can reveal him to us (i.e. Valis). So Valis is real and it is Christ, but in no way connected to organized Christianity. We can know Christ only through the Spirit. Just as Christ said, "I am the only door to God," now the Spirit is the only door to Christ; so the Spirit is the via dei. Jesus foresaw this, v. John. The realm (hierarchi¬ cal level) at which Christ exists is only accessible to us through the Spirit. (Like the realms of Plotinus.) The Spirit ex can convert time into space, abolish our perception of causation, our hypostasis of reality, and disclose the upper realm that is Christ, which subsumes this realm. Thus the Spirit alone is in this lower realm. Thus the Spirit transfers us to the next or postmortem world while we are still alive. Valis/Ubik is Christ, but he is not in this realm; we shall see him —know him— only by means (through) the Spirit who is our sole link to Christ (this assumes that the Spirit is distinct from Christ; if not, then it is a tautology, which is fine with me). The Spirit brings us and Christ together in a genuine Eucharist. The Spirit can sanctify anything into the host; it is the Spirit who does this, not Christ: causes the miracle of transubstantiation, even in the everyday trash layer —- anywhere and any time. Hence he (the Spirit) caused me to remember the original series of sacraments — all of them: the Lord's Supper, the feast of agape. The issue as to whether the Spirit reveals Christ who is already there or instead causes the miracle of transubstantiation to occur is meaningless. The observer-participant universe of quantum mechanics explains it. "Christ being there" involves the -30- person and the Spirit as participant observer. And it is meaningless metaphysics to ask, Is he there but impossible to perceive without the presence/participation of the Spirit? Since wherever the Spirit goes, he is there, too, in anything — the very weeds in the alley (no wonder to the original Christians the Spirit was the Spirit of Christ!)« This is absolutely the point —the whole point— of the outpouring of the Spirit at Pentecost: the link —the living link— between the disciples (who had actually known Jesus) and the risen Christ was through the Spirit and only through the Spirit; so much so that the early Christians did not really distinguish the Spirit of Christ from the Spirit (vide supra) (the EB quote). I mean to say: if wherever the Spirit is, there, too, of necessity is Christ, then the Spirit and Christ cannot be distinguished, for all real purposes. The Spirit doesn't just "know about" Christ or "remember" Christ (the way, say, I remember World War II); I know this from my anamnesis. This Christian anamnesis that the Spirit causes is to cause it to be the time and place of Christ, and you are there — there with Christ, the risen Christ. You are in a world made up of Christ, and you have Christ in you (as Paul puts it: "The secret is, Christ in you"). This is achieved precisely by the Spirit and is the core of genuine Christianity. The EB says, "For the believing Christian of the original period of the Church..." Then am I to assume that what I experienced in 3-74 hasn't been experienced since "the original period of the church"? It would seem so — insofar as these things get reported. Or reported and recorded and believed. Anyhow it has not been the -31- belief of Christianity as an institution and establishment since the very early days that this is what happens to a real Christian, that this is what it is all about. Even Christian conversion does not include this...and I personally do not think that the speaking in tongues is really due to the Holy Spirit; it’s just hysteria. (So much for the Pentercostal Movement, as far as I'm concerned; they just roll in the aisles and howl nonsense.) Now, consider this from the EB page 486: "The oldest life of Jesus researchers in the 18th century, such as Venturini, Karl Bahrdt, and Reimarus, who portrayed Jesus as the agent of a secret enlightenment order that had set itself the goal of spreading the religion of reason in the world, were at the same time anti-Trinitarians..." Here we have the word "secret" as in "the secret stolen." And we have what I flashed on in 2-74 when I saw the golden fish sign; that a secret authentic underground Christian organization exists with supernatural powers; this is what began my 3-74 experience, this initial realization; and I remember having been part of it in the distant past (we possessed techniques for im¬ mortality, by means of anamnesis when we were born again — literally born again, later on). I have come across the expression in the EB "the imperial church," with prisons, with the secular authority to back it up. The accretions of dogma of the imperial church are as the Torah was to early Christianity: letter and not spirit, as Paul put it. The Holy Spirit has been undermining this imperial church for centuries; it revealed this to me (vis-a-vis the Dutch Wars). So the Holy Spirit has a long history of revolutionary activity against the imperial church. But what I must keep in mind is my insight of yesterday that the key to it all is Joachim’s three ages, and that the third is as revolutionary vis-a-vis the second as the second (the Christian Age) was to the first. New Scriptures are needed, new prophets and perhaps a new savior, Now I suddenly can see the necessity of the Spirit's revelation to me that a new savior is going to be here, is about to be here, is here; I