than this + pass over etc etc. It was not only a dystopia that I remembered but, specifically, Xtianity had been defeated + was illegal. Suppose there are alternate coaxial worlds in which Xtianity has had different degrees of success ranging from total defeat at the hands of the Empire ("Tears") to moderate success (e.g. legality but subversion by the Empire: i.e. our world) to the very best in which the Kingdom has been realized - why, this would explain what is meant by "the final world is here." This would be -obviously- the alternate world in which "he has been transplanted + is alive"! The dystopia of "Tears" was eradicated to bring in an alternate track in which he (YHWH) would be transplanted to successfully - yes, with this the work would be completed! Then I have been right; there has been tinkering + with the specific idea of actualizing the folder 48 - 072 folder 48 - 072 one -out of many- in which he is successfully transplanted! I did remember a former, worse world, specifically one in which Xtianity couldn't even get itself legalized. + we (sic) were underground revolutionaries. In this one we could overthrow governments; we weren't just blowing up buildings like the July bomb plotters. + of course if this is the progression of the alternate worlds, Valis (YHWH) would be quite actively involved. This would certainly explain the active presence of Valis aiding me vis-a-vis the Xerox missive; it is a -was a- change he introduced - above + beyond switching to this track from the "Tears" illegal Xtianity dystopia. I actually 1) remembered a former worse world, 2) + in addition experienced Valis (YHWH) remastering an event in this track that involved me specifically. (1) + (2) are different. Our track came about due to a change or changes in the past, but (2) occurred in the present: 3-74. I experienced it as override. {illustration of a track branching off to different branches:} A ... Date x ... "Tears" dystopia ..... 1974 ..... Our world ................ The Xerox override! ................ Probable additional branchings-off by which the "final world" has been obtained, + "the work is completed" - i.e. he is transplanted + alive! folder 48 - 073 folder 48 - 073 This connects: 1) The 2-74 anamnesis of "Tears" 2) The 3-74 Xerox missive override 3) The vision of Valis + his activity 4) The AI voice's statements {...} below All subsumed under a single premise: setting up progressively better alternate worlds until the optimum one is reached in which the deity is successfully "transplanted" here + "is alive" - the obvious final goal - or "final world"! "Tears" : this world :: this world is to the Xerox missive overridden. I actually participated in an altered event in which an improved alternate world was brought into being, although it may have been a small improvement, just one of many such. 5) The material in "Tears" - the Acts material, dream, + esp the cypher, as well as depictation of that former track {Note} 6) The reason it resembles the progressively higher + higher realms of the "Commedia" is that "they" (Valis) are arranging for better + better worlds until the one has come in which "he has been transplanted + is alive," at which point the work ends. We have that now. {Note:} This is where I fitted in; this was the task given me, why I was involved - i.e. picked. folder 48 - 074 folder 48 - 074 This could all very well be ultra-sophisticated technology, but they do talk about St Sophia, Buddha, Siddhartha, Apollo + esp. now YHWH, + my memory of the "Tears" track is of my being a secret Xtian; my anamnesis was set off by the Xtian fish sign, + there is Acts material in "Tears" as well as what looks like Qumran sons of darkness vs sons of light material in the dream. + there was a lot of Zoroastrian cosmology (inc. the dialectic) originally. __ Hypnagogic thought: Elijah operating you (whom I call Thomas, Thomas is Elijah). __ Two routes to determining the spurious: 1) Observation of reality; the "Joint" syndrome. 2) Memory: you had not been here but elsewhere + were someone else. One + two are twin prongs. They are the only route to detecting a pseudoworld; either one alone is conclusive, but both would logically exist, so if either is detected the other could be, logically. In the case of two, you were evidentally taken from the real world to this one, + your memory tampered with. In the case of one, your perceptions/cognition are occluded. So if you can see de-occluded + also remember, then you know. I realized this while having a folder 48 - 075 folder 48 - 075 dream that I was [back again] at 1126 Francisco St. It seemed real. To verify, I could either (1) carefully scrutinize this reality for signs of simulation, or (2) remember where I really had been - or am now really. (1) + (2) together would mutually reinforce + exclude any possibility of error. I studied a lamp -the little red lamp I used to have- + it did not seem quite real. Okay; point (1). Then I remembered -but only dimly- being later + elsewhere, but could not pin it down to Santa Ana 1979. Still, just the impression -because it pointed to lack of history, of continuity- was enough. Thus within the dream I was able to determine that it was irreal; + I drew the conclusion that God was providing me with 1126 Francisco as a wish fulfillment reward, since I liked it. However, in the case of Santa Ana 1979 I cannot draw that conclusion; it is more a punishment, + in 74 when the punishment got too great (the pain + fear too much) I woke up. Wait a minute. My anamnesis is of a dystopia - far worse world. So, in contrast, this world would de facto be a reward - vide folder 48 - 076 my "Dante's 3 realms" analysis. Just read "Tears"! So it isn't punishment to be here; a particularly painful incident woke me - the dream (?) turned briefly bad + revealed a BIP world. In fact it could be argued that in 3-74 I was waking up - of "Finnegan's Wake." So two thrusts: 1) Intrinsic analysis of reality. 2) True memory. When I saw Valis, (1) was confirmed: I was dealing with something on the order of "3 Women." + I experienced anamnesis in 3-74; true memory: I had been someone else at another place (+ time! Notice that 1126 Fransisco St. is another place + another time; there is historic discontinuity obscured by falsified memories. So perceptual occlusion + falsified memories are both necessary for the pseudo world to seem real. Either one upon being repaired will indict it; but both should, + did, in 3-74, for full confirmation. Either -if you had the other already- would be absolute verification. Then there is no doubt that 3 realms were involved in 2-74 to 2-75. Memory of the previous worse one, + a brief entry into the next (higher i.e. better) one. Valis saw to it that this one -which had gotten ugly- let go of me + let me advance to the next, better one up. Maybe this one wasn't supposed to punish me so much. folder 48 - 077 folder 48 - 077 Note: the dream world of 1126 Francisco St draws on actual memory - my memory. Often I speculate that this one is drawn from memory constituents. Fed back to me. See, in the dream, the only reference point I have against which to check the veracity of the world is my memory, + the world is drawn from that very same memory, a better, unimpaired source of it than mine, so the "reality" will invariably hold up! It's like deciding something is real by comparing it with itself. So it's a fool proof simulation, if based on that basis. So in a sense the more you reality test in the conventional way the more convincing it is - if it is contrived out of half-forgotten memories (not recognized as memory) + compared to memory itself - it can just spin out pseudo world as if from a bottomless well. + the cut off point is the same for "world" + comparison, so pragmatically it equals infinity. Nonetheless all I'd have to do is remember being somewhere else + someone else. But to also see reality as simulated: If you put pressure on the reality, + if it's based on forgotten memories, it'll just spin out more + more of itself, like the dialectic. The proliferation of multiplicity is a guarantee of nothing, since sensory deprivation allows the mind to auto-spin out world endlessly to fill the vacuum. folder 48 - 078 folder 48 - 078 The raising of the perceptual occlusion will indicate irreality, but anamnesis does more: it indicates -in contrast- a real world + a real you. So it does not just dissolve away. It substitutes. Real self and real world. There is one major difference between 1126 Francisco : Santa Ana + Santa Ana : "Tears" - it is the time relationship. 1126 : Santa Ana is past to future, + Santa Ana : "Tears" is future : past. But - I'm not really sure "Tears" is past; after all, the novel is set in the future, + I had a profound sense of the invisible mind moving retrograde in time - yes; thus I anticipated the Xerox missive: it was in the past. In his analysis of "Ubik" Lem posits that the spurious reality will be based on the person's own memories (of course forgotten). We don't have an authentic time-travel back into the actual past but rather what takes place in "Ubik": a spurious past. Nonetheless the person involved gets a chance to relive the coup de gras + change the outcome based on hindsight, in which case the AI voice is my own future (i.e. actual) self (actual in terms of real world, real space-time). The AI voice is coming into the spurious (memory) world from outside, from the real world, as in "Ubik"; so isn't the AI voice further proof that USA 1974/9 is a memory world, + "Tears" is the actual present - future to 1974/9? folder 48 - 079 folder 48 - 079 In the dream I really couldn't remember Santa Ana 1979. + then when I did, it was exactly like the anamnesis in 2-3-74. The relationship between perceived world + remembered world was the same. A return to 3-74 would certainly explain Thomas waking up; he had come back to deal again with the Xerox missive situation + this time successfully. This would explain the uncanny taking-over of my motor centers, all that stuff that made me think I was under the power of OCCP psychotronic technology. The agency responsible obviously is Ubik/Valis. This taking over of me - it was the whole point. I think this is the real past, but real = "real." There is no USA 1974/9 more real, but it's a creation of Ubik/Valis + they are running + rerunning it. I am here from elsewhere + specifically for the purpose of dealing with the Xerox missive. This raises an interesting question: am I who I think I am? I may be an impostor (exactly as I felt I was in 3-74!) here for the purpose of handling the Xerox missive; I was right: there was programming laid down in me in advance for dealing specifically with the Xerox missive, triggered off in 2-74. Deliberately. "Another personality," but not Pigspurt as I quite reasonably supposed at the time. I felt it take me over. No; it is from the future; I am sure of that, based on my dream folder 48 - 080 folder 48 -