of," "Electric Ant" "impost" 5) the monstrous deity uses its magic powers to ypnotize us with simulated reality ("Stigmata") 6) An alternate world s-f novel can show what the real world is like, compared to what the mon strous magician shows us ("MITHC") (re "TGLH" "Tears" does this. The establishment Xtian churc s, like all other authorities, a front for the monstre The monstrous true secret Xtians exist deity. But God. The wise mind the NT + Christ the deity 30 there are then two Gods. The O.T. God tries to convince us that he is the sole God. We are dying descending souls lost in intoxicating delusions by the O.T. God. The N.T. God wishes to restore us to life ("Ubik"). This is the "2nd birth from above" or "by the Spirit" which Christ spoke up; as to our dying state in the O.T. God's occluding enslaving power, Christ aptly said, "your estors ate manna in the wilderness + they are all dead. The key to salvation (return to life) is knowledge. Since ignorance is the basis of our enslaved + dying state. The O.T. deity deludes + occludes us; the N.T. God is Logos is informa about our true nature + state + origin. t the N.T. deity is our actual father, so unbe knownst to ourselves we are sparks of the divine restoration comes as a blitz - a flash, or not at all. I have a feeling that these two deities are subsumed by a superior unity, the abyss; that The two will contend for a finite time at the end of which the N.T. God will win the game these 2 are the 2 routes to the abyss: justice + love (mercy) respectively; also power vs know ledge. They are also + + I of a binary system. power (O.T.) Creates + poses puzzles; wisdom N.T.) solves + thereby wins. O.T. encodes + N.T. decyphers; O.T. then is closed (dark) + N.T. open (light). In my opinion N.T. can reverse polarities by solving with a counter-puzzle, then ending a run (sub-section) of the game: the books close on that hand + a new game begins. It may be that when N.T. solves with a counter-puzzle + re ases polarities it remembers itse + reveal itself (21) N.T. is characterized by absolute foresight; O.T. is blind but brilliantly inventive. So N.T. lays down moves which pay off much later; O.T. studies but never fathoms the strategy; O.T. has the impression it is winning up to the instant that N.T. solves, which is to say, reverses the polarity of a trap (the “Baited Hook”). The deceiver has been deceived, but not by a lie; by himself: self-blindness, how he loses. The N.T. puzzle solver must of necessity resemble a thinking machine or computer; to be taken over by it would therefore make you feel “like a machine” - since it is pure intelligence, unerringly & dispassionately making the right moves. It might not even think or reason (as we do) but rather it might absolutely KNOW. It would CHOOSE (decide), which is to say, select or discriminate. One might say: IDENTIFY. Wisdom & reasoning are not the same: & it is WISDOM. My God, it traces a template by analogic topological transfer: comparing pieces of pattern to pieces of model pattern - as Wittgenstein describes! - and thus coming into an ellipsis in the pattern (to be identified) it refers to the model WITHOUT ratiocination, but rather SPACIALLY. Now the piece functions - it needs no language, at that stage; just PICTURE. It’s not a digital computer; it’s an analog computer. It traces my script topologically. Hence the absolute need of the Script (model template) by which to analyze EXTERNAL reality, not all of which [components] were available! It could trace in the gaps by analogy. But there is no war it could have solved minus the Script. So the problem-solving was not divine; the Presence of the Script years prior was. This eliminates the Source as human ( microwaves, brain washing, etc). No human (even from the future) could have known about the Golden Fish Girl ( & 2 CP documents). Back when I wrote “TMITHC” only TOTAL wisdom would foresee her - and the 22) t engramming re her was tied into the toland man book, Kathy, the Tiberius dream. The JW. + nude girl collage - I've even eliminated Hermetic R.C. magic + superior technology the script (analog model in me) was every t thing - all phases developed by causal law, albeit higher law: the system of gramming throughout my life (v. Spinoza). the jewelry theme itself: from anne's business - an essential element! the payoff was more than fielding the Xerox missive; it was to bring me to con‐ sciousness + revert the process of death total (by causing the blitz: the unitary thought Gestalt). (Kosmos in me: every thought (James-James) linked together.) The creator creates / St. Sophia/Logos structures creation into the macrocosm (Valis). The micro inner kosmos (such as I reached) is achieved He is a 2nd the Paraclete within a person. by self: the "beside helper" Each inner micro‐ kosmos helps restore the unity of creation. speaking in tongues (Greek) prophecy (St. Sophia Buddha, Apollo healing (Christopher, etc.) explaining Christ (anamnesis) counselling (inner voice) Advocate (he spoke for me). he upper + lower realms were reunified in me. I think the script was built up during my life - time by enhancement - suppression - clutch feature traction engramming - e.g. Jill's eyes when I was fire. The lay in which the trap would close around me was foreseen + prepared for 40 years before. Only God could do this. (23 must now reassess the importance of the initial I blitz insight upon hearing the gure's words (that a true, secret Xtian underground exists) as being of pro‐ mary importance plus the memory that Christ had just gone + would very soon return. Also my name entered in the "hotel" register-ledger. Im going to assume that the Paraclete wrote "Ubik" certainly put e.g. the Acts material in "Tears" because I have evidence of its long term Parousia in me - over my whole lifetime, in fact. + certainly the AI voice has over a period of decades been the Paraclete it extracted elements out of my environment] + assembled them into a model which served as in analog for a later ultra-menacing problem in the outer world, by which that problem could fathomed instantly without left hemisphere be rgital reasoning, + acted upon (solved), in nut‐ time, which was necessary for solution. (GS. It ad to be solved - acted on - in null time. Hence with it an analog model to compare, this could not be done. It had to know the answer before the question reason of knowledge of the model. + the model had to 4 complete into precise details.) se but saving me was not the goal per se. I was piece in a game involving two cosmic players who play on + on. I'm sure of this. What took lace was 1) puzzle, + 2) puzzle solved due to plans strategy) laid down by the solver fears in advance Thus I find myself controlled by a computer ike o problem-solving macro-entity. This was the real player. It did not desire to avoid the con‐ crontation; it built toward it over a 40 year period + then took me over completely. Thus when oaded I wrote "I am an android. A terminal for binary computer." This is so. It has subliminally seen in me all my life + even now speaks to me probably guides (directs) me I can't be sure it functions as an analog computer; it caused me to function as an analog com‐ uter, my right hemisphere yet - there is what I call 24 he AI voice. + the dialectic. This fits with what the plasmate is + does: info processing. The Ubik-like vision I have of neon red letters - "Eye" + "Joint" - word. The huge open books with the writing. + of course Ubik itself that was not code in the Xerox missive; it was info aimed at my right hemisphere. This is how you talk directly to the RH., bypassing the left. It should have caused Thomas to come out + take over; he, not I, would answer. "Faith of" proves that this was indeed the disinhibiting stimulus. The R.H. self is Pigspurt. The sodius pentathol must have fucked it up - that + the Girl Obviously the martyrs Thomas would have answered the Xerox missive. against the communist world dissociative response proves that - but by then the Xerox missive was in L.A. the When the dark haired stranger girl with silver pin comes to the authors door he learn. that his alternate world novel is true (MITHC) 1) 2) that the 2 CP papers are a test, trap, forgery that the Girl belongs to a secret anti-state organi ration ("Faith of") ) Comment. TGlH is true. Their world (MITHC) is ot. Germany + Japan really lost the war. These are I alternate realities. This is why what happened to ot agomi in the park happened. He did not pass from re alternate world to another; no: he saw reality. This is what I did in 2-3-74 + that reality was Tears." The girl had a direct connection with Tears"; viz: the world of her Golden Fish sign is the world of "Tears" (Acts). So she "mentioned" "Tears" ust as Juliana mentioned talk - not verbally - oh yes erbally; she said, "this is/was (!) a sign used by the arly Xtians (i.e. the time of Acts). My husband gave to me." Juliana's husband frank gave her her t in. Why would she tell me her husband gave it checked MITHC; Juliana mentions her husband her? least to mus abendsen. undermining the Pigspurt case + very I am the gue with clearly focussing on Xtianity. The Golden Fish ne. ke ( is central; the 2 CP papers just complete the morphe. she disinhibited me; v. Mitha. What the 2 CP paper. do is render exclusively precise, rather than approximate Juliana warns abendsen that he is in danger the fascist authorities are after him because of his book. "Faith of" adds: "In the form of forged CP documents" - a precise refinement (one is okay, me is not, of the 2 papers). This is how the attack allu ded to by Juliana will come GH is a shrewd intuition as to what the real it world is like. In it the authorities in their world lost "Tears" = TGlH it says vs Capitalism lost - but s If to whom? Not fascists; that's MITHC. This leaves only the CP, the left. Where Xtianity is illegal + forced labor camps exist. Or: is "Tears" simply how capitalism really is? imperialism. Rome. It can be argued that the resemblance between the Golden Fish Girl, 2 CP documents + my writing psycho e logically triggered me off, but this won't account for the o - connected to the Fish sign. Acts material in "Tears see the Fish sign on the day I was given sodium entathol, + the Fish sign relates to "Tears" via the Acts material - what human agency could have arranged that they'd have had to know I'd order pain pills + from which pharmacy + that I was engrammed on sexy women + The toland man book, the lish (or Fish teeth) necklaces the P.W. Collage on my wall, + they'd have to know of the Acts material in "Tears," + they'd have to arrange for Roogna write me just they, etc - impossible. to There is one point I've failed to explore. If it is Tears" + "Tears" alone which = TGlH, the girl could show up until "Tears" was published or at least it to illen. She showed up within the 2 weeks following