at two - what this signified) places + times I can figure ant is that this all taught me to abruptly for the first time order reality in terms of recurrent constants (+ all that this implies + - v. Plato + the universals) confers a hunch as to the true nature call it profound. that of world + self. I He sees the same object at two places + two times. Then space + time are not real (he realizes) because It is logically impossible that the same object can be at two places + two times. What he experiences as two places + two times must in fact be one + the same space-time locus. what does this have to do with Forms? It has to do with a false impression under which he has been the laboring regarding space + time issue is space + time. It must be possible for two or more realities to "one occupy one space-time (why? space-time" signifies here-now. Why, the object in question is here - now + that object resides in two entirely different places + times; it occurs twice but is perceived once therefore both places + both times are here-now. It "the object) is common to both places + both times so if it appears once, Then both places + times are somehow here-now. They are working off the v. note p. 4 same object. âž€ Then he is perceiving the eidos which is capable of being singular + unitary + yet "At" plural places + tim 720 2 He has not seen an object at all. He has seen something that can pluralize itself while remaining unitary. This perplexed Plato who first discovered it. If the eidos is apperceived then all the particulars that it is "in" are somehow present (like my concept of the form-axis in which all prior stages state of that particular form are some‐ how latently present + can be extracted or retrieved.) "He has seen something that can pluralize itself to while remaining unitary." The structure is conceptual, not spatiotemporal. There is no escaping the conclusion: the pluralization is only semireal. Meaning: (1) it is not true to say "nothing is there" at a space-time locus where it pluralizes itself. (2) on the other hand it is equally not true to say that this manifestation is totally (actually) Plato is quite right: the only real. real part is the configuration it (Gestalt). takes ➀ What if in fact it doesn't was this pluralize itself. really "the it o i t + object (tree x) shows up at two places + two times. This is impossible + the brain knows it. So what it sees can't be true. it only seems to pluralize itself. would this not explain the situation that so perplexed Plato, as to how the eidos got into all its particulars. There are no particulars. There is only that which he calls the eidos. "The shadows last on the wall of the cave" is close yet not quite right. Very close. "The sole reality that a given particular has is the eidos participating in it [some So there is no such thing as how)." a particular really: there is the unitary eidos repeatedly seen, but this "re s peatedly" is illusory. I'm back to my earlier realization about my meta t abstraction being a carrying to its logical conclusion of the "one mother seen three times not three mothers lower-level earlier abstraction. suppose you encountered someone who had not performed that lower level abstraction. Imagine the world he lives in 85 Hondreds, even thousands of mothers - incredible multiplicity sort of a a infinitud s of t 4 He would be sub-particularized to death. The multiplicity that we experience is slight compared with his, + the person who has performed the next abstraction - what I call the meta-abstraction - if that were his customary world would have terrible trouble imagining our world of vast numbers of particulars he would be perplexed, horrified, confused + amused by our world. Note: it occurs twice but is perceived once." isn't this backward? Isn't the true case that it occurs once but is perceived twice? the answer: it depends on whether you start with the particulars + work to the eidos, or start with the eidos + work to the particulars. The eidos occurs once (which is the correct way to perceive it; the "one mother seen three times," not "three mothere," this being the original lower-order abstracting process); the particulars occur twice (+/or more: to infinity). When I said "It occurs twice" I was speaking of the Golden Fish sign occurring at Acts AD 45 by "perceived once" I meant that + USA 1974: both space-time continua were working off the same object - but then in a footnote I observed that in this case, Therefore, it was 5 The eidos that was perceived: which is capable of being singular + unitary + yet "at" plural places + times." "He has not seen an object at all. He has seen some‐ thing that can pluralize itself while remain unitary." Now, if the primal ubiquitous lower-order abstracting were consciously analyzed (as I am doing here re the "meta‐ abstracting") the creature would be faced with what to him was a puzzling matter. It is one mother + yet it can manifest itself repeatedly. He has had to abstract to the realization that these plural manifes: tations are in fact one unitary thing. What he is confronted with as brute sense data is plural manifestations; that it is in fact unitary - one thing seen repeatedly - is not an empirical observation but an a priori operation (hence I speak of it as an abstraction). This operation is based on the phenomenon of recognition which in turn is based on memory. Now, what occurs to me is that anamnesis (recovered memory) may not cause meta-abstraction (comprehension of the universals, the eide) but in fact may be caused by comprehension of the fact of the eide; i.e. the meta-abstraction comes first; it is a realization like the "one mother seen 3 times" lower-level earlier abstraction-realization. What I am saying is not anamnesis necessary is, for the met of abstracti on 6 happens is that the meta-abstraction occurs. That he is seeing one unitar "thing" capable of plural appearances, what I call "both places + times works off the same object" - + as a result, not a cause, he sees the other place + time due to the common element (of the "object" which is of course no object but an eidos). Thus, anamnesis is not a memory of a former life but, rather, a blending of spatiotemporal sets due to their both working off a common eidos (what I originally called "a common essence" "from which they are both derived" - This is very much like my form-axis + obviously related to it suggesting that back in the late sixties I was already partially meta-abstracting, in which case I am right; the meta-abstracting comes first. Like prior stages along a form-axis, other spatiotemporal sets can be retrieved from the common eidos. In fact, is not Acts AD 45 precisely a prior stage along the form-axis of the Golden Fish sign? It is to USA 1974 what a Jn trainer biplane is to a boeing 707. An eidos somehow "contains" all its prior stages This is the original idea I put forth in "Ubik" + this is why 3-74 resembled "Ubik" Here is the advantage of this expla nation over the anamnesis hence meta-ab straction theory: it would explain whi ac its is not just re fact perceived as being present. The model is "Ubik" obviously, when the prior stages of a given form are retrieved, hen are present. What I saw, literally, in 2-74 was two spatiotemporal sets working off the same "object" which I now realize was not an object but was understood by me to be an Eidos, hence although somehow pluralized in/as particulars is in fact single + unitary in itself. This explains the non-verbal quality of my brain-function; this process of abstraction is not a verbal operation reasoned out logically; it is an apperception, a realization amounting to a way of organizing reality or apper ceiving order in reality, a furthering of the original abstraction which also was not verbal. It is a way of seeing reality (viz: "seen as"). This is almost right but not nope. quite. The meta-abstraction came second, but (+ here is where I was correct) not second to anamnesis ("anamnesis referring to recovering Acts AD 45, the double superimposition). What came first was the information contained in the Fish sign + what the Girl said; she told me that two spatiotemporal sets are here + now but we only see one of them (USA 1974), the other is blended in covertly; which is to say, both are working off the "common essence" which I acknowledged t last octaber + now identify as an eidos o 8 that this could be done: two spatiotempora sets could work off common eide - hence I grasped the concept of the eide; i.e. I meta abstracted - but also (+ this is not the same as the meta-abstraction per se) I understood that because spatiotemporal sets are derived from "common essence" or eide, Acts AD 45 can be here + now (which is impossible to conceive of - i.e. how it could be so - if you are organizing by means of the Kantian categories of space, time + causation). I could understand how it works + what is achieved: a true secret Xtian can lead a dual existence, operating in both spatiotemporal sets I simultaneously (is this not the "set ground discrimination" that the "Acts grid/lens" confers? Yes it is.). So our world is a blend of two worlds, one overt + exoteric the other covert + esoteric, + the constants exist in + for both; in fact both - they are possible because of these constants are not just recurring but supra-temporal. So what I took to be a retrieval of the past is in fact not the past but a second covert inner world blended into our own, both working common essence" or eider; both off are here + now, + this is why they syntonically blended, they did not come into a state of beending upon my "anamnesis": they are, were + have been This time: what blended all my "anamnesis" i actually consisted of a unscrambling (distinguishing) them each from the other. This diagram is correct: USA 1974 thus us t t common essence Everything I saw (the Acts material, i the cypher, etc in "Tears," the plasmate, Valis, pretextual cause) has to do with the unscrambling into set (Acts) + ground (USA 1974). (Or inner-outer, covert-overt). cannot overemphasize: this is why I I saw Acts, rather than just remembering it - + then in 3-74 it burst through into my consciousness as Thomas; my God he tracks the Acts "signal"! It's like a two channel transmission, Jeter's term "the second signal" is right on, but it is not added; it is discriminated Then my "two source cosmogony" is correct, by + large. I would have been more correct if I'd said "cosmology" or "reality" rather than "cosmogony" but I'm close enough. meta-abstracting: comprehension that two "Sets" are working off one "common essence." Are they spatiotemporal? They are aspects, all right. But I'm not sure if they're spatiotemporal. Well, based on the form - organization of reality this issue is moot. 10 Then we did fall asleep; in 2-74 I woke up - under pentathol, upon "anamnesis, i.e. my memory block was removed. But it is not memory of the past but the present, which explains Thomas' fear of the Romans: yet another supra-temporal Eidos acting as the basis of both worlds. For him Romans's for me G-2. Hence "Tears" exists in both realms