can't show; It'd be a contradiction. {circled:"75"} This is why Jesus said, "the 2nd comforter is greater than I." He meant her. She is the Paraclete, Greater than Christ (v. John) as He (Jesus) specifically said: "the 2nd comforter knows everything." She may be St. Sophia -- after all, Holy Wisdom should know everything, or maybe she's not. But I do know who she is. HO ON. And I know who HO ON is. The almighty. The form the magician took with me was one I'd accept, one [....] "obliging" instance: the form of UBIK. She is, however, constant in form. Apollo vs Dionysos (Valis). Paradox: the young girl in the pink flannel night gown is JHWH (sobriety) and vast Valis is the magician (intoxication) taking the form of UBIK -- always changing. Neither seems to be what she or he is so [...] {circled:"76"} So at last I have solved the riddle put before me: Q: which is God? Valis which can be anything (turning info into worlds and worlds into info, like UBIK) or the still small voice: ON HO or the little girl? I finally realized: the Latter. The former is a master trickster, but he cannot always be the same; {circled:"1"} that is the one thing he -- who changes -- cannot do: be constant, as God is. This exactly fits Elijah's theophany: a milestone: "God was not in the lightning, the windstorm, etc. He was the low, murmuring voice." The riddle is solved: I finally chose correctly. --- Valis is the web-spinner -- if it can turn info into worlds and worlds into info it is. And it CAN. Its weak link is that it is always obliging. She -- and the secret xtians used this against Valis to reveal it. {circled:"1"} Thus the true God defines himself, " I {continues off bottom of image} {circled:"72"} The worlds Valis spins are maya. He is not God but God-like, which fooled me. The master trickster (James James) fooled me. Only the secret xtians know. I must be a secret xtian from the apostolic age who was reborn in 1928 and who had forgotten -- and {caret:"hence"} fallen victim to the worldspinner {caret:"again"}. But my true knowledge as a secret (ie real) xtian showed up in my books. In "tears" it was explicit; I was trying to wake up -- so they -- the organization of secret xtians -- sent someone to disinhibit me. In a dramatic demonstration they showed me that when I was Thomas, Valis served up Acts, and when I was Dick it served up Calif 1974, and upon realizing this, it served up UBIK. After all, in -2-74 I did remember. I know what I am and I know who the "low murmuring" "AI" voice is -- like the Girl, the magician's assistant, is, who knows all his stragatems, and who tells us. To identify Valis as the web-(reality) spinner has been one of the hardest things I've ever done, to shake off his power all the way. The one station that did not fall to the magician the web-spinner: appearing as a humble young girl who always tells the truth. Like the Horse's head. "The servant has become the master" -- ie the web-spinner, master of us (Brahman lulled into intoxication and sleep). It is she who is {continues off bottom of image} {circled:"78"} Doesn't UBIK appear in trash (humble) form again and again, and only at the end does it disclose its true, divine nature? Like the Girl. Valis (the magician) simulated my highest, most lofty concept of Real reality: like UBIK in full epiphany. Deprived of its usual mask -- tricked into putting on another (Acts) -- it then "reveals itself" -- it puts on the UBIK mask. --- AI voice: "I am like the forest bird in "Siegfried." ie a dove. The dove. And "I am the commercial -- compared tr to the program." (as in "UBIK") J {caret:"[pi..]"} should have had that in mind.) --- Yes, Valis has assimilated "tears," "UBIK," and "Unteleported man" and simulates them into world out of info. --- "The Forest bird in Siegfried." My God, I just remembered: she had a cap on, with bird eyes and beak and bill and colored feathers -- like a duck or swan: an aquatic bird. She has indeed some connection with birds. Papagana? And in 3-74/2-75 I heard the silver magic bells from "the Magic Flute," an opera utilizing Masonic material (which is related to the K. C. brotherhood). This must be another "[wave...." feedback like "Tears" and "UBIK" etc. But no one knows but me. Does this make it all a projection on my part? It seems more like a response. {circled:"79"} 4:00 am voice: "a womb for her to grow her progeny in." Me! This refers to Zebra. I deduce: 1) What I saw (Zebra) as there really was there and not just simulating UBIK. It does indeed camouflage itself normally. It isn't all reality {circled:"2"} Nor does it generate reality. 2) Obviously it is a she, not it or he. 3) It is a life form (a very high order, very advanced over our own). 4) It is female and it did -- she did -- make use of me -- not impregnating me but placing her "egg" FirstBright in me for safekeeping, as a womb: my brain. So I am not the mother of FirstBright {circled:"1"} 5) The AI voice and the Bird Girl -- that is Valis. Therefore Valis is not the magician but has inserted itself -- herself -- into the magician's spurious reality, as I state in "Valis." {circled:"1"} So interspecies symbiosis isn't involved. But this clarifies what "Thomas" is. It's not a former me but one of her "progeny." "Thomas" is what she placed in me, to grow, safe, and concealed from the world. 6) She -- Valis -- is replicating. Valis is the adult (final mature stage) of Thomas/FireBright. 7) This explains what my 3-74 experience was all about. This is why I saw Zebra and had the theolepsy. This is what Valis was doing. This is what was taking place. This explains the AI voice and the image of the Girl. She who counsels me and is my advocate is Valis/Zebra. {circled:"2"} After all, I saw it using reality (the not-it reality) as a stockpile for parts for itself. I had forgotten that. It wasn't reality: it had invaded reality and was camouflaged into reality. {circled:"80"} 8) This explanation rules out the theological ones and boils it down to an experience -- encounter and involvement -- with a superior camouflaged life form, one which was looking for a womb for its progeny. Something was put in me -- a little valis, a little new one which will grow, hidden in me. Q: could the AI voice which I hear be that of "FireBright," ie the progeny in me? It may already be conscious, not an egg or egg-like. But a fraction of Valis, like a bit of a hologram. Then I will eventually turn into a Valis. I'm sure of it. What I call "Valis" was once a human being. Perhaps one of Christ's twelve disciples to whom Christ as Holy Spirit came and entered (as the first Valis) exactly as this Valis did with me. What I call "Valis" is one of the twelve {caret:"or more"} in the incorruptible body which Paul speaks of. So there may be a number of Valises. They are outside of time, or rather they experience time properly: as space. 9) The first element of the not-it reality which Thomas/FireBright will or did incorporate is me. 10) This is what is meant when it is said that I am "an early Xtian," which is exactly what I'm not supposed to tell (i.e. about being used as a womb for her progeny). 11) Then more and more Valises are being created, have been brought into being secretly over the past 2000 years. But no one can see them. (Due to their camouflage.) Humans thus utilized (to whom the "Holy Spirit" has come and the second, spirit birth or birth from above has come) are made immortal in their incorruptible bodies; this is the secret and miracle of true, original Xtianity and it has continued on in stealth, unsuspected ever since. The number of them {continues off bottom of image} {circled:"81"} This explanation -- Valis is one of the twelve disciples in his/her incorruptible body -- would finally resolve the puzzling matter of it seeming to be xtian but finite, ie with a distinct human personality, and not the infinite Holy Spirit (eg it feared the Romans): God-like but not God. Somewhere between Man and God -- not God, but with vast cosmogonical, cosmological knowledge, a life form but somehow related to Christ, with prophetic knowledge, wisdom but not omniscience. I reasoned, "it can't be Christ [...] the Holy Spirit, because it is terrified by the Romans, and calls the dog 'he,' " etc. And Thomas is beyond doubt a former apostolic xtian. And the AI voice has always seemed to be female. A new thought occurs to me. Suppose she placed her progeny in me when I was born, and it (what I call "Thomas") underwrote my books and stories, and wasn't installed in 2-74 (the 2-74 experience seems to bear out the fact that "Thomas" was already in me) but just thresholded -- took over: became conscious: was [fully] born. So here is a middle ground between "it's a UTI or ETI -- ie a finite life form" and "it's God, ie infinite" and includes an explanation for, "it {caret:"also"} seems to be a first century A.D. human." 1) God-like but not God. Vast but not infinite 2) A UTI or ETI but 3) Human -- specifically of apostolic times -- in fact an early xtian Answer: It's an early (ie authentic) xtian in his resurrected incorruptible body, achieved through Christ / the Holy Spirit, "which uses me as a womb for her progeny." Not "host for its egg." So the incorruptible life form can reproduce [itself], in certain humans, and thus transfer -- pass on -- the second birth, on its initiative. {circled:"82"} So the human is turned into a "bride" by the spirit birth. The Bird- Girl is an image of the Valis in me, and this is why I pictured her as my spiritual daughter. So now I know what "Tears" did: it revealed "Thomas'" (her progeny's) latent presence in me, and the secret xtians knew to come and disinhibit ([s.....]) him to consciousness, in 2-74! So 3-74 was his birth, his apotheosis. And I hear her voice, the mother and the daughter {"paraclete" over circled:"Valis, her, Mother"} {right arrow through circled:"using me"} {"paraclete" over circled:"daughter"} the daughter is a replication of Valis the Mother, once an apostolic xtian. It was time for him (her?) to be born. Hence King Felix and the Acts material. "Apotheosis": "the elevation of a mortal to the rank of [G.d] God." It (3-74) was not an apotheosis of me but by means of me. Now this deitific daughter of mine (the Bird Girl) speaks to me with wise counsel, and acts as Advocate for me: ie as Paraclete for me. So the Paraclete rushed through me, making use of me (as womb), to an apotheosis in 3-74, and remains to counsel and be advocate for me, as my daughter. I was "a channel" for the divine (to re-enter the world). And I was involved in the apotheosis, too, with (as?) Thomas. IF her progeny when born enter apotheosis, she must be divine. "She" MUST be St. Sophia. {circled:"83"} "a womb for her to grow her progeny in." So my vision of the implanting laboratory needle was correct, with my brain as womb. And of course she's female -- only females directly have progeny. This is how you define female. This is a life form! (i.e. Valis, who was present at the