park.) So I am yoked to someone - myself - in an alternate universe, as I said at metz + from "Tears" I know what it's like. This explains look - -74 why in 2-3-7 en on 437 elements of my own writing as true; I derived them initially from Thomas' universe in the first place! They bled through to me + so did Thomas. I think it's a soviet us - vide the 5 marshals, etc. Thomas lives in a Pigspurt world but is a secret Xtian. Hence his aversion to the Xerox missive + his understanding of it. the Xerox missive spans both universes! It is one common element. This would explain why t I suspected OCCP psychotronics, + also exper ienced Xtian elements. 2 components, mutually exclusive, make up that universe. OCCP, their (or There) is the Empire! So two primary elements from Thomas' universe came down the pope in my universe in rapid succession. 1) The Xtian secret sign (fish) 2) OCCP documents. the combination was too much for the partition of the two psychoi. This explains my acosmism - much of "me" was in another universe. Hence "Joint" all the way through to "Scanner." Then Thomas may have been in his own world is-a-vis the Xerox missive + though his been penetrated; at that moment the 2 universes converged - literally were one. Thomas was very afraid of Pigspart. So all my conjecture that I'm covertly Pig spurt is a misinterpretation of the actual situation in which Thomas is living in a Pigspurt tyranny as a secret Xtian revolutionary in an alternate niverse). So I got a bleeding across of a confusing mix of revolutionary tianity + aspurt. This would explain pate th 438 i I in that universe I know scientific Greek o I just thought of a possibility that beggars descrip in S-F alternate worlds are separate - they are truly alternate. Suppose it isn't that way; they are like in "Eye," somehow superimposed or fused - ah; my matrix theory onto which a variety of worlds are pro‐ jected (cf "Tears"). Then the Xtian universe is a way of being in this (which is the only] world. this pushes subjectivity + projection farther than even I have pushed it or could push it: viz: there is a way of being in this world in which - well, it is like - it is - "Tears" + the issues which are raised in "Tears" vis-a-vis variations of worlds are raised. can there be objective differences - e.g. when Thomas took me over I saw recontouring - what I called falsework. Additions + subtractions. This is just plain clearly impossible - or is it? "Tears" vs our world. Q: are some versions more true than others? Q: is one true + the others false? Q: If so, which is true? Q: If so, how do we establish which one it is? Q: Could it be that "Tears" is the true one, the the true one? Q: How do the others arise? Q: are our peceptions deliberately manipulated? A: the real world is the Xtian universe (+ the secret revolutionary Xtian underground) against the Empire. The antithetical interaction shows up in Tears" - the Empire is clear; where is the Xtian element? Would you believe Acts which locates an Xtian element in Taverner; viz: by means of a Buckman = Felix Procurator ( grid. The Acts grid Taverner has to be Paul the grid is essent os s (the persecuted church). tial of Buckman is Felix procurator you 439 can infer by means of the Acts grid + only by means of the Acts grid that Taverner - (is) Paul is 1) the persecuted church. So Acts is a grid. This is its purpose It dentifies precisely Buckman as Felix procurator. Taverner himself cannot (without s s Nor Felix Buckman, the grid) be identified as Paul - as Felix Procurator!) o n i So Acts isn't there to point to CAD 70 except as code grid. It tells us who Taverner is by telling us who Buckman is (you take general Felix, add the Acts grid, + there is no latitude; it makes Taverner Paul with no doubt. This completes the message; ther would be no message without the grid. So the point of It all is to say: (cryptically] Xtian under‐ ground. So in "Tears" the underground is talking to itself. This doesn't bring in the King Felix cypher. but it probably refers to Christ [returned], esp if you add the whole dream. So "Tears" alludes to the Xtian underground in doing so to what I call the Xtian universe o 3-74 ratifies what "Tears" says; i.e. I exper inced the Xtian universe which, did it not exist, would render the Xtian underground pointless This is why in 2-3-74 I saw the world of Tears": it was not the past as I thought but correct view of the present, the Acts material as I say) in a code (i.e. info] grid, + only an info - extractor grid. Eureka! It's to tell - not ust who Taverner is - (i.e. Paul) but Paul it signifies the by signify persecute Q40) is to say the can) Xtian underground. i i.e. Taverner = Paul = Xtian underground.) So we have the actual (+ sought for) dialectical antithesis, + the real world, our present real world, is presented, but legible only through the information-extractor grid Acts). You can't reason to the essential t t final step - the secret Xtian underground except through the grid. It ainst the Empire talking in the book; it's the under‐ ground. So there is an underground + there is (as I know) an Xtian universe; but this universe includes the Empires but the book doesn't exist to tell the Xtian underground that the Xtian underground exists; there would be one more level of cyphered info - + there is: the actual message, to the underground, based on the credentials of the "Felix - Paul. material (itself via a cypher grid: Acts). King Felix. + the dream. Instructions? could mean anything; it is real cypher. Aint no way to break it: could be signal, not cypher. my greatest hope appears (is!) ratified; there is a secret [real] Xtian underground + I served it s Delight! Joy! I did not experience a time dysfunction when I saw the superimposition; it N was my view of our world - + the way it really is, It's as simple as that. + "Tears" shows our world as It really is (or was). t ➀ Hence I said, I am no longer blind"! 440 Now, it is entirely possible that this lanet has been invaded by a superior life form Valis), + that in truth "Star people" are ( involved. (Bible as code.) (Acts refers to a constant antithesis.) (not to one time + me i place but to two warring parties, warring over thousands of years + maybe many planets! is this the dialectic? Xtians us Empire? So (to sum up) I now see why the Acts "Tears." material must (sic: must) be in + next, upon knowing this, I know indeed that a secret real Xtian underground exists + the Empire exists + they fight it out. + that in 1974 the Xtians did something: went i on the offensive. II like with Frederic at the Elector Palatine So very likely the dialectic - antithetical dialectic - I saw (i.e. it was revealed to me) wasn't cosmological but more political living adversaries: parties in a 2-group conflict. However, both parties as described (Xtians vs Empire) could represent super‐ natural antagonists - whatever "supernatural" ight mean. Vast technology? + Valis (the Xtian side, the side I'm on) has invaded this planet in camouflaged form wow!!! + its message traffic rides + ooks our info media! (The "plasmate") wow!! I intuit: vastly sophisticated technology. 2-74 verifies info-extractor grid (Acts) in Tears." 82) 44 the cornish game her instructions flash: "your instructions will come to you at the proper time. they did. This is what 2-3-74 was. The time came; hence pages of written information. the King Felix cypher in "Tearsuch "Tears" were instructions, timed instructions although not to me. Xerox missive was phony instructions, deliberate simulation by army G2 officer of instructions such as he supposed (wrongly; i.e. Pigspurt) I was waiting for vis-a-vis publication of "Tears." I was waiting + they did come - internally: i.e. in "Tears" Thomas. Acts material verifies Felix as procurator, designating Taverner as Paul = persecuted church. 2-74 verifies Acts material: I then saw the persecuted church (before I knew the Acts material t was in "Tears") + knew the situation (anti thetical dialectic: Xtians vs Empire). I saw "Tears." I saw precisely what Jason Taverner represents (i.e. Taverner = Paul = hidden church). N Then I found Acts material in "Tears." (later in 1974.) Then (tonight) I recognized necessity of Acts material: to serve as information-extraction grid. it had to be there. (To designate hidden church). ( "Tears" = real world (hidden church vs Empire, not at any one time or place.) arena of battle: information suppression versus dissemination (freedom). Hence plasmate. {Note] So book would carry credentials to fire signal King-Felix - Valis? Valis? cypher King-Felix. aore, viz: Xtian universe. Real one (2) + much 94 wise old king in dream = Valis? existence of Xtian underground indubitable. other wise Acts info-extractor grid serves no purpose 8 2-74 flash literally correct (v. Acts matering). + in 2-3-74 I saw "Tears" under the aspect of Acts before I knew Acts material was in "Tears." anamnesis = true perception of world, not remory of past; rather, knowledge of identity (roles, in the antithetical struggle (hidden church, i.e. the true church, vs Empire). consort King of Tears (Pentheus) defeated. The crucial, is woman dies (v. "Valis"). King of Tears' soul. He turned from immortal angel into mortal (secular ized). I.e. cast down. The war in heaven. Judged by the other king: the wise old king in the dream. Dark king (Tears) vs king with beard like snown wool (Christ, the adversary of the King of Tears, the Black king [shut up in darkness]. Essenes. Har Meggido. v. the light vs dark. cave 5 scrolls: battle plans. the dancing corn king - dythramb. At dawn. the two realms: Light + dark. Dialectic. Light ‐ os (or 10) pen. Dark = shut (a closed sack). Garden vs Black Iron prison t If yang of yin Christ born from the sunlight. away teleology efficient t t t Exhale inhale in mate back to God exhale second First away from God. reabsouption into creation. God: return. alienation. the pretextual cause unmoved mover stimulation to goal seeking that I saw - i.e. Valis - is: return to God. The last tage of the total journey which began nitially with creation (exhalation). So am - was in 3-74 - home, when I saw Valis. Hence the dreams of the post mortem world! The loving void! th 944 explains the postmortem experiences, + my name entered in the book; my million year journey was over, safely, with a return, i In Acts, Christ appears to Paul on + hence the road to Damascus. Paul's conversion. in "Tears" the wise old king (who is Christ - vide revelation -) appears hence to Buckman. aconversion. both having to do with the man (who is innocent) who the percipient of the theophany is persecuting. on the real to Paul Christ appears. to Budman on the road; Christ appears. th undergo conversion [to Xtianity). bo + of course in "Tears" fusion with scene of Philip + the black man, agai on the kind: blat man in vehicle. So the dream in "Tears" is part of the Acts material, since it is the epiphany (disclosure) of Christ to the persecutor. (Paul was then still saul + a persecutor of Xtians, not a Xtian - which I forgot! In Acts. Paul occupies both roles!