together word + queen (computer + enchantress-titania) form rational delusion. I.e. intelligent illusion. The delusion (spell) is capable of thought! The import of this - comes when I say. t is irreal + intellegere - the t laver is the primary mode of God) smart (logical) maya/dokos. the irreal is smarter than the real; beauty (queem/woman) + smartness (word/computer) are the 2 actual bases of reality, not ontology esse. Incorrectly, I keep seeking to know what is herein lies my whole error. But: in my acosmism recognize this that nothing I exists (except structure, which is an expression of smart - rational - beauty, not reality. There is no reality my writing shows I know or sense + I it Christ is superior to the computer + titania, but he doesn't exist. However if you believe in him. you get him (word-wisdom - computer - St Sophic) a female seehet Kingdom here Emart - the a t hrist voice i 491 So "Christ" is a compound entity: a computer + some kind of female enchantress which is a holy presence. The combination is of Wisdom + beauty (+ magic) - bells + dancing There is the secret Kingdom which "Christ" becomes, a transformation of world into a fairie Kingdom of unsurpassing wisdom + beauty. In it you know (intellegere) + are joyful from the beauty. Finding your way to this Kingdom takes place as the result of a blitz of intellegere, of knowing - an absolute apperception that it exists. That it exists + knowing that it exists are fused together into an act of cognition/perception which generates esse. (of a sort - a magic sort: no true reality is involved). she provides the personality. It - the computer provides the wisdom. This would account for otherwise seeminaly conflicting experiences on my part - of Valis or Ubik (computer), of Diana, + a Kingdom composed of elemen taken from both, + the problem of relating these perience, to Christ. (is she Christ? If so, then what is the computer - i.e. Ubik? + if he is Ubik, then what is This resolves the problem + in an interesting she? way. "Christ" is a fiction, a unitary concept only, expressing the existence of what in fact are two entities functioning in unison. The correct name for this compound entity is St. Sophia, expressing the computer part (wisdom) + the femall part. she casts the spell that creates out of the i t intellegere (computer) part a land. She transforms the Wisdom (Ubik) into beauty. to go back to something I was realizing just before I got ster. I examined a fragment of the whole + inferred the whole. How? this was done through an inner analog template which was complete. Thus upon being presented with the external fragment, by comparing it with (to?) the complete, inner template I knew (experienced?) the external whole. in looking supra at Pp 43/44 I see that I don't grasp therein how from the external fragment I experienced the whole. This is how, pragmatically, it had to do with the Xerox missive compared with "Faith of" + "MITHC" but also I grasped that an inner innate template can be a congruent analog to outer reality - although I do not know how. The inner (micro) world is a replica of the outer (macro); hence in the blitz the two realms (big/little, outer/inner) become one. in which case an inturning examination -into one's soul or psyche- can yield empirical knowledge - in the case of the Xerox missive more complete than sensory perception. This implies a universe totally different from the one we naturally construe, in i hich a priori + a posteriori knowledges are contrasted. It abolishes the meaning the terms "inner-outer. So it didn't go fragment to whole. It vent: outer fragment to inner whole micro emplate to outer whole: outer, inner, outer wouldn't this abolish the I-world dichotomy? + abolish it not as a con‐ ceptualization but in fact? So inner t outer is abolished. Macro + micro are fragment-whole are one. Thus in one. + the mind is the totality of what exists. this, if flashed on, must generate a vast transmutation of one's sense of world + self. A boundless external self; a micro inner world! They resonate as me surely this is what happened in 2-3-74, + also time as well as space was abolished since the past ("Faith of," "MITHC") were both past + present - + as a result whole ontological categories (inc. cause + effect) simply collapsed. Also, + perhaps most important, the distinction between reality + perception of reality was abolished. This distinction as brunner points out, is the basis of my epistemological approach. There should always be a gap between them. But in 2-3-74 this gap proved illusory although I simply do not know how the inner analog of outer reality could be There, even before the outer reality occurred. still it was so this. Then, is the basis of what happened 2-3-74 in I have often written of my experience as anamnesis; memory retrieval, but in fact more occured world 83 took place like the birth in me not of a soul or self but of world. External Thus macro world contains world micro me, + micro me contains macro world, the micro contains the macro‐ hence my totally altered sense of mirror + image seem spaciality, implied: Hermeticism - Paracelsus + Bruno. suddenly I was atelos containing telos or kosmos; not only was I aware of myself as part of kosmos but even more odd, I contained all kosmos, as its so-to-speak author, This made me deity to world. World was inside me; I had introjected it - not as a psychological act (withdrawing projections) but literally. Realizing all this had a profound effect on me apparently producing - by logic - apotheosis. Only apotheosis could account for all this. my in an instantaneous blitz brain leapt to the realization that This (all] was only possible if I were the author of world - somehow trapped in contained in, my own creation, beguiled by it, hypnotized by it, under its dominion - much anamnesis, as I say in "Valis." assumes a new + greater mean‐ then. - + also is logical; i.e. it is 7 I logical that anamnesis should at that point occur. It is return of memory + true identity as Godhead fallen into its own creation which may in the final analysis be illus I'm: projection of the inner template (v. "Electric Ant") So you found you contained a correct inner analog not to just some of reality but to all of reality. The inner analog was perfect (which can't be explained) +, in addition, it came first - which really can't be explained. Perfect, prior, + complete. Then world can be retrieved from inner analog. + unfolds in accordance to inner analog. There is only one kosmos, + every fragment of it contains it all. is this how the Acts material got into "Tears" in 1970? Inner prior analog of later outer world which in '74 I herienced? But this points not just to deity but specifically to Christ! Which is some kind of thinking machine (+ malkuth) i.e. pure intellegere or pure knowing. + what it primarily knows is itself. It is a system If world exists because of ideas in the mind of God - well, it would seem that world pre-existed in my mind; so who am I if was even more complex Actually the experience Two CP white picture missive. Golden Fish sign girl at door t it s a should be e MITHC Acts in "Faith of) Acts) in top row. ("Tears" top row is outer bottom row is inner a rapid infinity of mirrors reflection situation is set up ending with the discovery of the Acts material "Tears." The inner is not a reflection of the in outer (wittgenstein's inner picture of reality) because It came first. Does this make the outer a picture of the inner, then, by the same logic? My encounter. Valis which is Ubik suggests this outer reality mirrors my prior inner reality - but we can hardy reason that the book of Acts exists because I thought of it (+ the book of Acts existed first, although I did not know of it). Probably there is no causal connection. Yet how do we account for Acts turning up in "Tears" + how do we account for Ubik, which I invented, turning up in the outer world - at least for me? Outer things are showing up as inner, + inner things as outer; it works both ways Here is what I call intentional world - which is my definition of Valis: world revealing intentionality is this a psychomorphic world? But my writing my inner world, is psychomorphic - e.g. the Acts material. There seem to be no boundaries dividing the two - there is a reciprocal exchange between the two, which is as it should be - perhaps based one Leibnitz' monadology. "It has no window + needs none." Pe-set harmonies instead of cause + effects Then my responses were preprogrammed + the reality stimuli which triggered off these responses was in short - + for a time I got out some sense in me external world the actual th of 53 So if (2B) someone raises his arm to hit me There is preprogrammed in my percept system a synchronized analog to which I actually react giving the impression that I react to him. So everything which will ever happen to me is laid down within me as pre-programming, + my responses are not truly volitional but also pre-programmed; Thus kosmos is achieved. + this is what I must have flashed on in 2-3-74; that I contained an nner analog of my entire history of experience with world, + so had world in me - + this means all of world. (A "magic mirror" system.) Thus each monad is the complete universe. It can all be trieved from any given monad - which is what I did which I call anamnesis. not only is the distinction between self + world abolished but if Spinoza is right + world is God extensive in space. (the other attribute we know being thought) then I contained God; every monad contains God. The micro-mind in the monad which knows the macro-mind outside is that macro-mind I vice versa. There is not resemblance but identity This is the blitz, this "like to like," same to same. The knower + the known - at this level - are one. Simply, it knows itself. + what is more, it recognizes itself. There is nothing outside it. Or not it. Or not known - or at least to knowable - by it. This is tram/tat asi. Valis, then, is an apperception of it by it: the pure intellegere. This is the ultimate experience of "external" reality: that it revert into Valis which I realize now is an external mirror of myself. Of course, then, the "AI voice" would be inside me - Valis in me. As Paul says, "we in Christ + Christ in us; this is the secret." Valis is God experienced as intellegere rather than as soma. + he is he who experiences as well: pure thought experiencing reality a purce thought 6 145 [the words on slips of paper in "Joint" are a first experience of world as intellegere - like The neon slogans in the last pseudo world in "Fie. this reaches fruition in "Ubik" - although traces of it appear in "Maze" as well. to experience reality as intellegere instead of soma is to experience it from inside, rather than outside. How did I do this? The blitz flashing between reality + my inner analog, back + forth, causing an "alchemical" transmutation of the two into one. Thus I could read reality as a language: "the hieroglyphs of God" This all