of which He -not I- is the playful trickster + guide, the real me who projected the hologram of Acts. He remembers being a secret revolutionary Xtian, with passwords - but he could be late Medieval, not first century - as the E.B. described in its article on "Messianic Movements"; he could follow Joachim del Fiore. He put the material in "Tears", e.g. He lived in a monastic, communist community where they had that pitcher of water, + techniques for reincarnation upon death - the pink cube of something. The Greek suggests first century, but there is that part about blowing up fortifications with explosives - which I sort of feel is connected with the 1600s. Maybe he viewed himself as an apostolic Xtian, but wasn't one literally; I have to keep in mind the explosives. Maybe he's come back a number of times; that must be it. But I do think he was a templar, + this points to the illuminati + R.C. => Acts material in "Tears" is for the purpose of encoding. Acts projected onto world is for the purpose of extracting info back out (decoding). Now, what kind of world is it where there is information in it as in a book? Can you think of any book that is an analog to reality + conversely reality an analog to a book? Why, the Torah. So what we have here is Torah - in "Tears" + in world. But now we are left with the Q: what is the Torah? A: an information basis of reality - reality is a carrier for information. This would be not the 2nd Torah of justice + severe limitation but the 3rd Torah of Mercy {Note}. It is both book (info) + reality (carrier). Specifically the reality carrier is reality as Acts. Then there is no spatiotemporal reality there {Note2}, but if you can see it as Acts you can extract the information. (Torah; this is what I called the plasmate) Just as: if you can see "Tears" as Acts you can extract the information back out. In both cases the Acts grid is necessary if the information is to be extracted. Why Acts? Arbitrary? No. It must have to do with the Holy Spirit, since Acts is "The Gospel of the Holy Spirit"! So the Acts world that I saw is a hologram projected by my own brain. Thomas, then, is the Holy Spirit, a saprophytic life form. + of course the Holy Spirit would account for the material revealed to me that I found in the E.B. article on "Messianic Movements"; this is the revolutionary return of the Holy Spirit. {Note:} i.e. Christian {Note2:} only a matrix What must be realized is that Acts is both world + information (just as the groove of an LP is both "world" -groove- + music - information). In "Tears," Acts shows up as information. Projected onto the matrix as world, it is the "groove" from which information (what I called the plasmate) can be extracted. {Note} The information is not Acts (because in this mode Acts is world); the information ("music") is - the Christ. (Valis.) Which has an information metabolism. (But even in "Tears" Acts is not the information; it is the grid or the carrier or the medium for the information, the information in "Tears" -obtained by the Acts grid- is King Felix - i.e. the Christ! It's a very different thing to say that the Holy Spirit caused me to know the things -+ to see history + myself the way- that the E.B. article on "Messianic movements" describes than to attribute it to e.g. the R.C., because then instead of technology + paranormal powers by humans you have the Spirit of God related to Christ himself. + because here (i.e. in Thomas) you have the personality which is the element I had believed was lacking in 2-3-74 - but which was in 11-17-80 in contrast, this supposed lack being my complaint against 2-3-74. {Note:} Acts, then, is a way of "playing" reality + extracting the "music" - i.e. the information in it. Of course. (1) You lay the Acts grid over the text of "Tears" + you extract information from "Tears" you could not otherwise extract, it is Acts added to "Tears." (2) You lay the Acts grid over USA 1974 + you see + hence can extract (set to ground discrimination) information from USA 1974 (world) which is now modified by an analogous contour-change: suppression at some places, enhancement at others. V. p. 23 sign +-. This explains why Acts + USA 1974 could be syntonically blended. It isn't Acts instead of USA 1974; it is Acts added (as decoding grid) to USA 1974. I've always said that: they blended together - which made no sense. But Acts blends in with the world of "Tears," does it not? + exactly the same thing occurs: set to ground information becomes visible. The Acts material in "Tears" is a micro-model of how it (Acts) works when used as a grid or lens or superimposition on world itself! So I bet Acts was written for this purpose: as an encoding-decoding grid, by virtue of containing a very large number of situations + events. Also, it is the second half of Luke. My God; I never thought of this before! + in both cases you obtain the same thing: information that Christ is present. No wait: information that there is a secret Christian underground (Jason Taverner / what I saw). The Acts material reverses polarities regarding Jason Taverner's innocence, it points to him as a conspirator - part of a secret Xtian underground suspected by the authorities. The cypher backs this up as does the dream itself. + this is precisely what I "remembered" (anamnesis) in 2-74 when I saw the Golden Fish sign - + saw for an instant the Acts grid superimposed on USA 1974. The information extracted is the basis of what is in the E.B. article on "Messianic movements"! It is Xtianity vs the Fourth Empire + now; time-distinctions are, by reason of the grid, blurred, so that the original position of the infant church vis-à-vis Rome carries -appears- in the present. It is Xtianity (1) secret; + (2) bipolarized with the status quo ruling powers rather than aligned with them. In a sudden blitz the Xtian role is reversed, pulled inside out: it must be secret because it opposes the ruling powers - so perceiving the secret Xtians is also to understand the ruling powers as satanic - i.e. the Empire! As it was at the time of Acts. (I.e. before Constantine.) So Acts is not just an earlier [space]-time but a decoding lens that does a sign-value reversal on (1) Xtianity; + (2) the ruling powers. This is the Messianic message of Joachim del Fiore + the left-wing Moravians, Anabaptists etc. Okay; now I have it. Acts is an encoding-decoding lens/grid by which the true historical Messianic role of the Xtians -vs the Empire- can instantly be seen; it converts the value signs in a flash this way: without Acts lens: Satan {right arrow} x {left arrow} Xtianity - the social order with Acts lens: secret revolutionary Xtian underground {right arrow} x {left arrow} the social order - Satan I.e. it bipolarizes Xtianity to the established social order + moves Satan across from antagonist of the social order to its secret source. Thus 2000 years of history as well as the present is instantly reinterpreted. Further (+ perhaps even more important) it shows true Xtianity working for a millenial kingdom under Christ in this world rather than in the next, so the entire meaning of the N.T. is reinterpreted along political revolutionary Messianic radical left wing lines. + it creates in the percipient's mind the concept of "the Empire" - not only in the past, but now. This Acts grid/lens pertains to the now as well as the past. Further, it reveals that this vast historical disposition makes sense only if the second coming is regarded as vital, real + imminent. It reveals the present social order ("the Empire") as the tool of Satan + discloses history as a dialectical combat between revolutionary Xtianity -on the outside- + the Empire at the center, thus the dialectic is shown, with the secret Xtians subverting the Empire in the past + now, + working eventually to overthrow it; thus all historical events are reappraised on the spot, since this is correctly seen as a 2000 year struggle. All this based on the Acts lens/grid through which a totally different picture of history -of the role + purpose of Xtianity, of the Empire, of Satan- can be instantly read. + this is not a view or ideology taught in words; this is literally seen. Thus all reality -past, present + future- is reappraised radically. Christ did not die to free men from their sins; he came as the Messiah to found a real, literal, actual millenial kingdom; this follows the overthrow -successfully at last- of the Empire. These 2 constants of the dialectic (secret underground revolutionary Xtianity vs the Iron Empire) take many guises, so the reality of the flux realm of spatiotemporality vanishes in favor of what I call "morphological arrangement," something like Plato's eidē above the flux; thus space + time are suddenly not real, + there are always these two constants - + will be, until the return of Christ upon the successful overthrow of the Empire. The next revelation (when all this has sunk in) is that discorporate camouflaged {Note} Christ is here now with his followers, visible only to them. {Note:} resurrected non-physical The percipient knows that he has a role to play in this dialectical struggle that he has been playing outside space + time starting with Acts, going through history to the present + on into the future; that what he is + does now he has been doing since Pentecost. He is really living in reality as interpreted through + by the Acts lens/grid. Thus he is a contemporary of Christ. + his own acts are part of the Acts of the Apostles. He now views himself, space, time, Xtianity, all history, the goal of history, in a totally new way. + this revelation carries both complete understanding to him + is totally convincing; he does not just think or believe this; he knows it because he can see it. More, it is as if he remembers this, as if he had known it from the beginning 2000 years ago but had temporarily forgotten it. + to prove it all (as I say) he catches a glimpse of -is aware of the real + immediate presence of- the camouflaged resurrected Christ who is attacking the old cosmos, dismantling it + assimilating the pieces into his own new macrometasomakosmos (which only the secret real Xtian can see, by means of the Holy Spirit who has provided him with this crucial Acts encoding-decoding lens/grid by which to view reality). Today I’ve tried to work on my exegesis - as I've been doing for 6½ years. I can't do it. Why not? Because the love + personality that God showed me on 11-17-80 make any intellectual understanding seem unimportant - pale + weak + dry + faded. Never have I known anything like that love; + the personality - it was as distinct as any human personality. + this does not even consider the infinite bliss I felt. He answered all my questions anyhow; I have no more questions. To know God + God’s love, + to understand how our suffering, our life here, will be justified - his gentle reproach: "Would you think I in my theodicy would not make it up to you, make it up so that this suffering here would seem -be- paltry in comparison?" + then he let me experience a little of the bliss to come. So the bliss did 3 things: 1) It explained why