from that of Timaeus. Noös isn't per- suading or imposing cosmos (order) on chaos; it is selecting out of the total mass what it needs (wants, can use). Could it be that a part so selected would know it (as I did in 3-74)? So then we are back to the negentropic vortex forming within the reality field, & much smaller by far than it. A universe (?) within a universe. Then Valis is antithetical to the dialectic; it is synthetic. Like I say in "Valis," it is the rational invading the irrational - & it utilizes mimesis & [trickery?]; it keeps itself invisible to us. It is a life form, & the dialectic mechanism is the sole driving force of the universe. Valis is an organism, a life form. One main reason why this [selectivity] is an important consideration is what I saw it (Valis) doing in 3-74: aborting causal trains by an override which no one ever normally sees. If it did this routinely, I would have not observed anything unusual. But what I saw was quite unusual. Either I was taken out of the natural world (cosmos) or it was abolished, or both. In fact - consider the plasma riding "Tears." There is a life {circled:"14"} from here which we can't normally see. In fact, I was virtually "on the other side" yet somehow still alive, as if in both the next world & this. Then I was transported bodily, physically, out of the world (& to where? Heaven?) & returned. But I was someone else ("Thomas"). Were parts of this world abolished? _____ Let's try a new approach. I now seem fully to understand "astral determinism"; it is the mechanical dialectic generating down all the form axes into infinity, etc. But the pronoia (divine providence) in 3-74 in which those casual trains were overruled - "molted." This is the deity who (contrary to Spinoza's conception) works (at least in his pronoia) against "nature", ie Natural Law. This is Valis, who is here invisibly, camouflaged. IT, I do not understand, except that it is not the mechanical dialectic unfolding (fate). But if a cybernetics model is used, what if we try the idea that the mechanical system possesses (or this was added to it) a self-monitoring circuit so that it is aware of the modulations of its own "signal" - which is what becomes of the input source-signal: the geometric form on the wafer; as it is processed by the system. After all, I have the example of Valis feeding back "Ubik" (& possibly "Tears" & "unteleported man" etc) to me in 3-74, to be mixed with my own experiences since writing "Ubik" & finally emanating from me as "Valis" (which I guess it could now feed back to me again, etc). Thus the blind inexorable processing of the input signal is viewed by a self-monitoring circuit {circled:"15"}[upper right corner illigible?] which has the knowledge, foresight, and power to modulate the "law" - to suspend it & its power. It would be this circuit to whom we would direct our hopes, love and appeals; it is intelligent (ie rational, in contrast to the irrational dialectic mechanism) into this should be inserted the concept of "overstepping" - natural forces violating cosmic order, harmony, proportion (ma'at). Surely the monitoring circuit watches for this. This may be precisely what it watches for. So it is regulatory: a law higher than the mechanical law. A total integrative harmonizing, or arranging, etc. This is intelligenics & concern, with the necessary (absolute) power to alter. Hierarchically, this circuit is of a higher order than the dialectic. It has the last word (obviously it assesses or judges, & on the basis of that judgment acts; so here is theodicy). The original eidos (1:.618034) must be returned throughout all the transformations (processing) of the signal through the [mechanical dialectical] construct. This is certainly very close to the nature & function of ma'at. Laura (415) 324 8544 "Foresight, direction and care." ___ The deterioration of the signal comes gradually (eg the tyranny) the correction suddenly. & Valis (Zebra) seemed like an info processing & arranging entity, fitting my signal-processing model. "Prayer" becomes signal input into the correctionintervention circuit. If you silently endure evil no signal (of distress) gets to the correction circuit; this is why your commission is to be aware & watch. You're watching in order to choose Him. “Necessity of petition- ary prayer” - eg “we need medical attention. {circled:"16"} prayer is information - literally about conditions within the circuits (system). “Tears” contained such info, literally, & tripped (for me, & possibly historically) the intervention, corrective circuit. VALIS is an info entity - I saw this. King Felix shows that victim [bilate?] had reoccured. “King Felix” is an index to the entire Acts [material?] in “Tears,” and the Acts [material?] in info connecting our actual historic saturation to the connection circuit. It synthesizes the [?] of deviation from the [?] signal - & indicates a regression [along?] (a major) the form axis, a failure of the progressive dialectic. This is the mechanism of omniscience; this is how it works. The bad king (tyrant) sabotages the monitoring-connective circuit by blocking all distress signals aimed to trigger it. He suppresses any kind of [repetition?] (feedback) of his activities. Not only can I now see the purpose (function) of the Acts [material?] in “Tears” but, in fact, its necessity; it conveyed the info of a form regression to the King Felix [?] state which I then actually saw! (ala form axis regression in “Ubik”!) And how do I now assess Thomas? As the real self in me, hidden by the mask of PKD - Thomas is an apostolic xtian agent passing here as a native - ie me. Hence the little boy Philip in the [Raft?] dream. Thomas {circled:"17"} here to monitor the situation like the stranger in “The Bacchae” or Jesus as secretly christ - Thomas put the Acts material in “Tears.” I was a cover for him so he could monitor & repeat back, “Tears” was his report. The tyranny was suspicious & almost prevented the info from getting out. Someone who was familiar with the world of Acts was needed, someone who could recognize it - ie the form-regression. Also (as with Christ) there was a monitoring of the judgement he receives here in disguised from - as I figured out: a trap on my (ie Thomas’) part; I was bait, “the flesh of humanity with the barbed hook of divinity which the satanic powers could not resist.” Someone from outside the prison had to be gotten into it and then report back - exactly as in “Unteleported Man” about Newcolonized- land - the garrison state at Whale's Mouth! Which is why I dreamed the key cypher “A[lbemuth?]: “Tears” constituted a written prayer “Zebra is an invader.” My great insight. Was it summoned here, it as correcting override circuit? Many people could see the tyranny, but Thomas saw what they did not; form regression to King Felix -ie Acts. Here, his knowledge, in this one regard, was unique - & crucial as report back. I must remember: I saw Acts in 2-3 74 before I (sic) knew of the Acts material in “Tears.” So it wasn't suggested by my (sic) knowledge of the book. Nor when I saw the phosphene illumination of King Felix did I know. {circled:"18"} "Unteleported Man" is a description of Thomas' mission. The golden-fish disinhibiting of Thomas was deliberate and in response to the book. "Ubik" gives a good account of Thomas' theoretical knowledge. Esp. the regressive [possibility of the] form axis. "Maze" shows a world without a selfmonitoring feedback circuit. My ability to read Latin during my LSD trip, is now explained. (v. pt II of "Unteleported Man.") Maze "Joint" shows reality as info. "Stigmata" is a study of this world in the power of satan. The acosmism is probably Gnostic Thomas knew that the girl with the golden fish sign would show up. Hence "Faith of..." What about the "AI" voice, which I first heard in high school physics class? She (note: she) must by my advisor, who has been with me from the start. That's all I really know: what she does: counsels. Esp. she corrects errors I make. Her existence is a reminder of the [truth?] of this. "Scanner" depicts the two people in my brain situation, which is my situation. Thomas was brought in in 1928 to monitor a situation that came about in about 35 years later, which indicates foreknowledge by the feedback circuit: it sent in a witness to report back (in info form). Dispatching a witness in 1928, 35 years before the tyranny, is an example of the playing an unfathomable card before the adversary's move which later - to his surprise - proves crucial - an example 4 God anticipating evil's form {circled:"19"} as was revealed to me as God's M.O. the adversary could not fathom the strategy even though he saw the move; this it is said of him that he is blind. The witness is dispatched in advance. Years pass. Then the witness sends a message back to the Lord of Light; the message is "Tears." The Lord of Light sends a response to the witness: the golden fish sign; the message has been received. The Lord says, "the conspira tors have been seen and will be brought to justice." The witness has done his job; he has notified the Lord of what he sees: form regression to the {caret} dreadful BIP of Acts. The response from the Lord (the "parent" of the witness) restores the witness' memory; he comes to himself and knows. He sees the Lord (the corrective circuit) act. Within the witness his advisor speaks to him in her quiet voice; she is the gift to him from the Lord for his bravery behind enemy lines, {caret} v. p.21 she will always be with him, & when he dies she will greet him in the light-struck meadow & take him home. Here is the memory template I previously wrote about. Only someone who remembered Acts would recognize Acts here in USA 1974. This is exactly what Thomas did; this is why Acts & USA 1974 was {caret} Note I wrote "was" not "were"!) syntonic, which is otherwise inexplicable. It is possible that in terms of information, "Tears" is a detailed, carefully constructed analysis of our actual world - inc. not only what it is but what it tends toward: a projection of nascent trends & {circled:"20"} underlying forces. Thus it is a projection, an accurate me, based on the paralactic view of Thomas and me both. It is USA 1970 severely worsened. It is a prison; there are forces labor camps, class war, police rule & genocide. As a report on conditions here it is not fiction but it does not relate surface truths. Contemplate it & imagine it as what it is: a report - analysis - of our world sent back to the outside by someone who managed to get past "Scotland Yard" (the "Warders") & inside. It is a somber read-out & it is accurate. Consider what the appropriate response to such a report would be. Actually the report is merely a confirm, part of a precise feedback system (this is why I had to do eleven drafts, specifically of the last section). The corrective circuit itself was the two of us, Thomas & me, doing the plumbing, the analysis; that's part of its job. This explains the sacredness about Thomas; he is a microform of the corrective circuit (the Lord of Light), so in a sense the Lord himself entered this world, as Thomas who entered as me. Thus one component of the corrective circuit informs the entire circuit outside. Hence the firing of meta circuits is 3-74. Initiated by the stimulus of 2-74, the Lord himself remembers himself, disinhibited by himself, in the service of himself. This is a typical, archetypal