explaining what rappened in 2-3-74 but explaining schizophrenia Lem (P92): "the main source of the information that makes up pseudoreality is the brain of the han lying in cold storage; in this way we caus account for the fact that each relaxation of the direction of psychic processes by the stimulator correlates with changed appearances in the mind of the patient. He will experience them as a change of environment as if in a dream." in 2-3-74 my reality collates with material in my prior writing - i.e. material in/from my brain. his realization by me (subconsciously) in 2-3-74 riggered everything that took place in me off (as I ecently realized). This "everything" resembled "Ubik" + Bik... the sort of "uncanny one-way intrusions" + he collapse of time (distinction between past, present future). + the info, the plasmate, etc. Not Lem's analysis evolves around the dictum that no technology is without hror. It will fuck up. A simulated reality will eventually betray its simulated nature. Not intrusion into the mind of one person in "Cold-pac" by that of nother new point: 1971 Xerox I t on my missive Lem's a unme article on "Ubik" thouse is I I Ubik + "Ubik" 12: t attack on me generated by like experience on my part occf interest / analysis of t "Ubik" + Ubik induces a "Ubik" could this be Ubik experience in me. Strange regarded as the source for the novel? coincidence. it Lem seriously ponders the very real possibility of such a machine-programmed pseudo reality as depicted in "Ubik" + wonders how the brain involved could tell. suppose "events" in '74 are obviously based on material present in the brain a decade previous. This not a kind of technological fuck-up such as Lem envisions? "Reality" is actually playing back, as an LP record plays back, reality (v. supra: "We are tracking a "groove" in which the information is already laid down"). Not the discovery by the brain of this - is I recently speculated (reasoned) that upon My brain (not conscious ego) perceiving that bvents (of 2-3-74) were already present (as nformation?) In my brain (or memory), my brain could problem-solve by scrutinizing its own prior contents (memory) rather than The external events (or "external events"). Which is to say, the more complete matrix of the "external events" lay within the brain, + as memories (i.e. the were there years ago). this cellates with my "two-tapes synchronized former theory. But is more productive. There is a feedback system (v. Lem): rreality simu rain at or com puter programmer) wo further points: 1) I feel/felt that I literally lied C 2-3-74. Is this not analogous to Joe Chip? + 2) felt that I was reliving 3-74; e.g. I knew the ract day the Xerox missive was coming. Does this not to Lem's paradigi model conform 118 I am not saying, I now come to the con‐ clusion that the fact of 2-3-74 agreeing with my prior writing proves a simulated reality as in "Ubik"; I say, my brain realized this at the time - i.e. in 2-3-74 + acted that realization, successfully, + also saw the world of "Ubik" - i.e. saw Ubik which (I would now hazard) can be defined as the involved reality simulator, although when I wrote Ubik" I did not conceive of Ubik that way. This is not correct: i brain reality whether "genuine" or "simulated" this is correct: 2 i reality transformers i generator, programmer brain or simulator, etc. t i i reality (what ever that is) is fed by the brain reality (i.e. (1) feeds (2)) where it is boosted "worldified - maybe info turned into space time world - + then fed back to the vain, this is not -repeat not - solipsising; wo entities are involved: (1) + (2). But the ignal originates in (1) passes to (2) where it -fuch. Modified? Anyhow (2) is not (1) (2) feeds it back to (1) as reality with (1) ever suspecting that the raw info (signal) manated from it, in the first place is (2) Valis? It certainly is Ubik the causal pain melting which I saw - it did originate the e, as I've recently guessed. Is the t plasmall raw info/signal passing from (1) to (2)? or the "microcosm" (brain) fires signals So (info - instructions?) at the macro which remasters it into world + fires it back. This is karma or "astral determinism." The Xtian Hermetic secret is to 1) flash on the macro being contained in the micro - the info 2) or instructions starting from the brain - + modulate them ("short circuiting" or "burning up" karma or "freeing the person from fate or astral determinism"), to the brain's advant tage. The key is that we are not living reality, we are - in a sense - reliving it or tracking it merely. But - we have the power to take control of crucial events (instructions or information emanating from us: signal to (2)). If we deliberately modulate the outgoing instructions we will see reality melt - change. since the signal on which it is based (on which I depends) is edited. (2) can't initiate; it is dependent in (1). "Christ" is, then, in us in (1) + not in (2). (Of "The Electric Ant") (2) is some sort of vast info-processing computer-like entity. The Golden Fish sign momentarily broke the synchronization between (1) + (2) which soon led to a deprogramming of (1) + hence massive spacio-temporal + causal transformations in my (2). "Christ" is the conscious self in (1) expanding from percipient go to include all of (1). A true microuniverse. This is the worldwide urgeheimnis of all "wakefulness (enlightenment). 124 This explains why my 2-3-74 experience resembled "Ubik" + Ubik. It is the macro‐ information-processer + world fabricator. I ded "King Felix" into it + it at once rescued me; Christ rescued me. Christ is real; he overrides the computer ("fate," etc). apparently I called to him This model explains the intimations as for back as "Eye" + "Joint." I forgot to write down: the second model ( ) is an exact t pression of the Brahaman "tat tvam AsI; the identification between the Atman + Brahman. (1) is atman. (2) is Brahman. My model shows how it works: cunnin simulations of reality coming back at you," etc. This model codifies the epis temology of my entire corpus of writing It shows how these "[ounterfeit] photo graphic simulations of reality" arise: where they begin + how they relate to Maya + Karma. Also, the mimesis or mimickry or camouflage of Valis is herein explained. Reality itself is explained o in terms of the necessary percipient who is also the author being identical e ith the reality which comes at him w this is the essential doctrine of Brahmanism. F this model (1) were not essentially correct + the normal model (its) were my en tire 2 121 years of epistemology/writing would make no sense + have no purpose. not only would it explain nothing There would not even be problems puzzles) for it to explain - the problems (e.g. in "Joint") which have So long interested me. They would be imaginary problems. But I think this model is correct - + it has an honored history as Brahman ism. (Also, were this model correct, it would explain my preoccupations). in book after book + story after story I sought the correct model is it we are as if (als "Ubik" ob) in cold-pac + the spurious reality fed to us is (as Lem figured out) derived - played t back - from our own brains our own memories - but herewith "memory" must be totally rede fined - as my anamnesis in How, if memory 2-3-74 proves) swht we suppose it to be could I member AD 457 +, upon remem bering it, experience it? The key to all is memory. As Hesse a y e ays in "Siddhartha," time is not real, + the past is going on now o 27 This is specifically dealt with + in "Ubik", a past world (1939 etc) ebbs into palpability did or did it they revert back to + dize into the present? Either way, It is their now voice: 5:30 am. "Why is he (i.e. PKD) here? Because he broke a law on our world (i.e. planet) having to do with Goll, + so is punished by lacking it in this prison world of atonement" (i.e. karma). Incredible news from the AI voice, + very clear: my race, my home people. In 2-3-74 that Karma vas short circuited, + for the first time money began to come in. I was after that no longer being punished. So I did I had suffered come from the starst enough by 3-74. I had melted down socred vessels for the Gold. + so I now am totally priestly: my spiritual involvement to balance my materialism on my home planet. This is a pleasant karma, not punishment in the useral sense The AI voice is someone forem just balance. my home planet helping me. An actual femate person now - still linking me with me real home. This world literally is a saw it - so for me - which is why I Gold Fish, Gold it This is why Bil my memories returned anamnesis: caused 123 the Gold metal reminded me. + this crime I comitted which got me sent to this [prison) planet is balanced by my compensatory drive to give my money (Gold) away. + this is why my giving money to the kids at Covenant House broke my karma + caused them to "adopt me - i.e. stop the punishment + accept me back (hence the AI voice). This fits brad Steiger's star seed theory, but with modifications, Thomas" is my original + real personality who committed the crimes, he is very shrewd + hard headed the Golden Fish - exactly the kind sacred objects which I had melted or down for the Gold - which is why it set off anamnesis. So I am an inglorious exile to this planet, to work my way back to my original moral state + race + home. I've been here thousands of years, born again + again, but this time I short circuited (or burned up) my karma through the mediation of Christ (in my act of giving to Covenan house + the kids). This is what 3-74 was all about. I guess my crime was not just materialism + greed but sacralidge. I converted the spiritual into the physical, + so, to set the balance right, have had to - on my own volition without memory - learn to convert the physical (material) into the spiritual. (although this was the solution it was preceeded by mere punishment: penury. That part ended. Thomas, my original self, certainly is a sharp operator. I (PKD) balance his acquisitive proclivin lies; together we are a balance syzygy. 2 my - Thomas - original crime was an indication of a deranged psyche. It had to be reprogram med, + it had to find its own way to rectitude, by free will. It could not be ordered to convert the material into the spiritual; it had to will this, voluntarily, by an act of sincere choice without knowing that in so doing, it would save itself + restore itself. This certainty explains the syntonic superio position of the BIP: this is a black Iron Prison o (world) for me! Christ works here to effect the pardoning + release - restoration + return, inc anamnesis - of prisoners; he has the power to commite sentences - or to judge when restoration is achieved. He ruled that my giving to Covenant House was sufficient, + my remaining term of servin tude - or Karma - was obliterated, + in advance of my action! (4 years in advance.) Had he not intervened, I would have died in 1974