existence of the Kingdom - secretly. It is here + I was in it + I was conscious of the rule -the will- of God, it is a divine kingdom, as predicted by Joachim of Fiore. The two disclosures (1 + 2 supra) show that the Kingdom exists -secretly- + God rules it; it is truly a divine kingdom secretly here at the heart of our unsuspecting world. + now the Savior has "been transplanted + is alive." My experience -+ revelations- they are complete: + they all 3 fit together. It was Elijah! I ask, "why me?" a: the Herbert poem: "Thieves + Murderers" + - the stone rejected by the builder; Christ sought me out. XXII Notes made immediately after the theophany of 11-17-80: I have the strangest theory re 3-74. What I saw as "the second signal" (and before that as Acts, the world of Acts) was a hologram that my own brain projected; the "second signal" added to what we normally see was projected by me: it was a sort of world-image, a template or grid --as a decoding grid-- not in the external world but in me. {Note} You understand? That is (e.g.) how come I could do a set-ground discrimination and distinguish the KING-FELIX "meta-morpheme." Thus it had no epistemological or metaphysical significance; it told {Note:} Just as Acts functions as a decoding grid in TEARS. To extract the actual message in TEARS you have to use the Acts grid; then Jason Taverner ceases to be innocent and, paradoxically, becomes guilty, in the sense that he is like Paul, an active agent of a revolutionary group. 1) Acts remembered (anamnesis) 2) Acts seen as world 3) Acts material in "Tears" It's a decoder (in fact encoding + decoding) hologram-lens system. Warping perception of space + time. I.e. of world itself. XXVI Reason for believing I saw the Cosmic Christ rather than Brahman: It was a progressive, dynamic on-going process, dialectical in nature, by which a less-organized older reality is consumed by a more-organized newer reality that defeats it, dismantles it, uses it as a stockpile for parts which it fits into place in its permanent Macro-metasomakosmos which is alive, contains what I call the permanent phylogons that are fed new accretions constantly from our spatio-temporal flux world that act to reticulate + arborize its internal structure. This is a physical brain outside of time, organizing material reality to arrangements of information that are its thoughts; hence its thoughts are arrangements of the physical: it needs the physical by which to think + remember. It gains ever greater control over reality. Also it seems to possess a sort of blood that is energy + is alive + sentient + in motion. Upon scrutiny this plasmate (as I call it) + physical reality organized by it form Blood & Body as if I am seeing a macro- or cosmic transubstantiation. Any given section, piece or segment of world is seen as the two species of the Host no matter how small or large. That is in microform it is what it is in macroform. Yet this is not Pantheism, because the new body has invaded the old + not by any means wholly consumed, defeated + assimilated it yet. That this is an antithetical combat situation must be stressed. Likewise, the fact that the betterorganized invading new body possesses absolute a priori foreknowledge, but the less-organized older body, for all its vast power, possesses only a posteriori hindsight. In a manner of speaking the new body is superimposed onto (over) the old as set to ground: what we experience as world is the comingling of the two, not discriminated by our senses. The new body is not physical but, rather, structure of the physical; it can impose its structure on any reality field without our knowing, because we see the physical reality + not the structuring of this physical reality. We would have to possess a template to callibrate deflection from non-structuring in order to see this structuring. Such a template exists. I had it briefly + lost it. For some reason that I do not understand, this template is the spatiotemporal matrix of the time + place of the first advent, as if in fact no real time + place essentially differ from it exist except in an illusory sense. Thus spatiotemporality away from that matrix is only transubstantiation-process + not genuine time + space. With the template, any time + place can be restored to their genuine form as if that form is still there. The stegenographic history disclosed by the template is of the dialectical combat + the two forces involved. But these exist in the template, as if all change is illusory, a mere “looking different” progressively (that is, the matrix template itself contains the dialectic, ie the dialectic is within the template, + no event of the dialectic actually leads out of the template, however contrary the appearance. The dialectic is like an internal metabolism -internal to the template- working itself through its stages to an ultimate resolution or completion without ever dislodging the template which is, as I say, the space-time of the First Advent; what is really going on is a progressive growth of the ratio of the new, more organized cosmos to the old. A transmutation of essence or quality which we experience as change in appearance, but in fact the only real change is -as I say- in the ratio between the new + the old, the eidos itself being stable – ie unyielding. This increase of the ratio of the new to the old is simply not experienced by us for what it is: an internal event-process of the first Century C.E. of the Roman Empire: it is the empire devoured from within, as if it is still here invisibly, but still more invisibly dissolved from the inside out, at its ontological –rather than spatiotemporal– heart. Its invading enemy is at its center in the form of attacking and devouring intruders that somehow got past what I call its immune system, unrecognized, perhaps due to mimesis + camouflage. It cannot discern its own enemy which is internal. Its enemy disrupts its –the Empire’s– information media, its message flow, in a cryptic – ie hidden – way; this is the crucial area in which the dialectical battle is fought, since the empire can only exist by means of its integrated internal communications system (here the empire itself is regarded as an organism). Therefore the invader is “a perturbation in the reality field” constituting the Empire. The Empire is rigid and survives only by constant uniformity throughout; it is this uniformity that is disrupted by “information perturbations” in its internal communications network. These “information perturbations” seem to consist of linkings and relinkings of morphemes in such a way as to create latent disruptive messages that tell a story –narrative– contrary to the Empire’s informational analog of reality; therefore the latent disruption messages refer –are an analog of– another reality which is not the empire. What it is, however, I have no idea. Nonetheless I say: Something is systemically inserting counter-messages into public media by utilizing laws of physics we know nothing about - e.g. acausal connectives so that information gets "accidentally" juxtaposed. There is a possibility that this is living information replicating itself, + that it uses human brains as boosters or some such things. There is some evidence that its meta-messages can place a person in a reality alternate to + distinct from the Empire; but there is strong evidence that the purpose of the information is to bring the person into contact with the actual underlying reality - which consists of an apocalyptic chiliastic vision of history culminating in a vision of the overthrow of the Iron Empire + the establishment of a peaceful Kingdom ruled by the eschatological king -Messiah- + judge. Thus the meta-message is the Kerygma of authentic Xtianity: it is revolution calling for further increments of revolution. I mean, what do revolutionaries normally preach? Further revolution. They are narrating -disclosing- their view. If you see reality as they do, you will act as they act in voluntary autonomous concert with them. You will be one of them without ever having met them but 11 (later) Reading over last night's notes was he really there. scared me terribly. The savior? My notes are so convincing + the notion that the camouflage worked even when I realized (3-74) that something was there - something, but I could not see it All I could see was a shiver in reality: a perturbation in the reality field; but not that which caused the perturbation- I never saw that; yet it was there! I saw it not, neither did it speak; yet the music -or rather the lyrics- became changed; the ligt struck me, something moved, something concealed as objects + their processes, this was not Brahman, not pantheism. said in my notes last night "He t was there, in the trash stratum, not at St. Peter's basilica; + he will appear else. where for a moment, + word will trickle in to the centers of power: he has been here, yetI saw him not. I saw nothing yet I did This is see; I know now + I knew then. wizardry, so to speak. Oh: I also said last night: the peripheral signs of his presence were there: the bells, the peaceful animals, the glent of color, the ripple of wind in the weeds. St. Elmi. Fire, the light that blinded 12 the information about Chrissy, the AI Voice [Note the phosphene graphics. I had he, that set off the GABA realized: he is he fluid drop. The time had come. There are two parts to this: him + me. I was programmed to react to the signal. N The set-ground discrimination, Valis' The Acts mind, the dialectic, etc. Thomas. (AD 45) superimposition want to know what's so important about last nights realization? It's clear that not Brahman- but Jesus Christ was there in 3-74, + this frightens me, ever 61/2 years later. +, the AI voice says, he has again incarnated himself. I am like one of the shepherds in Luke, times. He manifested himself to me, the lowes t of the low. (I realized that, too, last night: this [fact] fits in.) Most of what I experienced were, so-to-speak, spin-offs [of the in-itself invisible epiphany] like seeing the nombus only what I'm not getting down on paper here is how he took away my fear + how he dealt with my problems, my lethal problems. I was dying. He saved my life ... mn straggler he the good shepherd. In my place he dealf with the dangers -the imminent doom- confronting plague take it. me + I can't tell anyone if only saw the camouflaged Valis at the time the info about Chrissy was transfered to me. So probably it wasn't an hallucina‐ probably something was there. It mimicked the BG but it moved just a little; its camouflage was in a sense perfect, but it was still palpables The point is, Valis did not step for‐ ward out of its state of camouflage (asI say in "Valis" + as I've always believed). I just saw - detected- camouflage, mimesis, that's all which is quite different because in point of probably t fact, therefore I never saw its actual Form is have no idea who or what was camouflaged this point has escaped or how it really looks. me all this time - up to lost night. + my -it realization is based on an earlier belief can't be called a realization- that there was an invisible (i.e. camouf laged) antmropomorphic figure there: that of the Savior. I quickly jected that idea, or rather tried to reject it, but it lingers. I saw + heard (as I somewhen say supra) all the peripheral indications -sosus- of the presence of the savior (e.g. bells, animals),