Paraclete (the Free Variable) offers us has a valve defying verbal assessment, so vast is it. I get the impression that the Free Variable is judicious in its presentation of disclusure. It (a if it wishes leave us absolutely bound to this system of things (i.e program), which is to say the "weary wheel of maya + karma." Thus I affirm the basic truth of all the religions which teach salvation: xtianity, Gnosticism, Brahmanism, Buddhism, Neo-Platonism, + the Greco-Roman mystery religions + Manichaism, + Zoroastrianism. All earthly goals + values (those arising within the program) pale into mere delusion in contrast to the value of this salvation: they are literally dokos. The xtian doctrine of vicarious atonement + human sin only makes sense if one realizes that since the Paraclete discloses the true situation (via the gnosis) to relatively few people, the Mass of Mankind - virtually all humans - would remain bound within the program otherwise. The death on the cross is a hot-wiring of the Salvific Act to make it generally applicable. Anything less would be inhumane, + not in keeping with the loving nature of the Godhead. By studying the fact of Christ's voluntary death we can apprehend the reality of this love + know we are safe although not by our own efforts. As correctly put forth in "Valis" the Free Variable has invaded the program to restore sanity i.e. rationality to the Macro-Brain (i.e the Binary Computer - expressed in "Valis" as the "two source cosmogony"). Also put forth correctly: The Empire is the personification of the irrational component (stasis or complex). So the Free Variable attackes it in the form of phagocytosis - or, as I conceive it now, as a metabolic toxin; a dissolving agent which is sentient + alive (+ wise). although I can now see certain misconceptions in "Valis" I think it is basically correct: a rectifying agency has invaded an irrational system + combats a static malformation producing the irrationality. ---------- What if I have eventually to deal with the fact that there are two me's + I am (we are) living in 2 spacio-temporal loci but in one body simultaneously? as put forth in "Valis." It shows the causal - relationship between self + world for one thing, the Magdeburg Hemispheres situation. A given self is preprogrammed to be locked into one what I call aspect (space-time) of some kind of universal omni-aspect matrix. I didn't just happen to see Acts due to the Fish sign; as incorrectly stated in "Valis": "if he's seen an older sign he'd have abreacted back further." Wrong - as proved by the Acts material in "Tears." The key, I think, is that Acts is the spaciotemporal locus of the Holy Spirit; this is where + when it came into our world (or program) + the locus at which, therefore, our program receives (is invaded by) the unique Free Variable: by the only thing here not a product of the program + its stalled dialectic stalled dialectic. This brings me back to the theory that real time ceased at Acts; did the complex (BIP stasis) by ending the dialectic end true time? I keep redicovering this idea. So I would again say, it's really Acts when + where we are or at least when + where I am. Does this mean that I am a function of the Free Variable? Subliminally until 2-74 + then consciously? Did it replicate - has it replicated - in / as me? My flashback in 2-74 was that it is really the time + place of Acts; I am really there; ergo I am really thomas, + all that implies. Is this connected to Ephesians 3:9 - this revelation of this vast secret? "...but also of explaining how the mystery is to be dispensed. Through all the ages, this has been kept hidden in God, the Creator of everything. Why? So that the sovereignties + power should learn only now, through the church, how comprehensive God's wisdom really is, exactly according to the plan which he had had from all eternity in Jesus Christ our Lord." + the Holy Spirit explains this mystery: he discloses it to us + causes us to understand it. Note in J. Bible: "the evil (sic!) spirits were unaware of God's plan for salvation...+ it is only the existence of the church that makes them aware of it now." This crucial passage implies - nay, states - that God can + does keep secret (from most people) the true nature of His salvific plan; i.e. the true state of affairs, so as to foil the evil powers who constitute the "planetary law" - astral determinism - which binds us. We are talking about the "logic" of the program vs the Free Variable which has invaded it (the "Logic" is Fucked up). In my Dope state (recently) I realized: "I am VALIS" - I am a pluriform of Christ sunk into forgetfulness as in "Impostor" + "The Book of Ptath." That's exactly it. My real memories filtered into my writing ("Maze" "Ubik" "Tears") + then on 2-3-74 fully returned. I wonder how many others of us there are? + is the cypher in "Tears" directed at us? Time turns to space + the true landscape is revealed, disclosing God's Secret Plan (+ agent, the Free Variable) for salvation to heal the reactive mind which has become deranged. folder 06 - 001 So the inner-outer clock time B lock not only acts to control us but gives the universe a spurious mechanical semblance: we are programmed, + Valis is camouflaged. It is possible that the latter consideration is primary + the former a means to it. But this throws an enormous light on "astral determinism" + the reason for its overcoming being central to the mystery religions -+ Xtianity- + the illumination/revelation therein. Revelation of the ultimate truth equals 1) revelation of this inner-outer programming; 2) revelation of how to overcome it; 3) revelation of the intentional entity behind it [which has installed it] [+ 4) revelation of the higher power which intervenes to break the inner-outer programming]. The way I see it is that the revelation is not just of our inner-outer "astral determinism" programming but, more, revelation of the volitional entity 1) which sets it in motion; 2) is masked by it + appears to be the secret ruling power in our world, + of us in particular. So a series of revelations is involved, but it has a very realistic practical application: the breaking of the programming. By inserting hypertime C the A/B synch is broken. Hypertime C represents eternity + lies outside Valis' process. (Time = "the counterfeit of eternity".) Now, orthodoxy would regard Valis as the creator + hence God (Yahweh) + end the search there - which I did for almost five years. But the problem with this schema is that 1) the disclosure of it must be regarded as accidental + 2) we are faced with the fact that the God who we worship folder 06 - 002 folder 06 - 002 deceives + enslaves us (i.e. how did disclosure of the true state of affairs come around if not by accident, then this deceiving, enslaving deity overruled his own apparatus, which, as Spinoza shows, is absurd). After years of thought I deduce 1) disclosure was intentional, not accidental, + 2) a deity higher than Valis arranged it. This conforms to Gnosticism, which I am sympathetic to, because of its acosmism. Also -+ this is important- I have educated myself to the point where 1) I can see that the deception + control constitute so-called "astral determinism," + due to this same education on my part I know that the true [secret] purpose of the mystery religions + early Xtianity was to appeal to a higher deity who could be called upon to overrule this astral determinism. I also am well enough educated to know that it is Xtian doctrine that Satan rules this world. Valis rules this world; therefore Valis = Satan. Third, Satan is a deceiver + liar + so is Valis. Fifth, I now conceive the "melting" of causal trains as not for the purpose of freeing me but of reasserting the control. Their lag was being compensated for, since {...} the melting, ergo it is the agency of {...} folder 06 - 003 folder 06 - 003 But in a sense, more seriously, I view the living info plasmate as an occlu[ding] agency, because, if it illuminated, why do we remain occluded? Viz: Given the enormous power of Valis and the ubiquity of the plasmate, how can it be that we are still deceived + enslaved if, as I state in "Valis," they are liberating agents? The only possibility is that they are only recently here, but that is speculation (although it remains, I admit, a possibility I must not overlook; it is the one given in "Valis" - which means, Advent II is here). That is possible and it would fit in whith the St. Sophia, Buddha and Apollo prophecies. Also (and very telling!) it would explain why illumination-liberating experiences such as mine are not (and they are not) reported in the history of mysticism and theology; I mean to say, information leakage about a camouflaging invading (!!) Macro life form - which brings me back to the transubstantiation, body and blood. Also, it was my impression in 3-74 that 1) the plasmate imparted info, and 2) Valis (Zebra) liberated. To construe Valis and the Plasmate deceiving and enslaving, I must assign antiquity to them - But then they'd have been reported again and again over the centuries in all cultures, and neither has been. And they so much seem like the Corpus Christi, "devouring" [...] blind natural universe. Also, the plasmate [...]" was "King Felix" which [...] to the [...] folder 06 - 004 folder 06 - 004 Obviously, my experience of 1) the Blood (Plasmate) + 2) Body (Valis as camouflaged intentional invader) is a new kind of mystical/theological experience, + subjectively at the time I felt it was Christ (+ I did not know of the cosmic Christ then! Which I keep forgetting; viz: that I did not know of it until much later, long after the "St. Sophia" prophecy). I think the evidence points to Valis as 1) recent + hence 2) Liberator; which indicates that 1) Valis is the cosmic Christ whom we are in; + 2) the Plasmate is his Blood + living info - which fits the Logos doctrine. Hence I say, it does not create the inner-outer programming (+ delusion) but 1) breaks the former's hold + 2) reveals the true situation, which includes revelation of its own presence. Perhaps the salient clue is the element of the world of Acts being disclosed, since it was at the space-time Acts that the cosmic Christ came into existence. If Valis is not the cosmic Christ 1) why did I remember Acts in 2-74 + see it in 3-74? + 2) why is the Acts material in "Tears"? Obviously as early as 1970 I was being incorporated into the cosmic body + blood of Christ; his blood (the Plasmate) flowed in my veins. This is what speaks to me now, the AI voice. Diana, the spirit [...] vernal equinox! Hence the flowers [...] folder 06 - 005 folder 06 - 005 + it was revealed to me that there were things not to tell 1) That I am a true secret early Xtian, + 2) Christ's secret female nature; body of a man (Jesus) but female spirit (Holy Wisdom). Specifically, Christ restored me to my pre-fallen state ("I am no longer blind! I can see again (sic. again); + only Christ can do this. This is not a mere mystical experience; much more is involved, + something very specific (v Calvin). When the time comes that Christ does this, it means that the 2nd advent is here.