the puzzle + the successful effort to salve as being this reversion; in which case it could t be argued that the function or utility of the puzzle was to require it the thinking macromind to regain its forgotten powers (hence nature), + know itself for what it really is. To have solved the puzzle would force recognition on it that it could solve, This could not happen unless it possessed a ➀ otherwise, why the anamnesis more than human nature s the implication here is that intellectual puzzle solving is so basic to its nature that it could not resist bringing to bear all its latent faculties in the service of solving the puzzle - since thee, was a solution. One could argue that ot might be willing to endure the human condition pain, grief, loss, injury, defeat + death, but o its nature was/is such that a puzzle like this challenged it - + solving the puzzle was to it more valuable than concealing its identity, then it may have posed the puzzle, for that purpose: as the crucial key which would restore it to its primordial state. The entire situation, puzzle + all, Then can be construed as one intricate memory restoring mechanism. Not the Golden Fish alone as disinhibiting stimulus, but Xerox letter itself as cardinal disinhibiting stimulus within a cluster of interrelated stimuli. Curiously, in the Gnostic legend of the peart, it is a letter which causes return of memory (anamnesis). since it possesses total foresight, it could know the full range of consequences of 2-3-74. Anamnesis + perception of the divine stemmed from the rising into dominance of my right brain hemisphere + the psyche therein. Is it not possible that the entire puzzle was an elaborate disinhibiting signal system arrange for decades in advana? "Faith of" + "MITHC" attest to this. Then the real payoff is causing the right hemis‐ phere self to come out. I have said of him, he is a notable Xtian. To restore him to life - surely this is very important, + it fits with dreams that I had at the time. He must be an exceptional person. ah - the problem could only be handled by the right brain - analogic processing. This is how you bring out the right hemisphere: you present the person with a problem which only the right hemisphere can deal with. Hence the laying down of the inner template put in its possession in advance, the terox missive (whatever its actual purpose) was converted nto a right-brain disinhibiting stimulus through the prior inner template. Also the 36 stress killed off the left hemisphere self making room for the right. Is or more years before 3-74 the inner template was being prepared, but by who? By the right hemisphere self? How could it feed itself its own t emplate? How would it foreknow? Something foreknew. There is an irreducable mystery: in all, events of 974 were foreseen. Precise details were foreseen. That it a ie major problem was foreseen. The crucial unknown of the 1974 situation was foreseen. Here is the crux: the utility of the foreknowledge. it could (this crucial piece of information) not be figured out in 3-74 + yet There it was back in it when I wrote "Faith of" it could not be known in 3-74 yet I knew it in '67 It was fed to me. This crucial dature, in the inner analog, is what really triggered off the right brain self, which had started to wake up - i.e. remember when the Golden Fish girl came to the door. It knew it had the essential datum. In other words. Whereas I did not understand the situation, it did; thus the split brain sort of phenomenon took place - right brain override, a very special situation: where the right brain has in its possession a datum so crucial so important, that it must override. Beyond doubt. case could be made that the situation (esp the inner e Emplate) was engineered to produce right hemisphere cominance. You would look ahead to a crisis - it would have to be a crisis - + then arm the right hem phere with crucial knowledge not available to the left. But you would have to arrange the prior inner term e late with enough complexity + detail as to create niqueness + absolute analogic correspondence: severe crisis. 1) complexity 2) 3) uniqueness absolute correspondence i 8) 5) absolutely vital fact known only to right hem 6) solution to crisis possible on the basis of datum known only to the right hem e think some very great mind worked this i out. But surely so elaborate a system was el t needed in order to tell me the Xerox missive as a forgery. I could have dreamed it, + thus the into le 2 to my left hemisphere. But - then it would not have been sincere in its anti-OCCP frenzy; it would have had to lie. Did I not figure out some time ago that the puzzle could only be solved (correctly acted on) by + white not knowing the truth? This was precisely the the ingenuity of the puzzle: if you knew truth you were trapped, + if you did not know the truth you were trapped, so you had to both know + not know simultaneously - + how could only split brain response This be achieved? would yield ideation conflicting with knowledge. generated motor activity. The recipient would have to see the Xerox missive two conflicting ways simule taneously. + to do this, the recessive hemisphere would have to possess a crucial fact or facts not possessed by the left. So not only would the crucial unknown + unknowable fact have to be fed the recipient in advance of 3-74 but it would have to be fed to the right hemisphere only. So it would have to enter the percept system subliminally in the first place! Or so long in advance that it would have sunk out of reach of consciousness - of memory; it would have to not register on the left brain that it recognized this situation! Thus the crucial missing fact would have to be fed in years or decades before 3-74! So the puzzle was very ingenious - if it could only be solved by bilateral competition: viz: the "anatestem would have to conclude KGB left digital + the right G2 forgery - + the latter would have the hemispheres to be able to seize motor control. a would cooperate by conflicting. Thus only a dys function could yield a correct solution, where the left hemisphere thought one thing (which was wrong) + speak accordingly, while the right knew something different but has no speech center: knew + supplied motor response synchron th the incorrect left hemisphene speech + ized with 38 t belief system. It is vital to realize that the right hemisphere did not know it was a us G2 forgery by intrinsic examination but rather by comparing it with a memory analog. This is a case of psychological dissociative behavior, where the conscious mind does not know why it is doing what it is doing because its real motivational system is not syntonic to it, + so is dissociated - kept unconscious. I thought for a while that the split brain behavior was generated by a double message intrinsic to the Xerox missive, one directed at the left hem, the other subliminally to the right (a good theory, but "MITHC" + "Faith of" shows otherwise). Well, then the recipient could only solve if the crucial fact (us G2 forgery) were known only to The right hemisphere. This discloses more ingenuity in och the puzzle, + more ingenuity in the solution. More is involved than slipping the crucial fact (forgery) to the recipient. The method of solving presents enormous difficulties. Very sophisticated techniques would be needed to get the fact to the right hem without the left knowing that fact - + also being sure that the right hem would become dominant when the crisis arrived. Hence the need of initiating disinhibition a month in advance - in 2-74. Decades of work were involved. Why was this done? God's love. I guess. + only I know Okay. Now if you take this mechanism of solution + add it to the Xtian + other religious elements of 2-3-74 (inc. seeing Valis + the plasmate the AI voice, the prophecies, the post mortem experiences, the revealed knowledge) you I we are now able to exclude all other possibilities than God. RC, OCCP micro h waves, etc - only God remains thus a s year rigorous exegesis of 2-3-74 finds indubitably for providence - in accord with ratural law, a the wisdom Sp inoza urges - 9 of God himself. The presence was there, + I have analyzed the wisdom as surpassing anything readily supposed. As a demonstration of the stature of that wisdom This situation is ideal. + I still do not know how the crucial fact itself (forgery) was fed to my right brain - it was either a very long time ago or was subliminal in the first place. 1) if I knew it was a US G2 forgery I could not sincerely contact the Bureau + say It was KGB + I was afraid of KGB; hence I would not have contacted them at all. 2) If I believed (throughout my mind, both hemispheres) it was KGB - well, first of all, why should I suspect KGB + not just CP? The fact is I smelled Fuzz. I probably simply would not have answered it. To contact the Bureau successfully I'd have to 1) believe t authentic; + 2) small fuzz - so I'd collate the two as Soviet Fuzz (Soviet: left brain; Fuzz: right brain), which is what I did either us G2 forgery (right brain) or CP (left brain) would not have yielded what I did n "Fuzz" = degree of severity. + "Soviet" said. is supplied by the ostensible content. So overt: left wing. Subliminal: Fuzz. Collation: KGB which yields the one route out of the trap: honest fear + loathing. Based on split, total plit between the hemispheres. The prime mover 3 was the right brain, because forgery = trap, + the scruting of the (us) police. Hence the correct sense of urgency in reacting. Just CP would have generated no such paranoid urgency 48 Had I viewed it as innocuous + merely irritatio like that copy of liberation, I'd just have thrown it away, No, my response was primarily to the stink of Fuzz, + that was right brain (lacking speech center). the reason why my experience is not s reported in history is: this was a very unusual situation, in which bilateral com‐ petition had to be induced, ending in right brain override. So that answers that take the "two signal" view of reality + other supernatural phenomena which I experienced when I had right brain dominance or parity. Perhaps it is normal for the right brain - all right brains - to be in contact with the divine but operating sub‐ liminally. Everyone has a "Thomas, a paraclete beside - helper. Hence the again voice of inwit. This a fits Kant's idea of the absolute nature of moral imperitives. This would also explain the purpose of the right brain i + it dovetails with what Julian Jaynes says about the voices of the Gods (+ Sibyls). But Thomas seemed to remem ber back 2000 years. Is Christ, via the Holy Spirit, brea into our race? Subliminally this enhancement suppression, clutch grid is working on all of us; it's as if I lifted the hood of my car in 3-74 + got to see what makes it runs The face Kingdom - through Christ you find you way across, where mackuth rules. Titania but how you got to the enchanted land you'll never know - let