destiny or fate or Karma or astral determinism - even cause + effect as normally experienced + understood would be transformed. You would have the world you willed, but it would interact with other worlds of other people + affect their realities. That your mind could "perturb" your "reality field" is only possible within such a schema as I outline here. In essence you would be cooperating with VALIS, acting in harmony with it, + its will would be palpable in you through its living info "blood," the energetic plasmate. 8) The living macro entity Valis lies behind the neutral synchronized twin tapes, so it can be said that whereas simulated reality is inert, the hidden genuine reality is volitional, aware + wise. Whether this is God depends on how you conceive of him, but Valis certainly seems to have aspects commonly attributed to God. folder 06 - 041 8) Finally, I have reason to believe that VALIS desires us to overcome the determinism of our self-generated inner-outer tape simulated reality, become aware of him + act in harmony with him, regulated + informed by the plasmate -his blood- within us. In my opinion he wishes us to cease to be victims of "Karma" + to learn about our true nature + our own powers, which deals with the underlying thought dialectic, as much a part of him as it is of us. He wishes us to join him in consciously directing the process of reality, to become co-artificers, incorporated in him + yet still individually volitional. Volition + process are the key terms. However, for us to learn to consciously control our reality we must start by assuming moral + practical responsibility for all that has happened to us in the past. This requires an effort of attention on our part normally impossible for us to achieve; we must trace the causal strands back in time (which requires genuine memory) to ourselves as the author of our own fortunes + misfortunes, + to repudiate the notion of Fate, fortune - of what the Greeks called ananke. In essence (as Plato describes in "Timaeus,") Noos must persuade ananke macrocosmically, + in each of us our micro-noos must successfully subdue or persuade our individual ananke, the process of the macro- + microcosms must consist of a transformation of ananke (identified with anomie) into noos: this is the goal of the process - at least as envisioned by Valis -Noos- itself, + it should be our view. 9) Simulated pre-programmed deterministic reality being equated with ananke is equated thereby with anomie which we call chaos or entropy. This winding down or heat- + form-loss in progressive stages is precisely what the Bardo Thodol trip {...} Therefore I folder 06 - 042 folder 06 - 042 maintain that whatever the intent of the authors of "The Tibetan Book of the Dead" they are in fact describing our world + state. We are in a decomposing, degenerating process + will continue so unless enlightened by Valis, who introduces negentropy. Determinism + entropy are considered here as identical; succumbing to what is really a self-generated fate is identified with death + disorder. Upon the lethal triumph of this decomposing process, nothing new comes into the individual (or macro) mind. This is tantamount to psychosis or ultimate brain dysfunction (schizophrenia). I maintain that regarded as a totality the cosmos, including Valis, is partially in this state; a measure of anomie or irrationality pervades us + pervades Valis. Technically, the dialectic loses its generative power or potentially could lose its generative power. This is the abysmal evil to be fought at all costs, inasmuch as its victory would snuff out the cosmos. This is being versus nonbeing. In my opinion human beings freeze or die or partially die vis-a-vis this dialectic; its progression in us -as us- is not automatic. Each of us is a microform of it, + to the extent that we succumb to "fate" or "astral determinism" we succumb to death + madness, to congealing. Viewed this way it is easy to see what Valis promotes with our volitional triumph over ananke, but most of us are more victim of fate than artificer. To the extent that this is true of us, we have died. Valis cannot or will not revive us unless we are astute enough to 1) fathom our condition + 2) act to transform it. However, he will patiently provide us with clues, which if we will heed, take note of + act upon, we will be saved. Thus he initiates a salvific process in our {...} folder 06 - 043 folder 06 - 043 of Valis itself. Valis (as can be seen from this schema) has a vested interest in promoting life + growth. Therefore I say, Valis is our good friend - our ultimate friend. Again, this conforms to traditional concepts of God. 10) In conclusion, I conceive of our situation as one of entropy or decomposition, a succumbing to determinism which is to say, the products of our own former thought-formations; therefore for us the past determines the future. Into this dying system Valis breaks bringing new life + energy + freedom + knowledge; he impinges "one-way" + "from outside" as if invading our world (which is not a real world). To encounter him is to encounter the uncanny, the inexplicable, the destroyer (rather than sustainer) of what we misconstrue to be world. It is his macromind shattering the brittle and congealed husk of our own objectified prior thoughts which imprison + devitalize us, the past devouring the future - whereas Valis, as the future, turns around + devours the past (negentropy attacking entropy; form affecting non-form). I conclude that we are dying in a mental sense but are virtually without insight into the fact that what befalls us is a projection or thought-form of death per se. To the extent that things happen to us, rather than occurring as a result of our volition, we are destroying ourselves - which may account for legends of a primordial fall. Thus our process mind becoming congealed is experienced objectively + externally as a closing in of the necessary, the inevitable over which we have no power. We succumb to our own dead mind, folder 06 - 044 folder 06 - 044 but mistakenly experience it as a victory by the external world. At this point we are lost totally to delusion. We no longer have any relation to the real; we are locked into our own former thought constructs, + take them to be reality. 11) Much of this is dealt with in "Ubik." 12) My 2-3-74 experience resembled "Ubik." 13) I draw the following conclusion (which may seem a surprising one, + perhaps an incorrect one, but an analysis of items 1 through 10 show why it is so): I had the 2-3-74 experience with Valis by reason of pre-programming it by writing "Ubik" in the sixties. In other words, my thought-formations which went into "Ubik" as fictional concepts became objectively real in 1974. In "Ubik" I envisioned Ubik as an entity + so created it, for me, in 1974 (approximately a decade later). Valis, then, is my own objectified thought-formation. In 2-3-74 Valis saved me from defeat + death, revitalized me + emancipated me + transferred from its mind to mine titanic amounts of priceless cosmological, medical + practical information; in fact it answered -+ continues to answer- any question I have. It exhibits psychomorphism by responding to my will + needs by becoming whatever I think + believe it is. It heals, guides + comforts + informs me. It acts, in fact, as if it is the second comforter (Paraclete) promised by Christ. Its existence causually can be traced back to "Ubik" + my thinking up "Ubik." It is Ubik, but if you study {...} folder 06 - 045 folder 06 - 045 you can see why, upon my thinking + writing "Ubik," I would probably eventually be rescued by Ubik - the primary function assigned to Ubik in "Ubik." Regard this as a scientific hypothesis: what we call "reality" is in fact an objectification of our prior thought formations - since in fact we are dead + dreaming in a state of psychic decomposition (as depicted in "Ubik"), + under such conditions we have no world but that of our former thought-formations returning to afflict or delight us (as depicted in "The Tibetian Book of the Dead") (which is where I got the idea for "Ubik.") In other words, I read "The Tibetian Book of the Dead" in the late fifties or early sixties + realized that our world + condition was in fact depicted + not (as is said) a world + condition which follows our "life." From internal evidence in "TTBofTD" I discerned that those in the Bardo Thodol state do not know they are in that state but imagine they are [still] alive. They do not know that the evil + good spirits (events, people, things) which they encounter are their own [former] thought-formations projected into a pseudo-world, + that contrary to what appears to be the case, they can create, change + abolish future reality (not present reality, since there is a lag). In "Ubik" my characters die folder 06 - 046 + enter this state but don't know it. I then departed from the description of the Bardo Thodol existence in "TTBofTD" + added Ubik, a vast Logos-like mind who invades their decaying world + rescues them. Now, if I was right (that secretly "TTBofTD" depicts -+ probably knowingly depicts- our present life, world + condition) I could anticipate that after a suitable time lag -+ especially if I was dying, like Joe Chip on the stairs- I could expect intervention by my thought-formation Ubik. In 3-74 due to overpowering dread + enervation I began to literally experience the colored lights described in "TTBofTD" + knew myself to be in the Bardo Thodol state. Yet it was this side of the grave; I have not died; ergo, "TTBofTD" does depict (secretly) our present condition. + then, sure enough, exactly as I described in "Ubik," written information appeared to me, + presently Ubik itself, down to specific details. Valis (i.e. Ubik), then, is a projection of my own mind + not "real" - but, as "TTBofTD" says, nothing we experience is anything other than objectifications of our own prior thought formations - + enlightenment consists in knowing this + so controlling them. Only if you 1) read "TTBofTD" + 2) realized it secretly applied to this life could you accomplish what I did in creating Valis. Truth is totally plastic + represents a complex mingling of our former fears, beliefs and desires (mostly unconscious in folder 06 - 047 folder 06 - 047 us. "The mind has the power to change its environment. We do so constantly," etc. I have choice in the matter. So I ask, not, "What is true?" but, "What modulations shall I imprint on the stuff around me?" That which is now most precious to me is Ho On taking the form of the spring queen Diana; she is my protectress; Valis has metamorphosed into her. I pre-programmed her, into being; but she is real; she actually exists. One could say, "this is irrational if I believe it + it doesn't happen." + if I believe it + it does happen? Then the universe is irrational; it should not be psychomorphic. But it is. This is the secret message of "TTBofTD," the hidden Gnosis of Tibet[ian Buddhism], the highest wisdom -+ power- man has ever known. In the flip flops of the dialectic [process] truth changes every nanosecond. (This oversimplifies it, but v. supra pp 6 on.) There is no "esse," only flux. You can plug into whichever sustain you wish; it's your option. Before reading "TTBofTD" I was tending toward a radical [Gnostic] acosmism; hence I [unconsciously; i.e. my will] correctly deconstructed "TTBofTD" as few others