world in one sense and yet in another sense involved with the flux world as archetype to copy (Form world as archetype, flux world as copy). The only place where my vision differs is that I saw the flux world feeding into the Form world (Valis' soma, the meta-kosmos) to further the development of reticulation and arborization. This may be the double emanation of Plotinus, from higher to lower to higher. {folder 01 - 044 folder 01 - 044} Plato's Forms world doctrine is correct, because it was on the basis of my meta-abstraction based on anamnesis that my conceptual breakthrough in 2-74 came. (I saw that USA 1974 and Acts AD 45 were based on a common essence, were accidents at different places and times, but that their essence --their eidos-- lay outside space and time, and that the two spatiotemporal continua could be superimposed, could comingle; more, were in fact comingled at the next level up of abstraction.) This is so, despite my seeing the flux world feeding into Valis' meta-soma. I can't explain this apparent contradiction. I am now absolutely certain that our spatiotemporal world is a derived reality, that it is only semireal ... that in fact this was my original meta-abstraction/perception. Also, I perceived the eidos on which USA 1974, Acts, the Thirty Years War, TEARS, etc., are based: what I call the Black Iron Prison. I have formerly called it a "transtemporal constant," which is much the same thing. So the ediface of certitude that I have so recently and so convincingly erected is based on the assumption that our spatiotemporal reality (the flux realm) is a derived reality, and that it is accidents, and that an essence or Form realm exists outside of time and space; it was to this Form realm that I meta-abstracted due to "recovery" (anamnesis) in 2-74. Everything that has come to me as certitude (understanding rather than speculating) depends on this, and I cannot change it and still salvage anything. It is derived reality and it is only semireal. Everything is expressed here: that a real realm outside of flux (which is to say outside of space and time) exists that prints out our spatiotemporal reality: from its standpoint timelessly. Wherever an archetype occurs in our realm -- all instances are one and the same archetype; they can be superimposed, laminated, comingled. I cannot give this up; it --as a realization-- is my doorway to understanding 2-3-74, my first doorway in 6 and a half years. My meta-abstraction based on anamnesis is primary, and represented a higher mode of brain-function than I had ever known; it was not a theory, insight or even moksa; it was a higher brain-function. Plato would be the first to agree with this appraisal. {folder 01 - 045} 10-19-80 1 SEQUENCE: Anamnesis due to external stimulus (disinhibiting stimulus). Superimposition of two space-time continua. Meta-abstraction from spatiotemporal world to Form world. Freedom from the power of the spatiotemporal world (heimarmene). Re-entry into the higher realms of more unity. Contact with Nous and vision of the meta-kosmos, a return to prenatal perception (the "second signal," "set/ground discrimination," "morphological arrangement," etc). Awarenes I have to give up; but let me say: This meta-abstracting due to anamnesis is equal to the following. A child learns that one apple plus one apple equals two apples. He then learns that one table plus one table equals two tables. (I remember this from my four-volume set on math.) Then a day comes when he abstracts; it is no longer one apple plus one apple nor one table plus one table; it is: one and one equal two. This is an enormous leap in abstracting; it is a quantum leap in brain function. My reference books on universals mention this; my reference books speak of this abstracting, which we all do, as what Plato and Aristotle spoke of when they spoke of the person becoming aware of universals. But I say, Another leap exists, beyond this; another quantum leap. And this next leap does not occur to everyone; in fact it occurs to only a few, to almost no one now. It is truly dependent on anamnesis, whereas the above, as Aristotle pointed out, rightly, does not depend on anamnesis. The child does not in fact remember or recollect that one and one equals two; he extrapolates from the concrete examples of apples and tables. Plato knew that another and higher leap existed, based on anamnesis, and it meant a leap from the spatiotemporal world to another world entirely. Perhaps this is the greatest leap of all, because now world is apprehended by pure intellect alone. Anyhow, this is what happened to me. It is a recovery of prenatal thinking and the prefallen life of the soul. Plato is right. I'm worn out. But this was no insight or concept; this was a higher brain-function, a restored brain-function. {folder 01 - 046} 10-19-80 2 You look at one spatiotemporal continuum and another spatiotemporal continuum and you see that they are one. They do not merely resemble each other nor are they just tangent. They are the same thing in terms of some underlying essence. The quantum leap in brainfunction is when you go from thinking, "These two spatiotemporal continua resemble each other" to "They are one and the same, expressed at two places and two times." And you can only do this if you have experienced anamnesis, because if you have not recollected (recovered) you can go no further than seeing that the two continua resemble each other; you cannot make the leap -- which is up out of the spatiotemporal universe. Because within our spatiotemporal universe it is impossible that USA 1974 and Rome AD 45 could be one and the same ... how could they be? They are at two times and two places. The only way they could be one and the same would be if time and space were somehow not real; or, put another way, if something about the two continua themselves were not real. That is, if Rome was not Rome; USA was not USA; but both were a third thing, the same thing. This is why I call it a meta-abstraction. USA 1974 and Rome AD 45 are two ways of looking at the same thing: two aspects of the same thing. And the only way you are ever going to realize this is if you literally actually see the two of them superimposed, comingled; and this will only happen if you experience anamnesis; and you will only experience this anamnesis if something stimulates --releases, actually-- your blocked memory. You cannot logically reason out that they are one and the same thing (two expressions of a single essence); you have to see it. Literally see it. Only if there is prenatal memory can you see this. And there can only be prenatal memory if you existed before your birth. You realize this, too; this is a large part of the anamnesis; in fact, this is why I have used this term all along. Plato is right; the anamnesis is of a prenatal life. This was my realization when I saw the Christian fish sign. I've known this all along. What I only recently realized is that my brain instantly performed a crucial meta-abstraction based on this anamnesis. {folder 01 - 047} 10-19-80 3 I am saying, "One plus one equals two" to people who are saying, "One apple plus one apple equals two apples. One table plus one table equals two tables." It's not their fault. I'm sorry but the difference between my meta-abstraction as a brain-function and their abstracting, their brain-function, is that great. I'm lucky. Because of the sodium pentathol and the Christian fish sign my blocked memory of my prenatal life was disinhibited. After making the initial leap in meta-abstracting my brain drew conclusion after conclusion, day after day; and I saw world more and more in terms of conceptual or morphological arrangement and less and less in terms of the spatiotemporal; I continued to abstract reality more and more, based on the hierarchy of realms (each higher one possessing more unity and ontology than the lower) that Plotinus describes. In a way I feel really bitter: because I can't tell anyone or convince anyone of what I saw. I'm afraid VALIS won't convince anyone. I feel like joining them and saying, "When I played my recording of the Mahler Eighth last night the performance was a lot better than when I played that recording last week." They'd think I was a lunatic. That's how I feel about them, in a way. Th But this means I really did see Valis. It could be Plato's Form of the Good or it could be Plotinus' One. In either case it orders the structure of the Form world; it is totally unitary; it is pure Nous. I really saw it. And where this unfolding meta-reasoning shows up in deadly earnest is vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. Somehow, meta-abstracting is (was) involved. It either had to do with abolishing time, running time backward ... or it had to do with laminating the accidents matrices together and comparing the portion dealing with the Xerox missive in terms of the archetype: what the missive was at the essence level; hence the missive was experienced as having already come at least once before; this was happening again, and I knew what it was and hence what to do. This explains my "dissociated" acts vis-a-vis the missive, and the personality taking me over: it had to do with the essence level, or Form world, the BIP eidos. I know it. The missive is a part of it (BIP). {folder 01 - 048} 10-19-80 4 The knowledge about the Xerox missive devolves directly out of the supratemporal template of the Black Iron Prison against which I am timelessly pitted. It is knowledge derived -- derived from that realm, due to the existence of that essence realm and my access to it. Thomas knew then, knows now and will know later who sent the Xerox missive; he told me the source, recently. Words such as past, present and future have no meaning for the BIP template and Thomas. This is why the Xerox missive threat-puzzle shows up in "Faith Of" and PENULTIMATE TRUTH. It is not from a future self; it is from the essence realm and probably myself as Thomas in the essence realm. So I was not doomed to the limitations of the spatiotemporal realm at the time of that threat-puzzle. I saw it under the aspect of eternity and so knew what it was. That is why I knew it was coming -- in fact the exact day it would come. I feel certain, absolutely certain, that my anamnesis the month before had this specific problem-solving as its goal; my meta-abstracting was goal-oriented ... it was planned; it wasn't an accident. Also it had to do with the meta-morpheme in TEARS, which is a constituent of the information basis of the morphologically-arranged realm. {folder 01 - 049} 10-20-80 1 I finally see the source of my confusion, which I will herewith straighten out and then (God willing) let it rest. The structure or mechanism of 2-3-74 was Platonist Neo-Platonist anamnesis, precisely as Plato describes it (see earlier notes); it has to do with prenatal memories recovered and a Form realm that is not spatiotemporal but is morphologically arranged. However, the content of the anamnesis is, contrarily, Christian; more, the Form (eidos) involved is a Christian one: the secret revolutionary early Christians against Rome ... and, because this is the nature of the Platonic archetype, recurring again and again throughout linear time and space. So in a sense two mutually contradictory religious systems seem to be proved by 2-3-74: Christianity and Neo-Platonism. My identity in terms of the Form world is Christian; my knowledge of that identity comes to me via the structure of the Neo-Platonism world-order. This is