the Christian fish sign that caused me to remember, to cease to forget. That is what it is supposed to do ... counteract the Lie (the delusion). So I combine Indian doctrines of maya with the Judo-Christian etc. idea of the Fall. I say, we fell into Satan's world which is irreal, a "spurious interpolation." Yet God is using Satan, through enantiodromia. Countering him. Reversing him. Here, within this very domain; the good that occurs in this domain (through enantiodromia) is placed into the macrometasomakosmos. Evil is concerted into good by enantiodromia and then inserted into the macrometasomakosmos. The theories about the Fall must be revised; an intellectual error, not moral error, must be presumed. One can almost --almost-- view Satan's activity as a high technology in which the simulation of a world order is achieved. This element of maya or dokos has interested thinkers in India and Greece, but with Christianity and Gnosticism comes a really penetrating analysis between the two elements of world and Satan, with the theme of epistemology running through Gnosticism -- which is why I can't abandon it. We fell asleep because we were induced into falling asleep; the spurious world had to be there for us to take it as real; we ourselves don't generate it... unless it's a maze that we ourselves built and then fell into (which always remains a possibility). Probably the wisest view is to say: the truth --like the Self-is splintered up over thousands of miles and years; bits are found here and there, then and now, and must be re-collected; bits appear in the Greek naturalists, in Pythagoras, in Plato, Parmenides, in Heraclitus, Neo-Platonism, Zoroastrianism, Gnosticism, Taoism, Mani, Gnosticism, orthodox Christianity, Judaism, Brahmanism, Buddhism, Orphism, the other mystery religions. Each religion or philosophy or philosopher contains one or more bits, but the total system interweaves it into falsity, so each as a total system must be rejected, and none is to be accepted at the expense of all the others (e.g. "I am a Christian" or "I follow Mani"). This alone, in itself, is a fascinating thought: here in our spatiotemporal world we have the truth but it is splintered --exploded like the eide-- over thousands of years and thousands of miles and (as I say) but be recollected, as the Self or Soul or eidos must be. This is my task. {folder 01 - 085} 10-24-80 In that case, each given system is in itself part of the enslaving snare of delusion; in other words, as soon as I avow one philosopher or system (e.g. Spinoza or Schopenhauer or Kant or Anaxagoras or Parmenides or Gnosticism) I have become again or more ensnared, as I am by this spatiotemporal world itself; it is as if the eidos of Truth is exploded and splintered like all the eide. And all the Selves and Souls. But what else could you expect here in realm #4? Since everything real is here only in discrete bits. Of course this means that I can never come up with the whole, true, complete explanation/answer. I can re-collect and re-collect, do better and better, but never completely make unified the eidos of Truth. Yet, in (3-74) when I meta-abstracted, a great deal of the eidos the Truth was revealed to me; however, alas, I did not understand it then and do not yet. Look; I may be on to something here, that in realm #4 it is impossible to re-collect any given eidos including that of a true verbal (informational) picture (analog) of reality; that in fact the true informational analog will be exploded over thousands of miles and thousands of years like all other eide. Such is the situation here in the spatiotemporal realm; this is one of its drawbacks (among many). Fascinating. In that case, no wonder I haven't been able to match my 2-3-74 experience to any religion or any philosopher, yet many seem in part to apply. The truth is splintered! This would explain, too, Why the sacerdotal power is found in bits in, say, the alley; for the same reason: it is exploded ubiquitously. (In additional to the places I listed above where I've found bits of the truth I should add: the Hermetics and the Kabala and quantum mechanics.) Could it be said that every now and then an additional bit is reticulated? So-to-speak revealed? So 2-3-74 could contain one or more elements of the truth that are new? In one area the Evangelical Christians are correct: in regard to Bible prophecy. The Bible does contain archetypes that print out over and over again, and are --some of them -- applicable to present-day times (I need only recall Acts and the dream material in TEARS, the latter specifically being either from Daniel or Revelation). So one great realization is: the map is exploded; the map is splintered. (And, perhaps, the map is not complete; see Hussey on the map paradox, the vicious regression.) There is also a great deal of truth in Medieval realism, Which has influenced my thinking, my worldview, enormously. In 3-74 it seemed to me I'd reverted specifically to that. {folder 01 - 086} 10-24-80 6 If the eide are exploded through the spatiotemporal realm, so must be Nous: disintegrated here in realm #4; but if the percipient ascends from realm #4 he may see Nous re-collected, reintegrated and hence unitary, as it actually is (what I am saying is that the eide are not actually exploded; they are exploded in terms of the spatiotemporal realm, if my meaning is clear; since realm #4 is illusory, the explosion, the splintering, is illusory. And if this is true of the eide, the Forms, this also is true of Nous: our false categories of ordering, of arranging, time and space, explode and splinter the eide; and they explode and splinter Nous; but this is not really the case. This is why it is correct to say that our realm #4 and its spatiotemporal ordering are irreal. If they were real, then the eide and Nous would in actuality be exploded and splintered; but they are not. To see Nous integrated is not for Nous to reintegrate, but to be seen as it is and always is. This was what I saw that I called Valis: Nous reintegrated in terms of my perception of it: re-collected. Nous exploded (here in realm #4) is Nous banalized, as in the chapter headings in UBIK; Nous re-collected is as Ubik appears in the heading of the final chapter, no longer banalized, trivialized, debased into rubbish. This banalization is a measure of the Fall of this realm; and again it illustrates what I have remarked on: that things do not appear in this realm #4 as what they really are, that finally Christ will bring about what I call "the great reversal," whereupon we will no longer see Nous (God) banalized and exploded, but, as if reversed, sacred and a unity: as it really is. Meanwhile, here, with things appearing in reverse to what their essence is, Nous is obscured; veiled. 10-25-80 But whereas a given eidos is finite in realm #4 --it only enters at certain places and certain times; i.e. is printed out at one place and time but not another-- Nous is ubiquitious. Therefore if it chooses to so-to-speak drop its mask and reverse appearances in realm #4 (enantiodromia) it is in everything at every time; it is infinite (cf Xenophanes). Or, put another way, it can be anything or any constellation of things and their processes at any place and any time. It is not quenched, quelled or subdued by realm #4, unless it (Nous) refrains from asserting itself deliberately. (But this would seem to point to it deliberately refraining from manifesting itself to us; this {folder 01 - 087} 10-25-80 Orphism. It's as if the "second birth" or "birth in the spirit" is in fact spiritual or even physical death run backward --retrograde-- in time. Eliade speaks of this as a sacred rite, as alchemy. 10-26-80 I was gazing at Harvey tonight and I was granted a vision: of him as all the cats who had come before (as Schopenhauer says); but I did not think it; I saw it in the same way that one sees motion in a movie. I saw the point of this whold morphologically arranged world and its relation to our spatiotemporal world; wherever in space a cat is and whenever in time, it is a perfect cat; there is no deterioration in --so-to-speak-- the information comprising CAT. Over millions of years that "signal" has not deteriorated or weakened or been contaminated; the cat now is a clear-cut and perfect a cat as the first cat; and what I saw sitting there was essentially an eternal cat, a cat outside of time and space, a cat replaced over and over again --exactly as Schopenhauer says--and still with us here and now as it was there and then, every cat I have ever seen and every cat that has ever been or will be; because the process has not ended. This was not a theory or an intellectual realization; I actually saw him as the eidos cat, instanted (or whatever the fucking word is; an instance of) the cat. I therefore saw this spatiotemporal world joined to the morphologically-arranged world of the eide through and in this cat, the two realms synchronized and superimposed, the instance and the eidos as one; Harvey was simultaneously an instance in the spatiotemporal realm of cat, and also the eidos cat. This is why my view (based on revelation) that the flux world feeds into the Form world (world of the phylogons) as reticulation and arborizing is not only more correct than Plato's but more logical and valuable; it is a sort of double emanation from higher to lower, from lower to higher (realms), as Plotinus says. what the individual cats do and are is not lost, although the individual cat is an epiphenomenon and fades out; but as it fades --not after it is gone but as it fades--there fades in another "picture" of cat, so that cat is unchanged as cat; cat is constant. So everything that I have figured out in the last two weeks came together tonight in this vision of my cat who is an eternal cat, just as I am an eternal person; it is all eternal and I saw it with my own eyes, how the superimposition works. {folder 01 - 088} 10-25-80 1 suggests Brahman. Could it not abolish realm #4 any time it (Nous) wished? Then it has let us fall; and it has the power to award us a theophany based on its theodicy --or on any principle it wishes: "As it wills." Then it lets us suffer the consequences of our epistemological error. But perhaps it provides us with clues. Here is a theory I am fond of: it observes how we behave in a state of amnesia wherein we do now know who we are or what behavior will be rewarded, so we are ignorant of guile in culling rewards: we do not even know if it (Nous). On the other hand, a more Greek view would be that it intervenes to balance extremes; this is pure enantiodromia and fits Plato as well as Heraclitus. And is also Taoist. I.e. it is a self-regulating totally homeostatic entity maintaining internal harmonie. It seems to me that the key is: internal balance, and the mechanism for this is enantiodromia. And this accounts for (3-74). The "Torah" that relates to me speaks of troubles. Well, then a point of such extreme distress comes that due to fundamental principles of harmonie (balance) within the total system enantiodromia occurs as an alchemical transmutation of the situation: a conversion into its opposite. Surely this involves the regular oscillations in time by the dialectic (palintropos harmonie). There is some kind of "emptyingfullness" logic as described in the TAO TE CHING. It is