missive; it did say Olive Holt...and the decoding swam into consciousness that morning (the Hebrew letters). My god; Thomas did take over; PKD2 did take over. But PKD1 (me) thwarted his answering the Xerox missive. He wouldn't have phoned the Fullerton police and asked to be locked up; I (PKD1) did that. He took control but he couldn't link up with his contact, so he couldn't get instructions. This had nothing to do with God. It had to do with Pigspurt. So here I’ve been for six and a half years going around with the conviction that by the way I handled the Xerox missive I performed what I call "the heroic act" that introduced newness "and overcame my karma"; by "karma" read programming. Well, I am right. What I did, by not answering the Xerox missive, did change my life. There is no telling what PKD2 (Thomas) would have done if he had been able to go ahead and answer the Xerox missive. "An intelligence officer in the Army," as the AI voice --i.e. Thomas-- thought recently. Yes indeed; my life would have been different. But it was me who thwarted that,1 and I thwarted that --was able to thwart that-- because due to purely accidental circumstances (the pentathol and my seeing the Christian fish sign) I had remembered PKD2 (Thomas); I had gotten in touch with him for an instant, there in 2-74, and by 3-18-74 he had bled across enough for me to be aware that the Xerox missive was coming. I knew it was coming when I saw Roogna's letter, so I knew that PKD2 was involved with Pigspurt. There you have it. 1Can I sincerely argue that Thomas called the Fullerton police and told them "I am a machine" and under Pigspurt control, and asked to be locked up? That wasn't Thomas, PKD2 who bled across due to the accidental pentathol; that was me, PKD1. But Thomas did then take over...but he'd failed to link up with the woman, the woman he could see so clearly. Interesting. That time at the dentist when I was given nitrous oxide and had a revelation that Joan was evil incarnate; and I had discovered that my visions and dreams concerning the woman I was supposed to link up with seemed to pertain to Joan and Sonoma. And then she arranged a contact with me. Was Joan my contact? Did I fight that off by not moving up to Sonoma? Did I balk? I’ll never know. Surely Pigspurt would try again, after the failure in 1974 of the Xerox missive. When all the mystical religious bullshit is stripped off, there remains Pigspurt. But 11-17-80 was a theophany, a genuine one, and it made me lucid for a time because it gave me something to contrast 2-3-74 with. I have an unnecessary duplication in my theory. If there is a PKD2 (i.e. Thomas) in me, then no adventitious "telepathic contact" and parapsychology and psychotronic stuff is needed as an explanation; the other mind that I came in contact with was PKD2 -- i.e. Thomas, and he had been there for years. The phosphene graphics was the break¬ ing down of the barrier between me and him. So everything uncanny that I experienced (1) had to do with Thomas being disinhibited, which is to say stimulated to consciousness by the pentathol; and (2) the intrinsic nature and contents of his mind, for instance my "seeing" the dialectic; this is his Hegelian dialectic worldview, and Acts could be his way of viewing contemporary U.S.A.: as a prison. So everything happened internally, in my brain, as our two selves fused — precisely as I had put forth earlier in writing SCANNER. Isn't SCANNER the clue, then, that this all is true? This explanation? Not knowing that I had another personality (self) in my brain I thought (paranoia) that I was being irradiated or being hit by psychotronic beams, or telepathy, etc., or advanced technology, but the simple fact was, the pentathol had caused Thomas (PKD2) to break into consciousness, I mean, my consciousness; it had momentarily dissolved the barrier that separated us. The same goes for the AI voice; it is Thomas thinking (he thought in a foreign language, and Tessa theorized that it was Russian). So what I call "incredibly sophisticated technology" is just another personality in me, one who underwrote my writing over the years...but one to which the Xerox missive was directed. This demystifies it all, does it not? Zwei Seelen wohnen Ach! in meiner Brust! Then 2-3-74 was something like a psychosis, in which the conscious mind is swamped by material from the unconscious; but in my case my "unconscious" was in fact another conscious self, the other hemisphere of my brain. A second self had formed, or had been deliberated formed, there. To be disinhibited when the time came; but he got accidentally prematurely disinhibited by the combination of the pentathol and the golden fish sign -- the latter simply may have acted hypnotically on me; the combination of the metal and the sun¬ light. Anyhow it brought PKD2 out and into the open, and finally gave him control. But the Xerox missive was out of my hands and up in L. A. due to my doing (PKD1). Fortunately The best evidence I have that 2-3-74 was somehow spurious is (as I have noted) that it seemed to be my own prior thought formations (esp. "Ubik") fed back to me. It was a counterfeit of a religious experience based on my own preconceptions. This realization before I had the 11-17-80 genuine theophany to compare it with. The "2nd signal," then, plus most else, was some sort of hologram as if my own brain + its contents were projected as world. It was very sophisticated but then, so, too, is my epistemology - which is why at one point recently I theorized that it was a satanic delusion to entrap me all the more thoroughly in world - complex world coming back at me based on my own idea of what would be convincing, since simple world as we normally see it was not enough. Oddly, the theophany of 11-17 is not at all in accord with my views of deity - as I can demonstrate by pointing to "Ubik" etc, i.e. my writing. It is too conventional + too simple. It is other peoples' idea of deity. However, I do not think that in 2-3-74 I was psychotic or hallucinating in the normal sense. I think that I was being expertly fucked over in some kind of "close encounter"; I say this because of the way the categories of space, time + causality were manipulated. +, further, I think it all was triggered off accidentally, that the pentathol etc caused what I call "the grand illusion" to break down. Also I think I had for some time previous to that -years in fact- a control or manipulator of some kind. Although this is a benign power, certainly, it has never been up front with me, in sharp contrast to God on 11-17. Some kind of fantastic technology is pointed to, but also disinformation + obfuscation, so that it covers its own tracks. Worse, it is playful + (from my standpoint) illogical; it indulges in riddles + paradoxes, + hints that lead everywhere + nowhere. Probablr Pigspurt is not involved; the Xerox missive was a forgery, + the mysterious tutelary entity was saving me from it. But God was not involved; that was disinformation. + it caused me to see what it wanted me to see. It put me in the position that when I talk about it I talk religious nonsense + occult nonsense - yet somewhere in disinformation is the truth - but I'll never know where (contrast this to the lucidity + candor of 11-17). The entity or force responsible for 2-3-74 does not want me to know the truth (that is part of it), + the other part is that it has been using me for years. Finally it had to come out in the open (because of the peril of the Xerox missive) but it created such an ink cloud that it successfully concealed itself. I would be willing to guess, however, that a genuine revolutionary secret underground society exists stemming from early times, chiliastic in nature + equipped with highly advanced technology; it probably is Rosy Cross, but what that really means I have no idea - it could go back to Egypt or Jesus or to extraterrestrials. All I can be sure of is (1) it is benign; it saved me; (2) it has controlled me for years; (3) it can either warp time, space + causation or cause you to perceive time, space + causation as warped. + beyond doubt it can get inside your head. (E.g. it can affect your memory.) The war against the Empire is real, + the Empire is real. There is a war going on + it has been going on for thousands of years. The Winter King Frederick the Elector Palatine is involved, the Bohemian revolutionaries, etc, so it is probably R.C. It influences or even controls world history. But it's not God or Christ; it's technology. "The Savior" equals "revealer" which equals new + higher enlightenment. It all has to do with information, esp. subliminal information + information generating + processing. In 2-3-74 (to repeat) it served me my own idea of a theophany, but it was for my own good (I guess anyhow). What it really was doing vis-à-vis "Tears" I have no idea whatsoever, but it did put cypher into it. That was real. It is working strictly in terms of world + laws of physics - but this has nothing to do with God or Christ, as I know from 11-17. Probably it has very practical aims involving world power, historic, social, political + economic. No miracles were involved just as no genuine theophany was involved. My control simply surfaced to protect me, disguising itself in religious trappings as camouflage. The most significant thing I know (or think I know) about it is: Acts is a hologram it projects onto world (the "2nd signal") as a decoder grid or lens by which to read the vast information traffic that Valis (whatever Valis might be) deals in. Most of all, Valis has to do with information generating + processing, but you need the Acts grid or "2nd signal" or lens to do a set-ground extraction (distinguishing) of it. So basically what this all has to do with is covert information traffic. By this they rule, whoever they are, because this info traffic impinges on us subliminally + thus controls us. It uses my writing (e.g.) to generate such traffic. Of this I am positive. In fact, this is the only reason I know about it: in order to use my writing as a carrier for their information they had to install a subliminal control in me, + when this control ("Thomas") surfaced in me in 3-74 to protect me (I was endangered due to the cypher "Thomas" had put in "Tears") I saw reality through its decoder grid (Acts) + could do a set-ground discrimination of its info traffic. It seems to be a big computer camouflaged here, a sort of giant brain. This has nothing to do with God; this has to do with controlling world history or attempting to control world history. By high technology. Imagine: using the Bible as a encoding-decoding grid! How clever - since biblical material floats around everywhere, all the time ("the most widely printed book ever published"). This is its cover + its carrier; hence the Acts material in "Tears"! This is my objective proof. + it also proves that I wasn't just hypnotized by the pentathol + the Golden Fish sign. "Thomas" is real + he has been in me some time. XXIII reverence. But at this final Moksa-stage of discovery - a surprise