it can only think by means of the physical world. another possibility in this business about "pretextual" cause: let's go back to my intuition in the late 40s that causation does not in fact exist. Let us say that I was right what, then, was I apperceiving if I envisioned something other than efficient cause? Could it be that I was apprehending ex nihilo creation in the form of sequential states which we as percipients linked causally? That is, each state was presumed to cause the next, but in fact each state is an instance of ex nihilo creation -continuous crea‐ - so that eternal newness comes about the 18" opposite of a deterministic closed system. Well, this would shet a great light on "Thomas" + the "dysfunction" in causality in Thomas sensed he'd just now been in a lool 3-74. s high, moist climate; there was no causal, se quential continuity - what I am saying is here the ex nihilo nature of things was apparent to me... which may be linked to anamnesis -as common crucial element being unimpaired memory (which may indicate that our normal that it literally mremory is a joke memory; 54 is not memory at all, but is induced by any (or the) given existent state (I mean, "memory" of "prior states" leading up to the present state is filled in based on what would logically account for the know about present state. Thus if ex nihilo Chrissy's birth defect I will "remember" a flash of light + beatle's tyrics); but what This points to 2-74 as being is actual not at all wrong! t memory - no! the Golden Fish sign generated a "memory that would fully account for it (it being the present existent state), so what is revealed is the real nature of memory; +, what is more, world (or "world") derived from this memory" - another sort of syntonic harmonions saw the Golden Fish sign + obliging. I remembered" but (I say now) this "memory" was a forgery (it even led to a perception of world bonded to it to the memory); where‐ upon my mind/brain leaped instantly to the realization that memory per se, not just the Apostolic" memory, was a forgery derived from the existent state of affairs; more, that push-pull relationship existed between "world a "memory"; you never god one without the + other: each was the flip-side of the other, so that a seamless verification was set up: viz: world verified memory, + memory verified world So no contradiction could arise. My "meta-‐ abstraction," then, was not just that spatio‐ temporality was irreal but memory likewise the two being inner-outer crrolations -analogs. followed as a of each other. Now, what this! result of beca 55 this" was a collaper of world + memory of world simultaneously as a self-verifying homogenous structure. Each part ("inner" + "outer")-note the quotes- "verified" the other, s normally the whole system would impact on you with the force of absolute reality. well what followed this inner-outer collapse was not another spatiotemporal "set," as it first seemed; the replacement "set" simply indicted the veracity of spatiotemporal "sets one + all (including memory, without which the "set" would be patently irreal; memory is essential for the semblance of verisemilli‐ tude), so that "set" although it impinged (i.e. Acts) really ushered in something that was not a spatiotemporal "set" at all causation fell all to pieces for one thing. then the plasmate appeared; then Valis; the set/ground; the continuum; the physical thoughts. What replaced spatiotemporalely was not world as we know it. (Also my self went, along with memory, spatiotemporality + world.) It was not me; it was not now; it was not here. What replaced world was a signalling ); It uses spatio‐ unitary on (the Greek word "on" temporality as an interface, through / by which it engages us, with the result that it is us; there is nothing that is not it, + nowhere where it is not: the key word is ubique: we are not outside it as if vis-a-vis to it; it is in us as well, + thus in effect controls + notifies itself under the illusory aspect of discrete plurality. Spatio temporal plurality is a guise it assumes; it poses -presents itself to us- as discrete plurality, there is no division between it outside te t 66 Iajust about to figure out what "pretextual cause," Valis, effects producing their "causes," spurious memory, meta-abstracting Spinoza's monism + two attributes, all point to reality signals, + when we receive a signal it is ineluctable, it seems like invincible cause; why, when in fact it is only a signal? + prior causes aren't cause; cause is within (immanent); our minds construct causal trains in time, which has to do with our memory, which I see now is spurious; it is there to provide continuity. Malebranche, following Augustine, was on to occasionalism. Causation is irreal. What 3-74 it. revealed was God who impinges as or by world. the inner-outer tapes in synch! This is Cartesian occasionalism - + it is Malebranche. Also it is Leibnitz + his monadology - the synchron thee clocks. Due to my meta-abstraction of 2-74, which is Platonist anamnesis (but requiring Auaustine's reinterpretation: divine illumination) abstracted away from passive sense perception + a priori apperceived nontemporal reality; hence causation went all to pieces I can express it. I can viz: In 3-74 I saw world as it really is. How/what is it really? Coherent activity of God normally camouflaged so that spatio‐ temporality seems to impinge on us; but in fact one continuum exists which we are in, are part of + not observers to; + what happens to us + what we do: God is the real cause of both (v. Malebranche + his 67 Cartesian occasionalism. The main thing is: internal coherence so that order (cosmos) is created. What did I see (that I called Valis, the plasmate, pretextual cause, etc? explains my anamnesis, meta-abstract+ Thomas, etc)? God. I saw God. Hence I correctly speak of God as being world "under the threat of imminent death." God is the true cause of everything (not the first cause but, rather underlying, as with Spinoza. The truest apperception is Spinozd. the more you abstract from spatiotempo‐ rality to the intelligible (as with Platos eide) the closer you come to truth, i.e. God, alsensibe e intelligible My Q is the correct one: "What is God's relation to world, + how would world differ without God, if at all?" The A. is: is God is the true activity of world + of as a single continuum." us I can't see + I can't think. but what I saw in 2-3-74 proves that Malebranche is even more correct than Spinoza. I have pushed to the limit of my faculties + powers + can't go On. If I say, "Malebranche is correct th no one will even know who or what am talking about. Plato to Augustine to Malebranche to Spinoz I have finally linked 2-3-74 totally with an extant philosohy and philosopher. What I saw-- pretextual cause, Valis, [MIT] motion, linking and relinking, Valis, mind, the dialectic, unity instead of plurality, etc-- oh yes: the [mmsk], and of course the meta-abstraction in which USA 1974 and acts superimposed syntinically, and [xtian] apocalyptic history- 15 the philosophy of Nicholas de Malebranche; mainly what I saw is his, "occasionalism" and this explains my [niginal] insight into the irreality of causation back in the 1403. Malebranche's philosophy is very close to spinoza's, as Durant points out, and also is related to Plato and neoplatonism by way of Augustine. The "clutch" system. One thinks that reality is acting on him, but it is really God. 3-74 was an apperception of God as the true basis of all reality, and perception as being and eternal ideal in the mind of God (the [mmiki]). To what do I owe this 3-74 vision of God and the mere occasionality of world? The answer is contained in Malebranche system based on Augustine): in God himself. God as the true cause of everything (that happens) [make] the whole thing (world) seem real. 6 What I saw that I called "pretextral cause" was as if one object simply notified or signalled another + the other moved but the true cause of the movement was somehow in the other (i.e. the object that movel). Also reality likewise signalled me + a corresponding "tape" in me that was synchionized with this outer "tape" caused me ineluctably to this (I discover) is Malebranche's act occasionalism. This explains how the info about it Chrissy was transferred" to me only seemed to be caused by the changes in the beatles' lyrics + the flash of Light, these are what I was calling "hallucinated "pretextual causes" generated by their own "effects" + my "dissociated" actions vis-a‐ of vis the Xerox missive. God is the true cause, I have thoroughly studied Malebranches occasionalism. There is no doubt that the "twin tape synchronization" + "pretextual cause" + MMSK + (meta-abstracting) God as ubique + immanent + the true cause of everything; Valis (unitary reality, as a self-causing field), + our own actions in fact willed by God the clutch system, the engramming - it is all Malebranche: There is (1) His "vision in God." that ta intelligible extension in God of the arche‐ types as ideas on which creation is based, there in felligible idea. We experience p it + related which is occasionalism; His G2 70 both to Leibnitz ("pre-established harmony") + to Spinoza (God is in us + all around us, so that when we will something, it is really God who wills. + causation is only "occasional"; God is the true cause of all motion). My meta-abstraction then, was more than Platonist anamnesis + recovery of the universals. I saw world -spatio‐ temporal reality - the way God does (Hence I saw, later the MMSK); + my mind is just a mode of God's mind, which is why I experienced Valis breaking into my mind with such concepts as the dialectic, the rest motion + why I saw 4-D + the set/ground + the plasmate 2-3-74 is based on my two initial insights in the forties: (1) regarding causality, (2) regardng later, of course, my "10 volume meta space. novel" especially "Ubik" + "Maze" actually, Malebranche makes it clear that my radical epistemology did not go far enough, rather than being too daring, it was too timit (I am speaking of my to-volume meta novel, i.e. my epistemology prior to 2-3-74.) My meta-‐ t bstracting in 2-74) carried suggestion that I simply could not comprehend, but which he lucidly handles. 71 I simply can't take it all in. If Malebranche is proven true by 3-74, then I didn't see world qua world nor God qua God, but a kind of fusion! something like pantheism, but more complex, due to what Malebranches calls the intellectual archetypal ideas in God's mind that he used as the basis for creation; more, I saw God as the actual cause of all motion, change + activity. In fact, I did not see world, I experienced the archetypal ideas in his mind as archetypal ideas in his mind; this is whys. I the 2 spatiotemporal sets blended. I was aware of world as ideas in his mind, + I was aware of him. Him in me motivating me (e.g. vis-a-vis the Xerox missive). + the info about Chrissy, + externally as Valis. + causes as occasional -what I call "pretextual" - causes. The inner-outer tape synch that causes reality to seem real + causes us to act. ) "Vision in God": the archetypal ideas in his mind, we perceive these as world. 2) God as the true cause of motion outside us + in us. result: God in all, + all in God. We owe our existence + actions as well as our knowledge to God. 72 the "perturbation": it made