least to knowable - by it. This is tram/tat asi. Valis, then, is an apperception of it by it: the pure intellegere. This is the ultimate experience of "external" reality: that it revert into Valis which I realize now is an external mirror of myself. Of course, then, the "AI voice" would be inside me - Valis in me. As Paul says, "we in Christ + Christ in us; this is the secret." Valis is God experienced as intellegere rather than as soma. + he is he who experiences as well: pure thought experiencing reality a purce thought 6 145 [the words on slips of paper in "Joint" are a first experience of world as intellegere - like The neon slogans in the last pseudo world in "Fie. this reaches fruition in "Ubik" - although traces of it appear in "Maze" as well. to experience reality as intellegere instead of soma is to experience it from inside, rather than outside. How did I do this? The blitz flashing between reality + my inner analog, back + forth, causing an "alchemical" transmutation of the two into one. Thus I could read reality as a language: "the hieroglyphs of God" This all goes back to Pythagoras' view that the basis of reality is not some substance but structure the orderly fitting-together of beauty," which was my ultimate vision beauty + intelligence are the two bases of reality," as I put it, not esse. Hence my acos prison. Beauty would be its extension in space as body. Geometric analog of ideas expressed as structure. a very strange thought has come to me. self macro world macro 2) world micro self micro o 1 in 3-74 I felt as if I was no longer blind, that I was seeing correctly instead of by reflection; i.e. I was seeing the universe backward. + outside of me I saw Valis, on page 55 I come (for the first time) to the conclusion that "Valis is an The writing (e.g. "MITHC" ternal mirror of myself. t + taith of") show that I had - + had had for some time - world in me. So world becomes micro + inner, self becomes macro + outer - did I revert to a ven primitive anamism? projection? Okay, that might s explain self as encountered externally in macro‐ form as world, but this aspect was triggered by finding world inside me in microform first: viz: my writing turning up as external reality + my right brain recognizing it + instantly drawing certain very far-reaching conclusions. Anyhow, I epitomize Valis (Ubik) as rational. This is hardly a description of a projected collective unconscious. nevertheless, world + self exchanged places. Of that there can be no doubt. (I felt myself to be on the skin of the universe, like on the outside of a balloon with the universe within (sic!). Thus I had introjected the universe + knew it by intro‐ spection - but it was already there (within) as proved by the prior writing. Nor was this a delusion on my part; the writing verifies it If Valis is me then I am not a human being because Valis is Ubik which is a supernatural thinking absolute ultimate macro (ubiquitous) entity, salvific in power + nature - hardly a human ego. + I continue to find Valis as the AI voice within me. It always spoke + wrote from inside me, although outside as well (not instead). it's a psychosis in structure (invasion of con‐ sciousness by collective unconscious material, + pro‐ jection into the outer reality, + a "hallucinated" voice suggesting dissociated part of the psyches this latter verified by my dissociative behavior in 3-74) + of course Thomas. But - it is nonsense to view it this way if the invading psychor contents are more adapted to problem-solving, more effective, rational, shrewd, coherent, wiser mature, structured, etc. what about my theory that at some prior time had suffered a classical schizophrenic break that my self returned in 3-74? I.e. in down, + insame for a being 3-74 I became sane afte 958 number of years? Under stress my real self had to resume conscious control. But this in no way explains "MITHC" + "Faith of." Anyhow the AI voice spoke to me back in high school. Yel there is something here. A false ego, in 2-3-74 dissolved making way for a much wiser + more effective self to govern. But where did it come from? My "unconscious". What does That mean? Nothing. The schema was world within self as early as "MITHC" + possibly earlier. What we are really talking about is two realities: an external one + an inner micro synchronized analog - but not synchronized in time; the inner analog divulged crucial contents years before the external counterparts came into being. They are analogic in content but not syn‐ chronized in linear time. For instance, the "Paul klee" graphics - the phos phene activity. Those, damn it, were real pictures, abstract works of art! Millions of them is distinct styles of specific modern artists. How could they Then originate within me? But they did - + the cos mological concepts - + the Greek. Very well, I was positive when all that began that electronically boosted telepathy was involved. Now I think not but where, then, came the contents? + what/who is the mind which contained these vast contents P but that makes me other than my mind? human. This was postmortem knowledge of the kind Plato speaks of. I am Valis. Valis is Ubik." I am Ubik but it is said of Ubik in "Ubik" that it is the Logos. We are back to that. + "MITHC" + "Faith of" show it active in me over a decade ago - long before 2-74. This shoots down any theory of enthusiasmos in 2-3-74, all it did to Then was come surface whi a 59 not Ubik - the divine power, lying in wait in me to trap the evil power itself trying to trap "me." The fact is I PKD was a long term carefully fabricated baited hook, + it worked: evil disclosed itself. I know this. evil as trapper was smitten upon its foolish disclosure of where it was. It re-enacted the primordial (timeless) overstepping; what took place in 3-74 was a sacred ritual drama my final proof is "Tears" - the plot of + "Tears" + its affinity to "the Bacchal, which I collate with the Christ drama. Buckman forges a document to incriminate an innocent man, who he knows is nocent. In the encounter between Jason + Felix the latter, who tracks the former, is destroyed + the former freed + restored. It is Acts. It is the Christ story me, + Zagreus. This never stops happening; it is re-enacted eternally + it all has to do with the legitimate (real) King entering his own Kingdom (which is ruled by a pretender tyrant) in humble disguise. He is set upon by the tyrant, tried + killed (as a man) + is reborn resurrected - in his true form: as the divine power itself. The crucial point of the drama is that he is degraded into garbage, whereupon a magical transmutation into gold occurs a lightning-swift reversal - which makes me think of Ma'at + the Tao + the tetraktys But it is a mistake to believe the this process turns him into God. No. He was o 68 always God but disguised (even to him self, perhaps). This process simply veals the truth, + served to draw the evil power into disclosing itself by its overstepping. It repeats its primor t dial crime against the Godhead + is freshly identified in the drama losing again its chance for salvation. It will always en morally + in judgment + it will always discover its error too late, upon its own downfall. It has been duped. It has lost. The game goes on. I say: Valis was me externalized. Well, Valis melted causal trains. It invaded the universe; ergo I invaded the t universe + overpowered it. How does this differ from "tat tvam asi"? It does not. 1) I + world are one. + 2) world is a form which Brahman assumes, so to say "I + world are one" is to say really "I + Brahman are one." Valis/Ubik is world as thought or thinking, + I became macro + encompassed world, containing it + presumably greater than it - primary in relation to it this is panentheism world is idea of the divine mind of he have acosmic panentheism plus h an identification of me + Brahman is one, + greater than world, Valis/Ubik is the thinker showing through the and 61 scape as if it is a dream or dreamed landscape, + I am the dreamer in t state of partial wakefulness - roused in 2-3-74. was not the causal train melting by Valis the adjusting or modulating back to "plumb" of the very overstepping which I speak of? The readjustment of balance - harmonia - in the kosmos, in its order? 1) I am convinced that overstepping occurred. 2) This disturbed the balance in the kosmos. 3) Valis adjusted 4) much of 3-74 - not just the causal train melting - can be understood as this compensation back to balance 5) this involved the whole Nixon thing 6) My inner template could best be viewed as like attitude rockets firing in correction of external reality, to cause it to conform (realign) to the Logos or pattern. It dominated outer reality through ne then the causal train melting was a -age of external reality made to conform to the inner prior template (analog) because certainly the internal template was not adjusted. Then the inner template was Logos, with "Logos" defined as blueprint (for reality is If xternal reality departs from it is as after 662 a time brought back in conformity to it. Would not self at this time seem to encompass world? what if reality unfolds on the basis of a prior verbal narrative? + the signs in "Eye" + "Joint" point to that verbal - or written narrative? As expressed by Valis/Ubik? + I possess in me a copy of that narrative? It was long ago traced out inside me - imprinted there in miniature? But it is in Ubik" that the situation is correctly expressed. The divine Logos has penetrated - invaded - the trash stratum + its protonarrative or blueprint appears there, which is to say everywhere; hence I find it within my own self Although "Maze." "Eye," "Joint," etc. depict this information, only "Ubik" depicts the source of the information: Ubik. Thus the entity writing the narrative depicts itself in the narrative, at last. "Valis," of course is a conscious + deliberate attempt to analyze + understand this entity, based on an actual encounter with it. A conscious encounter basically, it is conceived of as having invaded Our reality at all levels (this would include inner as well as outer). So in "Ubik" I am no longer just aware of the information but the entity (mind) behind - + generating. ot the information. This links up with my sense in 3-74 that I was in telepathic contact with another, greater mind - which I now view as an externalization - objectification I my real self, reality, forced to the wall, lurn't into inf t 6 + if pushed even further, reveals the informa (creating] entity Ubik/Valis" first world as script in us + around us + then script programmer, s listening to the Platt tape I construe by the logic presented that Valis (the other mind) which came at me from outside + which overpowered me from inside was indeed the contents of my collec‐ ive unconscious, + so technically a psychosis, since This is how you define psychosis (it certainly would explain the animism outside, + the interior dissociated activity) but - well, okay; it