internally. So something was flushed out of my nervous system in 3/74: I detoxed. "Scanner" is the crucial part of my writing. Then it is evident that our proper full functioning is impaired, rather than just not (yet) achieved. Then we are "cursed." William Burroughs is correct. + not just me qua me but us as a species, a race - all of us; Christ has the juridicial authority + power to remove it. Damn it, I can now be sure which it is folder 20 - 045 folder 20 - 045 1) impaired (original) faculties or 2) evolutionary leap forward. It is 1); there is a limiting factor, poison-like, reducing us. But orthodoxy says God our creator did it to us as a punishment. Maybe we are in a prison due to a primordial crime. The fall. What did we do? I don't know, but Christ saves us, restores us - removes the "bichlorides" or "aspirin of mercury". The apple - something eaten. Cryptic hint - we ingested (ate) something poisonous. "Scanner" is so illustrative. Substance Death! "Til sin brought death (sic!) into the world + all our woes!" The Todesstackel - the sting of death is sin. Poisoned stinger, as from a venomous insect, not a goad. "We need medical attention." Christ as healer - supersophisticated technology. Healed me, Christopher. Yes - the writing on the cereal box in that first dream were like directions on a box or bottle of drug store medicine, like Tylanol. + like a dictionary definition: defining the situation with a reference citation: specific, precise, exact. We're toxic. + I didn't see how "Scanner" fitted in - boy, was I wrong; the key is in "Scanner". Although toxicity is hinted at in "Stigmata." So we are occluded; what I show in "Scanner" is just an epitomization of it. Oh God - has our specie been invaded by a life form ("criminal virus"?) Neural firing is too slow? Or not synchronized? Or did the orthomolecular vitamins flush out the poison? The latter, which then permitted fast firing. + what did I see? Information - + Zebra: melting causal processes, essentially weaving reality, spinning it out, like a hologram. Zebra is a doctor, invader here - chasing folder 20 - 046 down the "criminal virus" or as I think it to be, the poison. Mercury is an antidote to syphilis: Hal told me my genius was due to paresis. The effects of Substance D resemble tertiary syphilis. But it was Hal (Barris) who showed the impaired (pseudo) brilliance depicted in "Scanner." The cereal box dream was alluding to "Scanner," that I had the key in that book. Have I not supra written, "my writing is a detoxifying agent" - like mercury? Or - Is mercury the symbol for the toxin or the antidote? Well, mercury is double edged; in measured doses it is medicine (antitoxin); in unmeasured amounts it is a toxin - this is a venerable principle in medicine, certainly known to Paracelsus. Jeter says, "the fucked-up dopers -on Substance D- were the only ones who correctly understood the reality situation." I suspect Dionysos is involved here: madness - genius. Are the "sane" really the insane? Dionysos: the mad (i.e. crazy) god. Maybe he is in touch with reality + what we see when sane is not real. Christ, Dionysos, the "enthusiasmos" of the shaman, of possession by the Holy Spirit. Schizophrenia: the right hemisphere. There is where the truth, + lost faculties lie. (v. "Scanner" - this is specifically stated - + the origins of dreams ("psychosis while asleep" or conversely, schizophrenia is awake dreaming.) Then what's missing is right hem. parity. Bilateral parity. Well, again, "Scanner" is correct. Half our brain is cut off. The bicameral voice! The "Sibyl" - Julian Jaynes. folder 20 - 047 folder 20 - 047 I'm transliminating the "AI" voice - out of my right hemisphere. Why isn't the right hemisphere functioning? Julian Jaynes says it once did, but massive social disruptions (megrations) acted to silence it about 3500 years ago. The fall. Only prophets (e.g. Elijah) could still hear it (600 BC), i.e. hear God. But I do - have ever since 3/74. Then proper human brain functioning involves a potentiality (boosting) of the right brain. This (technically speaking) is accomplished by some kind of irradiation following the optic nerve (i.e. by selective light - or colors? Or patterns of colors: yes, patterns, gestalts in flashcut velocity which triggers responses in the right brain which can read these high-velocity-permutating colored patterns - "subliminal" information. Then when I saw the prosphene activity I was being calculatedly + sophisticatedly irradiated. The "miracle" was a superior technology. Like the info-rich beam of pink light. Zebra is an advanced life form, a physician. It "talked" to my right brain - communicated with it. + the result is what is called the Dibba Cakkhu eye of Shiva, or ajna chokra. The left hemisphere is not only under a limitation, it is also fucked up. The faulty reasoning depicted in "Scanner" is left brain digital thinking, i.e. faulty logic (v. de Bono + his concept of multiplex thinking, not digital - + Phil Purser says I employ this not-digital thinking in my writing. Anti toxin. folder 20 - 048 folder 20 - 048 Then the conclusion I seem to have reached is that left brain ratiocination is not only inadequate, it is faulty. In the "bicycle" scene in "Scanner" they tell him his perceptions (not just his cognition, i.e. reason) are fucked up. Quote: "the cognitive system fails because it isn't receiving accurate data... What the black saw (sic) was different from what all of you saw... you didn't perceive (sic)...." etc. "when you go to reason about what you see you reason wrongly because you don't -" The point made is that correct reasoning depends on correct perception (Gestalting, {...}). All the left hemisphere logic in the world is futile if perception is faulty. This is a major point made in "Scanner" as to what is wrong with their brains. Faulty input. But "faulty perception" is another way of saying, "Each of us sees, + therefore lives in, a different world [from everyone else]." This returns me to plural idoi kosmoi - so it dovetails (my total system). I do not see + therefore do not experience, what you do - a major theme in my writing. This fits in with my early thinking as in "Eye", but even better in fits with my "push-pull inner-outer self-tape" concept! Each of us is rigidly limited to a certain way of experiencing world - his world, function of a folder 20 - 049 folder 20 - 049 sort of inner + outer lock structure. "Scanner" makes the point that thinking (reasoning) is dependent on perception, on data perceived + how perceived (arranged, patterned). What I call "negative hallucination" is more precisely the selective editing out of certain data, which immediately cripples cognition (reasoning). I believe some kind of pre-programmed tape does in fact edit out certain crucial data - whole categories of data. Whatever controls the tape controls the limiting of received data which in turn cripples reason. Thus I indict reason on epistemological grounds. We are getting very close to the brain fed a spurious reality paradigm which Lem sees in "Ubik." Falsification of world, then, + the {block?} occlusion (which extends to reasoning) may be fundamentally an editing out: not what is fed but what is not fed; hence I think of our state as one of blindness. What is spurious about world is this editing. It seems purposeful, why is it done? What is the purpose? Incomplete data is worthless as a basis for reasoning. The fault lies there. Thus we are made prisoners, but in such a way as to occlude us from knowing folder 20 - 050 folder 20 - 050 that we are occluded; this is the horrible irony put forth in "Scanner" - a major point; perhaps the major point, we can't monitor what we can't see (perceive). Thus Rome CAD 45 looks like USA 1974 by 1) spurious additions + 2) crucial editing outs. The whole contour of reality is deformed by this lethal 2-pronged manipulation; we improperly gestalt. But in 3-74 i properly gestalted, due to the 2-74 anamnesis. So the manipulation is inside us. The Worldwide Church of God believes Simon Magus (the "Sorcerer") has us. Could they (i.e. Armstrong) be right? The whole ediface of establishment Xtianity: has Armstrong pinpointed who the magician (that I refer to) is? Creator of spurious world? Oddly enough, Simon Magus lived at the time of Acts. I have an eerie feeling that my 2-3/74 experience was due to Simon Magus, who founded Gnosticism (elite Gnosis); he lived at the time of Acts, + appeared to pagans as the Holy Spirit. The Gnostics regarded him as God, or "the great power of God." + Simon underwrote my writing, esp. "Ubik" + "Tears" which is why my writing has a Gnostic tinge. + "Thomas" is Simon. He knew Philip. He was converted by Philip. Because Simon was in me during folder 20 - 046 down the "criminal virus" or as I think it to be, the poison. Mercury is an antidote to syphilis: Hal told me my genius was due to paresis. The effects of Substance D resemble tertiary syphilis. But it was Hal (Barris) who showed the impaired (pseudo) brilliance depicted in "Scanner." The cereal box dream was alluding to "Scanner," that I had the key in that book. Have I not supra written, "my writing is a detoxifying agent" - like mercury? Or - Is mercury the symbol for the toxin or the antidote? Well, mercury is double edged; in measured doses it is medicine (antitoxin); in unmeasured amounts it is a toxin - this is a venerable principle in medicine, certainly known to Paracelsus. Jeter says, "the fucked-up dopers -on Substance D- were the only ones who correctly understood the reality situation." I suspect Dionysos is involved here: madness - genius. Are the "sane" really the insane? Dionysos: the mad (i.e. crazy) god. Maybe he is in touch with reality + what we see when sane is not real. Christ, Dionysos, the "enthusiasmos" of the shaman, of possession by the Holy Spirit. Schizophrenia: the right hemisphere. There is where the truth, + lost faculties lie. (v. "Scanner" - this is specifically stated - + the origins of dreams ("psychosis while asleep" or conversely, schizophrenia is awake dreaming.) Then what's missing is right hem. parity. Bilateral parity. Well, again, "Scanner" is correct. Half our brain is cut off. The bicameral voice! The "Sibyl" - Julian Jaynes. folder 20 - 047 folder 20 - 047 I'm transliminating the "AI" voice - out of my right hemisphere. Why isn't the right hemisphere functioning? Julian Jaynes says it once did, but massive social disruptions (megrations) acted to silence it about 3500 years ago. The fall. Only prophets (e.g. Elijah) could still hear it (600 BC), i.e. hear God. But I do - have ever since 3/74. Then proper human brain functioning involves a potentiality (boosting) of the right brain. This (technically speaking) is accomplished by some kind of irradiation following the optic nerve (i.e. by selective light - or colors? Or patterns of colors: yes, patterns, gestalts in flashcut velocity which triggers responses in the right brain which can read these high-velocity-permutating colored patterns - "subliminal" information. Then when I saw the prosphene activity I was being calculatedly + sophisticatedly irradiated. The "miracle" was a superior technology. Like the info-rich beam of pink light. Zebra is an advanced life form, a physician. It "talked" to my right brain - communicated with it. + the result is what is called the Dibba Cakkhu eye of Shiva, or ajna chokra. The left hemisphere is not only under a limitation, it is also fucked up. The faulty reasoning depicted in "Scanner" is left brain digital thinking, i.e. faulty logic (v. de Bono