as in "the Bacchae" - a tyranny. It is repression personified + the savior personified. 82 So 2-3-74 confirms the message in "Tears" (i.e. tells me that it is actually true), + the ursatz in "Tears" tells me what happened they y. + who rescued my in 2-3-74 + wh mistake captured a God - to their ultimate have by +, as God is here in human garb. dismay. The with Jason Taverner, does not know his own identity. His destroying of the tyrannizing authority is almost a byproduct of his nature, not a deliberate act. "Tears," in the final analysis, is prophecy, not analysis. It is broad historical, social prophecy, not about me personally - but, it also applied to me as an example." when the universe is introjected it becomes a glowing Kingdom of beauty + magic. + inner space transferred to the outer macrocosm becomes infinitely vast - so when introjected, the universe becomes bigger because the self is now a macroself. s In "Tears" the explicit exoteric story is the Bacchae"; the implicit inner one shining through dimly as the Acts material is the parallel but crucially different Christ story. Without the gas station scene with the Black man there would not be enough to pinpoint it as Acts - just felix the official isn't enough - + the gas station scene would not have been written but for the dream more her There is regarding applicabili its t 8 to me. A sort of single template must bea gined in the Platonic sense; this template, as t shows up presented in "Tears" now obtains "Tears" as information since in gemplate) a book is information. It shows up in my life in 2-3-74 as an i i event, but within the event lies Tears) in t a vast body of information, written information (the huge open books shown me). + what saved me in 3-74 was to an extent information + It is essentially a story. the transfer thereof. How is the 2nd advent recognized? By the superimposition of "the Bacchae" over Acts. It's like a hieroglyph. Acts modified by "the Bacchae" equals the second Advent - it's like Tea leaves reading. Imagine a random sentence generator (as in "Fifty million monkeys" or william Burroughs' latent message stuff) which serves up This 2-stage superimposition forming one narran tive recognizable as the template of the second Advent - which is then followed by at least one paralled impression in an actual human life - The same month the superimposition is published, There is a So in a sense it isn't followed; synchronization in time + space. What is pointed to is a common source. This is an in-breaking that information appears, too. Coherent modulation of reality by signal - + this is seen as a melting of causal trains by - volitional what? mind. Hylozoism? Panpsychism? Immanent deity? beyond doubt, mind or will is impinging directly on reality. Supra I hazard, I am Valis projected outward + coming back at me: my own mind. This is very scary. "A perturbation of the reality field" indicating what + who? Did I sel up a perturbation? After all, I had become Adam Kadmon + had exchanged places (roles? 8 8 with the macrocosm, in which case that was me out there - hence my books came back at me as world since my books + the deepest levels of my mind are one + the same (e.g. Ubik the entity + the world of "Tears"). To be in several of my books is to be in my own mind - specifically my unconscious. But then, I ask, what is my unconscious if not an analog binary computer + not a human mind at all? let us say that I (the stranger from the Bacchae") generated the perturbation of i the reality field which constituted the totality of 3-74 - triggered off in 2-74. I created a vortex in reality, due to the extreme stress - esp. the need for problem-solving - placed on ne. I emitted the St. Elmo's fire, the living the stranger, caught in the information plasmate. net by mistake, burns like a flame of white light. inasmuch as I saw Valis or Ubik, my unconscious is a gigantic integrated thinking machial. the mind is now macro + outer but it has assumed an impersonal pure intellegers quality. It no longer has personality; it is; it thinks; it knows; it is every where, + what it knows is, rather than the other way around. Thus nothing exists which it does not know + it does not know anything which is not. its knowledge + that which is are one + the same e If it is what it knows + it knows me it is me is It knows itself. Its life is a process in which it acquires knowledge of itself, as in the I Ching: "He is testing his powers." It experiences epi‐ sodic encounters with itself, in which it recognizes itself + understands itself: these are the ultimate t events, its ultimate life or condition or state 85 it encounters + knows itself from within: its essence known from inside, as if it has pene‐ trated to its own nature by a strange route as if dying + falling. To penetrate to its own essence it must begin to die - losing its attributes + aspects + awareness, like a wake‐ sleep oscillation: when it wakes up it regains its ubiquitous macro nature. being again world. So it forgets in order to s know. Forgetting permits it to pass downward by degrees to its own core. There at its core not even conscious itself of itself; it receives world, receives itself, is acted on by it self, comprehends its nature by this tactic: acted on + acted on, compressed + com pressed, it at last remembers, is caused to remember by an analogy discovend between itself + world, isomorphism: perceiving this macro-micro outer-viner isomorphism it begins to remember + becomes outer, macro, world again. containing itself, rather than contained "Tears" depicts it as world; "Ubik" as mind - encountering itself as the world of "Tears" it changes its mind modifies its own nature (condition). It as microform within itself has concealed decisive power over world coming at it (Taverner destroys Buckman). (micro destroys macro.) It brings itself to awareness, to remembering, by posing itself a puzzle or problem which it can only solve by drawing on its full nature - which then makes it conscious of its full or true nature has used two tactics. This is also a tactic. It 80 the first is falling asleep - dying + con tracting + descending - + the second prodding itself into reawakening. Out of these two antithetical tactics it knows itself. It was pleasant to fall asleep + terrible to wake up. The second tactic, the problem. pinged on the dreamer harshly; it could not be ignored; it had to be solved. The mind's final awareness of its own nature is to identify itself as the victim (receiver) of the problem + that it also posed the problem in advance, before it journeyed downward. It has tricked itself into wakefulness: induced itself to 1) draw on dissociated powers + 2) restore its own memory + self knowledge, now it sits in judgment on its own self-as-world. This is the wise old King of the "Tears" dream. The divine ritual drama which has been re-enacted is the death + rebirth of the old king, who presides as judge whigh priest. Over the sacrament in which he offers up his own body as sacrifice (the all Buchman dies + is reborn). (Upon confrontation with his executioner posing as victim Taverner, But Buckman is the actual victim) (what was most precious to him died: his twin sister or soul.) (The victim is executioner + the executioner is victim.) what is really slaughtered is the seeming in order to unveil - reveal - the actual. This is The purpose of it all: the removal of the masks. So that reality (the rational + coherent) can be born out of the irreal (irrational + chaotic). It is the birth of kosmos, the re-enactment of the s primordial willing of creation by the Godhead is - separation - there of emanation in this act Godhead creates the o icealed in it an inner return. rusmos to know itself. o 8 us my mind + hence writing as world - esp "Ubik I "Tears." Is this really the way it is, this rever‐ sal of the inner-outer, macro-micro? At the time I felt I was seeing for the first time. It, at the time, seemed correct - despite its strangness. why would I sense it as being correct despite the radical + sudden reversal? How could I adapt so soon? Ubik is not in me: Ubik is out there. This is the correct view. You would not expect it to seem right if it was an ata ism to primitive projection. the universe in me - as proved by the writing ("MITHC" + "Faith of"). But the writing was no longer in me but outside - yes: "MITHC," "Faith of" "Ubik," "Tears." Society: "Tears" which I wrote as an attempt to state what was so. Invaded by "Valis" or Ubik as mind. I'm afraid that "walloon" + "portugese states of merica" completes the pattern of "Tears" but it is a trans-temporal pattern. It is the Empire as such. the state is clearly articulated in "Tears" ("the Empire never ended"). +: "throughout this [part one] Siddhartha slept." He now wakes up; the stranger (Jason Taverner) has entered the empire it has detected him, so confrontation occurs. is not this Siddhartha waking up? + is not this Valis coming into existence - or, as I put it, invading the irrational universe? Stranger: Empire:: Valis" rrational universe. is not the Empire a [Jungian] ossified Iron] complex invaded by a "metabolic toxin" which will dissolve it? Isn't this really a kind which is deranged - i.e. frozen into an overvalent complex so that real time has (This t ceased? Isn't this my primary contention? is the phagocytosis of the heavy metal particle which envisioned stuck ossified complex 88 time the invader? + "Tears" depicts the ossified complex as a society spanning 2000 This is precisely it: no time has passed t years. since Acts; "once the mind becomes psychotic nothing new ever happens in it (or enters it whatever]." But something new has entered t + it is dissolved - does this explain my I acosmism dissolving of world (e.g. "Joint"), my isn't this precisely my job? Not to abolish reality, which is macro mind, but the complex, the strongly reaction depicted in "Tears"? Hence is ary nature of the society in "Tears"; it is stuck I was right from the start: no real time ha The true secret Xtians are a assed in 2000 years. dissolving (acosmic) agent, introducing they are revolutionary. Maybe vewness - change. e.g. Fitting is right about my writing as being sub versive in a very fundamental way. I do not accept "Joint" is an excellent example what I see as real. Thus for me, Ubik replaces the world (society. complex) of "Tears," invading it - + look at the specific term I used: melting causal trains? My world is Ubik, all at once: + it is the real one: "Tears" invaded + melted. Here the "MITHC" + "Faith of" material enters is a description of the entry point of the new the arrival of the messenger announcing the news of the true state of things + news that "St. Sophia" will soon be born again. but something even stranger is happening - It's as if microcircuitly is being slipped into the city of iron (the complex) which will encompass the complex! This is the phagocytosis of the Iron particle which I envisioned; it occurs when the inner-outer + micro-macro