is the way I asses "appear" in this linguistic context. In fact I am positive of it. In that case, if that is accepted as a given, then: AB = C rather than AB = C So: we have AB which equals C. If C = T, then C = T. So AB = T in this context (formally). USA 1974 + Rome CAD 45 = AB. So USA 1974 + Rome CAD 45 = T + not T as would seem. By the law of the excluded middle I get AB indicating T rather than merely failing to indicate T (i.e. it is either T or T. This is all based on equating "appear" with "give a false impression"; viz: AB gives a false impression of C which = T. Therefore AB gives a false impression of T. "False impression" = T. What other interpretation can there be? In those cases (which I presume do exist) where AB does = C, then in those cases AB = T, but this is not an instance of that. To go from logic to empiricism. I say we're dealing with a very high order of duplicity here: in magnitude, in power, in meaning, in importance. Since normally AB = C + C always = T, then an inversion of one of the two fundamentals of Kantian ontological folder 21 - 115 folder 21 - 115 ordering of perception of external reality has been accomplished, + it is stated as intentional by this mysterious "He". A following sentence, "this is why he smashes things" equates "he" with "James-James" who was obviously a mad genius creator god who brings things into existence through technology (perhaps meant symbolically) + evolution (probably meant literally). Our own world + species are alluded to. He creates them + then irrationally destroys, + because of this "we need medical help" from the "Palm Tree" entity. But look again. "He" (referred to as J) has taken AB = C = T + inverted it so that we get AB = T + we do not know that this inversion of the proposition has taken place, because we don't see the step in which not only does AB not = C but in fact = C, + hence T. Empirically speaking, this inversion from AB = T to AB = T totally contaminates our perceptions of external reality. The inverted proposition AB = T means what vis-a-vis the phenomenal world? (Actually, AB can = T or T, but I am taking the grimmer implication of the sentence - actually both are grim; viz: 1) AB can = T or T 2) We have AB 3) Therefore? What do we know regarding T (i.e. T vs T?) Nothing. Knowledge is impossible. No assumption regarding T can be derived, but, to folder 21 - 116 return to the sentence, I believe T is implied. Then we can fathom the experience of the syntonic superimposition. Because A (Acts) + B (USA 1974) are not separate in time (nor evidently in space either), + if they are not separate in space + time there is no reason why they couldn't be syntonically superimposed since no change + no time have actually passed. The sentence explains the experience, + the experience is proof, empirical proof, of the sentence (if the sentence is true you can infer that such syntonic superimposition of A + B would be possible; if the sentence is false, it could not possibly be. But it is, + the sentence is proved (empirically) true. I'll take a gigantic leap + say: "external reality" is actually a direct impinging by God onto or into our percept systems of the impression that world is out there (v. the Buddhist idealists). This impression can be synchronized among x number of percept systems so that the persons experience the same space-time world, but it can be varied for x people, + they will experience a different space-time world even though there is in fact no actual space-time difference for x + x in the sense that x + x are all "here" + all "now" but x gets impingment A, + x gets impingment B + so forth to infinity. So I am saying, world does not arise folder 21 - 117 folder 21 - 117 within our percept system, in the sense of being auto-generated, but - space-time separations are illusory in that they -the space-time "aspects"- can be modulated or edited or varied, etc. The Buddist idealists say it may be just coincidence that we all see the same thing. Well, I got to see the world through someone else's mind, + he didn't see the same thing. He saw what I saw in one sense (buildings, people, streets) but in another sense he saw something different, + different in a way that can be verbally defined with some precision - partly because not only did I see (experience) what he saw but in addition I knew, felt, remembered + believed what he did, + he was in Rome CAD 45 but still seeing the same world (would you believe plastic omni-matrix?) as I. So what this all seems to boil down to in terms of an answer to basic epistemological questions is: 1) An objective reality exists. But: 2) It can assume for us -due to the action of a volitional entity- any space + any time, which is to say all spaces + all times - 3) Which is to say all reality that has ever been + ever will be. 4) What world (reality) we experience does not depend on features of the genuine objective reality out there, but on what aspect of space + time this volitional entity chooses to folder 21 - 118 folder 21 - 118 have us experience; + 5) He chooses different aspects (i.e. different spaces + different times) for different people. So here is a qualified Berkeleyian idealism. God impinges -not directly on our senses the impression that objective reality exists- but imparts a modifying grid inserted between our percept system + objective reality so designed + in such a manner that we experience world differently from one another - + the crucial difference has to do with precisely the two categories which Kant asserted were our subjective ontological matrices: time + space. Kant is right; time + space are not properties of the Dinge-an-sich. But also they are not due to us, arising from us or by us; they are imposed on us by the creator. Whether this is "good" or "bad" I do not know, but thus it is. God imposes the ordering matrices, not us + not objective world. Has anyone thought of a triune division? Viz: {illustration of 3 text boxes with arrows going from right to left, from "objective world" to "God" to "us"} {note in the margin:} see p. 131 This is how Thomas can be in my head but be in another space + time from me. His God-imposed grid differs from mine. Reality filtered through God! folder 21 - 119 folder 21 - 119 The import of this is so colossal as to stagger me. Berkeley is wrong; objective world exists. But our immediate + primary experience is not of it -though it exists- but of God or anyhow a volitional entity with the power of determining when we are + where we are - which, as Kant showed, is the whole essence of percept-data ordering (hypostasis). Power of this order equals, for all practical purposes, total power over us. Now, what if this ordering, this grid, is occlusive vis-a-vis ourselves? Then the situation is deadly, + we do need "medical help"! What if the Gnostics + Mani are right? What if this grid is a bilking of us? A making us prisoners? Because if this constitutes a prison, this filtering, then the Gnostic "metaphysical strike" makes a lot of sense. + since J was obviously insane, though brilliant, then our "reality" is odrered by a psychotic God who is into random creating + destroying - i.e. without purpose or pattern, as his sick mind directs (v. that Catherist poem!) a fevered mind! On the other hand, this disclosure, although of titanic epistemological significance in itself, has equally titanic implications vis-a-vis this whole homoplasmate situation. The plasmate -i.e. the macrobrain- now is seen as the actual reality in which we dwell, whether naturally so or as an folder 21 - 120 folder 21 - 120 invader, a salvific invader, into the situation; because I know the macrobrain to be not only benign but -as in "Ubik"- to be perpetually sending info to us - info describing our true situation for the purpose of saving us via this ontologically redemptive + extricating gnosis. This macrobrain cannot simultaneously occlude us; that is an oxymoron. It is removing the very blinders which make us helpless slaves of our Geworfenheit, which is another way of describing this space-time infliction. In the homoplasmate we have a binary organism now extricated from this Geworfenheit, since the plasmate part is anti-occluded (as a piece of Zebra, the macrobrain); this explains why I sense the plasmate to be supratemporal; this quality now intrudes with new + expanded meaning: the plasmate isn't bound by the space-time grid, which implies it isn't in J's power at all (like look what Thomas did re the Xerox missive: he could see into the future). Goddam, this is heavy! I can hardly handle it psychologically. We're fucking in "Ubik," "Maze," "Stigmata," "Scanner" + "Joint" + "Eye" + "Tears" all at once! folder 21 - 121 Zebra isn't from Sirius; Zebra came down here from a totally higher level of being entirely. The Gnostics are right about the double prison situation. Zebra wrote my writing, all right, + my writing is literally precisely true; all you need do is collate it + develop the overview, + you have our exact situation. Aw shit. The hell with "Cosmic Trigger"+ the "Sirius Connection"; the true story is more on the order of "Stigmata"! All you have to do is literally regard my writing as non-fiction + you have it. Fuck! No wonder people say they feel like they're living in a Phil Dick novel. The ultimate power is benign, + helping free us - but that ain't J, + it's J who's interposed himself between us + reality. However, unknown to him, the savior (Zebra) is here now! J - Samael, the blind god... In summary: I took an experience (2-3/74) which was impossible but which nonetheless happened, added it to a pregnant-with-meaning sentence revealed to me 4 1/2 years later, analyzed the collation, + got back as a result... aw shit. Thank God for Ubik. It isn't just the DNA that's reduced us to robots (emprisoned reflex machines): But the DNA is one piece of it, + a piece scientifically verified - i.e. detected. There's a lot more as yet known just in theological + folder 21 - 122 folder 21 - 122 philosophical -i.e. unverified- terms. The whole picture, as I synthesize it conceptually, is - beyond belief. You'd have to have a big hunk of the programming, grid, occlusion, delusion, enslavement, lifted even to guess its existence; it's total, +, on our own, there is no way we can discern it, let alone break it. We are born, we suffer meaninglessly + die - look at Doris! It's diabolic, + it mimics morality; it mimics the salvific God-savior itself - like in me, thanatos annexing eros + then posing as it; I'm a victim, just like Doris: death drives me, + really through no sin or fault of my own; it's an illness, a blight, fallen onto us, + for no rational reason. + Doris will go to her grave never guessing, having known only pointless suffering, + duty. Which mimics meaning + ethics + spirituality. We are calculatedly robbed of joy, like some vile game or sport (v the Catherist