delusion; only is rea (Valist Naturans 32 s Naturans (Valis): the dreamer, naturata: the The dreamer is real (Valis); the dream dream. is not. Valis doesn't think it; he dreams it Brahman asleep? I woke up; Brahman wake up (atman)! All living creatures are the Brahman; there is no other possibility. The cares + sorrows of creatures is my proof; God would only subject himself to this. Christ is the paradigm for all living creatures; all are God in disguise. When Jesus said it shall return" he meant, "I shall wake o up again." This is true; e.g. myself. Spinoza shows deus sive natura. Monism. could the world be Valis' memories as it sleeps? Memories expressed in a dream? Hence The out-of-place-in-time material in my writing? man awake with his full "Christ" is waking faculties restored - percept + cognitive. The Acts material is in "Tears" because the actual outside world is one of Acts. It is a larger universe (more space) than our dream one. We are disciples who have fallen asleep. The conjurer causes things to looke different so it'd appear time has passed Valis + the AI voice are uncanny intrusions from outside the dream. Thomas is my waking - apostolic Xtian - self, {Note] + in the waking universe! 833 What I have to face is that I have not in 5 years figured out more than this for sure: 1) Valis was the sentient, volitional, absolute will of God exerted in my behalf as pronoia. operating through natural law by converting space into time + then back into space. God is either immanent or has invaded the cosmos (o entered it anew" as the Logos - E.B.), + is mmediate to us. Thus, ironically, I [feel I] have answered the most important question whereas I cannot answer any of the countless secondary questions with equal certitude. I feel that my intellect has pressed matters as far as they can be pressed 1) God exists. He is immanent or near at hand. 2) He helped me in my hour of crisis 3) He worked through - is in fact - natural law. I saw wise, foresighted volitional natural law t so at work on my behalf. Deus sive natura; natura est corpus Dei. Videbam. He is pure intelligence + his will is (natural] law. Or rather, what we call natural law is the expression of his will. Natura is unitary + is intercondinated by this immanent will. There is a vast total plan involved. This volves the defeat of less intelligent levels (tem‐ poral stages) of reality in dialectical interaction by the more intelligent. Intelligence (Holy Wisdom) the exists proportionally to God in a hierarchy. total system is totally intelligence + outranks its parts; the more of the system that is involved The more intelligent the more God - it is. This is like: the longer the tape or record groove The more information there is it is the job of the total system to subsume all its parts + by intelligently behave hen s 534 Thus it gets into its parts + informs them with its will existentially (with them not knowing why they do what they do, efficiently or teleo logically, but, existentially their behavior is made intelligent by the exercise of this will). 4) This subsumation of me as/into part informed (moved) by this immanent will (in 3-74) is precisely how it all works. Thus my behavior was integrated into a plan that I did not understand then still do not, probably what I did never will. But this is okay. understand was that it was benign - for me + in general. This is probably all I'll ever know for sure, + I only know this from studying Spinoza. I did not just see God; I was made use of by God as well. (Certainly for my own good; I was definitely not sacrificed; quite the contrary.) The success of God is measured by how much he can subsume under intelligent coordination. ultimately he subsumes everything, but this requires ranking hierarchical level upon hierar chical level in ever greater [subsuming] com‐ plexity. Each gain must offset each previous loss plus y amount. No dualism has to be posited. There is The right use (position) of a given part vs 2) all ther uses. This same "dualism" occurs in ssembling a stereo amplifier but we posit no evil. Part 34 goes in position (D at X- time step or stage); viz: there is one right way + A-1 wrong ways. God never ens either in means or end. 535 What I specifically can't do is pin it (2-3-74) down to any given religion + any given sect or creed of any given religion. For example, God seems to be immanent (suggesting pantheism. Spinoza, Brahmanism, the pre-socratics) but he could be invading the cosmos or as the EB says of the Logos entering it anew." There is a distinct impression of a unity, not plural reality, a dialectic suggesting Zoroastrianism t So I really have God, God close by, God intelligent, powerful, foresighted + willing the fulfilling of a pattern, structure, artifact s organism (entelechy) or plan, + probably pronoia + certainly a working through + as, not despite, natural law. About all I can reject is theism (transcendent deity) +, most of all, deism. Xenophanes gives most of the characteristics I'm sure of; so does Plato; so does Pythagoras; so does Plotinus. As do Boehme, Eckehart + Buber. + certainly Spinoza. Not to mention Empedocles + Mani + the N.T. but isn't this - that I am sure of - that hich means most to me? Certainly, think my mistake all along has been I try to match 2-3-74 up to verify one erticular sect, creed, religion (e.g. Gnosticism eoplatonism Roman Catholicism). It doesn't ork that way. As Xenophanes pointed out, very specific religion (sect, cult, etc) is rade by men in the image of themselves, which to say given humans within a given culture t 2-3-74 experience was directly with God, of that I am now sure it was a not specifically Eastern or wester. 536 Xtianity (e.g.) is the product of the minds. experiences, beliefs + ideas of many people at many times + places; it is accretional + My elaborated as being a "high" religion. 2-3-74 experience just reflects my experience happened to my individual, limited mind - what I understood, remembered, figured out because I live in a Xtian culture + am nominally a Xtian I tend - or tended - to construe it in Xtian terms. There is no way I can extract the corpus doctrines of Xtianity or any other religion out of my experience because that Corpus those corpi, are man-made: they are belief or dogma or creed systems of propositions, as Buber points out. identified + The two aspects that my research has verified are: 1) Spinoza's naturans as God's will. This establishes Valis as God. Immanent or invading. 2) The dialectic revealed to me in which the evil one (or side) had only a posteriori hind sight, + the good one (God) had a priori ab‐ solute foresight - in Joseph Campbell's article on Zoroastrianism. This suggests that there is two-player game or battle, but that the ise mind (God) wins every hand, due specifically to its absolute foresight; it has the advantage. + that is it. But I think I will now perate on these as given or proved, + build from there + if Valis works thrugh natural law (+ not by suspending it) Valis is going to look like it's employing technology + theref e w t 37 isn't God. But it is. I'm going to add a third thing that I'm sure I know. 3) In 2-3-74 I woke up to a different universe from the one we normally see. It was a much larger one. Space + time in it are different. My faculties were immensely improved. There was something to do with knowledge or information being transmitted or generated that we do not normally see. The implication was that we are normally occluded. despite the dialectic I see a God who like Spinoza's God wills all through natural law + hence is con‐ stantly causing to be what is; this is a definition of him, his causing to be (consider aristotle's definition of God as the unmoved mover who stimulates things to goal seeking: teleology - yes; he also seemed to be operating retrograde in time like a film of an explosion run backward). + Christ is paradigmatic of the human waking up to perception of natura as this God + entering an I-thou relationship, thereby, with reality. But despite the foresight - + process - Spinoza is right; the reality is here now but ever generating new naturata - yes, that's it: the naturata are not God, but God as naturans (as will Durant says) is nature ceasiessly giving birth to new things But these are epiphenomena. The dialectic is The mechanism which by its nature generates change - i.e. new things ine": the negation of the negation - what I call "preponderance," an overbalance that cannot be resolved. So I have to add Taoism to what it resembles. Taoist "internal" alchemy: the hierogamy between yin + yang in the person, revitalizing o the him + producing "the Golden flower, t that later escapes i infant" - an immortal life form I th as Sk i 538 regaining the primordial (i.e. of infancy) energy that the person slowly loses during his lifetime. Hence I did not die (in 3-74) as I would have if the hierogamy hadn't taken place. (Which I've always - continually - realized t something to do with respiration. It must cause the secretion of an anzyme which disinhibits GABA blocked circuits. Thereupon the ultra o Wait. The hierogamy; it produces an offspring which is immortal + later leaves through the skull (almost certainly at the time of physical death). Look what this is: the 2 parts male + female of the person "marry" - + firebright is born. (as I call him.) Here is where eternal life comes in (re the second birth, in the Spirit, of Xtianity). In which case the human is parent (or parents!) to a far superior progeny (Look what you get if you view this in terms of evolution instead of mysticism. The next species! Not i later but now, occurring under unusual - in fact rare - conditions, but possible nonetheless. the human as hermaphrodite (well, he contain both yang + yin). Remember - I felt myself as female, as impregnated - my mind/brain as a womb. But I thought: interspecies symbiosis. not necessarily. The other parent may have been in me all the time (my "anima"). + Valis is/was the Tao. is there a modern view I can take of this? we have a second stage (as with the laterpiller moth) but it doesn't fire automatically. Ah - it doesn't fire (as with an inner clock) but is ired from outside deliberately by Valis (al though this begs the Q. as to what Valis is, xcept to define Valis functionally as that adventitious highly intelligent powerful G39 s foresighted volitional thing that 1) decides who to fire the second - meta- stage in + 2) has the power (will, ability command, control over events) to cause it to fire I see Valis like the parent organism/ entity: the mature form of the "Golden flower" - the offspring. But this implies interspecies symbiosis ala Xtianity + the Holy Spirit. No it doesn't. Cackoo egg laid in the human brain ("nest"). Valis Bumat brak Valis presided at firebright's birth. Valis contrived it, in fact. It is to Valis that fire bright will eventually go; I am sure of it. but that doesn't prove it came from Valis. Valis as the doctor who delivered (success fully) firebright? That's more like it I sense implantation + surgery + high technology