a little kosmos that cannot perish. This is the microcosmic analog to Valis' kosmos of the phylogons. As it is on high, so it is below. Strife below; strife on high. Hierogamy below; hierogamy on high (i.e. Valis or the Tac). In other words it is like perceiving like; you cannot perceive Valis unless you have the equilibrium within you, and you cannot have it within you unless the hierogamy occurs. And that, too, like Valis, is self-caused: reaching back in time to set up the preconditions for its own coming into existence. The hierogamy is itself a manifestation of the Absolute which wills its own self into being; that is, it has power over its own esse which is derived from nothing else: its Being is not imparted to it, nor did anything in any way give rise to it. Valis has a necessary relationship to the flux world of the dialectic; without the flux world and the dialectic, Valis would become static rather than growing and perfecting itself. So I repeat: the flux world is not an artifact with Valis the artificer. The flux world is, so to speak, the metabolism of Valis, somehow within and contained by Valis; it is an activity within Valis but an activity which Valis is beyond and above; Valis is in a state of total equilibrium in which the two anti¬ thetical forces that contend in the flux world are in a state of perfect quilibrium, the hierogamy on a macrocosmic scale: what I call the secret partnership; each side of the dialectic is one part of the two parts of Valis which in Valis are unified into a oneness. They are no longer two parts; they are a unity, reconciled. I tend to think of them as Wisdom (intelligere) and power (esse). This antithetical contention probably does not really represent a fall or crisis or schism in the Godhead but (secretly) a method of introducing dynamism, by creating time and change, through which all new things are brought into being; otherwise they would remain merely potentialities within the Godhead; this is why I call the flux world the metabolism of Valis. The partnership is secret; it is a secret that the two sides of the dialectic are the two aspects of Valis, Wisdom and power; it is a secret that Valis uses the resulting changes in the flux world as pieces by which to perfect its own macrometasoma, which is to say itself. Instead of being simple it will wind up complex and differentiated. This is what it is doing: differentiating itself while ; maintaining its equilibrium. So simplicity and unity versus complexity and differentiation are two ways of looking at the same thing; it is all really Valis; the flux world of change is not Valis* artifact but Valis in metabolic motion. The method by which this motion is successful is continual enantiodromia; thus Valis flickers on-off, on-off, as in cybernetic flip-flops, the continual conversion of what is into its opposite — like the Hegelian thesis and antithesis producing a synthesis, out of which comes a new thesis to be opposed by a new antithesis: the negation of the negation always setting in. Thus, as Heraclitus says, strife is natural and the mother of all things. "But one must know that war is universal, and that justice is strife, and that all things happen according to strife and necessity." "War is father of all, and king of all." "Sun will not -13- overstep his measures; for the Erinyes, the assistants of Justice, will find him out." Hussey says: (regarding Heraclitus) "On the analogy of the bow and the lyre, it is no surprise that the order and unity of the kosmos should depend upon the existence of opposed forces... when bow and lyre function there is osillation in time." This is what I call the on-off, on-off flicker. The world we see (the aspect we see) is the activity: the flicker itself; but what I call Valis is: that which flickers. I.e. for there to be a flicker, there must be something (id est) that flickers; i.e. motion cannot exist unless there is something (substantia) that moves. For Heraclitus this would be kosmos; for me as well. If normal reality actually consists of two antithetical forces constantly in strife, then a vision of Valis is a vision of this same reality (not another reality) with the two forces reconciled: no longer in strife.».thus forming a unity, which is how the strife resolves itself: not by a pulling-apart of the two forces but by an intermingling; this would be palintones harmonie, I think, not palontropos. Hussey: "The word harmonie...has been translated by 'structure,'; it is a noun derived from the verb...'to fit together.The translation 'structure.fails to capture completely the notion of 'mutual adjustment.' The ways in which the word harmonie might naturally be applied to a bow and to a lyre are fairly clear...The second way of taking it is clearly preferable since it applies to -14- all kinds of bow and since the string and the arms pull different ways when the bow is at rest and move different ways when it is drawn, so that they are an apt picture of a marriage of opposites..." This is what I myself mean by using the term hierogamy: a marriage of divine opposites. Am I to assume that there is a latent (crypte) reconciling of the contending opposites at every place and at every time? That this "marriage of opposites" is ubiquitious? I think so; or there would be frequent reports of Valis; Valis is latent; the marriage of opposites —harmonie— cannot be seen empirically, at least without an analagous reconciling within the percipient (the macro¬ microcosm correspondence) (like to like). "If palintonos is correct, then the bow and lyre are thoughts of as not functioning, but at rest and in a state of tension, as indeed they both are when strung. If this is so, then the unity of opposites expresses itself most typically in a static state, an equilibrium in which the opposed forces balance each other." Valis, it would seem to me, represents palintonos, not palintropos, harmonie. "If palintropos is correct, then the bow and the lyre are thought of as in use. Their proper functioning implies the movement in opposite or alternate directions of their complicated structure." "God is the kosmos, but is also beyond or beneath the kosmos... Now, the only plausible way to detach God from the kosmos, for Hera¬ clitus, is to think of God's mind as a perfect map of the kosmos, which is itself in the kosmos but not identical with it. In this way the central problem of Heraclitus' thought can be seen to issue from the 'self-mapping* paradox suggested by frr. 10 and 115...Hera¬ clitus takes his God to have in his mind something like a 'plank1 for the running of the universe, which is perfectly carried out; which is the equivalent of a perfect map of the universe." This may be the world of the phylogons that I saw. So much of my experience in 3-74 when explicated, resembles elements in Heraclitus’ thought: enantiodromia; the dialectical strife; palintonos harmonie; the reality of the flux world; ideas about the relationship between God and the kosmos. Could the dialectic (which involves necessary enantiodromia again and again) be Heraclitus’ palintropos harmonie; and what I saw that I called Valis (which is another way of looking at the same reality) be palintonos harmonie? As Hussey says, palontropos harmonie is an oscillation in time; this oscillation is the flickering that I talk of: on-off-on-off. I just realized: the on-off binary math system invented by Leibnitz was based by him on Taoism, on the concept of Yang and Yin. And when I envision —picture— the kosmos in my mind's eye I see this binary flicker of on-off, on-off eternally, but with an equally real aspect of reconciliation of the opposing forces that contend to produce the flickering; two ways of viewing this one thing (kosmos). Then the word I want is not dynamic (as in contrast to static) but tension. Palintonos harmonie is a tension: the lyre with stretched strings; the bent strung bow. Perhaps palintropos harmonie is the visible motion of the universe, and palintonos harmonie lies invisibly behind it. I don’t know; what I do know is that within the last few days I have made enormous -16- strides in my exegesis, in my understanding of Valis and 3-74. Something permanent that reconciles the contending forces of the dialectic lies latently behind the strife of the dialectic, the flux, the change: a secret partnership or marriage of the opposites that makes use of the dialectic to grow and complete itself as structure, as kosmos — this is great indeed: especially when I can say, The flux world of change, of plurality and contention, is a way of viewing the same thing as the reconciled entity in a state of equilibrium; these are not two worlds but one world viewed two ways. Therefore no outside deity is needed to explain it; this is the world order itself, seen normally as strife; seen in ecstatic states as a unity that is internally reconciled and balanced; this is my vision, now, ending with the view from outside the kosmos in which the kosmos is seen as an on-off, on-off flickering (the oscillation) and then that which flickers; x suppose I should say the essence that we see dynamically, in a state of constant change. And this kosmos is alive and intelligent; it is a Mind. And this Mind pervades it ubiquitously, as in UBIK. In no sense is this a creator deity and his artifact, a transcendent deity with only a contingent relationship to the world: "He set it spin¬ ning... and now neither knows nor cares what happens in it." What in fact is the case is; every change produced by the dialectic provides a new part to be inserted into the permanent structure that is above the flux, above the change. And (to repeat) this world of equilibrium, of the marriage or reconciliation of opposites, is another way of viewing the world of the dialectical strife, the perpetual enantiodromia that we normally see; and the two sides in -17— the dialectical strife —regarded by Zoroaster in bitheistic terms, as a good god confronting an evil one— are in fact more on the order of Yang (brightness, life) and Yin (darkness, death); but (to me) even more than that they are the wisdom of the kosmos' Mind pitted against its creative power; it is the metabolism of the divine kosmos masking a latent secret partnership of these two contending opposites. 1Valis is not progressive subsuming more and more of its environment; its environment progressively naturally passes over into Valis and becomes Valis: a conversion of the Lower Realm into the upper. I must go back to my statements on page 1 of this piece. "Valis is a meta system that at our level does not exist at all because at our level only its plural constituents exist as such. Valis is an organization, a structuring, of these constituents, in which they are unified into one entity." Etc. So the view of the reconciled opposites should not be regarded as another view but as a higher view. An introduction into a mystery that the contending sides of the dialectic are always and everywhere latently (secretly) reconciled in equilibrium forming a structure, a kosmos, into which the realm of flux, of the dialectic, constantly feeds. And this meta realm into which the realm of change feeds is permanent; nothing that enters it —is incorporated into it; this is an active process by a living Mind— ever ceases to be. So this meta realm is one of esse (Sein); it is higher on the scale of ontology than the realm of the dialectic. These are not two realms but two ways of viewing one reality; but (I think)