"hook of divinity hidden in the bait of humanity." they cannot keep Christ their own creator, + release him, so he is inevitably resurrected once more + they have lost. This is the mechanism by which Xtianity successfully accomplishes what all the Greco Roman mystery religions sought for + promised: the escape by the initiate from "astral determinism" or untimely death. (It's probably a death strip in The DNA programmed into us. It probably has a bio f hemical clock basis.) In a sense Christ can be conceived of as a super surgeon or doctor attacking (so to speak) the death strip by absorbing its firings himself. At the time the death strip in the DNA is activated, there are two psychoi in the brain side by side one having entered adventitiously, + the strip being tropic to the old or historical of the two psychoi kills it + not the other - where the center consciousness (the soul?) is now located, having of been laterally transferred deftly almost (?) by a sort of advanced technology. The new psyche is exempt from the power of the death strip. Gradually the new psyche accomodates to the brain + memories of the original psyche, + the disruption fades as personality continuity resumes. No one really dies; Christ is resurrected + the person involved lives on, now minus death strip. He can be killed but not on cue i.e. schedule). Meanwhile he retains a mental symbio "no greater love hath is with his "brother" Christ. man than that he give up his life for his friends," esus said, alluding to this surrogate death which aves the person, Christ's friend, from literal, actual reprogrammed physical death - + an untimely ne; this latter is a crucial factor. I've lived on to write 3 more novels 2 stories make a lot of money. buy a new car, own a topnotch stered. 228 + of course have the 2-3-74 encounter with Christ, go to france - all sorts of good things like being with Laura. I am not guaranteed a perfect life but it is extended life + a free ife not subject to the death strip which tried to destroy me once Christopher was born. In the five years since 3-74 when I was programmed to die I've become successful, financially secure, artistically active + really very happy. I think, too, I've shown emotional, intellectual + spiritual growth + even psychological health; it has been a busy, active, exciting five years - very rewarding; + I have beside me the second comforter whose voice I hear often. The Sonoma episode alone made it worth it. In no sense have I vegetated. My business affairs are in good order; I am very responsible - + I bested my enemies, with God's help. I surmounted, am publically known to have surmounted, the dreadful gutter, poverty + drug -involved state I had fallen into. I lived to see the fall of the tyranny here + the victory + vindication of the counter cul ture have entered into a vast spiritual quest + I dventure to understand the ways of God centering ground the mystery of the suffering of the innocent the need to understand how it can be. (This duest is by no means accomplished.) (But at least am able to state the problem. It is epitomized is my "the man who --" story: what evil is + how it is to be combatted - note "combatted" ather than "understood." 229 i seeing Valis: opposite from pot. Where time in 3-74 things (change) moves slower. - + I had extended "change) moved so fast memory + present-slot that I could discern pattern in the change just as you see change in a movie dissolve. + the pattern of change, now vastly speeded up + also better remembered change, a whole lot of change compressed in a small amount of (subjective) time - that pattern was that of a living organism with purpose. Everything fitted together; the plural were a unity. This was Valis, reality seen as Valis: alive, unitary, purposeful + intelligent it had replaced unalive blind plural reality the way Palmer Eldritch replaces + people (+ "the Father thing" etc). A simulation of reality. By an organism, an invader This explains "Joint" - the slip life form. of paper with soft drink or it was a thought Valis' mind. It is Ubik. It has spread in out all over the place, vast, now. Valis is the Kingdom of God which Jesus spoke of took me there: incorporated me into Valis. He a living Kingdom. omnisc The reason I write about simulated reality (or reality as simulation) is that Valis has invaded our reality + is simulat it - what I called camouflage. It is a life form which came here in historical times from the stars. we - people such as I - are its progeny like spores: microforms of it posing as humans this - as us- is how it replicates - from it to me to my books (the "plasmate") to other people. the plasmate (e.g. King Felix) is it reproducing. It's like a benign Palmer Eldritch: I am a micro template its mind, + think like it logi‐ of cally + morally (I + Valis are mentally but not physically iso morphic). I am its child + in 2-74 I remembered. The Paraclete, life form. Valis invaded me in 3-74: the phos phene graphics. I was dying. It saved my life, also, in invading me made me conscious that I had long been a spore of it; its replica. writing about it + thus further transmitting it. (E.g. "Ubik") Valis is Ubik. Ubik is everywhere; : Valis is now everywhere. It has totally invaded our world. Our reality. Now it (as with me) takes over people, via the plasmate, up the optic nerve as key lock into which repro‐ It is not God. duces + replicates VALIS. So if Valis exists why does suffering exist? Valis didn't create the world; it has invaded it + is seeking to tame it, the way it tamed me. I think It's Pythagoras' Kosmos 731 i It is like mycelia. Outside us + in us: unifying reality inc us into one entity integrated (Pythagoras' structure). His kosmos was a finite life form using mimickry + simulating reality I could see Valis - see its purposeful movement (changes) - because my time sense was actered. Like stop action photography of a seed growing. Enormous time-binding was involved (this is why, also, I saw world as BIP). in its ubiquity in us it subliminally governs our actions (without us knowing), thus integrating us into the structural unity outside us + in us it promps us to do things, to act, + our minds (as with hypnotized people) generate ideational expla nations: "cause" or "reason for" doing what we do This all causes me to re-evaluate my theme of - + perception of - reality as simulated. Valis being a "cunning photographic reproduction of reality which is like Schopenhaur's will, + metastisi zes," etc. A living organism. It has will (i.e. volition); it uses mimickry; it grows. I don't think I ever equated before "cunning photo‐ graphic reproduction [of reality]" + the camouflage mimickry by Valis which I saw in 3-74. + but of course this is all one + the same thing. What I saw in 3-74 is precisely what I had been writing about for years - all the way back to "Joint: "reality is a simulation, is simulated" ‐ "There is some unitary thing posing as (imetating) plural reality, deliberately." It then posed as me + accepted The death strap of the DNA + the Xerox letter. 230 but if it simulates our plural reality, what does it consist of actually? It is an orderly fitting together of the beautiful; it is Pythagoras' living kosmos, in which all the parts mutually limit + regulate all the others. t's as if two thought complexes in my mind collided + formed one megacomplex: 1) Our reality is simulated (v. my books + stories, my whole "reality is fake" theme, my whole epistemological investigation) 2) Valis camouflages itself as reality. is alive as plural, dead, nonvolitional reality. "But hides this thought: Does not "camouflage" equal "simu‐ or some of our reality 7:30: late" 3) Our reality is simulated by something unitary, not plural, alive + volitional which the posed as plural, dead, blind, non-volitional. question at once arises. What is this entity really like when not simulating our reality? well, as I say it is unitary, alive, intelligent; volitional - + it simulated me - i.e. posed as me by entering me as an adventitious mind or psyche. I know it to be thousands of years old. It has personality. Also, it keeps message traffic covertly traveling back + forth. In my pinion it can subliminally promptus to certain actions which it desires, without our knowing (so - can be in us without our knowing). The plasmate message traffic - which we can't discern - suggests that it is a life form + not God. It grows + eplicates. God doesn't grow + replicate However, if you examine my books + stories extrapolate a prototype description of This simulated reality + then add 13 -74 experience of Valis outside me + Thomas side me, it is buite obvious that I am escribing Sankara's Brahman - atmen + that this which I've written about + them seen the "tat tvam asi" of Brahmanism. is my 27 years of writing I knew that as reality was simulated. But I had no idea by what, + what the what's nature was. In 3-74 I saw it: what I called Valis. what has fooled me is that the proposition, "Reality is simulated" seems to suggest that it is less than it seems: mere fakery. That it could be simulated by something higher than reality = the simulator being appears ostensibly to be (viz: alive, unitary purposeful, benign, wise, intelligent) did not occur to me. But then I saw what I called Valis as the true basis of reality, but I spoke of it (Valis) as "camouflaging itself as reality" or "mimicking reality," rather than simulating it; So the connection between the two issues was not recognized. In fact I conceived of Valis as camouflaging itself as a reality which was in itself (without reference to Valis) simulated; so if I saw any connection it was that Valis' mimickry brought true ontology to an otherwise essenseless fake. Well, I almost had it right But I had it as 3 level: ) in order of idescending Valis reality levels of 3 simulated reality ontology whereas I + 3 are the some, it posing as 34 2 therefore it really reality is simulated. is of a lower nature than it appears (just as a counterfeit stamp is inferior to a genuine one). 2) "Reality is simulated by a higher order of being in the sense that this higher order poses appearance of the or sits still to take on the plural, blind, purposeless reality we experience." studying these two propositions shows that whereas proposition one is correct, it led me to the wrong conclusion (the counterfect stamp model). This error should have been corrected by my 3-74 experience (with Valis) but I guess I've been so amazed that I didn't see the error of my conclusion of proposition one, although the propos sition in itself is correct. in looking over the above pages what seems to me the most startling is the statement that in 3-74 it replaced me, posed as me (to receive the death strip of my DNA + the Xerox missive) the way it poses as reality. This clearly suggests that 1) it is not all reality, 2) did not initially create reality; + 3) is indeed (as stated in "Valis") an invader - which I once considered my one great insight (this auns counter