it really reality is simulated. is of a lower nature than it appears (just as a counterfeit stamp is inferior to a genuine one). 2) "Reality is simulated by a higher order of being in the sense that this higher order poses appearance of the or sits still to take on the plural, blind, purposeless reality we experience." studying these two propositions shows that whereas proposition one is correct, it led me to the wrong conclusion (the counterfect stamp model). This error should have been corrected by my 3-74 experience (with Valis) but I guess I've been so amazed that I didn't see the error of my conclusion of proposition one, although the propos sition in itself is correct. in looking over the above pages what seems to me the most startling is the statement that in 3-74 it replaced me, posed as me (to receive the death strip of my DNA + the Xerox missive) the way it poses as reality. This clearly suggests that 1) it is not all reality, 2) did not initially create reality; + 3) is indeed (as stated in "Valis") an invader - which I once considered my one great insight (this auns counter to pantheism; cf Freemantle's argument against Pantheism; viz: there can be no "I thou" dialog with God in pantheism because it is monistic.) In a sense not all reality can be counterfeit, because then the question arises, "counterfect in comparison to what?" reversion to true form? Abandoning the pose? No - I was invaded. Entheusiasmos not apotheosis. It invaded me + posed as me. We're talking about precisely this faculty: simulating or posing as "camouflage" suggests that its motive is to conceal itself. I now thing its motive is to replace + then simulate what it replaces. 235 i Well, then it enters its own creation camouflaged by simulating parts of that creation. This is not panpsychism or immanent deity. No, it is a form of immanent deity. Isn't this the Christ story? God enters his own creation at the bottom level, as a despised + humiliated man (Jesus). That must be it. He is here disguised; he simulates pieces This is the of reality - can even pose as a human. simulation which shows up in "Joint" at the soft drink stand. It is basically information. Eckehart is right intellegere is its basis, not esse is it reabsorbing its own exhaled creation? is it reinforcing or breaking down its creation? is it using its creation as a facia? Cf the theophanies of the O.T. If it is God it is not remote; the certainly not the deistic or even theistic God. EB says of Eckhart that his 4 stages re-enact Christ his stages of the passion. It seems to me that in + This lies everything - as explanation to 3-74. I found my way along the route, + fiel ready at this point to abandon my burden + accept the true factly. I think of the Xerox missive + the "flipped peany" logic problem (Holmes + moriarty on the train). The trap which to be opened must first it be opened + then you get in; after you are in, cannot be opened (but the rules require you to get in; so you solve first - you go 1) answer; + then 2) puzzle - which is what happened re the You have to Xerox missive as proved by "Faith of. start with the solution. + then proceed to the problem. otherwise you have no method but the flipped coin which yields 50/50, but if they can freight one horn they rule out the flipped coin because you will not see it as the "Holmes + moriarty on the train" situation + so will not solve by randomization (minsmax). 236 The only way I saw the conscious volitional unitary entity behind (?) the plura phenomenal (empirical) world was because my ego died, + that outer conscious entity invaded me + became (replaced?) me. It was as much in me as outside me; I was integrated into it (its structure of relationships). This is very close to Sankara. My ego was as counterfeit as the phenomenal world. Speaking theologically, the Lord was everywhere outside me + in me as me. I honestly cannot make a clear distinction between the perception that it was already in me but dormant hence was somehow born - in contrast - + to it invading me. The integration was that perfect. This, too, supports eckehart + san‐ kara. I had given birth to God in my soul, or God had invaded me + replaced me + now posed as me, just as he posed as the world - posed as me. Freemantle objects to this, but the question is not, is this monism The empirical world good but is it true? causality + plurality is a pose it takes. of had been I a pose it took, voluntarily for + getting. In 2-74 it remembered + what is more I have evidence ("MITHC" + "Faith of") that the providential Lord laid down clues in advance to remind him, when the crisis came, of his identity, so he could solve the problem of the crisis + not ctim to untimely death vi t tal 2 do this he had no choice but to trigger off his memories + recall his true identity. Hadring the voice think, "there's someone else in my head + he's not living in this century" + the superimposition of USA 1974 + Rome CAD 45 - these verify Sankara's belief that the plurality of selves is an illusion - oh, yes, + having Thomas in me in control of "my" motor centers - all this supports Sankara, as well as seeing unitary Valis - these are all mentioned by Sankara, +, as near as I can figure out, by no one else. Self is an illusion; also time + space; + I saw causality as pretextual, + I saw Valis, so the plural phenomenal world is an illusion - all this is straight Sankara Vadanta. As to causality being an illusion I saw that what is in a person as self is part of what is out there as world, + it's all fied; the totality (world/self) decides. supra causal event or thought within a a consciousness which is ubique: the self (all selves, although there is only one self) + world are one + it thinks an event either outside or "willed" by a person - he supposes he exists + he wills, but it is a pre‐ textual integrated signal system + nothing is outside it. There is no real difference between an event a person wills" + a purely causal event in the "inanimate" outer domain This is the essence of what I perienced 938 i that the two are really one + the same a ubiquitous impersonal unitary will decides (thinks) it all, as I discovered when "Thomas" took over "my" motor centers. w the impersonal will simply acted through me as it would through a stick or stone or waterfall: all equally purposeful (i.e. intentional). What is important to realize is that this will which took me over was located everywhere + nowhere, in me + outside me. I + my body, my psycho‐ somatic being, was a phenomenon of Maya related to the absolute in some strange way; real only insofar as it (the absolute) was real, + yet my soul gave birth to that absolute! The macro‐ micro - macro model, Sankara defines Brahman as: pure being, pure consciousness + pure bliss. This will that worked through me, + Valis outside, "were pure consciousness the true cause of all things (events. changes) either outside us or by/in us, is Brahman (Valis). What we see [Note is merely {Note} + ourselves will pretextual cause I do not hold this as a belief: I it. In me + outside me, both. by saw the same absolute. So I do not cause things to happen, + things do not cause things to happen Events - all events at all times everywhere - occur effortlessly in accordance with the absolute's will or thoughts which are one + the same. Yet we do It see this: we see causal 739 all changes work toward a future they can't see, but which Valis foresees + wills (or thinks). They experience cause, but the real cause is immanent Valis, not the object to object pooeball effect. I saw Valis' goal: to assi‐ milate everything into itself + complete itself This sounds like Pythagoras' in + by process. kosmos + not Brahman: it is entelechy at high Homeostasis plundering everything by structuring it through its (Valis') will. In which case it has invaded reality + simulates it (blends with it by mimesis). It sounds like a life form; it poses as the regular universe; it posed as me, for example. It has no substantial body; it uses whatever it finds as things to structure, + this structure is it. disintegration vs integration. It is world as integrating organism (v Hindu cosmogony). could it be that a distributed, disinte grated organism (person) is re-integrating itself out of its phenomenal pieces? This fits with raveda cosmogony. A process is being reversed, like a film run backward. (of an explosion.) God is recollecting a cosmos which ruptured + thus exploded or disintegrated) - this would be the task of the cosmic Christ: "the decomposing cosmos" etc. Such as I picture in "Ubik" etc. This fits with the Acts material. Thus Ubik is the cosmic hrist. This is the inhalation following the original exhalation. Since disintegrated elements bound which it has not yet assimilated into its structure, it can't be Brahman, also the process per se finds against Brahman. It is making the simul hough ontol 240. by structuring it (using Pythagoras' definition as to what provides the element of the real: structure; a disintegrating, decomposing cosmos then is not - no longer - real. Like the Bardo Thodol state it now only simulates a former reality - as in the half-life world in "Ubik. once the cosmos began to decompose (disinte grate) it lost ontological reality + became mere seeming. Christ however, reverses that process; he re-integrates it + restores ontology. A decom‐ posing cosmos is no cosmos at all. So there would be a dialectical tug. between the motion toward disintegration This is put forth in + the integrative tug. "Valis" as combat between the inbreaking This rational (Valis) + the anterior irrational, would equate what we call "evil" with disorder This is specifically what is presented in "Ubik" the world of "Ubik" is specifically de composing into disorder. Against which Ubik works. Ubik has penetrated the devolving world + seeks to draw it together one method is information. Even the primordial catastrophe - the bomb blast is depicted - after which world is not real (but the characters do not understand their state) This is why 3-74 always turns out to resemble "Ubik." When the cosmos ruptured, reality died. If Pythagoras is right, only cosmos is real because only cosmos has the essential structure (which can be regarded as the intelligable). (I.e. Christ n The rational But, it would seem is immanent in the reality which he is bringing into existence by his integrating or structuring; it is indeed a cosmic body blended into the atelos or disintegrating former cosmos which is no longer a cosmos at This is precisely "Falsework" irreal. all + hence situation "Ubik" where the in is 241 not only disorder but irreal, +, penetrating it, is Ubik which is not the same as it but none‐ theless is everywhere. The relationship between The world + Ubik is precisely that of the debris of the former cosmos to the cosmic Christ - + the nature of the world in "Ubik" is that of the world here, + Ubik's that of the cosmic Christ or Logos. So in "Ubik" I