crucifixion, which took place at God's command. But we know Jason -i.e. Jesus- is innocent, + so he is seen to be later in "Tears." Felix Buckman = Pilate + Felix Jason Taverner = Paul + Jesus The innocent man ("the stranger") condemned to death by the procurator, set in Acts (Roman Syria; Palestine). But in the epilog Jason/Jesus is alive + okay, + the procurator is deposed + dies. + tears refers to king Pentheus, so Dionysus is also alluded to. = Jesus. __ 4:10 AM thought: re 2-74: the Xtians, the true ones, are secretly victors which tells me that Christ (i.e. Valis) is secretly victorious, rather than just being here. His activity re me folder 48 - 179 folder 48 - 179 is proof of his victory over + above the secret fact that he is here. Now he chooses whom he will choose. __ All my acosmic novels deal with the topic of "VR": putting your foot through reality - e.g. through the ground, the ground sinking away, as if you've stepped into an old septic tank, as in my dream: "almighty power who rules the Earth + sky / + variagated orders in confusion lie." I am dealing with the issue of Heidegger, but not "why is there something rather than nothing?" but, "is there something rather than nothing?" YHWH is the solution, + the only one, to the problem or issue I've raised over + over again in my books. I never considered it a solved issue; I never took the universe for granted. The dream applauds my new way of approaching the theme in "VR," re YHWH: story by a brilliant new young writer: My stepping through the ground ("into the old septic tank") is the idea in his story. I.e. acosmism - the universe not being substantial - substantia. In my novels I tackled an even more profound issue than Heidegger, not "why is..." but "is there something rather than a mere dream?" My conclusion, at last is, "Yes + no. No, in the reality is an epiphenomen; yes, in that YHWH exists + is the guarantor of reality." What this analysis ultimately serves to do is not just reveal the nature of reality but, more, of YHWH. folder 48 - 180 folder 48 - 180 Via Heidegger it has led me to moksa about YHWH. I.e. to an understanding of God as he basically is + what he basically does + why he is necessary. __ Note: Ground is based on the rigid + deterministic efficient cause formula called by the Jews the Torah. It is running down like a clock; it has become ossified -like iron- like a metal prison. These are the ancient powers, the old cosmic order from which Christ frees you. From the "astral order." Evidentally the info for that was fed in at the beginning (as in deism). Causality, with nothing new. You know, although my cosmogony + cosmology seems original it is absolutely Paulline. I have interpreted my 3-74 revelations in terms of Paul. Law (Torah) = the immutable cause-+-effect world of yin, Form Two. The mechanism which programs us with the two synchronized tapes - of course; this is how it maintains its clock-type order! It keeps everything + everyone on tracks, rigidly; it is specifically this cosmic system that Christ freed me from in 2-3-74 inasmuch as the system called for my death in 8-74. Inexorably. It had to be broken from outside; I couldn't do it. I wonder how Christ overpowers the efficient cause system. Creating time dysfunctions? This would void causal trains. Replacing elements of the trains with himself? Then the "modulating" of causal processes that I saw Valis as doing is what it -he- primarily does. (In order to abolish the "law"). folder 48 - 181 This is how the cosmic Christ would show himself: this causal process "modulating" + - giving you the benefit of his wisdom (e.g. medical knowledge: healing miracles). The very basis of astral determinism -efficient cause- was interfered with - overruled! Then indeed I'm on the right track. It was Christ. He replaces portions of reality with himself + camouflages himself. What I call the "resetting" is as if new, different instructions (replacing the info of the Torah) were fed to reality; or, the original info was simply cancelled - negated, rendered null. Its power void. This is the law expressed in terms of coercive reality. ___ Well, it would seem as if I have figured out what 2-3-74 was. To understand Valis I had to understand the situation that Valis enters into + abolishes (combats). Until I could do that I could get nowhere. In other words the question, "who or what is changing the world, + how + why?" can't be answered until one knows what "world" means. I think my present explanation accounts for every single thing I experienced in 2-3-74. What strikes me is that I encountered Christ reconstructing our world, + I was rescued from certain death by him in his task of reconstructing the world. folder 48 - 182 folder 48 - 182 In other words, my rescue + his cosmic reconstruction can't be separated; I am therefore part of the new creation "+ the memory of the former things will not enter the mind nor come up into the heart." I do not remember what I was before he changed me, so I can't make any analytical comparison, but I feel safe + happy. Most of all, I saw what I saw + know at last for sure what it was. As Jesus said to the disciples, "You have seen what the greatest teachers + scholars through the centuries wanted to see but have not seen." No one will ever believe me. That's fine. Jesus himself said that he preferred it that way. What I would have to tell is not that "Jesus came into my life" or that "I am close to the Lord" but that the resurrected Pantocrator saved my life -the Lord + Judge of the universe- + that I saw him + that he spoke to me - + still does (the AI voice); that perhaps I am one of the twelve instilled into a modern body - so-to-speak transplanted from the time + place of Acts, to this world. In fact I'm not supposed to tell. (I.e. that I'm an early Xtian instilled here.) (By God himself.) __ Of the two tapes, the inner biological clock is slowed down so that outer events speed up, + the external situation death crisis (in my case the Xerox missive) arrives too soon, ahead of the inner tape. Thereupon Christ as Wisdom deals with the reality situation, the outer tape. Then later when the inner tape reaches the death crisis + the person is inwardly programmed to die, Christ dies for him. The folder 48 - 183 folder 48 - 183 person 1) is disinhibited (in my case in 2-74 by the fish sign) + 2) since his inner tape is slowed down, his inner biological clock tape, outer events seem to speed up + rush past faster + faster. 3) the death crisis arrives too soon; the inner tape isn't there, yet. Actual death requires synchronization of the two tapes: outer situation + inner reaction. Here is where Christ as Holy Wisdom functions in solving the problem; this includes resetting (i.e. modulating) causal trains. But eventually the slowed down inner tape will reach the death point (here surrogation or ransom takes place, the paschal lamb). Meanwhile since outer events have sped up, the person - well, the person has gone past the death point + is in the postmortem world (where he would have gone anyhow had he in fact died); + yet he is still alive - a paradox. He can now see set + is in fact in the Kingdom of God, having lived on past his death (not by speeding up - had he speeded up he'd have just died sooner; but by slowing down dysynchronized). So for a period -but a finite period- he is walking around alive (his physical death having been aborted by 1) slowing down + dysynchronizing the inner tape; + 2) Christ as Holy Wisdom + Pantocrator solving the reality-problem / death stroke) + seeing both realms (I guess; anyhow he is in the kingdom Jesus spoke of, which is "within grasp" but can't be seen). However, this only lasts until the slowed-down inner tape reaches the death point, but here neither does the person die; but a victim is required, + so Christ as lamb + surrogate dies in the person's place. But now folder 48 - 184 folder 48 - 184 apparently the kingdom interval ends; the second, inner death although not connected with its outer reality analog, brings in a dreadful moment: the striking of death + its deflection - + the kingdom is gone - only a memory. But: the person did not die + so goes on living, + he saw Christ twice: 1) A) As Wisdom in the person. B) Outwardly as Pantocrator - cosmic body + blood (what I called Valis + the plasmate). Then later: 2) As sacrificial lamb who dies. + I think literally dies. The humiliation, + death. When the 2 tapes are running in synch, it is obscured that the person is inwardly programmed to die, programmed as if (?) by his DNA code, because the outer event [usually] seems to be the sole cause. As if it weren't determined in part by something in the person. But both inner + outer are involved. If the outer event arrives too soon the "angel of death" isn't ready to take the person, + will Wisdom {...} power over external events the outer blow can be defused. But there still remains the blow playing out of the inner tape, which, without the lamb's surrogation, will produce the bewildering event where the person simply dies "causelessly" - just comes to an end without reason. (Whereas the earlier, external event should have killed him.) (But didn't.) folder 48 - 185 folder 48 - 185 Why I think the inner tape is slowed, not advanced: (1) If it is slowed, external events will seem speeded up. (2) Lithium slows neural firing. (3) When you do dope, it speeds up neural firing; you think a lot of fast thoughts, but outer reality slows sometimes almost to a stop. So there is a subjective sense of time dilation. There is a lot of time. But in 3-74 I felt as if I were running out of time, that I didn't have much time left, that I was super-rapidly consuming what time I had left, that external events were rushing at me -future external events- far too rapidly; i.e. time contraction. After all, I had a deadline that was a date with death: April 15th. Hence it was coming too soon: closing in on me faster + faster. But my thoughts seemed to race. I think this was due to time contraction + was really illusory. This is verified by their not seeming to be my thoughts; I had no control whatsoever over them; they happened to me - a scary experience, which required me finally to recite a mantra. So rapid thoughts occurred but they weren't mine. + I was rushing forward through space or what seemed like space. + then I saw vague floating colors + suddenly the phosphene activity. My guess as to the phosphene activity is that, yes, physiologically it was due to the drop in GABA fluid + disinhibition of neural circuits - due to an awareness on my part of imminent actual external physical mortal peril (i.e. death crisis). However, at that point my inner (biological) tape was moving so slowly that outer reality had turned into a movie - so high speed folder 48 - 186 that only constants were visible; reality was a veritable light show!