is ary nature of the society in "Tears"; it is stuck I was right from the start: no real time ha The true secret Xtians are a assed in 2000 years. dissolving (acosmic) agent, introducing they are revolutionary. Maybe vewness - change. e.g. Fitting is right about my writing as being sub versive in a very fundamental way. I do not accept "Joint" is an excellent example what I see as real. Thus for me, Ubik replaces the world (society. complex) of "Tears," invading it - + look at the specific term I used: melting causal trains? My world is Ubik, all at once: + it is the real one: "Tears" invaded + melted. Here the "MITHC" + "Faith of" material enters is a description of the entry point of the new the arrival of the messenger announcing the news of the true state of things + news that "St. Sophia" will soon be born again. but something even stranger is happening - It's as if microcircuitly is being slipped into the city of iron (the complex) which will encompass the complex! This is the phagocytosis of the Iron particle which I envisioned; it occurs when the inner-outer + micro-macro trade places; whereupon the microcircuitry is not in the complex but vice versa. Would this explain what I saw s which I called transsubstantiation, the de vouring of world by Valis? Thus time will be or is started up again. Just as manfrea's view proliferates in "MTs So the introduced microcircuit [newness] (the little boy Philip on the raft) invades the complex by invading the minds of the complex, + of course it knows it's being invaded (it would call it contaminated"). As with Taverner in "Tears," or: the total mind miniaturizes itself + sends itself into its own complex to explore it from withing after a time the miniaturization reports back the precise degree (nature or state) of ossification. The mind is receiving a number of such reports. It Acts to weaken the ossification + start time up within the complex, The miniaturized "representative" remembers its true identity as soon as its job is done. Again it is in contact (dialog) with the total mind (Logos). the total mind rescues it from the trouble which its report has gotten it into. For years the miniaturized "representative" has had the impression that the world it is in isn't real, that it's somehow fake. - its own mind - as a dissolving It sensed itself agent vis-a-vis this world. Perhaps it had not only the task of reporting conditions but of dissolving con‐ ditions. The recent revelation, "we adopted you (because you adopted the children at Covenant House]" shows that primarily their mission toward one was, as I thought originally, one of interventive rescue; it was not what I did (accomplished), but what they did for me. The significance of my life does not lie in any supernatural plan which I fulfilled but rather in the exercise of Divine providence in my behalf. I have kept seeking to know what it was that I did; what I did was the adoption of the rids - which came after the intervention in my behalf in 2-3-74. 90 this, then, is a terribly important revelation. Empire: an ossified complex (circa Acts). Christ: random variable: newness. A dissolving catalyst. This is the essence of it. Into this frame of reference I (e.g.) fit. No time has passed for the Empire in 2000 years, but for the true Xtian, time moves. He - the true Xtian - is in a magic Garden Kingdom, post mortem in nature. The specific power + magic of Xtianity is time passing - i.e. the BIP the complex, dissolving. The Empire, since it is a complex, is psychotic - i.e. irrational. Into this, Valis the rational, is introduced; it invades the irrational dissolves it. This is what I saw + what I do + am. This condition is what "Tears" d picts: Taverner is like the variable man. vs the ossified Empire thought material in "Tears" made to look like code but not really code. But done so by whem? by "fred." Two psychoi - i.e. "Thomas" the dream: they were looking for matered in scanner" - but that is after '74. The article in "The real world." He died for one (Christ, my guide); the cosmic [determinist] machinery was aborted (deflected, short-circuited). I was scheduled to die + did not, through This sacrifice for me, in my place. As they told me A couple weeks ago: because I [later] adopted the childhen at Covenant House. my love came 91 back at me, burning up ananke. This is the core of it. The core miracle of salvation through Christ - + I have the second comforter with me forever. So what is really involved is an act of love + sacrifice by the divine itself. He who can experience the universe (reality) as the body of Christ, even to its trash layers, has attained the ultimate vision: he is in that body + it is in him. (the macro-micro-macro.) Since Christ is everywhere (ubique - v. "Ubik") it is in him in "Ubik" the hieroglyphs of God, immanent + ubiquitous God, are found (e.g. the writing). traces. Thus "Ubik" is my really true book, out of all of them, concealed among + within the others which are camouflage, for it. In 3-74 set was not added to ground is but separate [Note from ground - i.e. the divine was separated from the non-diving, + the latter fell away. So the divine was dis‐ closed, although it was already here unseen. This discrimination is precisely the Kingdom which Jesus spoke of. 40 am: I successfully negotiated the reacherous moral infinite route [Note (+ so was rewarded). Not from one space-time epoch to another + to another, trials + the order of Ma'at are pointed to. ➀ This is a very great realization. There has been no missing [stereo] channel, but rather a mno blending of two channels into one 92, 1) Christ said (e.g. in lure) that the Kingdom was [only] for his disciples. 2) In 2-74 I remembered being (long ago) one of his disciples. 3). The Kingdom is for me. the Kingdom. 4) I did in fact experience The promise was fulfilled. It is possible that I never experienced it before. Perhaps I still the there had karma to be burned up [by love] were still things I had to do (in this life). The sacred trial-drama was not over yet. In any case there is a logic to the above four propositions; viz: A) If I am one of the disciples I should see the Kingdom. B) I saw the Kingdom. Therefore, according to the secrecy theme" in Luke, I must be one of the dis‐ i ciples. C) I am + I did. I remembered. I saw. +, most of all, I saw Christ - ubique: in me (micro) + as world (macro). D) I am told 1) that I was adopted + 2) why. this act of my part - adopting the street kids - burned up what remained of my karma + freed me from a the "planetary powers" - through Christ - which St. aul speaks of Christ broke the hold of the old deterministic law over me, + made me free. The udge took note of my act of love. + when I provides them a place to stay, I was then provided a place t stay, in the body of the Cosmic Christ. "This is he secret: Christ in us, + we in Christ." 93 I Greek philosophers thought of the higher soul Noos) escaping from 'the body, to survive immortality. Christians thought of immortality more in terms of the restoration of the whole person involving a resurrection of the body effected by the Spirit or divine principle which God withdrew from human being, because of sing, but restored to all who are united to the risen Christ who is the "heavenly man + life-giving Spirit. In my opinion in 3-74 I was restored to my pre-fallen state; hence I became macrocosm con‐ taining the universe as microcosm. (Everything was reversed.) (Adam Kadmon.) It is Christ + Christ alone who accomplishes this functionally, Christ can be defined this way. (+ is this not what Ubik does?) the Pythagorean kosmos which I saw is the restored kosmos achieved by Christ, which without his actin vity is decomposing. ➀ This is precisely what Ubik does - restores makes new again) a decomposing cosmos! Herein say, I solve "Ubik"! I discerned two things I in "Ubik"; 1) The decomposing cosmos (1) - the state of things 2) the restoring agency which is associated with words + is identified as "the word" (!), which renews: makes things again as they were intended to be (before the bomb blast - i.e. the Fall). If (1) is not perceived, (2) makes no sense. This is why I keep noticing resemblances But the decomposition between 3-74 + "Ubik" in fact takes the form of the ossification which is depicted as world in "Tears" - so both books 94, are needed - must be superimposed; viz: we do not actually experience the decomposition as a but reversion in time as depicted in "Ubik" rather as the stuck time of "Tears" (this is obvious; we see no form - reversions alo "Ubik" but we do see the BIP of "Tears"). So in fact it is Ubik acting on the world - not of "Ubik" - but of "Tears"! The affirmative principle or agency appears in "Ubik" + the ossified world it Acts on is "Tears" so the riddle is solved as to why these two books came back at me in 3-74. + "Tears" also contains the Christ story - it alludes covertly to Christ. Thus it links back thematically to "Ubik" or the Logos. Hence I say "Ubik" + "Tears" tells one story. Ubik is the discarnate or cosmic Christ, "Tears" depicts an incarnated Christ. If these - Jesus + the Logos can be seen as me, the message gets across. the situation which obtains now is that of "Ubik" in terms of Ubik or the Logos, or of Christ but the world is that of "Tears" - hence I perienced both. The world of "Tears" acted on, or invaded by, Ubik - impregnated by, perhaps. both are here: the world of "Tears" + Ubik. These are the ground - set: the two signals, one dead, the other alive. The divine principle formerly withdrawn is now injected back in. This dichotomy is expressed in "Ubik" as regressing world vs Ubik acting on it; the relation between the two can be understood by studying "Ubik" Ubik starts time moving forward again. God in heaven - I opened "Ubik" at random + found world, form + linguistic regression such as I experienced in 2-3-74 when I remem‐ bered + then saw Acts! Sokozyrev is 95 "time is energy poured into a right; material system" - or: in 2-3-74 I died. Which is the explain nation for what happened to the characters in Ubik" - Bardo Thodol existence the died - post mortem experiences. Trip to other side or - psyche from the other side took me over? Ja. Thomas. From the other side: in "half life" (ie Bardo Thodol) - No. Miracle, remodelling of reality so that I didn't die; double exposelve (hence two realities syntonically superimposed). Okay. I died - but then new life (as if from Ubik) was "sprayed" over me. (i.e. have a counterpart in the novel. what does not resemble "Ubik" is the per‐ sonality which I call Thomas taking me over after I "died." Did they dure somebody in in my place? Yes indeed - someone who could hand the very problems which slew me (in the unrecon structed world). This is because the characters in "Ubik" are leaving the world but I returned to It after