to seek to ("the basic cosmic sub‐ discover what reality is stance") but rather to conceive of reality in terms of structure, by which was meant mathematical form (that is, structure turns out to be number + pro‐ portion + I would add arrangement: how elements are interconnected) interrelated] viewing reality this way, ontology (in my opinion) doesn't enter into con‐ sideration. Reality, ontologically speaking, may not be there at all. This is a middle position between idealism + empiricism. "Harmonia: "Fitting together" of the "Kosmos": "the beautiful order of things" these are precisely what I saw in beholding what I call Valis, a fitting together ("linking") to form a beautiful, ordered structure, which assim ilated parts from the not-it outside which was an antecedent scrapheap not fitted together + not "a beautiful order of things." "Salvation + perhaps ultimate union with the divine cosmos through the study of the cosmic order --" etc is basic. Neo-Pythagoreanism (ist century AD) was led by Apollonius of Tyana. (Said he was a reincarnation of P.) Pythagoras as magician + shaman. + a great involvement in politics: an elite ruling the state. What I am wondering is, could a highly secret Pythagorean brotherhood still exist which exerts political influence covertly. As Empedocles says, the esoteric occult revelations of Pyth. Gave One vast practical (magical) powers including The power to "bring a dead person back from Hades" - i.e. back to life, which is specifically (by?) me in 3-74 along what was done with/for revelations (e.g. of Valis, or Gnosis with vast Pyth 48 Empedocles makes it absolutely clear that my "plasmate" are the intelligent ideas of Pyth, which have a will of their own + decide who to come to (as with St. Sophia). Also, I remembered a former life, which is the cynchpin of Pythagorean sm. What strikes me is that if Pyth - was correct about the transmigration of souls + the possibility of remembering a former life, his doctrines (+ he him‐ self) would be reconstituted + not lost suppose someone wrote a book in which Pyth, ideas showed up, esp. the esoteric ones, + suppose a secret Pyth. Brotherhood still exists; they might shrewdly guess that the person writing the book had once been a member of the brotherhood, + they would seek to trigger off anamnesis in him. Richard pinas found Empedoclean ideas in "Ubik" + could not understand row they go there if I hadn't even heard of Empedocles, in point of fact many of Empedocles' ideas were Pyth. Ideas formerly kept secret by the Pyth. Brother hood. I have a feeling there are more Pyth. Ideas -inc Esoteric (i.e. secret) ones - in "Ubik" than anyone outside the brotherhood would or could realize, knowing" fact I surmise that only someone latently a Pyth could have written "Ubik." I have noted often before how much Valis resembles Ubik, + how much 3-74 resembles scenes + concepts in "Ubik," to an uncanny degree. + Valis, I now believe, is Pyth kosmos, a term he was the first to use. The "Platonis ie." ideas in "Ubik" may really be Pyth. Ubik"everywhere. It is an active intelligent living dea-entity - i.e. the living ideas which Empedocles rites about! Like the plasmate it has invaded uman info/communications media. It is the plas‐ Then the Acts rate which I was later to see. raterial (i.e. first century AD Rome) shows up in Tears"; this pinpoints it (me) as Neo-Pyth of the space-time of Apollonius of Tyana. What do you together, then et if you add "Ubik" + "Tears" 48 a Neo-Pyth. Who doesn't consciously remem‐ ber, + - the brotherhood can see (read) the plasmate cypher "King Felix" - not only see it The way I did as set to ground but probably know what it means + the Orphics used Gold shiny objects to restore divine memory. "Tears" must have confirmed what "Ubik" implied i inc. that the Pyth. knowledge in me was not a modern knowledge acquired in this present to the contrary, at the space-time of life but, Acts, in which case it is an archaic latent transmigrated Pyth. Soul writing through PKD. Otherwise, why the Acts material? + it that it was in the first is significant century AD or that Pythagoreanism had its last in fact, if known manifestation in history Apollonius of Tyana's claim is true, Acts is the last space-time where Pyth is known to have transmigrated; if he continued on later he either didn't experience anamnesis or never revealed it, anyhow not openly that we know of! It was at the time + place of Acts that i.e. anyone last claimed to be Pyth reincarnated this is about 600 years after Pyth himself is born. I just thought of something strange. Ubik strikingly resembles Valis + also the plasmate (i.e. Pyth's living ideas). According to Pyth, the kosmos is a living organism + divine, which we contain spark of + can return to - i.e. return to the divine eternal living kosmos - which I saw + hich I call Valis or Zebra + which seems to be "like returns to like," so by contemplating Bik he kosmos we are not reborn (reincarnated) but + to it instead. Then the plasmate + Valis are me, Ubik is Valis + is the plasmate, too. Now, feel that in 3-74 the plas mate s anyhow the real point that I'm trying to make is that the kosmos being one, alive, eternal + divine + "the beautiful order of things" is what we Xtians know of as God or the Logos or saint Sophia. It is within - the implicate structure of reality in contrast to the multiplicity of the phenomenal world: they are many; it (the kosmos) by its basic attribute of harmonia, saw). So we I fits everything together ( Brahman or have something akin the immanent deity. which for years is what I thought I had seen, but - Valis was not everything but was "camouflaged" in the midst of every thing exactly as Pyth believed: assimilating the atelos outward from the center. So Valis + the plasmate is/are the ultimate divine: Kosmos equals God but defined in precise ways by Pyth which 1) differ enormously from all theistic + deistic conceptions + 2) conforms precisely to what I experienced ("the rational invading the irrational (which preceeded it) + assimilating (+ fitting it together) or "trans‐ substantiating" it." + I saw it, atelos, as clearly as I saw the kosmos (telos), so not only did I see the divine (God) but I saw the not-divine or not God, atelos. If Pyth is right + his kosmos is the ultimate divine rather than the theistic deity this would plain the puzzling fact that I 1) seemed to have seen God, but 2) it wasn't God, + not at least as he's usually conceived of. not only does Pyth's concept of the ultimate time (God) differ enormously from everyone else's (Plato excepted) but Pyth puts forth -o peerfic + precise notions of its nature it is. rather hat w St. i t t s s 6 It's obvious to me that kosmos equals Plato's Noos, + atelos equals ananke. This means that I as cornford points out) there is always some atelos + some kosmos (Valis) at any given time telos! "the limit (or limiting) is an active force effecting order, harmony "kosmos" in the unlimited. All kinds of opposites somehow "Fit together" within the kosmos (ine "good evil." So telos (limit or limiting) isn't kosmos but "an active force effecting order harmony, + kosmos" which involves fitting together "all kinds of opposites" which I dentify with the antithetical unlimited dia‐ I kosmos is the result of the active (male lectic. force telos. Kosmos is structure - fitting together isn't this Krasis (v. Empedocles)? Valis is kosmos or structure a fitting to gether of all kinds of opposites, + kosmos is a living creature, Empedocles (Hussey): "the kosmos as such must have a mind... change + multiplicity are introduced into the kosmos only by strife. Since perception is of like by like, the mind which has no strife in itself will not only itself function perfectly, but will perceive the kosmos as something free from strife (i.e. without change + multiplicity) + under the sway of love (Eros], in other words as a thinking unity like 'that which is." This is an "observer-participant" kosmos. the amout of kosmos at any given time depends on the psyche of the percipient. A strife free mind be a There must will see kosmos: a thinking unity. perceiving s kosmos, or rather the proportion of kosmos as a thinking unity fluctuates as the percipient's mind fluctuates. This is why other people do not see Valis (kosmos) although they are looking at the exact same array of phenomena + causal processes which I, who sees Valis am looking at. This is because Valis (kosmos) isn't substance (onto/esse) but form (structure), I guess a Gestalt. (Yes, "Gestalt" means "Form"). Then "synchro nicity" as a concept isn't a "pretentious neologism" for coincidence but a perception of the form, Gestalt or structure or fitting together of kosmos (Valis), + is a higher per‐ ception. Not What prevents us from understanding this, esp. if "God" is understood as that which is meant, is that no substance or thing is meant I have timelessly said for fire years that Valis is not a thing among things but rather is a way in which [other] things are linked together, now I understand what I am dealing with that I saw: structure not substance. Anything can "be" Valis (as ve always realized). "function as" should be "used as." Then "God said, not "be" or one could say is a use things are put too ➀ + an active force (telos) is effecting this tructure, causing it to come about. Well, then is there causal train "melting" when active force goes to work? Does this "melt This which I saw go on here + there always n" we i we can't discriminate it? Yes ut i s can't discriminate Valis (kosmos) so we can't is n the scri by minate the "melting pressure 53 + there is mind here, + life. (at least in the resulting kosmos.) So if we synthesize, Pyth + Empedocles vis-a-vis kosmos we get what I saw in 3-74. The ultimate dialectic too, which I saw. Telos assimilating atelos, which, as stated, means that the resulting kosmos grows (but we can't discriminate it from atelos because it is not something but Gestalt - Gestalt which is alive, has a mind (i.e. thinks) + is eternal + divine, + which if we are like it we can see it. This would have to do with feature extraction in our percept system which may be dependent on the proper memory hologram as inner template (analog) - my own theory, which I am confident of. So a kind of correspondence ("like to like") between the percipient's mind + Valis is requires for Valis to be discriminated. Either the divine spark in the person's soul wakes up or the plasmate enters the person (shamanism!) Then to see God (the divine) you must become divine only micro-Valis can discriminate macro-Valis. If the proper memory hologram is necessary this would explain why anamnesis is neces‐ sary in order to discriminate Valis. The specific Hologram may lie within the domain of ultra long term phylogenic memory exclusively If you can comprehend a floating crap game you can comprehend Gods It's important to realize that this "telos" concept goes back to Apollo ("everything in moderation") (as well as to Delph; + the Sibyl), so that Valis - this kosmos which is alive has a mind, is eternal, unitary + divine - is connected to the Harmonia + order + proportion (for example, now I understand the significance of my - seeing the Golden rectangle) which is the core spirit of Apollo. If Valis