the Acts material surrounding it. So the plasmate linkages are across time (as I've long suspected) but time converted into space. (e.g. the Fish necklace. Those are linkages across time but spacially linked; so the brain is distributed across time-as-space - so my seeing the world of Acts superimposed on USA 1974 was (3 a normal experience within the time-as-space functioning of the brain (avicenna: God does not experience time as men do"). This might be the primary cause of our inabi lity to see the brain: that we are caught in time in a point-present. "Memory (anamnesis]," then really means experiencing time as space, which is why I got out of synch with time + responded to stimuli before they occurred I didn't just remember Acts; I experienced saw) it. Why do I keep overlooking this dif‐ t ference? + the BIP is a complex (ossified) in the brain, + must be dissolved ("phagocytosis"). being a complex it is transtemporal (i.e. a constant; this is why we call it a complex; + it warps other thoughts to it; not just to it but assimilates them to its template, which is what a complex does: sets up an overvalence a Then the underground is a metabolic toxin. subversive to the complex. the complex (BIP) is like a speck of heavy metal ("the bichlorides"). Making the brain deranged; the brain is trying to heal itself. This is the "Fall," the "crisis in the Godhead" our species is injured: symbolized by the or ire tip of the spear, the Romansspear, which killed Jesus. Then this brain is the cosmic Christ it camouflaged" into nature + own sp ces 473 It is the salvador salvandus, the savior saved; we (the underground with him as our head) must heal the wound. He is jured: landscaped as he is - bleeding. the plasmate is his blood. Connecting the neurons Acts, the Gesta of the apostles, takes place in sacred (i.e. hyper) time just realized: Acts I tells of Jesus I being taken up into heaven; he is not seen again. This is the moment at which the earthly but killed + risen Christ begins to become the cosmic Christ - i.e. the macro-brain + plasmate that I saw: it begins in Acts, this new stage: to quote myself: "Christ dies + enters nature" - camouflaged. So Acts contains more than the Gesta of the aposties; it tells of the ascention... Earthly Christ into cosmic Christ. Here the new epoch begins. of course the Cosmic Christ is found in nature; it is his task to restore the fallen, decomposing cosmos, so he penetrates it to the lowest layer! + transubstantiated it into himself. How could he be transcendent to it, rather than immanent within it? brain (macro entity: Valis) as body; I plasmate (connecting energy) as blood ( when the plasmate enters you it turns into information. (Wisdom.) It enters you as light: the phosphered graphics. So Valis isn't Christ; Valis + the plasmate are Christ. He has the power + authority to break "astral determinism" as he did with me + thus saved me, : Valis + the plasmate is Christ. 474 landscaped as he is he draws (directs) the species + its world toward a desired outcome synchronizing all (?) parts of it, from within these parts; they behave in concert. Then we are saved + need only to know that we are saved. We are like sleepers who must wake up. (It is like in "Ubik" with Runciter trying to reach them.) is linking two pieces. The plasmate set-ground. selecting from the stockpile + fitting what's 2) selected into place. In it. 3) passive (at rest) vs active (in motion) modes ( 4) The dialectic. Pieces (moves) laid down in advance. (3) is active when selected (2). Is the selected piece then linked (1)? (1) (2) (3) : a self-assembling organism. what I hadn't realized is, it took over my mind when I realized all this. It not Thomas (unless it is Thomas). (4): only "backward looking knowledge" on the part of The adversary. Total a priori foresight on the part of the Good one which took me over. 5) teaching over the span of years by means of interrelated symbols, graphics, verbal messages. time in terms of space so that when used amounts to where used. Why, the structure exists in spacial dimensions only. it then one vast transtemporal entity has been itself along 4 spacial elaborating + perfecting humans oint-present" to 975 So perhaps the reason I saw Valis was that my biological clock speeded up so much that a conversion into space occurred (then it was a time "dysfunction"). But Valis is not just a phylogenic human self, inasmuch as it also exists in the environ‐ are one ment, as if humans + environment continuum. For Valis animates the environ ment to a sentient volitional level equal to the human level + in its 2000 year present There is no distinction between human volition al activity + natural activity (except perhaps in terms of the rate factor). + this entity either invaded my consciousness (enthusiasmos) or epiphanized (apotheosis) in me; anyhow it crowded me out. It is not all reality; it pilfers from all reality to construct itself; it is an unmoved mover, or the unmoved mover. It transmits information by means of our media utilizing a time-into-space set-ground system (i.e. it can read temporal accretion - age - as spacial depth, as a parallaxis - this is the "ajna eye"). Why, then the Acts material in "Tears" is at a specific depth - spacial degree along a spacial axis - being deeper (or less deep; older may be inversely proportional to depth/ground) than such contemporary elements as the fle, etc. Valis can scan the different depths of the total text + effortlessly separate the layers (which is why I envision the Bible in 3-D1) So that's the function of the Acts material in "Tears" ream -+ s 470 realized, is at a different depth. The read out system is to take the last verbal integer of one depth-segment + the first of the next by use of the hyperparallaxis it (the cypher) is visible at a glance. What it means, however is another matter. Anyhow, isn't the "cypher" actually a physical thought of this macro-brain? A book has one advantage over radio + TV in that it endures along the temporal axis which for Valis is a spacial axis. Cary) So my anamnesis was a losing of the point-present: + I saw the space-time of Acts superimposed on USA 1974; I entered what Eliade calls "sacred time" in contrast to profane time. It is an accretial laminated "time" in which the past is not lost from sight. The entree to this accret tial time is found in "Ubik" where the present contains the past (in terms of Platonic category or form; the devolution in "Ubik" is actually t anamnesis - real anamnesis in which the past is not just remembered but recovered. what emerges? The vast sentient entity bik + its messages!) (As if I had figured ut that if enough frames passed by fast hough we'd see something like Ubik; well, I as right. So: if you can convert from point-present spacial or accretional time, you will see vast living entity which is pure intel It seems to bea gence + is everywhere phylogenic entity (in contrast to us onto genic entities). 1477 What is needed for perception is the overlap phenomenon found in motion pictures: our percept system shows perseverence of prior frames + so sees motion. This is precisely what I experienced when I saw Acts + USA 1974 superimposed + this is what I wrote about in "Tears" - only then does the truly real emerge (it's like stop action photo graphy; this is stop action memory spanning thousands of years, whereupon the BIP + Valis + the PTG swim into view). The phylogenic human would experience all these normally. He would not be Valis but he would be plugged into Valis as in a symbiosis, since. He + Valis would be operating in identical axes: Valis would be the reality within which the phylogenic self existed (just as the ontogenic self exists within an inanimate reality.) Then Schopenhauer is right about species identity) many people have speculated about phylo‐ enic identity but I go further + posit a lifferent kind of reality for the phylo‐ t e e mic self: a sentient, volitional, living re. Then in me in 2-3-74 my phylogenic elf became conscious swept aside my togenic ego, + saw Valis 78 t he sender of the Xerox missive sent it to me to help me clear myself of suspicion; she intended me to do with it precisely what I did. There were my instructions which I carried out robot-like (programmed) faithfully. I have a friend + she is alive in the world. She watches out for me. It is not "Christ died + is in nature" but she died. St Sophia is the west's closet equiva ent. Died but lives again camouflaged. She is not my dead sister but, rather, takes her place. I oved her so much I find her in the landscape in my head hear her voice. Merciful psychosis. atavism 1000s of years - psychotic out of grief + love - the DNA foiled by her death; the DNA has hit-wired the situation so that she lives on in me - a graft. she made me run out of concerthalls. A 2nd psyche in me, as in "Scanner" Felix/alys Bob/fred. Valis is not God; Valis was sent to me by God to aid me. Anangel. Der gatten so leich. A supernatural being - beautiful: ste but greater than her is God. She has human personality God is pure love. The angel gave me the info about Chrissy; he was there in the Room i t Good. God senst me aid: the tevil, my angel who creates for 71 sister's ideath me her presence t 1/17/71 the hit on my house + was by a Neo nazi paramilitary organization, due to working with the t my writing "MITHC. us Army G-2. She my angel as "intel‐ ligence officer am the arm" sent of to me hoping I'd - + knowing id- clear myself via it by what I did (under her direction). + it was she at the door in 2-74 + rathy + steph + merry Lou. So I meet her again + again, + she is in me; I hear her voice, the AI voice is the voice of an angel. The Duck-beaked cap: Pigspurt army! + Afrika corps! (Which symbolizes the army of God coming out of Jerusalem). t instead of just having her - my sister‐ temporarily I have her forever: God's mercy gift - evil turned into good Well, how real How real is the angel. was Kathy? In 2-3-74 the supernatural nses of it became evident, but the help was there before (e.g. Kathy, mony coul. How real is me angel now its okay, Laura is born. How real is Laura I guessed right about Krsna; the final thing you can say about it is, it's a game. us my protestant antalike life.) 46 i s 1) Valis is a vast organism extended in time so differently from us that we cannot discern him. 2) In 2-3-74 my time sense (way of being in time) altered so radically that I could see Valis. t is slow. I messages in our media move so slowly + are spaced so far apart that we can't detect theme. 4) 2000 is a day for Valis. ) One day has passed since the crucifix 5) love "Tears" is Valis' view point. Acts to USA 6) s 1974: his present. 7) In 3-74 I was caught up into the next world (upper realm). 8) Valis is God. 9) He has sent an angel to aid me. It is