we are now compelled to do either good or bad Acts according to that judgement, which in turn was based on our natures. the "sheep" - "goats" binary division is the side Zoroastrian "light" - "Dark" one: which we are. Commingling is over; we will not go either way; we have gone. The "molecules" of light + of darkness are separating. In my dream the "goats" felt absolutely no constraint about answering their "terox letters - which is proof positive; the again bate of inwit did not advise them not to (but did constrain me). Only the spirit can discriminate) if it is present in you it will unerringly tell + direct you; if it is not present you are blind There is an enormous info traffic of covert instructions, as if (like] on D-day. these instructions have the absolute power to bind (or loosen). they act as imperifives subliminal cueing. "So that the true Xtians will identify them selves." By Acts triggered off by the covert subliminal instructions. Until now the true natures of everyone were obscured veiled. 970 You could not tell "Dorek" from "light." but now the division occurs: the "light" natures will reveal themselves as such, for what they are, as "light" by Acts, the Dark" natures likewise. Hence any commingling ends the Holy Spirit directs + supervises the manifesting of the "light" natures by (1) compelling to the good; (2) prohibiting the "light" person from bad Acts. This is awesome because it only occurs in the final days; up until then we all had free will to go either way. The combination preventing ame from answering the Xerox missive + com pelling me to send it to the Bureau is the power of Christ (Holy Spirit) as eschatological judge, wherein the Chry) nature is discerned, judged, + then caused to reveal itself in Acts + restraint from Acts. The masks are being removed, hence s saw Xtian apocalyptic history as true reality: this is only possible to do (see) at the end days. This manifestation into the open of the two natures goes all the way back to Zoroastrian eschatology. The blend in a given human of the "two antagonistic Spirits" is over with. It now all stands revealed, which way one has chosen. In each person, one of the two natures or spirits is victorious. note: only the Holy Spirit has the power (ability the "good spirit from the evil to discern Spirit" when it shows up as e.g. the Xerox the missive, not in me missive (spirit in basis aboli specific This is a the recipient 71 Ato possessed by the spirit alone. Now I see the whole historic process as winnowing process (or mechanism) in which all along the 2 spirits commingled + finally became separated at the end only. Suddenly for the first time I understand the world: as the commingling of the two spirits (as in the 4th gospel); hence the elements of evil, pains suffering. But this has been both a war + has served a mighty purpose: that at the end each soul, having had the opportunity to choose (between light + darknes he is judged + then revealed (as to which There was that period of choice + is i.e. chose). freedom + commingling The overview of the dream derives from fundamental eschatological concepts I have known about intellectually but never taken into account not once in my 2 years of exegesis: that the two spirits of Zoroastrian ism, light + dark, are in - are the basis of each human, + he chooses one or the other (in his lifetime) + thus aligns himself either with light or darkness; hence each man contains a micro-dialectic, antithetical in nature. + that in the end days judgment is pronounced on each man by the eschatological judge, that the two antithetical spirits cease to be a mixture but pull apart (as if the two anti‐ thetical opposites that comprise creation itself are at last pulling apart! So this has a macrocosmic application as much as plural microcosmic), + each person's nature (up to then known only to God) is revealed for which of the two it is. He no longer contains both; he is now purely + completely + absolutely one or the other. If he is light t the Holy Spirit compels him irres A-72 toward good acts + irrestably restrains him from evil, but for the person of Darkness the spirit of God does not compel toward the good + away from evil + so that person is lost! The Holy Spirit does not show him the way [of discernment, of discrimina Thus he is not of good from evil). This has to do with ontology: what saved. the person's nature is. The eschatological judge (is the one who] knows that nature, +, it would seem, where the judge finds the light nature [triumphant? Because the person has on his own by his own free will + judgement chosen good, has on his own, by what he is -again ontology - chosen right i.e. light] the judge (or God) dispatches the Holy Spirit into that person to (1) compell him to good (Acts) + to refuse evil (Acts) so that not only perceptual discrimination is his - to know good from evil + to prefer good - but to do good acts + refuse to do evil acts; thus the person is existentially saved (in terms not of what he knows alone but, indeed, does). He has no darkness in him now. The dialectic in him has ended. we are totally under the control of is God now." Then God has indeed taken the field. God has inbroken into the world. God is now here. This is what is meant by the "Kingship of God." The dream in "Tears." the prophecies by the AI voice (Ruah). "subliminal messages so that the true Xtians will identify themselves ... the covert info traffic which is sus Ats programming not info..." "Parousia, instructions (as covert info traffic: instruction Christ is here; the Holy Mother church knows it. The R. cross as their technological instrument, + this involves "Tears" + now "Valis." I always suspected that "Tears was the Holy Mother church.) (Using cypher.) don't know which part is the most I the whole is that this is the staggering. Parousia; hence God has taken the field + now controls everything. we are totally under the control of it "the covert subliminal God (Valis) now." message traffic is not info; it programs us." This traffic is part of the Parousia + God taking direct control. Part of that control is exercised through the message traffic. "subliminal messages so that the true Xtians will identify themselves. By Acts triggered off by the covert subliminal instructions. until now the true natures of everyone were obscured, veiled." known only to God. Because we have been compounds, admixtures, made up of both dark + light. Now this (mixture) ceases. N + the Holy Mother church knows all this. I'm in no sense unique. "Valis" is of trivial Then "divine importance. It's like D-Day. invasion" is correct; it is YHWH. âž€ We become purely what we are, + the true Xtians are ineluctably compelled + restrained (directed - caused - to perform Acts directly by but God also God in them as the Holy Spirit. is in world - i.e. as Valis who has "invaded our universe" A-74 the dream explains the whole situation, + in apocalyptic eschatological terms. (i.e. elements.) Going back specifically to Zoroaster God saves his own, now; separates them as sheep from the goats + saves them - keeps them from falling into error. the divine light illuminates from within +, more, directs. "The Lord of hosts whom ye delight in, shall suddenly come to his temple. + who can abide the day of his coming? For he is like a refiner's fire. + who shall stand when he appeareth? The people who wath in darkness shall see a great light." but what camong much else) is new to me is that those who he will not save - those who of their own free will chose darkness - will now be allowed to fall to their doom; they dis not choose rightly; they are not given what I have called "the Acts lens/grid" by which to discriminate good from evil; they are on an ineluctable course of ruin + doom, inasmuch as only the presence + activity of the spirit (in me) can save, + they are not given that. Thus (due to the revelation of/in this dream] all the separate pieces fall into place. Why I was compelled to respond to the Xerox missive as I did. the natures (of us all) reveal themselves now, at last. The message traffic. The Acts grid/lens. Thomas. Valis. I did not know that the Holy Mother c hurch knew all this; nor did I know that the R.C. brothers was - has been + is - their "technological" arm. which of the two spirits each of us is - that is the [inner dialectic + it is now resolved in all instances upon the moment of es tologic A-75 judgment. Here we have the eschatological dea of the saved remnant. what is so amaging is that this one dream causes all the pieces - all! in All these philosophical - to fall into place. theological issues I've pursued all these years - it all falls into place. + in what is terrifying way. a The N.T. is right: it came "like a + thief in the night": without warning. of overwhelming importance (because I - my mind - would not have dreamed it up) is the complex information (revelation) about (1) first the long-term commingling of both light + Dook spirits in each of us; (2) the judgment; (3) now their separation, so that the sons of light (!!!) are literally compelled to do good avoid evil, but the sons of Darkness + (11/11) are allowed (because they lack the Holy Spirit) to go down into I would not have dreamed this ruin. up; this is - Zoroastrian! This is all very different from my secular view of the true secret Xtians vs the BIP. This is Armageddon - this is what the Qumran people My God; this vision completes believed in. my initial vision of 2-3-74. It fills in the missing pieces - it adds the pieces I have been missing (+ could not supply) which then causes all (!) the pieces I did have to fall into place. If we are + have always been an equal mixture of the spirit of light + the spirit of Dark B s viewpoint - gint friend of Jim St. A. The tenderloic app. Jim Pike, man, Phil Dick. Simal herself. All is segful B. Jim's doubts after visiting John Allegis, about Xtianity. Jim + phil in discussions Has "reme the fi Jim Jus succide. es character) doesn't belave it. Does that dren's sureide (because Jim so sant in can't D. with her + she feels guill over his suicides effect on Jim. Effect on Phil - corresive. She (ve) learns of Jim's death in israll E. she looks up Phil. This is 1970. (to 1972.) Phil believes Jim has come back to him. a f Does she believe this? Is Phil crazy? analysis" A. original joyful state. B. First doubts (by Jim, as to truth of Xtianity). C. Worsening. (Jim ur's succide.) effect on Jim's sanity, maren's sanity, Phil's sanity D. Increase in worsening (maren's suicode). Effect on Jim's sanity: leads to his death just as Jim so! corrosive effect on suicide led to maren's death. Phil who now has no link to sim further increase in worsening (Jim's death). E. f ultimate atome of am as succide which led to maien't sureide to dro's sanity exposes, to Jim's death, to Phit's insanity (he believes Jim has come back to him. Or is