sort of flow change unified asflow of action + reaction. - is as if our minds have to construct some kind of unity in reality, but have got it along the wrong axis this is why, then, it is So difficult to define time. Two errors, not just one, are involved. The solution (which occurred for me in 3-74) is to see reality properly at one simultaneous instant, which is to say out side of that this time, as a continuous self-aware field. field is that which Malebranche, Leibnitz + Spinoza conceived of + reality as modern quantum t mechanics conceives of - here is the solution. Perhaps the discoveries of modern physics, then, make it possible for the first time in history for someone to actually see reality as the Cartesians a priori knew it to be. The instructions to fire could be understood + even apprehended as infor‐ mation traveling through the field, using the field as a modulated carrier: the instructions passing from one part (spatial locus) to another, or, more likely, manifesting simultaneously throughout the field without time-lapse. (After all, the modulation is not introduced at one end of the field, like current into wire.) If we could see these instructions a they would appear to arise spontaneously ex nihilo within the field, for the field itself is sentient t can generate its own physical thoughts. 've see process as discrete in space but homogenous in time; Actually it - is homogenous in space (a field) + discrete in time: A progression of actually unrelated discontinuous events- occurrances organized by some kind of synchroni zations but (as I say) actually unrelated. this is some kind of Cartesian parallelism ibnitz or the asius a its we something that can only be explained by quantum mechanics field theory centers or points of events are set to occur upon notification, which is to say upon prior events occurring - but this is not some kinetic dynamism transferred from object a to object B (event a to event B); the "instructions" fire from within each event ("object") - these are not really objects; they are events occurring in field: they are told when to do what is a programmed intrinsically in them either from the start or as if from the start. If we did not project ("see") causal connections we would It is as not suppose such a thing as time. an infinite number of static universes exist if in sequence each slightly different from the one before it + the one after it these points perhaps are not notified but produce the semblance of being notified because in fact although they are points they are arbitrary points within a continuum that is of one honogenous mind. "what I saw in 3-74 that I called "pre‐ extual cause was the removal of my projected impression (perception) of x acting on y in linear time, not just x acting on y as one body on another in space; no: there is action along the this temporal axis, in the temporal domain. "projected impression is literally an hallucination It's an hallucination in two domains: space + time both, but these hallucinations are the reverse of each other: (1) we hallucinate discontinuity in space, whereas there fact D-47 continuity, homogeneity; (2) + we hallucinate continuity in time whereas there is discontinuity. We must be perceptually converting spatial con‐ finuity into what we call "time" first by perceiving space as discontinuous (i.e. discrete objects) + then by perceiving the past acting on the future in an uninterripted way; put this is impossible. Parmenides was correct, motion is impossible. Our mind con‐ verts a series of static point-events into a dynamic sequence in "Time" but there is no "time," only space. This is how movie's work, or like the sequence lights on Joan's take deck. So there is no problem regarding objects in space acting on each other since there are no objects (in space); there is a field in which a senes of static point events "is," in a specified order, + that order, like a numerical order cannot be changed; but a numerical order is not in time + neither is this series of point events; the switching from one point to another within the unified field gives us the impression of a continuous process in which all the static point. events are seen (spuriously) as linked; our per‐ cept system will project hallucinated connectives did in 3-74 when I saw "pretextual t all cause" was withdraw my projections + see a series of static point-events (which normally not only is seen as linked but is construed dynamically; viz: as occurring in time since there has been "change." but in fact There is no change in the normal sense in D-48 which we use that term. The temporal statio domain consists of unbridgable point-events as if alternate "frames" or versions of the continuum have replaced one another. But I have actually been correct all along in conceiving of causation as a spatial not temporal matter, which (view) is due to my original apperception about causation in the 40s. Thus (I think) I have been halfway to 3-74 for decades; i.e. I have partially conceived of reality as a continuous field since c. 1949. Hence my writing! + it was this very apperception by par‐ menides that led Plato to his doctrine of the eide outside time + space; they project (cast) particulars into time + space (+ I say they receive them back, but Plato is basically correct; are we then not talking about a kind of readout in this projection? The given eidos contains all its unique, imperfect particulars + can "play" them out + then retrieve them + restore them. This makes my conception of the "Form-axis" in "Ubik" in which a given form somehow contains all its prior manifestations a staggeringly important conceptual breakthrought (the carrier) The changes in reality are not the result of information (modulation) fed to them but are the information (modulation) itself is + the order of the changes (sequence) the is syntaxe; hence what we call "causation a faulty way of reading the syntax not rut D-49 deriving any message. We routinely supply faulty connectives... a faulty kind of act ve connective, from each constituent to the next. When I saw (1) the rest-motion modes; + (2) the linking + relinking I saw how reality (the differentiated but inte‐ grated) field really works: how it can be + is used as information: I saw the carrier + I saw how it is modulated. It t combines + recombines internally. The MMSK is the field in which everything is stored: the source (the phylogons/eide) + printact ontogons/particulars that go out + return as reticulation + arborizing - so not only is there modulation which is info traffic but the generation of it, then retrieval + storage). I. most of all, this is a binary system. (The dialectic). Utilizing enantiodromia (a simple reversing of polarities. Boy - this is sure a mix of quantum mechanics, occasionalism + Taoism "Enantiodromia" equals a cybernetics flip flop. This is the very life of the system, without which it would have / be shut down, inactive. + this is pure Taoism! But can it say "I--fam]"? I did grasp that: 1) void: 2) Valis; 3) "I--lam]" as the total system, Valis being its differentiated activity, the void being as such (on or einai). "I--[am]" being its it pure consciousness. my apperception last night was of reality as an infinitude of static layers each some‐ what different from the one before it + the one after it, with no causation between them (hence no causation), with our minds supplying + projecting hallucinating the causal D-50 connectives; hence we not only suppose (mistakenly) causation we also suppose (mistakenly) change as well as one "frame" that changes. I mean, exhibits change time, causation. It is however, operations within = field or carrier that is modulated. the field is not God (if anything is; "field" equalling reality); the modulation is (this modulation is what I saw + called Valis. So this is not pantheism, God created the universe (the carrier, field, reality) + then the spirit of God moved across it stirring it (the modulation). (This would equate or relate Valis + the plasmate as: modulation - activity - real (as information].) anything, "God" refers to what we con If prehend as (1) void; (2) Valis (modulation); (3) "I--fam] [i.e. Anokhi], but not the carrier, reality or field; this was devised as a musical instrument on which to play music; the music, but not the instrument, is God. So I, who flunked geometry, oddly have a spatial not temporal view of reality, even of change. (Viz: "space" + position are meaningful concepts in geometry, but not time, not "before" + "after"). the misperception of continuous (field) space as discrete objects (res extensal) leads to the second error which is a com‐ pensatory correction: discontinuous time as continuous - hence our belief in causation; "causation" is psychologically + even logically due to our original mecessary error (which is t not to view space as continuous). Thus only when the Cartesians (e.g. Malebranche, Leibnitz, Spinozy) came along was it possible to ask that causative is illusory as a perception + conception; + this erroneous notion is symptomatic -indicative - of a mors tundamental error having to do with space, hence with the very nature of reality itself. One can say, Parmenides warned us! He did not say, "causation is impossible? because they lacked that concept; but he came aseless as he could in saying, "mation is impossible." There are, then, disjunctions in changen processes that our minds bridge over because we lack a correct understanding of reality; we fill in the gaps ourselves, rather than God filling in the gaps, as the Cartesians believed. These actual disjunctions - if seen by us - would indicate that separate parts of reality understand one another + are coherent mutually without having any link. This implies that sourceless information can arise on an "as needed" basis which is like a micro‐ cosmogenesis, as of the universe can seed itself in the form of spontaneous information, pointing to the strange possibility that something like Schopenhivers il can actually create reality out of nothing - as reality is manufactive: as an expedient for biological survival. If the Koala bear eats eucalyptus leaves it is because its will to live a then the ant created them: the roala bear comes first Thus the need leaved, not the other way around. know generates information: the information to s not found - it is created. e D-55 isoalization of reality o s movie the still (static) frames succeeding one another along the o temporal axis - explains (1) why we cour minds) have to generate causality (i.e. causal connectives) + (2) why causation is illusory Here, time + space cannot be conceptually separated; a "motion" in space is experienced as a "motion" in time, yet what is really thee is a progression- succession of static but differing "frames" between which there are gaks, + we fill in these gaps with what we call "causation," but more than a transfer of kinetic force from body to body is involved in this projection-perception: there is a literal spatial gap that our minds bridge perceptually + conceptually - I saw reality as it really is when I saw Valis in 3-74, + there were minite gaps in several axes: causally (I saw no causation). spatially (things did not genuinely collide) + temporally (time vanished entirely + became augmented space); what remained was multiplex loce of synchronized decisions in sequence as if I were seeing a single continuum or field being modulated (perturbed), as if by an information-bearing wave-form: it passed through the field + its sequential loci of per‐ turbations - which were in fact information came out as what we call change (thus giving rise to