sister‐ temporarily I have her forever: God's mercy gift - evil turned into good Well, how real How real is the angel. was Kathy? In 2-3-74 the supernatural nses of it became evident, but the help was there before (e.g. Kathy, mony coul. How real is me angel now its okay, Laura is born. How real is Laura I guessed right about Krsna; the final thing you can say about it is, it's a game. us my protestant antalike life.) 46 i s 1) Valis is a vast organism extended in time so differently from us that we cannot discern him. 2) In 2-3-74 my time sense (way of being in time) altered so radically that I could see Valis. t is slow. I messages in our media move so slowly + are spaced so far apart that we can't detect theme. 4) 2000 is a day for Valis. ) One day has passed since the crucifix 5) love "Tears" is Valis' view point. Acts to USA 6) s 1974: his present. 7) In 3-74 I was caught up into the next world (upper realm). 8) Valis is God. 9) He has sent an angel to aid me. It is her voice I hear, not God's; she is like us humanoid). she knows the future 0) she sent me the Xerox missive as a mean 1) to clear me. + overrode me to do the right things with it, she was at both ends: the i It was a strategy to sender + receiver. clear me re the Ramparts matter 12) Angelic intervention. ( 1) There is a vast, unsuspected organism So differently arranged in - related to- time than us that we don't know it exists 2) it covertly uses our media. 3) It aided + comforted me + caused me to see it 4) it is real. But what it is (e.g. God) I don't know. It is assimilating reality it. 5) I think I was right; it invaded n our world at a specific date 6) It is the dominant species on our in "Joint" planet + we don't suspect. I deal with it (its messages) initially + then ever after. (E.g. "Ubik") 7) Valis is perceptable to the human phylogenic self by raising my phylogenic (i.e. Valis) self to consciousness it enabled me to see it 8) It experiences + treats time spacially; for it the past continues to exist (cf "Ubik"). So at any given point-present, it is not there. You'd have to perceptually remember 2000 years to seed it - which is exactly what I did but it caused me to do it. as to (4), whether it's God, I can't be sure because (A) I don't fully understand Valis + (B) I have no idea what is meant by + the term "God." For example, Valis doesn't seem to be the creator. But it does experience time the way avicenna says God does, + also it intervene to aid humans (pronoia). It is definitely the author of pronoia. Also, being transtemporal, it has the power to make you immortal 148 it seems to consist of body + blood - the latter being its physical thoughts. Its length in spacial time spans the period from Acts to now (+ perhaps into the future) which very definitly points to the cosmic Christ. my phylogenic self was disinhibited by the Xtian Fish sign. Also, it knew the sacraments of the primitive church, so again, Christ is pointed + the covert material in "Tears" was for to. the most part - if not entirely - from the N.T. + Thomas was afraid of the Romans. He decidedly seemed to be an apostolic Xtian. The way time is presented in "Ubik" (accretion. al- objects containing their prior forms) is with out my having realized it. Spacial time (in which the past is not lost). But Valis in a sense does not exist. is It has no body. It is other things at an ontological level, camouflaged as them (v. the description in "Frolix 8.") It is a principle of organization which exhibits a coherent behavior. Just as it utilizes our media for messages it utilizes objects + their causal processes for its body. what interests me most in my insights last night is that ultimately Valis is playful that this is a game specifically to offset my grim puritanical work ethic. Like St Elmo's fire it hovers first here, then there. It eludes me. it eludes categorization. It poses paradoded + riddles. It is to me like the ultimate zen master forcing me to new ways of thinking 183 didn't just see Valis; its mind was in contact with mine + transferred knowledge as to its nature + behavior with its experience of time as space, 2000 years - Acts to 1974 - becomes exactly in "Tears" a single continuum with th 25 i different levels of depth, ascertainable by a heper parallaxis. 1) "Tears" contains in one spacial continuum Acts to the present to the future 2) In 2-3-74 I saw Acts + the present world superimposed. As simultaneously present 3) Valis experiences time as space, a single spacial continuum (which I estimate to extend for 2000 years). of course (3) is deduced from (1) + (2). How‐ ever consider the presentation of time in "Ubik" where the present contains the past, + rolls back dis‐ closing past reality. it Okay - I know I always write ich bin der retter when I'm loaded. Okay - this time I'd spell it out. This is the assize. Christ is juding. Christo: adjudica tors are here to pass judgment, sans memory. I am me who in 2-74 recovered his memory + in 3-74 passed judgment; this is what I was/am here for on the government. Hence the dream in "Tears". how we look (King Felix in the dream: Christ). The dream proves that the great assize is here, but it didn't occur to me that I am one of the judges. I am from the other Kingdom - hence my postmortem experiences The old king in the dream is me Valis + plasmate are body + blood of Christ; 3-74 was neoplatonist (but Xtian ala Boehme) of level after level of God the reason I stop thinking (believing this perodically is that my ability to understand + even remember is too short of the experiencing + its mean‐ t 2-3t proves that here is what - g I heaven exists indicates: the 3rd age, of the Spirit + Beethoven's music a is a part of heaven: freedom, has begun inc. its freedom theme. Spirit reveals Christ to us. 2 48 Go be 984 suddenly I have evidence for the simula‐ tedness of our world (reality); they havent got space reproduced right, + space is the receptacle of being (Plato). The repro can't achieve a readout playback of the original space - the space I experienced in 3-74 when I woke up upon recognizing my "world" as my own former memory fragments. Christ woke me up intentionally; this is what is meant by salvation. The knowledge (gnosis) of our situation; awakening is temporary but The knowledge (i.e. of our situation) is permanent have already writter about it prior to 3-74 because the tape is fed to me again + again This isn't the first time, which is why I remembered 3-74 in advance "memory" - simulated. Because it's fed to us again + again. Not just fed back once but forever (cf "Tempunauts"). It is - hell! + His decision is sua a Christ is emptying hell generis, it isn't merit on our part, although There is a justice to it in Ma'at's terms: a harmony + proportion, as in geometry. As they can't reproduce space properly here. like a power drain! t's used up as time This is the significance of, when I woke up, my experiencing vast spaces. + of they don't have stace right, then the whole simulation is faulty not an accurate analog of the actual reality it reproduces. This space of Beethoven's is the void of God himself. 485 as of 3-74 I have something to compare the simulation. (as written about in e.g. "Joint") with. the void of God - the space (volume) saw in 3-74 = the inner firmanent of Bruno. to enter this space is to be liberated the age of the spirit - from the simulation of recirculated memories. i always before when I've read over what I wrote when loaded I've found only nonsense. But this time: the insight that they haven't got space right shows this is a simulation - it's a fascinating possi‐ bility when linked to my previous insight about the strident radio indicating I was waking up. The reason that I find it fascinating is that it answers the Q: "simulated in comparison to what? If, for example, you had never heard a live orchestra how could you detect 1) that a recording was in fact a recording + 2) how it differed from the real thing. (Presumably in terms of falling short which is exactly what is involved in this spaceal element: a falling short.) Then what is Valis? The actual reality simulating our reality: not camouflaged much as simulating: pretending to be what it is So - i.e. inert, plural, driven by blind efficient not causes. II our reality is a simulation. The rest of the statement is, Valis is what is really There. Now, I am distinctly convinced that 486 Valis works in terms of natural law, the best examples being 1) the long complex sequence of events required to wake me up. + 2) the way in which info about Chrissy's birth defect was fired to me. reality as simulated fits with my writing more than the camouflage idea. ah - the occlusion of our percept + cognitive systems so that the simulation passes muster t third point. This would have to be. (Well, it means that the simulation doesn't have to be perfect. Also a major occlusion would lie in the area of memory. the main difference I noticed when I woke up was the purposefulness + sentience + unity of reality - only secondarily the enhanced space the plasmate set/ground messages the world of Acts or like Acts, + the fact that reality resembled sections of my writing, + The pretextual cause with the inner-outer synchronized programming + disinhibiting So what do I see? A prison world + set in another century. + a secret revolutionary under‐ ground (v. the Acts grid in "Tears"). (I was aware of the underground in 2-74, + later find that the Acts grid in "Tears" discloses its existence, exactly as I understood + saw in 2-3-74.) i.e. the story told in "Tears" via the grid - + only via the grid- is precisely what I saw + understood - was revealed to me - in 2-74 + more so still in 3-74 when I woke up: a ragure vast tyranny like in "the marble clifts." 48 In "MITHC" the real (alternate) world exists as a book only. But upon gazing at a piece of jewelvy, Tagomi passes over into that world. I read Acts, which is a book in our world. I gaze at a piece of jewelry + pass or: I write "Tears" which over into it. (when carefully analyzed) is an alternate world novel. Then I gaze at a piece of jewelry pass over into it. It even contains the + secret revolutionary underground which can only be discerned in "Tears" via the Acts grid. I hadn't known the grid was in "Tears" + I certainly didn't know that a secret revolutionary underground was pointed to as a major part of that world. Niebelheim. penetrated from outside: linking up with an autochthonic underground ("Frolix 8: the Gods break into niebelheim (the BIP) to turn "the cave of treasures": Nebelheim. it into the PTG. where our senses are occluded. To work the forges