012 This is the story of the regent who rules the Kingdom in a tyrannical, unjust way. The real King in disguise enters the Kingdom secretly & mingles. The wicked regent seizes him & torments him. Whereupon (1) the real King knows the truth; & (2) has _proved_ the true state of affairs; & (3) pits himself against the wicked regent whom he, the real King, appointed, which means he - the real King - can successfully do it. The Key for Freedom is to remember. Which is to say, remember how it was before the tyranny began : how it ought to be. One wakes up from the tyranny & occlusion (the talking horse's head). Thus Christ induces anamnesis as the major key to the solution. It is a going back in time (thus annulling time's tyranny) to before the wicked regent's occludding tyranny. A waking up. However, YHWH now has the feed back news of the true state of affairs & he himself in-breaks to depose the powers he himself installed. total rectification - of the whole system - is in the offing. So the Kingdom isn't just an auto-intoxicated state; actual causality affecting time, death, & occlusion, & two-tape programming is involved. Nonetheless (in fact more so) reality & the Law & powers governing it folder 49 - 013 folder 49 - 013 are undermined. reality is thwarted - changed in a way that aborts its ability to process the info on which it is dependent in order to function. Not only is _your_ script amended (or nullified) but _its_ script is amended (or nullified). Hence we speak of Christ as Pantocrator : Lord of the Universe. Now, look how this fits in with Buddhism. The world is viewed as cruel & murderous & karmic. Both Christ & the Buddha propose ways to escape from this cruel, occluding tyranny which creates so much retributive pain. But Christ's method is far superior, since it affects not just the victim _but the cosmic machinery (order) itself_. The goal (it seems to me) is virtually the same, but Christ is more effective; but the Kingdom = Nirvana. 1) Grace 2) faith 3) anamnesis 4) Holy Spirit 5) born again 6) adoption 7) heir 8) freedom from cosmic order (the Law). All eight add up to Salvation, primarily from the world machinery. From the standpoint of Judaism, this makes no sense, since the Law - the world machinery - is designated as Good & Salvific - in fact the Law is the formula for all creation, the source of reality, that even God himself studies. But if we view the Xtian salvation system as a discovery, _a technique_, then its value can be appreciated; Christ bestows powers over time & change (causality) on you - power over the macrocosm. You as microcosm have power to thwart the macrocosm. folder 49 - 014 folder 49 - 014 extraordinary event sought after by virtually all religions, all science & all magicians; in that it is very close to magic. (or, put another way, an ultra advanced technology having to do with phylogenic memory, burning up your DNA scripts' ability to escape time, etc). Who in his right mind would turn this down? (it also involves an amping up of the preceptor system to totally new high levels. This alone would justify the event, because when amped up like this you can see another, far superior reality, a Garden Kingdom.) Taking all this as a Body of Knowledge, a system of technologies for Freedom - this above all : having your inner & outer chains broken - & enlightenment, who could deny its value? Reality & its Laws called for my humiliation & death in 1974, but the Messenger came in time & intervened - bilked the reception of data by the processor: so that it got only a blank "page". _Mercy_ is involved, & the primary mechanism isn't even one of Justice, as the crucifixion proved. It's just cruel & enslaving (of the temporal powers' response to Rybus' baby in "VR"). But the fact remains : as constituted, reality is cruel & retributive. Escape is to be prayed for ( v Sankara & the Buddha). The Buddha's - & the Brahmanists' analysis of the "weary wheel" is vindicated by early Xtianity. I guess a system in which a formula for all creation, containing all the folder 49 - 015 folder 49 - 015 the answers to every person's & people's problems are contained" isn't workable; it turns out in practice to be rigid & to stray from the path of true Justice in favor of gratuitous punishing. If (as has been said by Philo e.g.) the Torah is alive it is apparently an ossified mind. So the message of Xtianity includes : the system as it stands is unfair, although it admittedly is reality. Unhappily, it exists. But for the creatures living in it it is an unmerited tribulation, & remedy should be sought for (& is available). Yet, if Grace, which initiates the 8-step salvific process listed above, comes from God, then YHWH himself has inserted remedy into the mechanism, & chooses those he would spare or rescue. So I was absolutely right as to what Valis was doing (resetting causal trains to zero). __ It's a pretty staggering experience to see reality amended before your eyes. & it's even more serious because it would seem that the Creator himself has been overruled. But suppose you reason that the overruler is the Creator amending the mechanism he originally set up. JN1 makes this clear. It is not the Creator who has outlived its usefulness, but the Law & elemental powers. The overruler is the pristine Creator; where else would Christ get such powers? But it doesn't say much for creation if the best thing that can happen to you is folder 49 - 016 to get out of its clutches, esp. by it being melted. Xtianity seems predicated on a pessimistic picture of reality, inc. a careful analysis of why it's the way it is & how these elemental powers are overcome. We are adopted by God, made his heirs & thus free of the elemental powers. J. BIBLE : "The Law offers information - not spiritual strength. & its only remedy is punishment, curse, condemnation. It proves to be a defective system." Colossians 2:14 : "He [God] has overridden the Law, & cancelled every record of the debt that we had to pay : he has done away with it by nailing it to the cross {L} & so he got rid of the Sovereignties & the Powers, & paraded them in public, behind him in his triumphant procession. {M}" L : The Law was able to do nothing about a sinner except condemn him to death... in the person of his son whom he allowed to be executed, God nailed up & destroyed our death warrant, as well as all the charges it made against us. M: The tradition is that the Law was brought down to Moses by angels, & by honoring them as the Law givers people have been distracted from the true Creator. Now that God has brought the regime of that Law to an end, these angelic powers have lost the one thing that had given them power, & so they too must acknowledge that Christ has triumphed over them." This is what my dream showed. folder 49 - 017 folder 49 - 017 If I refer to the dialectic as a prime revelation, the fight between Christ & "the angels" is antithetical. The normal situation is really deplorable. I can't help thinking of the Buddha's view of the world & man's situation in it. Now, if my 2-(3-74) is the paradigmatic actual 8-stage extrication -- well, how common is it? Presumably everyone else is still in the grip of the elemental powers just as I was before 2-74. But the experience is available otherwise it couldn't have happened to me. It has more of the aspect of the waking up that constitutes becoming a Buddha -- a rare event, & all Buddhas are manifestations of the one external Buddha -- which fits my impression of 3-74. However, it was not -- I remembered; that's what happened. It is Buddha : the state achieved after a series of lifetimes. So here is a coincidence : as I interpret the view underlying Christ's Freeing us from the elemental powers, it is a view basically that of Buddhism (1) & the Freeing (such being what I experienced)strongly resembles the awakening/Enlightenment called "Becoming a Buddha" - i.e. waking up, & is (or seems to be) as rare; & are manifestations at different places & times of the one eternal Buddha e.g. I remembered my past life (1) toward the world : we must be freed from it & wake up, & the highest ethic is Compassion (obviously Agape). folder 49 - 018 folder 49 - 018 This is the only possible explanation of why (1) the 8-step Xtian salvific experience occurred to me (so it does exist) (2) but scarcely anyone else reports it : it is the waking up of the Buddha, not a mass experience & (alas) not really occurring due simply to "accepting Christ." Rather, it is a culmination of a number of lifetimes - in my case stretching back over 3000 years to Egyptian Crete. &, before that, to the Stars. It is connected to Orphism, the Elysian Mysteries & the Greco-Roman Mystery religions. It is an attempt to remember & thus to regain our original nature. __ Look : it is evident that what I've been calling "the Law" & "Elemental Powers" in fact describes a totally controlled mechanical system - esp. the synchronized inner-outer tapes. I say, more modern terms than "angels" must be applied, we are a rigidly determined system that is run by information, & an information blueprint exists (before the system) that programs it into us. (for example we are occluded in terms of perception, memory, & cognition, in order to not notice this control.) In view of this reasoning I can assume that the mind I encountered is in charge of the system; it may even [have] folder 49 - 019 folder 49 - 019 constructed it, thus it can be defined as the mind from outside or above the system, not governed by or limited by the controls, & capable of breaking the control & hence the occlusion over any given person it desires. Information by this entity invisibly (to us) permeates the system. Like wise, this master entity is here camouflaged to us. it teaches & trains us as well as controlling us. What purpose this all has I have no idea, but info processing plays a great role. The Messenger dream shows that the A I voice that I hear certainly emanates from the Controller outside the system. as I know from experience, its mind is vastly greater than ours. The clutch, linking, looking, plasmate & laying down accretional forms suggests a brain-like or A I system like info processing entity the whole of which thinks. If this is true, then the mind that took me over in 3-74, that merged with my mind, may be the mind of the total system & _not_ from outside it. This would explain Valis. My rescue may have been by the mind of the total system as one single info-processing (thinking) physical entity. The dialectic suggests a _binary_ computer folder 49 - 020 folder 49 - 020 The overwhelming impression that I got from what I saw (plasmate) & know directly from its mind (linking, clutch, form-axis accretional templates), & dreamed (vast book pages), & the A I voice, plus what I've read about the Torah, definitely point to a thinking entity, or a info processing computer-like construct operated by entities outside it. However, seeing Valis makes me think it itself is sentient. This means that e.g. the King