time (Christ) failed. But it (he) has again now been implanted, this time successfully. e Wait. My sister is a thought (archetype) in my mind. Also, I am a thought (archetype) in her mind I ). But - she is on the other i side (upper realm). Thus, upon awakening in her (as a thought in her) I am on the other side, i.e. in the postmortem world - which is exactly where I found myself in 3-74 on My total existence is physically in this world (lower realm) + in her on the other side; the two modes of existence have to be added together to get the whole picture of my existence. So I have a superimposition reality which involves her brain - i.e. body + blood as well as the world everybody else experiences. This is why I am partly on this side + partly on the other, + why I hear her voice + sense her presence s w radually as a or! of. 33 more + more over into being a thought complex in her brain, so I will become more + more aware of her. What I experience as "world" is really two worlds. This one + her. She is not cosmic in size; it's just that in her I am in microform as a thought. This is the basis for my "two source" cosmogony. As she becomes stronger my world will become more rewarding more paradisical, more animate (as I depict in my vancouver speech). She is my ultimate des tination, but I am partly there now (in '74 I was almost entirely there, having died here; my only life was that which I have in her). This means I can be entirely deprived of life here + still live on. I have knowledge of that kind of life; this explains how I could experience the [postmortem] next world while still here, which normally is impossible ("life after life" experience). Very simply, it's because my twin sister is there, I may be wrong in some many, most or all details, but I think I Then have the basis, now, for understanding why I could die + experience the next world, have the next world fade out + this one fade i back. I did die, literally, in 3-74 but my just sister sustained me, revitalized me, trans ferred her life to me. But the strange thing is that she is not on other side; she has been reborn here. + is aware of it. She is aware of me. There the people who die + come back here deliberately she - agents from the other world, are they form an of its group those Bodasatras as ware 34 who have not forgotten. They remember 1) Their life in the next world + 2) their life prior to that in this world. This is why Kathy can flood my mind with thoughts which are celestial (divine) in substance to telepathically receive her thoughts is to tune into the next world, rathy is a micro form from + of the next world, which for her n is the previous world. In this celepathic conface Kathy discloses her true divine nature or by the computer by Holy Wisdom s So I am saying, the ultimate riddle posed to me of is: Am I alive + my sister is dead + hence only exists now as an archetype in my mind/brain (I am her universe)? Or at am I dead, + my sister is alive + I am a thought or archetype in her brain hence she is my universe? To which I give the t nits provisional answer: both are true + oscillate If I hadn't experienced 3-74 sack + forth. 3 ol e a say it's obvious that (1) is true (I am alive + the is dead), but 3-74 points to (2) underlying 1) as the true state of affairs revealed to me + 3-74 explicable without this explanation. 3-74 reveals ) as true, not (1). The computer poses different riddles to ach of us! A problem to solve, it's a kind of way of esting us as a component of the computer (it's like the iddles in "The King + the corpse"), although it may be our ctual use, + not a test (use = purpose). But there is a layful quality in this. A game by mischevous young "phia God's "darling + delight" "playing in his resence continually, playing on the earth, when he ad finished it, while my delight was in man ind." (Prov.: 30) the dialectic, the life of the computer. 35 So it is not just that a puzzle exists, but the puzzle is posed for me + to me; it is my puzzle to be solved. Other people have other puzzles. (1) "I am alive + my sister is dead" is in effect - is + has been for 50 years. The premise of my Geworfenheit, my way-of-being in the world But 3-74 challenges it (first it just challenged everything ubiquitously, but due to 5 years of exegesis I've discerned this as the ultimate epitomization of it): i.e. it finally comes down to this. It's as if St Sophia or the computer took note of my epistemological interests + talents, saw I herself loved epistemological puzzles, + also enjoying these matters, in 2-3-74 served up a puzzle that couldn't be topped (vis-a-vis me, anyhow, my ultimate puzzle - I mean, an experience which by its nature presented me with this puzzle). This puzzle shows up in "Ubik" Lem, in discussing "Ubik," discusses it. I am pre‐ occupied with it generally, where there is no in my writing I connection with my sister. deal with it over + over again + finally it gets applied (by me) to myself in regard to my sister; Am I dreamed by another mind (am I a thought in, the result of another greater mind) on whom I depend for my existence or do I generate my own self + world? + if the former, what can I learn about this other mind? Who, for stance, is it? + why should this other mind care so much about my welfare as to disclose itself + the true state of affairs in order to save me in 3-74? It seems to be female. It seems to be young. After 5 years I've but if sister. t ceaser lec my a 36 She is this other greater mind then she is not dead. + if she is not dead, + I am a thought in her mind, + she thinks my world + can change it to save me, then it would appear that I am the one who is dead + only survives as a thought in her mind. So the puzzle expressed e.g. in "Ubik" (+ elsewhere] when applied to me + my life comes out this way having to do with my sister. anyhow, my solution is to regard both propositions as true, oscillating back + forth, in the dialectic which I understand to be the basis of our whole reality. It is an example of this dialectic, a good example: my example: the dialectic applied to me - So life vs death (eros vs thanatos) is involved here. Am I alive? (do I exist? + if I exist, in what way do I exist? Is my existence dependent on another greater mind, + if it is, he + what is that mind + why does it concern itself with me, to an unusual i degree? + if I am alive, how could I under‐ postmortem experiences? People who are live, by definition, do not undergo postmortem xperiences. I have the uneasy impression that died back in 1974 + don't realize I'm ow in the next world - which is somewhat a rewarding rather than punishing world resembles the PTG or Kingdom of God or reaven. (Paradise.) Which is good news + Diana, the AI voice, is psychopomp + the Spirit indeed. my religion, as o a 3) Well, thinking this, about how Zoroastrianis teaches that we are met by the spirit of our religion when we die, + if we are a son of light she is "jung und schon. But if we are a servant of the lie she is a wrinkied old hag... I even heard the magic bells + see her in bird Feathers - like Papaganain.) am even more 1) uneasy as to whether I am in the "live" world lower realm) or the "next world" (upper realm; but 2) pleased at how Ma'at has judged me. There has been, admittedly, a lot of pain (over Doris, Tessa Joan, marie caure) but the reward element predomi‐ nates; I feel better + better, +, what is equally important, seem to understand more + more, exponentially. I am no longer chronically depressed + apprehensive (terror stricken). I've written (I feel) my best book so far. My mind is alive + active. I feel I am growing + developing. I finally Lot Laura + Isa down here. I'm economically secure. I'm no longer abusing drugs, legal or illegal - i.e. drug-dependent. I am very happy. I even went to france. I had a lot of fun with Joan. My career is gosh wow. due in good measure to my own - or Thomas' fforts). So I may be dead, as of 3-74. My osmological concepts are so terrific, so ad anced as to be off the scale. I create whole philosophical systems. The very fact + eligions that I honestly ponder if I may be dead i 38) evidence of how happy + fulfilled I am How many people seriously wonder this t (maybe everyone, when they die.) If I am not dead, how do I explain 2-3-74? No one has ever reported such obviously post mortem experiences Well, I explain it in terms of a two part oscillation comprising my total existence: (1) the part where I am alive in this world + my sister is dead + an idea in my brain; + 2) the other part where I am dead + she is alive + I am thought in her living brains - + I a explain this oscillation of two anti‐ thetical irreducable propositions as an instance of the dialectic (whose existence was revealed to me in 3-74) which underlies all existence due to the fact that we're components in a binary computer, etc., I construe this matter as a riddle posed o me by the designer of the computer: Holy visdom, who is playful. But how do I lain why all this was revealed to me + to o one else? I have no explanation; I know what I know but not why. Unless, of ourse, when you dee it's all revealed to you outinely or - having a deceased twin sister makes the nusual: in symbiosis to a dead (sic) person, + in telepathic contact with her, or maybe I'm just a genius. No, I'm not. bu 39 (urious. I love epistemological riddles. + so Now I've got one, a superb one. It's ultimate just theoretically, its formulation couldn't be beaten. I love it. I'll solve it. I regard the two-proposition formulation about "am I alive or ..." etc as a brilliant application of the "Ubik" puzzle to my own self. But I can't take credit for formulating it; it was presented to me. Whoever the funning player is, she is a delight. Sophia, I think It is you. one thing I must posit as absolutely veridical: the power of karma over me was broken completely in 3-74. So at the very least, I am 1) dead to the way-of-being in the world I had known; + 2) alive to a new free way of being, + progressively more so. one intriguing idea I had some time ago is that in this binary computer we're in normally (parts of) we don't register the "off"