truly new parts are brought into being; that is possible, even probable. Valis, then, would prompt the ingenuity of the combatants. Valis would want to see each side become smarter and more resource¬ ful, problem-solve in ever superior ways (this does fit in with Valis intervention in my behalf in 3-74!). Yes; that definitely feels lixe what Valis did vis-à-vis me in 3-74; it exerted absolute pressure on me that rectified an imbalance between the contending forces that make up historical reality. An adjustment was made; I felt the pressure on me and around me; I saw my environment alter and I myself altered, almost as if the correction had been made in the past. This was a super¬ natural adjustment and intervention in every sense of the word. And beyond doubt it was Heraclitus' enantiodromia...so I can assume from this that just measure had been overstepped. This fits in with the historical events of the time, those pertaining to the Imperial White House. So God promotes evolution in the strategies of the two contending sides with the result that the historical process visible in our flux world reveals increasing improvement comparable to biological evolution.. Nonetheless the archetypal paradigm of Acts — as dramatic narrative— remains constant; always, at any place and at any time, reality can be reduced to Acts. 9-7-80; The 3 realms —-which also agree with Dante's scheme— are the Um-, Mit- and Eigenwelt. (1) Umwelt. Hell. Immutable yin world of cause and effect. Bad. crawling. Shut in. Prison. Metal. Poisoned. Occluded. (2) Mitwelt. Human interaction. Good. Walking. Greater space. (3) Eigenwelt. Ethereal. Divine. Flying. infinite space. I never noticed this before. Gnosticism to Heidegger to Bindswanger. So in 3-74 I entered the Eigenwelt and Saw the world I had been in as the Umwelt (TEARS): hell. The Palm Tree Garden equals the Eigenwelt. -8- The scene in TEARS at the gas station is passage from the Umwelt {for Buckrnan) to the Kitwelt. Thus the prison (Umwelt) breaks. Also, Umwelt equals DNA programming (what I call "the android"). Kitwelt equals reasoned cnoice. Eigenwelt equals divine aid (inspiration; enthusiasmos). In 3-74 I entered the Eigenwelt, freed from the Umwelt which I then saw (as the prison it is). Then I have my answer: one matrix world can serve as all three realms: prison (Umwelt); this world (Mitwelt); Palm Tree Garden (Eigenwelt). (1) Umwelt: alien, Geworfenheit, Angst1. (2) Mitwelt: familiar, friendly, requires effort (work). (3) Eigenwelt: beautiful, loving, play and dance and sing. 1Lowest point: tombworld: proximity to death. Somehow I rose all the way from the lowest level of the Umwelt (i.e. the tombworld) to the highest level of the Eigenwelt (bells, dancing, color, light, gnosis, etc.). How? By solving the Xerox missive riddle. Gnostic solution: found in the "Hymn of the Pearl": I remembered (anamnesis) and Came to myself — awoke (rebirth. Death and rebirth). This ascent is what Gnosticism is all about. (1) The past. Drudgery. Dead time. (2) The present. Work. Linear time. (3) The future. Play. The dance. Some kind of timeless¬ ness — fairy time. Like what I experienced in 3-74: illo tempore? Dream Times? The secret Christians in the prison attacking it represent tne Eigenwelt (joy) attacking sorrow — tne Umwelt (i.e. -9- TEARS). Tears are the catalyst — as Wagner realized (v. the Good Friday Spell, the tears moistening the flowers). What I'm suggesting is that Bindswanger psychologized the three realms of Gnosticism (assented to them as subjective ways of perceiving the world; no: being in the world, Dasein). Whereas I am reasigning to them their original ontology. Only hell (Umwelt) has the Gnostic qualities of Fremdheit and Gewarfenheit, wherein there is a prison and warders. The Gnostic picture is of only one of three equally real realms. Christ and the Gnosis has the power of converting it —not just into the familiar Mitwelt— but into the Eigenwelt which is isomorphism: macromind and micromind, an I-Thou relationship. Which is what I saw that I called Valis. By means of enantiodromia, suddenly and completely; starting with the tomb world (the state of Angst due to perception of one's imminent death). The DMA programming of the Umwelt is induced (disinhibited) into firing its death strip harmlessly into the void, and running out to its end, Causing programming to cease and karma to burn up; in my case the golden fish sign set this into motion. This is the miracle of Easter (see Wagner's Good Friday Spell). From the tomb world to resurrection in/as a divine non¬ physical body (Eigenwelt). What Christianity does is reperform it for the believer. He is homologized to Christ, the passion and resurrection story. Eureka! This means that my 9-2-80/9-3-80 paper is correct: I did reperform a sacred rite: the Christian Easter narrative. I was lying in my --the-- tomb "dead" (i.e, close enough to it for the Good Friday magic to work). The vernal equinox, the corn king, Horselover Fat, grieving over the dead girl Gloria, has slipped down into the tomb world (i.e. the tomb). Christ does not just restore you into the Mitwelt — which is where you were before you slipped down into the Umwelt/tomb world; no; he raises you to the Eigenwelt where you have never been before but only heard of ("born from above; born again"), where all things are new (the work of time abolished; the past is real: the kosmos of the phylogons). (1) (Um); you are reified yourself. It - it. (2) (Mit) A person among things. I - it. (3) (Eigen) All mind. I - Thou. TEARS is the Umwelt of this our Mitwelt; but it changes into a —the— Mitwelt due to the dream, and when Buckman embraces the black man. The death of Alys is the sacrifice, and induces the "tears of the repentant sinner" mentioned in PARSIFAL. From whose moisture new life grows. (Alys' body is seen as a decayed corpse, a skeleton, due to the "dismal alchemy of the tomb," signifying that indeed she is in the tomb world. Then her brother —her male side; they are a syzygy— is resurrected as a result of her death plus God's intervention); death as sacrifice — and his tears of repentance and love. There is a homology between tears and Christ's blood; the repentant's tears recreate His blood. You see Valis in the Eigenwelt, not the Umwelt (world of TEARS but penetrated by the secret illegal Christians so as to induce enantiodromia). Hell. Earth. Heaven. Niebelheim. Men. Gods. The flowers don’t symbolize new life; they are new life. -11- I am glad that my 9-2-80 pc-per has merit. I just didn’t at that time know what particular sacred narrative I reenacted; it was the passion, death and resurrection of Christ at Easter (passover; the spring). And for some incredible reason I never saw the three realms of my Metz speech and Dante's three realms as the three realms of Bindswanger...hence Gnostic (via Heidegger). Someone who is certainly in the tomb world lowest stratum of the DmweIt is Doris. She is trying, like Ellen Weat, to rise all the way to the Eigenwelt (’’spirituality") , but it isn’t working. Her only real relief is the Mitwelt, but she is always dragged back down to the Umwelt, in fact the tomb world* She is a recreation of Ellen West, living in the Umwelt —chained to drudgery and entropy and blind necessity— while dreaming hopelessly of the Eigenwelt. This is exactly what Ellen West did; lived in the Umwelt and dreamed of the Eigenwelt. Cause? An impairment in the Mitwelt; note Doris’ inability to form real relationships with men. All this —the three realms-— could be viewed in terms of genetic programming, with tne ascent from the Umwelt to the Eigenwelt as the genetic instructions somehow cancelling them¬ selves by firing a meta-stage that burns the programming up, leaving you a free individual. The genetic programming abolishes itself, not you (i.e. the death strip fires for it, not you). Research may someday disclose that there is a higher level of programming blocked (GABA inhibited) until the right time comes along; it still may be genetic programming but of a quantum-leap higher order, a sort of pay-off time by the DMA, the time anticipated by it. -12- To fire it needs a disinhibiting signal fired at it from outside...which leads to all kinds of metaphysical thinking about the DNA and extraterrestrials, as snows up in VALIS. All kinds of strange thoughts about the orphics, mystery religions and early Christianity. But I am dubious about this. What seems more likely is; DNA programming makes you an android, and the mystery religions and early Christianity possessed techniques for breaking the hold of this DNA programming over you (this fits with the ancient view about "stral determinism" or "planetary powers"). The death strip fires harmlessly, the DNA programming rushes at fast-forward and burns itself out; and you are free and in the Eigenwelt because the Eigenwelt is the real world where you are not enslaved and cogni¬ tively/perceptually occluded. You could even speculate that the DNA programming is tricked by a ritual death, tricked into believing that a genuine physical death has occurred. Somehow the ritual death plus the disinhibiting signal fired at the DNA duped it. It fired the death strip too soon; out of synch with reality. The (golden) fish sign causes you to remember. Remember what? This is Gnostic. Your celestial origins; this has to do with the DNA because the memory is located in the DNA 9phylogenic memory). Very ancient memories, predating this life, are triggered off. This is Orphic as well as Gnostic, but it clearly is Gnostic. You remember your real nature. Which is to say, origins (from the stars). Die Zeit is dal The Gnostic Gnosis; You are here in this world in a thrown condition, but you are not of this world. Hence I sat outside at night gazing at the stars. Be that as it may, what appears to be more plausible is the descent to the womb world, then the disinhibiting signal which somehow dupes the DNA; then the rise to the Eigenwelt and the thwarting of literal, physical death. So you are not only in the Eigenwelt you are alive. And the Eigenwelt is the realm of holy beauty; it is either a post partem realm or resembles it — resemble the reward realm of heaven, which is to say the Palm Tree Garden. And you are no longer a DNA android. (1) Physically alive (the death strip fired futilely). (2) In the lovely Eigenwelt (F-alm Tree Garden; man restored to his pre-fallen state). (3) no longer a DNA-controlled aneroid. In connection with (2) you are no longer occluded. Maybe this connects with (3), if the DNA occludes you. With my theory of one matrix world serving for all three realms, de-occlusion would be required for (2). Infinite space, infinite time, in the Eigenwelt; so: you are no longer blindered. But this is not something you can do for yourself; Christ has to do it for you. Thi is the adoption that the AI voice spoke of: the intervention. I must never forget that the AI voice explicitly made it clear that there had been divine intervention (and even said why). So I didn't just (sic) reperform the Easter narrative; what was also necessary was seeing the golden fish sign. This fits in with orphism and the other mystery religions; and this is unknown to Christians today, who reperforra the Easter narrative without the disinhibiting stimulus (the golden fish sign). I'm sure I read in Jane Harrison's book that the Orphic initiate was taken from a dark chamber into a light-filled chamber where he was shown a glittering-in-the-light golden object (and told that he was a son of Earth "und starry heaven"). What does the glittering golden fish sign say? Does it just work subcortically through the optic nerve on the brain? Or does it tell you something? Let me ask myself what