angel -or progeny of the interspecies symbiosis- being let out of prison (i.e. what I saw: "Tears" the BIP)? I discovered 1) I was in prison. 2) I remembered Acts. {Note A} 3) I regained my true identity (enthusiasmos). 4) I was adopted by God: I, a man, became God. I.e. let out of prison. {Note A:} My Essene origin. The interspecies offspring are blended into the human race + distinguish themselves by signs - what shows up in the dream in the giving. folder 48 - 102 folder 48 - 102 The sons of light here + hidden: interspecies symbiosis unknown even to themselves (cf "the Book of Ptath".) The whole process is one of 1) displaying their identity by signs ("massive giving") 2) Remembering Acts - their origin. 3) Regaining their lost "son of light" nature. 4) Adopted by God, with the result that they are let out of prison - for them, this world is purgatorio. They were blended in[to the human race]; now they are winnowed back out. This is a very delicate process. __ The period in which we are observed -+ some (one in four) selected + some (three in four) rejected- is over; the books are now closed. What was the purpose of this observation? To reverse the symbiosis of the two races that occurred a long time ago, + a selecting out the "wheat" mixed in with the "tares." As in Gnosticism, the imprisoned sparks of light must be released. One by one the "sparks" are located + restored to their true nature, which is not human. They are adopted by God upon an existential demonstration (prima facia proof) of their identity. This world is de facto a prison for them. Their crucial act saves them not because it has merit but because it identifies them, whereupon adoption -reabsorption into the Godhead- occurs. The act can even be a folder 48 - 103 folder 48 - 103 refusal to do something, a balking. Apparently there are certain precise, distinct mannerisms that these fallen sons of light (i.e. imprisoned) tend to demonstrate: indubitable characteristics. It may not be virtue per se; i.e. good works. But works (or refusals) based on an analysis stemming from a certain internal nature. This is not a working off of bad Karma. No, I am not sure of all this, except that YHWH has chosen (e.g. I was not only told I was adopted but why). This is the "remnant" concept. There is a long period of observation + a judging + choosing. An adopting, whereupon you receive the Holy Spirit (Paraclete) + have a tutelary spirit (the AI voice). + divine providence working on your behalf. It is as if the N.T. presents us with clues to the solution of a puzzle, the puzzle of what to do to be saved. It's there but in cryptic form, offered again + again. We're presented with the test or problem + we either solve it or we do not, and God (YHWH) is the judge. There is no other way in through the gate. It's both hard to solve + easy. It's a riddle that we do not take seriously. That's the key. We're told the riddle + we're told that our salvation depends on it, but we don't take it seriously. Again, it's the low murmuring voice. The crux situation is going to show up where, when + in a form that we don't suspect - in my case after I was folder 48 - 104 folder 48 - 104 the recipient of the rewards (1974). I had the impression that my being saved was based on something I'd already done, I never suspected... Wait. Quote: "I relived the crisis of the Xerox missive." Okay; I originally lived it + wasn't extricated (helped). Then in '77 or '78 I sent help to Covenant House - + relived 3-74 but this time helped, with a new outcome. Hence I sensed Valis moving retrograde in time! The future ('77 or '78) affected the past. __ Okay - 1 final idea. About high speed change (I would previously have said "high speed time"). YHWH ran me through at even higher speed in 3-74, so that I went all the way to the end times + experienced a private (idios) Parousia, Kingdom, post mortem world, etc. Of this I am sure. This was done once the decision to intervene in my behalf was made because there was no further need for observation of me. (Cf my ideas about Dante's 3 worlds or lives.) These changes were latent in me as stages to come. The intervention triggered them into firing prematurely, out of synch with reality. This constitutes a lifting me out of the world, a decoupling. The significance of this is vast. Something happened in 2-3-74 having to do with change steps in me + hence with time. Somehow I got outside of normal time + shot on into the future - what, at Valis' rate? Did I burn up my remaining folder 48 - 105 folder 48 - 105 sentence in a prison? + I am still kept distinct: "The AI voice will guide you." It hasn't ended. The change was permanent. I was adopted, told so + told why. I was selected, + by God, who now reveals to me the situation. He is alive [here]. This is the "Day in which I shall act"; it has come. + Elias was sent first (Thomas). Look: our reality is a system moved along at high speed. In 3-74 I was taken out of that system + moved along at even higher speed, to the end - i.e. to my end: return to God. I am not part of the system any longer; nor have I been since 2-74. For me the books closed then; judgment took place then - + intervention of a very practical sort (as well as spiritual). I ceased to be subject to the laws of the prison. Am I to suppose that all the apocalyptic writing really refers to the individual journey + individual change/time? That this is the secret? The world ended for me, + this is how it always works; i.e. salvation. Nonetheless YHWH is alive. + not just for me. "He has been transplanted + is alive"; it's been successful. Narcissistic Autochthons Jehovah 15305 "He that is" "The self-existent" "The one ever coming into manifestation" folder 48 - 106 1) Asher: sleeping [death] [das Nichts] '' waking [born!] 2) Belial: irreal [evil] [das Nichts] '' : being - 3) The universe: epiphenomenal, based on YHWH's Sein. Real (being - Sein) only insofar as it receives being from YHWH or is YHWH 4) YHWH to Belial to universe? Then YHWH directly to the universe? Asher when first seen is 1) asleep; 2) lost in the irreal; 3) is not yet born. YHWH literally wakes him up, with a shocking phrase ("Your behind" - breaking into Asher's dream). But more than waking up is involved. Being born = born "from above"! Death = sleep. Hence birth = life. YHWH will vanquish Belial by waking him up (into being)! The fan letter with "Asher" on it is to Belial as "Your behind" is to Asher, with the same results. The novel is consistent. Ancient Hebrew monotheistic concepts of God merged with Heidegger's 20th century [nazi] existential phenomenology. Wow. The letter to Belial: "The Legend of the Pearl"! Also the Xerox missive which woke me up (I had that in mind in "Valis Regained"). folder 48 - 107 folder 48 - 107 So Yahweh touches you initially (be you man -e.g. Asher- or god -Belial-) in such a way as to startle you. Rouse you, you have been asleep without knowing it. + presumably dreaming - you are not actually conscious. Yet you don't realize it. The touching is not pleasant; it rasps. This is the deity, this rasp. The touch can't be worked into the dream -vide "Ubik"- "from outside" [the dream]. It can't be worked into the dream because it is from outside the dream. {Note} This is the most important sentence I or anyone else ever wrote. This is the secret ultimate. The deity is not in the dream or part of the dream. So world as we normally experience is not real. When we are awakened, as I was in 2-3-74, there is a different world (Acts? "Tears"? The BIP? All the set/ground; + Valis is what intrudes! A second birth. You weren't yet born (v the outline "VR") Total nonbeing. Then partial being (first birth). Then the "letter" comes + you wake up. This world is a synthowomb. {Note:} The "rasp" isn't part of world! We are in a "Ubik"-like situation. {Illustration: text box "You" is pointed to by the text box "World", and from afar by the text box "Rasp" which emanates from "Valis"} folder 48 - 108 folder 48 - 108 I can't handle the epistemology, here. It isn't Brahmanism or Buddhism, but it is the "Legend of the Pearl" so the true deity must lie outside (vide "Ubik") this world; the Gnostics are right! But not spacially - v. Plotinus. Levels. Of consciousness (being). Or - upper + lower realms? This isn't immanent deity, then. "The rasp can't be worked in." Consider dreaming. A sound in the real world occurs; the mind (yours) tries to work it in, to continue the dream; if it can't (your own mind!) the dream is aborted + you wake up. But the mind -yours- tries to prolong the dream. So the rasp is dysyntonic. Then perhaps some (?) stuff from beyond is worked in syntonically, + you don't wake. The rasp is intentionally dysyntonic. Another mind (Valis) is signaling you: "Wacht auf"! This is half-life; not after death but before [true] birth, full complete birth; hence "born again" or "from above" - the upper realm! Hierarchies. Wakefulness/reality. Yes; what I saw in 3-74 was more real; degrees involved. Is this world ("half life") probationary? Or - is it Purgatorio? In the outline ("VR") YHWH signals to them, inc. Belial - the Fox really is folder 48 - 109 folder 48 - 109 Belial as I really was Thomas; did she remember? Part of the result of the rasp: not only to wake up, but to regain your actual identity. Fox : Belial :: PKD : Thomas. Another person at another place + time - another world. Did the rasp come in from that world, if so, that world being Acts, it is Christ rasping. Then there is a level to the N.T., to true Xtianity beyond anything anyone has publically said, even the great mystics; it's more like the Buddha. Yet not. Acts isn't an historic time-place; it's a level of ontology. ("Urwelt") What/where is it? 31.5 million to 1. Then where are we now? But Jesus taught it then; the disparity was true then. But then it coincided with the real world. But it couldn't have. But this is exactly what he taught. Laws of physics involved? Evolution? There must be not only an outside world but a meta brain function coinciding with it. This is stimulated into cutting in ("waking up" "born from above"). Signal - noise. It has exactly to do with what Jesus said, but what did he say? Normally we must recirculate our own thoughts - in contrast with the rasp from outside. folder 48 - 110 folder 48 - 110 {Illustration of a loop.} A loop normally. It can only be interrupted from outside, so it must be (as I say in "VR") auto- in origin; from the person's own brain. This points to "Ubik" + cold-pac + Lem's point about world based on your own memories. It is auto-world in some way. It must not be real time, then. Which fits in with it really being Acts. "Halving time"? It's not consuming -occupying- real time. Like as with a dream. Deja vu. There's something weird going on.