of the Tree of (eternal) Life, which Christ specifically offers us. Then I can see the conventional or orthodox Christianity in itself contains much of the saving gnosis, irrespective of Gnosticism. We fell; we lost Eden; we lost our faculties; Christ restores us (as Milton says; the doctrine of the Second Adam who undoes the work of the first). Judaism knows absolutely nothing of this, of the events (loss of faculties) and aim (restoration). So of course, the revelation at Mt. Sinai is considered adequate. And of course in Christianity it is not, and Christ must tell us, "But I say unto you --" etc, and then so does. If you study Judaism and contrast it to Christianity you can see, for the first time, that Christianity is Faustian, that its real but covert message is, "We were once as gods or as God, and Christ shall restore us," ideas totally absent in Judaism, as is also absent the concept that the folder 82 - 024 folder 82 - 024 -21- Messiah would be the Son of God or God Himself as Christians believe about Jesus. This latter idea is logical given the former; God took away our brightness, our holy nature, and God has the power to restore it; Christ restores it; therefore Christ equals/is God. So the doctrine of original sin is a method that permits Christians to believe all this without assigning any blame to God for man's Fall. In no sense did God do wrong in blighting, expelling and impairing and punishing man. Gnosticism sees this as a tactic and rejects it. The doctrine of original sin is only necessary if man alone is to hold the place of the guilty party, but the Gnostics are willing to blame God. What is my opinion? Well, I have the statement of the AI voice. "Stolen Secret." This is absolutely Gnostic. Also, my "messenger" dream is Gnostic (as well as other elements; many, in fact). However, you have to become a dualist to be a Gnostic; you have to believe in two gods, not one. That's the price you pay for abandoning the doctrine of original sin. Paul could retain his monotheism. The Gnostics can't and don't want to. Christianity is very wise; it stresses the remedy above the malady in its "felix culpa" doctrine -- which insures the positive or Faustian aspect of the belief-system, rather than the negative aspect (fallen, debased, sinful man... although many Protestants stressed the latter -- but it is said of them that they went back to the O.T.; after all, kerygma or gospel means "good news" not "bad news"). The concept of "felix culpa" is not tangential to Christianity but cardinal. In a sense everything is expressed here; folder 82 - 025 folder 82 - 025 -22- and what is most fascinating is that it gets God Himself off the hook re the idea that he planned badly. Before man fell, and God foreknew that he would, God had a remedy that exceeded the malady -- as was expressed in a recent satori I had. When I had that particular satori I was beginning to get to the heart of the true meaning of Christianity. "Had there been no disastrous Fall, there might not have been an Incarnation." Judaism rejects the notion of the Fall and as a result regards the doctrine of the Incarnation as blasphemy. The Fall and the Incarnation cannot (or are not) separated. Yes; so for Judaism there is a lot of noise and a bunch of rules, whereas we have the Savior. Rabbi Herz: "The antidote to the poisoning of the human race by the serpent is found at Mt. Sinai." Could this be so? Have I made an error? Because "Sinai" could mean, "Man is still in dialog with God and not cut off from him," which is precisely my experience; I experienced a theophany, both visibly and audibly, which fits in with a view of man as still pure (having received the antidote; and the antidote still comes, directly from God; contrast this to Jesus in the N.T.: "No man has seen God." But the Rabbis speak of humans seeing the Shekhina: "One Rabbi died; one went insane, one became irreligious, one escaped unharmed.") Uh, Andy, less look aroun' heah. I did have in hypnagogic state these revealed words: "He has been transplanted and is alive" and I saw YHWH. In Christianity there is a Mediator between God and man, folder 82 - 026 and yet (as I say in the outline of VALIS REGAINED) Elijah's theophany at Mt. Horeb (Sinai) shows that YHWH can modulate his appearance as not to destroy the human percipient. It was the O.T. that I read as a kid and prayed that God would speak to me. Not the N.T. God not Christ. If God can/will modulate his theophanies so that they are endurable by humans, and there are such theophanies, what then is the need of a man-god Mediator? We can return to strict monotheism, as I spoke of in "Man, Android and Machine." And there was that "excluded from the centers of power" dream in which the AI voice identified itself as YHWH. Have I not always believed that Paul's doctrine of original sin is terrible and not acceptable to me? That it has done harm in human history, dreadful harm, whatever the intent? And I figured out that doctrine of the Vicarious Atonement --i.e. the purpose of the crucifixion-- rests on the doctrine of original sin. In my revelations there are no N.T. designations, but at least three from the O.T. (YHWH twice and St. Sophia, the latter identified by the Rabbis with the Torah). I'm stuck. Paulline Christianity is unacceptable to me because of the doctrine of original sin. Gnosticism is unacceptable because it is bitheistic and unnecessarily complex. Judaism is unacceptable because it rejects Jesus's teachings. The only way out for me is to (1) Consider that YHWH still manifests himself to humans and that this was Valis; and (2) the Torah is alive, and this is what the plasmate was. I have some basis for believing these because when Valis' mind fused with my mind Valis seemed to be the author of all changes and folder 82 - 027 folder 82 - 027 events in reality, and seemed to teach us as children (engramming); Valis seemed to have (1) prepared me for 2-3-74 by early-on engramming and (2) intervened vis-a-vis the Xerox missive to save me. Also, Judaism opens the way for my viewing 3-74 in terms of Spinoza's immanent God, developed out of the Shekhina and the Cabala. A modified Spinozaism, that includes personality and pronoia and planning. Have I not said, "Transcendent deity is definitely out?" This would include Christianity and Gnosticism and of course theism. Not to mention (ugh) deism. Anyway, how could Valis be Christ, inasmuch as it is Christian dogma that Christ now sits at the right hand of the Father in heaven; i.e. he is not here. Ah. The doctrine of vicarious atonement is more repugnant to me than the doctrine of original sin. And worst of all, is the idea (connected with the doctrine of vicarious atonement) that God would demand a sacrifice, i.e. the crucifixion, of his own Son which is to say Himself, which is nonsense, brutal and against all reason. There is no way I can be convinced that the notion of God demanding a ransom or slaughtered human or god-human sacrifice to redeem man is a reasonable idea; it is far more barbaric than the talion law of Judaism. Here is where I balk, and since the doctrines of original sin and that of the vicarious atonement form a unitary view that is the very basis of Christianity -- well, it is beyond me, and I still say that Paul misuses Wisdom 3:1. We are not all dead, Ws says; only the evil think that (cf). If you want barbarism there you have it. Also, "This is my body; eat of it -- this is my blood; drink of it" -- although this is good mythic ritual practice I wonder if it can be sustained in the world today; viz: eating the body of the dead god and drink- folder 82 - 028 folder 82 - 028 -25- ing his blood so as to acquire his powers. In any case it is as archaic a practice as talion law. The Romans, for instance, considered it cannibalism. It is obviously related to the worship of Dionysus, which is a very barbaric and ancient practice. So is Christianity that much of a reformation, a radical and revolutionary new version, of Judaism? And then there is the merit of the accusation that Christianity despite all its protestations to the contrary departs from actual monotheism. Will Durant thinks it does. It seems to be based on the worship of Hermes Tristmegistos. A Greek/Egyptian worship. Okay; for now, the clincher. The EB macro article on Moses discusses the Hittite Covenant and says that Moses realized that it was the model/basis for the covenant between Israel and YHWH. Among other lesser (to me lesser anyhow) aspects was this: God had come to the rescue of the helpless Hebrews in Egypt, so it was basic to the covenant between Israel and God that the Hebrews protect widows, orphans, the poor, the stranger, the disadvantaged, as God has protected them (Rabbi Herz points out correctly that this even included animals; "Thou shalt not muzzle the ox as he treadeth out the corn"). Nothing could enrapture me more; nothing could be closer to my own heart. Interestingly (to say the least) the reason the AI voice gave for heaven's intervention on my behalf in 3-74 had to do with my aiding the kids at Covenant House; i.e. the weak and disadvantaged and helpless, which fits in with the Hittite Covenant. It is in fact a perfect replication of the Hittite Covenant. folder 82 - 029 folder 82 - 029 -- 27 -- I can then go on to say with Dante that "God is the Book of the universe." After all, the O.T. gives mention of Holy Wisdom having existed with God before creation and at the act of creation. And coming down from heaven to aid good men. The situation is that in accepting the N.T. or parts thereof I do not have to give up the O.T.; they are not mutually exclusive. I can accept the gospels and not Paul if I so wish. folder 82 - 030 folder 82 - 030 3-2-80 THE ULTRA HIDDEN (CRYPTIC) DOCTRINE: THE SECRET MEANING OF THE GREAT SYSTEMS OF THEOSOPHY OF THE WORLD, OPENLY REVEALED FOR THE FIRST TIME. So to explain 2-3-74 I draw on the Tibetian Book of the Dead, Orphism, Gnosticism, Neoplatonism, Buddhism, esoteric Christianity and the cabala; my explanation sources are the highest -- which is good and which makes sense. But put another way, starting at the other end, I have synthesized all these high sources and derived a single sensationally revolutionary occult doctrine out of them (which I was able to think up due to the addition of my 2-3-74 experience); the distillate expressed theoretically is, We are dead but don't know it, reliving our former real lives but on tape (programmed), in a simulated world controlled by Valis the master entity or reality generator (like Brahman), where we relive in a virtually closed cycle again and again until we manage to add enough new good-karma to trigger off divine intervention which wakes us up and causes us to simultaneously both remember and forget, so that we can begin our reascent back up to our real home. This, then, is Purgatorio, the afterlife, and we are under constant scrutiny and judgment, but don't know it, in a perfect simulation of the world we knew and remember -- v. UBIK and Lem's paradigm. We have for a long time been dying brains/souls slipping lower and lower