limited parameters of the spurious reality do not fall short of the hobbled mind's imposed limitations. Dreams -+ our taking them as real while having them- prove this. Well, then my 3-74 restoration of my lost faculties proves 1) hobbling + 2) that without this hobbling our "reality" is palpably spurious suggesting 3) that the hobbling is for the purpose of causing the spurious reality to seem real. Perhaps if, as in "Ubik," you posit people in "TTBofTD" Bardo Thodol state, + if you really understand this situation (because it is our situation) you will automatically/logically go on to posit Ubik because this is the megabrain we in this state really are, self-programming our own reality to ourselves as Karma, but capable in an acute crisis of abolishing the fake reality, stripping it away: invad{...} megabrain {...} folder 06 - 062 folder 06 - 062 They are stationary in the 3 Bantam novels + in "Eye." Megabrain attacking the past + thereby perturbing (invading - or so it would seem) the present, because the megabrain (even though attacking the past) in itself still exists in the present (time herein regarded as irreal): is still here; + its past self is coeval with its present + future selves since time isn't real for it. The evidence seems to be pointing more + more (starting with the {illustration: sine wave oscillating between "L" and "R"} model) to us being stationary mega [multipersonal] brains outside time + space, pre-programming ourselves with a pseudoreality! There is some evidence that we are arranged like the audience in the James-James dream, multiperson megabrains viewing a single omnifaceted matrix which is the source, for us all, of all times + all places (+ all events), + onto which we project our individual prior thought-formations - which consist of our thought-responses to prior reality frames (which lay down no holographic memories in us); we pass from one frame to the next at ultra high speed - too fast to lay down memories, along all the form axes. These axes are determined not by any intrinsic nature but by our thoughts about them: what we believe to be true. Thus actual reality is our compound thoughts, + change in reality is the result of changing thought responses to prior objectified thought-formations; i.e. we think in response to "reality" which is really a prior thought-formation, + this thought-response causes the thought-formation to flip flop along its dialectic form-axes, thus causing a changed reality, to which we think new thoughts - have new beliefs as to what is true - which generate new objectified thought-formations - + so on. folder 06 - 063 folder 06 - 063 If our thoughts (belief systems) ceased, change in "reality" would cease, but there is no way this can happen, since this is a self-perpetuating feedback system, with each objectified thought-formation automatically generating a new + different thought formation by way of the changed belief-system it creates in us: viz: thought-formations generate belief systems, + these belief systems in turn generate new objectified thought-formations. Changing thought-formations, then, + changing belief systems are just two different states of one "thing," + that one "thing" is us macro [multi-person] brains - or is it brain singular in dialectic interaction with itself, its prior self - i.e. what I saw as Valis using its antecedent self (the antecedent universe) as a stockpile out of which to construct itself? This is the irreducable dialectic which I experienced: {illustration: hooks marked "1" and "2" linking to one another like a zipper} 1: Objectfied thought-formations 2: Resulting belief systems This means that we, the multi person mega-brain, resonating at all times + places, are Valis. I visualize a vast grid of 0-1 flip flop grid squares whose pattern of 0 (dark) + 1 (light) changes constantly. 0 is irrational or untrue belief. 1 is rational or true. The patterns are intricate. The aggregate of dark squares at any one nanosecond is the "streak of the irrational" in the "world soul." 0/1, strife/love, death/life, irrational/rational, nonbeing/being insentient/sentient false/true. Yin/Yang form II/form I But consider: the irrational [false] beliefs generate objectified thought-formations although untrue! So irreal reality is repeatedly generated. folder 06 - 064 folder 06 - 064 I know of no way that I can test out whether Valis/Zebra/Ubik is my own prior thought-formation generated when I wrote "Ubik" or whether it is actual true reality, the megabrain lying behind the pre-programmed thought-formations - i.e. ourselves (Valis, I mean). Its resemblance to Ubik implies it's my own objectified prior thought-formation, + not true reality. But it also seems to be -or be like- what I'd expect the multi-personal megabrain which we [evidentally] are to be like. My guess is that it's my own prior thought-formation, since its uncanny resemblance to Ubik -+ to 3-74's general resemblance to "Ubik"- was what first made me wonder if 3-74 wasn't my own former thoughts coming back to me objectified. This still leaves the {illustration: hooks marked "1" and "2" linking to one another like a zipper} system (the dialectic) intact: push-pull from belief reaction into objectified thought-formation generating new belief reaction which becomes objectified thought-formation etc. (where belief reaction + objectified thought-formation are two states of one "thing"). Of course, if you posit a "true" reality behind this you could imagine a hypothetical state (condition) where the belief reaction generated an objectified thought-formation which in turn generated another belief system in dialectic moving toward isomorphic approximation with this "true" reality - but could you test it to see if you had the mere isomorphic approximation or the "actual" "true" "reality"? It is even possible that if the belief reaction / objectified thought-formation dialectic gets close enough to "actual true reality" (Ubik, the multi-person megabrain) it becomes transparent + reveals "actual true reality" by sort of merging with it - but I see no way to tell. Still - the overpowering of apparent "reality" in folder 06 - 065 folder 06 - 065 3-74 is such an unusual event, reported by no one else, + so conforming to "TTBofTD" that I am tempted to think of Valis/Zebra/Ubik as real, + not my own [mere] objectified prior thought-formations. Here is a possible solution: (1) A true actual Ubik exists sua generis. (2) An objectified prior thought-formation Ubik exists isomorphic or virtually isomorphic with the actual Ubik - + this is what I experienced. Then (2) is a correct analog of (1), + any accurate statement of (2) is true of (1); so to know (2) is for all practical purposes the same as knowing (1). The copy (eikon) is congruent to the eidos - which accounts for its overwhelming potency in 3-74. Thus here in the realm of the highest mystical Tibetian Buddhist thought we get suddenly common-sense + pragmatic + ask, "Does it work? If it does, if it can save your life, it is real." But in this case, wisdom consists in learning how to consciously control your objectified thought-formations rather than in trying to abolish them entirely. I believe that the body + blood is objectively real + not my own prior thought-formation objectified. Fine. By believing it is real (belief reaction) I generate a more palpable objectified prior thought-formation of it, which is exactly what I want. This is where I most want to be: in this body + filled with this blood. The blood tells you the truth; this is my belief system; it, then, will be honest with me, + if it is the product of my own mind it will eventually tell me. I can rely on it (the AI voice). Each square in the grid is a self, a micro-mind - this is what we are, so the total reality is an integrated unity of all the micro-minds: all their objectified thought-formations + flip flop belief systems. folder 06 - 066 {Illustration: A sphere: "Omni matrix" inside a circle: "Objectified prior thought-formations projected by the micro-minds onto the omni-matrix" inside a cone with small squares on the surface: "Multi micro square flip flop belief systems by the selves totalling the macromind" ____ Upon rereading pp 1-50, "We are in a decomposing, declining, entropic halving dialectic process, constantly proportionately more + more vitiated," in that case, if at a given moment a transfer of energy from the past occurred -arced across into the future- it would be, vis-a-vis the future into which it arced, highly charged. (In contrast to the charge it held vis-a-vis its own time.) I conceive of this decomposing as taking place at exponential rates. Thus a mere idea of 1968 (the novel "Ubik") if it arced across to 1974 would be relatively so highly potentiated that it would no longer be a mere idea but would dynamically literally overpower the 1974 reality. Also, this would explain why prior thought formations now objectified have such deterministic coercive power. But if the thought jumped across the intervening years -it would be so potent in comparison to the devitalized future which it had invaded- just imagine the thought formation Ubik amped up to say one thousand times its original ergic force. Thus my prior thought formations -if, as it would seem, they arced across due to their intrinsic content; i.e. such a power is consigned to them ideationally- they would seem enormously supercharged compared to how they seemed in the late sixties. +, in 2-3-74, so they did - specifically Ubik. But it didn't grow; we diminished extensively. folder 06 - 067 folder 06 - 067 I have the strange feeling that this point (as to the relative high potentiation of a thought formation arced across an intervening time interval from the past) may be terribly important in terms of lending credence to my whole system here. A number of basic points herewith cross-correlate: the Bardo Thodol concept; the Karma produced by prior thought formations now objectified; that Valis in 3-74 was my conception of Ubik from the late sixties dynamically supercharged - Suddenly, just when I was beginning to think I had nothing going here, my rereading 50 pages + seeing this verification-point gives me renewed enthusiasm. The structure checks out. If there is exponential decomposition (entropy) in our universe (+ this view is universally accepted), were Ubik as thought formation to arc across directly from the time-frame in which I originally conceived it to 3-74 - one could anticipate such surging vitality, such energy + power: "if x then y." It conforms exactly to my impression of Valis: Ubik amped up until it spilled all over the apartment, bursting + burning everything, + flooding me with information. Of course the primary thing I'm expressing here is a daring + strange idea, somewhat akin to the ontological proof of God. I'm saying, "In conceiving the concept of Ubik I assigned certain qualities to it on a par with those attributed to God by St. Anselm. For example I assigned ubiquity to it, + the wisdom to save humans, + the volition + ability, esp. the ability to revitalize them in their Bardo Thodol decomposing, entropic running-down; I attributed to it absolute rejuvenating ubiquitous power toward all humans in the Bardo Thodol state - + attributed to it the ability to in-break when- + where ever it chose." Now, to follow St. Anselm's argument, to deny Ubik actual existence would be to theoretically contradict the internal logic of my formulation. For example, if folder 06 - 068 folder 06 - 068 ubiquitous, + this quality is its primary one, it is ubiquitous before all else. Thus in my nanosecond dialectic frame flip flops I have conceptualized something which by definition must exist in all frames during all flip flops at all times + places. If it exists at all it exists everywhere. But Ubik is just a thought in my head (which I happened to write down + publish - that is not vital). Wait - it is! Ubik became information, like "Tears." Could the plasmate have invaded +