to be matter. Here's a thought: what if the percipient is (or has) a decoder grid in him that can extract the contours of the divine otherwise buried in the lowest matter stratum? He has the Then it is a detection + extraction process - key. i No; it is an adding, a superimposition. He has the missing parts necessary for the message to Gestalting - + there is no come into existence. Gestalt until he adds his part. The Gestalt does not just become visible [to him, e.g); it is completed + hence brought into being. Why, this makes him a component in a system: Then in my writing I may be extracting detecting by virtue of my possessing essential largely c parts of the message) information lying outside me; specifically "Ubik" + "Tears"! This would be why 2-3-74 would seem like my writing coming back at me; I was now consciously seeing in what I had been subliminally experiencing. that case I had already detected Valis (Ubik). This is a gate, grid or template decoding by the superimposition of essential pieces. + what is extracted - what Gestalt? Why, a sophisticated macro life form camouflaged within reality + its message traffic (probably physical thoughts]; a sort of brain, capable of valencing reality by virtue of substituting itself; there is the key Teim I've been searching for: substituting itself in camouflaged form + then valencing. brings more + more of its antagonist under its dominion 36 its antagonist is stupid; it has no a priori foreknowledge. + what is this antagonist? It must be the efficient cause creation which the wise mind has invaded, is attacking + assimilating. as put forth in "Valis." the 3-74 represents a classic instance of clash of the two + the wise mind due to the steps it laid down in advance (invisible to its antagonist) as usual won. So 3-74 must be viewed in a larger context of such victories, which are victories of 1) foresight; 2) intelligence; 3) Vast providential goodness; 4) power. I am prone to believe that the wise mind never fails in the long rung since it has absolute a priori knowledge of 1) what can be done; + 2) how. is me, the wise mind is a correction circuit designed to absolutely insure that the while process will wind up in a certain desired way; call it point omega. It only cuts in where the system strays. It is pure teleology. The efficient causes have no concept 1) of point so + 2) how to get there. This is the job of the wise mind + these are the two antagonists, one equipped with absolute foresight the other power How antithetical they may no foresight. be construed to be may depend on each given dialectic situation ("hand" or "play"). but the wise mind must win. Not only is it equipped with infinite foresight but with how to infinite intelligence, in order to know effect the valence it wishes. Spinoza is right, it must work through natural law - it must make use of the antecedent given, solely; it has nothing else it can arrange. arranger (the divine): the wise mind is arranged (matter). The antagoniste what the ois arranger 365 i + arranged, the latter having a will of its own, but not intelligence such as the wise mind has. It is Schopenhauer's will versus intelligence, as I've noted before. Will is con‐ nected with Karma (programming) + Maya in that case, Buddhism is right on! definition: will is the sum total of all antecedent forces, with their titanic hysteresis (inertia). It - they - must be outsmarted. the wise mind has no history; it is all teleo logy. All foresight + planning. specifically, what the wise mind does is keep it from being a closed (deterministic) it system. The wise mind introduces newness as (what I call) pretextual cause, which look like trains of efficient causation but are not! The sum total of the past only seem to explain (account for) what happens This is what I saw that I correctly called "pretextual." A fiction is maintained; the wise mind camouflages its introjections o that they seem a piece with efficient causation (but why? We are not to know that we have been invaded by a counter deity, a counter-creator, so to speak or is the myth of God the creator a great lie 2 which deliberately occludes us to the truth? Gnosticism! very specifically the wise mind (or o functions as an override (so there is something overridden), but a care‐ ful study shows a history - a sequence of foresightful moves leading up to o 360 The moment of pay-off override correction. Thus it either works by + within natural law or pretends i to so as to achieve mimesis. In my opinion it is the latter There is a camouflage involved. I think true newness is introduced from outside t an otherwise closed system, with a history of efficient cause" laid down the ty. to account for (seemingly) newness introduced. More is milked out of a system than the sum of the antecedents adds up to; so there is an ex nihilo creation taking place not at the beginning but now; in actuality the pay-off has no real his tory but if energy is transferred to the t system then the system is not the whole of reality but only seems to be; + this So illusion is deliberately fastered. reality is secretly a subsystem con‐ trolled from without, + we are in a hypnoidal state from which I was deliberately awakened - v. the strident roder which seemed to wake me! It eemed an adequate cause, but in fact wis not The big corolation here is: pre‐ eptual cause fits in with hypno a 81 states + occlusion - not to mention amnesia + post hypnotic sug gestion. With mere disinhibiting stimulus, programming, + the spurious in general There is a composite pattern here pretextual cause. Programming Hypnoidal state, from which you can be roused to actual conscious ness. Occlusion. Override + cor rection. Karma - Maya. Something laying down history of events which seem to account for somethin ex nihilo (new) introduced, a form of "continual" creation, but cam ouflaged. The camouflaged entity itself. The plasmate - message traffic invis be to us. Set-ground. Geometric ratios + forms. Time dysfunction. two space-times superimposed. Anam nesis, which implies prior amnesia. The AI voice. Thomas. t Xenoglossy. possibility of reality being based on forgotten memories. Cryonic suspension Eake reality - ala "Ubik" when thi you 368 when you remember the illusion breaks down + you wake up to the actual situation (as in "Maze"). the closed system would be a mere rerun of forgotten memories as world. But the ex nihilo new is introduced as a correction from outside: t Sex nihilo new by what arma Valis, changing call formitten memories self world things + breaking "Karma" e i coming The "history" is really a history of disinhibiting stimuli to wake me up - not the ex nihilo newness material over‐ itself. Then Thomas is an - is the ride mind "without a history" - not bound be anything I am, did, believed, underwent, was or was programmed to do. + in possession of full knowledge of the real nature of the 3-74 situation. (fore knowledge.) there is no doubt that this ex nihilo override is benign, wise + foresighted - which is to say, providential. substitution. Hence: I te a b t h t Valis outer + inner: this creates the Magdabery hemispheres situation. 369 or does waking up in itself permit the possibility of independent - rather than pro‐ grammed - actions? Based on regained memory of the crisis situation? That would make Thomas my (real) waking self, who is posterior after) all these events, having lived through I them once already (the AI voice likewise). If I am in a "Ubik" cryonics state, living in a pseudo-world of recycled memories Thomas + the AI voice are the part of me which remembering knows this temporal locus as the past, which is exactly him to saw USA 1974: as the dis‐ Then the postmortem world is the tant past! actual world I as Thomas an in. Thomas is from the other side, having lived (here) + died but he is me, having lived, died, passed over to the other side, now in the "Ubik" - which is to say Bardo Thodol - state with world made up of prior thought formations. I (Thomas) an really on the other side; no wonder I write This is whe about this world as a simulation. Thomas (me) would see this world sub specia aeternitatis - esp. see Valis the unmoved mover whoor we see after death: in 3-74 I found myself back (so to speak) where I reali am, like those in "Maze" waking up briefly + remembering. But the "polyencephalic fusion" world is the past actual world, not a different one, an imaginary one So of course back when I was in high sch physics class Thomas knew archimides' prince Thomas is me awake + aware of world as own prior thought-formations, i.e. the (my) past o Thomas asleep + beguiled (bewitched) b prior thought formations, taking them to but 3-74 was so serious that it woke 370 i e owever, honey. the ombing Xtianity won G he I nvisible (i.e. (ostensibly) (Fross) overt) empire pe The is an even but covertly is ‐ more invisible Empire won: it the secret pressed its template on ibsolute but Xtianity + no one totally hidden realizes this (the iron victory of true prison) (the spear) Xtianity (the Fish) victory by hidden beneath the itself is the Empire which (totes stacked) hidden within the victory" of ostensible spear into the side of the cross Xtianity. dying copper-skinned God the empire has killed the God. But the barbs on the it spear turn from Fish book (giffing the Fish) to shark's teeth - i.e. teeth of the Fish itself, + the dying God becomes the solar deity i.e. the Empire. The situation reverses, as, supra y (1) reverses to Y (2) + then to nully, which is the Fish won but is sliced voluntarily by Iron teeth to feed the faithful lunar deity (Christ) pierced by iron spear (the Empire. Lunar deity turns (reverses) into solar deity (the empire) pierced by Fish teeth. All this is what I understood in an insto a three in 2-74: 3 layers of reality. ( level reality, with the innermost the most real of the 3 + 2 more real than I, but I is the ie ostensible form of 3 Q: Who won? Xtianity or the Empire? A: ostensibly, Xtianity won, but covertly under‐ neath it the Empire won Q: You are wrong underneath the Empire li ecret victory of the Fish: true Xtianity t t t n 371 t Q: What was killed in the arena by the spear? A: Xtianity Q: You are wrong. God substituted the solar deity, the Empire, for the dying - i.e. lunar deity (Christ), + Fish teeth for the iron spear 9 The key is substitution ( this is what I under‐ stood (was told or shown?) in 2-74 by the phar‐ macy girl. These are not temporal or spacial layers but ontological layers. The least real is the ostensible surface victory of Xtianity over The Empire, under it, more real, is the Empire victory, which is deliberately concealed + no o realizes it (eine geheimnis). But most real of all, is the innermost layer of victory by the Fish which means fish teeth: viz: he e The Fish fights back. But, paradoxically, the Fis fights back by being sliced up by the metal teet (i.e. the Empire); it feeds the faithful when the Empire cuts it up. ➀ It was the Empire which died on the cross, i.e. the serpant. God substituted the