and occlusion and DNA programming. What I saw that I called the plasmate are the fillaments of the vine; they are information, hence energy (or else information without a carrier). "The secret stolen, in one's hands, through the angels." What secret do I have or know? I'm not satisfied with any of the above formulations; I think it's something I personally know, not something in the Bible. As I figured out before: What I know is that Valis is here. Valis is Christ, as a metasoma. I'm not positive that Valis is Christ, but I am positive that Valis, whatever it is, is here. It's enormous and it is an invader and it is very intelligent, and it grows like an arborizing reticulated vine throughout our world as/in information. We can't see it because it's a structuring at a high level; we see only the plural constituents. We don't see how the constituents add up to form anything; we don't see the mor¬ phology ("crypte...morphosis"). Then Valis didn't bring the secret. The secret isn't from Valis or by Valis but about Valis. Valis has been here thousands of years and no one has ever seen it. I saw it. That is what was stolen as a secret and is in my hand's: knowledge of its presence here and its power. Then does Valis occlude us? For instance, to its presence? As a secret UTI? There; I used the word secret in -20- regard to Valis being here. That's the secret, that it's here; the secret stolen involves a medical technique to deocclude me so that for a time I was no longer blind and could see Valis. It isn't Valis that de-occluded me; I was not de-occluded by Valis but to Valis. Then the plasmate i£ the schizophrenia virus, and what I said to K.W. was substantially correct. Christ is the physician, healing us from the virus — the firing of the beam at my skull to kill the yammering thing in its tin can inside my head. Consider page 380 of my notes: "How could I ask myself, 'What possibly could I know what (i.e. that) I'm not supposed to know?' When (1) I know about the occlusion; and C,2) of Valis' presence here? I should ponder the fact that I came within inches of death twice after knowing about And there the notes end, because at that moment the phonecall from Russ came where I learned that Bantam doesn't feel it can publish VALIS. What a place for the notes to endl What was I going to say, had I not been interrupted? "After knowing about —" Well, I guess I already said. (I) We are all occluded in this ecosphere. And (II) There is a vast life from here, that has invaded this world and is camouflaged, and it has grown vine-like into our information media; it is an information life form...and the presumption is, it occludes us. The secret of how to de-occlude us (a medical technique) was stolen and smuggled here; I, for one, was de-occluded, both perceptually and cogni¬ tively; I was no longer blind and I could think clearly. The AI voice is not Valis; it is the medical team or entity which stole the secret and put it in one's (i.e. my) hands; i.e. used it on me. Removed the schizophrenia virus from me; killed it dead; the virus acted like mercury poisoning. The occlusion I first noticed in people in 1971 which gave me the idea for SCANNER. The entity or entities who stole the secret and brought it here and gave it to me (but not exclusively to me; thats why the AI voice said "one's hands" not "your hands" is/are the three eyed cyborg people that I first saw imaged as the sibyl. That's where they fit in, and that's why I identify them with Asklepios. They fire a beam at my brain, kill off something, and my occlusion lifts and I discover an extraordinarily advanced macro life for existing in symbiosis with me and everyone else on the planet, that has invaded this planet and is information and into our communications media. Subliminally programming us by interacting with our DNA -- the schizophrenia virus. The plan simple fact is that we are subsumed by Valis just as our own bodies subsome their cells, but for this subsumation to take place we must be occluded to it. What the stolen secret incites us to do is rebell and become free, since as cells of this metasoma we are expendable. The most peculiar idea came to me. What if Joachim of Fiore's triune scheme is adoped, and the Third Age, the Age of the Spirit, is regarded as pitted against the Second Age, the Age of the Son, as the Second Age is pitted against the First Age in the N.T.? (Esp. v. Paul's letters, about the old Law.) The Spirit is revolutionary contra Christ as Christ who is Valis -22- a vast metasoma vine arborized throughout the world was revolutionary against the Father 2000 years ago; the Second Age is a failure just as Paul points out that the First Age —and Christ pointed it out, too ("Your forefathers all ate manna in the wilderness and they are all dead")— was a failure; the Law could only condemn; it could not save. So now the Third Age has begun, Joachim's Age of the Spirit (at last); and the first thing the Spirit does is deocclude us to Valis...and this is the secret stolen, not past the angels of the First Age but the Second Age, rather. Valis is benign, but its reign must come to an end (for instance, all the established churches). This is Joachimism. So the AI voice I hear is not Valis; it is the Spirit, and female, revealing Valis (Christ) to me, Christ’s hegemony...but it is a fossilized rule, a tyranny, now, a prison 2000 years old. So the Father dispatches the Spirit to break this ossified rule and introduce the third age. Not O.T. vs N.T., as the Gnostics had it, but first O.T. then N.T, and now, for the first time in 1800 years, new scripture. Consider: I figured out that more time has passed since Jesus than from Moses to Jesus. That age, the Second Age (of Valis) must end; it is the Black Iron Prison. Hasen’t this 2000 year period been a dreadful one, full of internacine wars? Terrible killings? Burning and persecution of heretics? The burning of books, suppression of knowledge? It is oppressive. So now a Third Age enters, that of the Spirit (as Joachim rightly pointed out and foresaw). Son:Father::Spirit:Son. My error has been to posit two ages, not three. Valis, the vine, is Christ, but it has become our master, -23- no longer giving us life, but subsuming us like a totalitarian state; like the Roman Catholic Church. What we must do is welcome a new savior, now — hence the prophecies by the AI voice; this is why the "theological overkill": St. Sophia, Buddha, Siddhartha, The Head Apollo, YHWH; this is why it said, "The time you’ve waited for has come. The work is completed. The final world is here. He has been transplanted and is alive." The Third Age begins, and it is not a Christian Age; it is a Post-Christian, but it is culumative, just the way the N.T. is built on the O.T.; but, just as between the O.T. and the N.T. there is a real antithesis. What would be the basis of the Third Age? i don’t think love, even though the Roman Church attributes love to the Spirit. The first age: justice. Christ’s age was what? Not even justice; certainly not love, and very certainly not wisdom. The Roman Trinitarian division of attri¬ butes breaks down; there wasn’t wisdom connected with the Christian Age but the suppression of wisdom. I have no idea. But the Spirit would know. The news will be taught us by the next savior — who, the AI voice says, has "been transplanted and is alive" already. It will be, as Jesus’ message was, a message tea never heard before. And the Christian churches will oppose him/her and it just as the Jews opposed Christ. Yes, this explains the theological overkill. Jew;Christian::Christian:the new believer. What did Joachim predict? The withering away of the clerical institutions, the formal churches, the Eucharist; total individualism, a direct inner relationship to God; hearing the voice of the Holy Spirit: My three divisions: First, God above man (the Father, Mosaic Age, the Torah). Then God with man as fellow man (The Son, the N.T.). Then God inside each man (the Spirit, an age not yet here; no churches, no sacraments, no priests; direct dialog between man and God inwardly, as with what Martin Buber talked about; inner information. Autonomy. Inner-directed. Totally. Religious anarchists. Self-regulating because in inward direct touch with God. I’ve thought of much of this before, but I never visualized the Third Age as pitted against Christianity just as Christ was pitted against Judaism and the Law. Age One. Information (Torah) handed down to man. Age Two. Information from a human being (Christ who spoke the new "law"). Age Three. Information occurring inside you; you see it on an inner screen; that way there can be no signal loss, distortion, decay, etc. There is some loss in Age Two; more in Age One. With each age the gap between information source and the human transduction lessens; in Age Three it is gone. The individual human of Age Three doesn’t read scripture; he writes Scripture (produces it himself out of himself). He is the source of Scripture; proof: he can a priori retrive parts of the Bible, which would seem impossible. The N.T. will be retained, just as the o.T. was retained by the Christians. The individual believer the source of Scripture, as if he's a transducer. No one else, even Christ, will transduce it for him (cf Spinoza on Christ as the voice Elijah externally heard). -25- In Age One the voice is heard externally (as with Moses and Elijah). Then in Age Two, Jesus is that voice; it issues from a human being. But now in Age Three you hear it inside you. And it acts as a tutelary spirit: instructor and protector, etc. God internalized; hence no need of churches. This is why my 3-74 experience isn't reported anywhere before in history; it inaugurates the Third Age. The new age of the Spirit. It has no precedence. Joachim's three ages are the three realms of the COMMEDIA. This is why I found myself at the top level of the second realm; I entered the Third Age, that of Spiritual Illumination. This is what "the secret stolen" means: the revolutionary character of the Third Age contra Christianity. Spiritual knowledge has been "stolen" and given to us directly: "in one's hands"; that is, directly to us, without a church or priest or written scriptures acting as intermediaries. I’ve solved it. It is as if each of us will have a Torah inside his head, his own brain. Why, this is why VALIS REGAINED is so anti-Christian 1 The only way I knew to be a believer but anti-Christian was to take up the position of JudaismI The Keys to the Kingdom have been put directly in "one’s hands," not in that of Peter's any longer; not in the apostles' hands but "one's"!!! One's own. Only the words SECRET and STOLEN could convey to me the revolutionary character of this Third Age. The secret stolen: taken away from the church, all churches, the apostles’ successors, and handed to "one," i.e. to each average person. We will become bicameral minds, again; two-brained, with bilateral hemispheric parity. So -26- SCANNER is relevant to VALIS and VALEIS REGAINED. Bob Arctor was a faulty beginning of the two-brained human of the third age...and SCANNER deals with the occlusion of the second age and first age.