sees it" which involves more than simple perception, it involves interpretation. 1) He's a political revolutionary. 2) This occult stuff was not supposed to leak through into PKD¹ -consciousness- where I could/would write about it; this occurred due to the pentathol + the shiny gold object - I was hypnotized + got in touch with my control, Thomas. An accident. As a result I then (1) saw as he sees - the Acts lens/grid + (2) knew what he knows. All of which I put in "Valis" - + this was never intended. He is part of a worldwide, ancient political revolutionary group, + I wrote it up in "Valis" because he got accidentally disinhibited. So into my consciousness flowed priceless occult, arcane revolutionary knowledge - which, presently, I wrote up in a novel ("Valis"); but not due to my being under a control, as was the case with "Tears"! I now had access to my control's mind due to a combination of circumstances, all accidental: my angst, the pentathol, the pain, the shiny gold object. (No "beams" were "aimed at me" - it all had to do with the flooding of PKD² into consciousness - by mistake. Boy, he sure sees + knows what I didn't! It was never supposed to show up in my writing! They have a vast info-generating + processing technology here on this planet! Valis is a construct + not the Logos - that's nonsense, to think it's the Logos. Inadvertently I blew the whistle on them; I guess they're benign, but one thing they are for sure is - secret. Hence "Valis" wasn't supposed to be. I let the cat out of the bag. Now it's making sense. Much of what's in "Valis" is true - it's not superstitio-occult nonsense! (As I say supra, p 10 passim). The "paranoid" pages I wrote the night of 11-17-80 are right on, but what I wasn't realizing when I wrote those pages was: it's all in "Valis"!! + it shouldn't be. True, the theology is there as disinformation; nonetheless - the true story is there, along with + not concealed by the theology. Well, PKD², Thomas, my control - I became aware of you, +, what is more, I wrote about it + published it. (I hope. I was pretty close to being right the night I called in the Fullerton PD. But it wasn't Pigspurt, although, as I said to them, "I am a [programmed, controlled] machine." It sure wasn't Thomas who said that, so it wasn't Thomas who phoned the Bureau + sent the Xerox missive to the Bureau; that was me. "Valis" - what a scoop! The novelist + reporter in me got the upper hand over the conspirator! We have been invaded + I wrote about it. I may have depicted it with favor, but depict it I did, for better or worse. Oh well; Thomas + his cohorts need not worry; no one will believe "Valis"; I wrote it up in such a way as to discredit it. Mental illness + all. Maybe. Maybe not. But something did go wrong due to the pentathol, etc. + the night of 11-17-80 in my "paranoid" notes I realized the truth (but wasn't thinking about how much, how very much, I revealed in "Valis"!) I wasn't "enchanted" in 2-3-74; I was seeing + knowing what PKD² sees + knows - ie what I'm not supposed to see + know! Sonething went wrong. I could see Valis + the plasmate + do a feature extraction, a set/ground discrimination. + view history in a totally altered way - the occult + correct way! -15-80 Valis: set/ground. Camouflage. Here in the universe. Macrosoma blended into the universe in countless ways, here and there: a glint here, a word on a page, plural objects and their causal processes a ripple of wind in the weeds in the alley. Valis is not the universe but blended into it, as is Ubik. "I am Atman that dwells in the heart of every mortal. I am Vishnu. I am Shiva. Among words I am the sacre syllable OM. I am Himalaya. I am the holy fig tree. Among horses I am...of weapons...I am the wind...the shark among fish: Ganges among the rivers. I am the beginning, the middle and the end of creation... I am the knowledge of things spiritual. I am the logic of those who debate. In the alphabet I am A. Among compounds I am the copulative. I am time without end. I am the sustainer. My face is everywhere. I am death that snatches all. I also am the source of all that shall be born. I am glory, prosperity, beautiful speech, memory, intelligence, steadfastness and forgiveness. I am the dice play of the cunning. I am the strength of the strong. I am triumph and perseverence. I am the purity of the good. I am Krishna. I am the sceptre and the mastery of those who rule, the policy of those who seek to consuer. I am the silence of things secret. I am the knowledge of the knower. I am the divine seed of all that lives. In this world nothing animate or inanimate exists without me." ARJUNA: Nevertheless I long to behold your divine form. KRISHNA: But you cannot see me thus with those human eyes. Therefore I give you divine sight. Behond -- this is my yoga power. SANJAYA: Then...Krishna...revealed to Arjuna his transcendent, divine form. ARJUNA: Tell me who you are, and were from the beginning, you of aspect grim...from me your ways are hidden. KRISHNA: I am come as Time, the waster of the peoples, ready for that hour that ripens to their ruin. All these hosts must die; strike, stay your hand -- no matter... seem to slay. By me these men are slain already . Valis is not the universe. Valis is in the universe, camouflage in countless forms. Which I saw as set to ground. (Hence my "two source cosmogony.") 2-3-74 had to do with discriminating Valis is all its forms. And it had to do with time -- with what I called a "time dysfunction." I thought, "Time is not real." It is real, but it is not what we think (viz: "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." And, "Here time turns into space.") Time is 12-8-80 1 Okay; I have it. My problem was reconciling my experience of 2-3-74 of Valis and my experience of 11-17-80 with God. (I chose the Logos vs God solution as late as this morning.) Well, Sankara explains it. Brahman has two aspects but both are Brahman. 1) Nirgunam: without attributes. Pure being, pure conscious¬ ness, pure bliss. Qualityless and featureless, considered in itself. "But it manifests itself in a lower way as possessing personal characteristics": this is: 2) Sagunam. Isvara, the Creator of the world. 1) Nirgunam: Valis (3-74). 2) Sagunam: personal Creator God (11-17-80). Also Valis. Valis equals Brahman. "Thus Sankara had a two-level theory of Brahman." I experienced the nirgunam or higher one in 3-74; sagunam, the lower one, in 11-17-80. But both are Brahman. Thus 3-74 and 11-17-80 are reconciled by Sankara's two-level theory. I experienced Brahman both times, but the first was the impersonal qualityless and featureless Absolute, the second the lower way as the Creator of the world -- hence he possessed personal characte¬ ristics. But both times it was Brahman. This is proved by God bestow¬ ing infinite bliss on me in 11-17-80; this turns out to be proof that despite the differences with 3-74, it is still Brahman, still the same entity. Fascinating. The Eastern higher-lower order is the reverse of the Western God-Logos. Why do I prefer the Eastern? The illusory nature of the flux world of plurality points to it; so does the fact that the underlying basis of reality is a unitary absolute consciousnes I don't prefer the Eastern; I just think that my experiences point to 1 Sankara -- Eckehart. Valis the Godhead. 11-17-80 the Father. The Godhead proceeding through a dialectic of itself -- Hegelian, as Jakob Boehme saw. I saw world dissolve back into the Godhead (Valis). I saw Plato's eide in it, spatiotemporal world dissolved back into the eternal abstract eide hence into the mind containing them. My problem is too much intellect and too little awe and reveren What I have to realize is that both 2-3-74 and 11-17-80 are self¬ authenticating. The double superimposition of two space-times points to the projected, illusory nature of world; aspects adventitious to Brahman in itself, but there at a lower veridical level. certain things, do certain things (e.g. vis-à-vis the Xerox missive) and write certain things (e.g. UBIK, TEARS, DEUS IRAE, VALIS, VALIS REGAINED, etc.). Laws of physics dealing with the categories of time and space were made use of. That day the beam of light was fired at me as I listened to the Beatles tune, and I knew about Chrissy -- that was a Close Encounter of some kind; that was ESP and parapsychology and like that, not God. Mind control. Telepathy. There was something there in that room. I speak of camouflage. It can make itself invisible to us even though its close by. This is technology. I saw it warping causal trains. It was an entity of some kind and it was intelligent. And if I say anything to anyone I just look totally psychotic. "There are creatures telepathically controlling my mind." Oh fine. "I can hear a voice telling me things." Just great. Self-indicting. Totally. The only way out is the route they've taken, which is to cloak it in religious trappings. Wait. I've got something. The pentathol was unexpected, not part of any plan. There was no plan to make PKD1 (me) aware of PKD2 (Thomas). Disinhibition was accidental. Between 2-74 and 3-18-74, PKD2 (Thomas) and all he knew, and what he saw (Acts) bled across into my consciousness. Maybe from my right hemisphere to my left. So I was conscious of PKD2 (Thomas) when the Xerox missive came, and there were no plans for me to be conscious of PKD2 at that time. So -- is it possible that because of this accidental disinhibition I was able to thwart what PKD was supposed to do vis-a-vis the Xerox missive? I had that feeling at the time, as if I had overridden Pigspurt programming. I should have acted on a dissociated way, outside of my span of attention, but due to the disinhibition (due to the pentathol) it was no longer outside of my field of awareness. So I was consciously aware of Thomas, who had been operating for years. Like the 11-17-80 theophany it was not planned for. Then there was indeed code in the Xerox missive; it did say Olive Holt...and the decoding swam into consciousness that morning (the Hebrew letters). My god; Thomas did take over; PKD2 did take over. But PKD1 (me) thwarted his answering the Xerox missive. He wouldn't have phoned the Fullerton police and asked to be locked up; I (PKD1) did that. He took control but he couldn't link up with his contact, so he couldn't get instructions. This had nothing to do with God. It had to do with Pigspurt. So here I’ve been for six and a half years going around with the conviction that by the way I handled the Xerox missive I performed what I call "the heroic act" that introduced newness "and overcame my karma"; by "karma" read programming. Well, I am right. What I did, by not answering the Xerox missive, did change my life. There is no telling what PKD2 (Thomas) would have done if he had been able to go ahead and answer the Xerox missive. "An intelligence officer in the Army," as the AI voice --i.e. Thomas-- thought recently. Yes indeed; my life would have been different. But it was me who thwarted that,1 and I thwarted that --was able to