possible to infer a little about the source from the information itself. Dio - it can feed us any information it wishes Frozen Journey" points to the true state of affairs, + this story derives from my "ter volume metanouse, so it can be said that my years of epistemological preoccuration were on the right track to say that the information is digital is also to say not only to say its number but that it's in binary code (rest-motion, which explains the dialectic; this certainly adds up to tell me not only that it's a compity but a binary computer). My God. -I was right last night, the digital (0-1) info feeds to the linking. relinking wheels where it's converted from quantity to quality - i.e. to words; + these words summon objects by naming them. So we don't hypostatice directly from digital out info; it feeds into convision into D-90 is these linking-relinking wheels are certainly in our own biocomputer systems. Now it occurs that the mind that I experienced that I called Valis was in fact that portion of my own mind that Acts (functions) to convert binary information into qualitative constituents + finally into objects in a space time-causation matrix; it was that larger part of my own mind of which I am unaware (we all are unaware of this), the part that structures in the antian ontological categories - but I did catch sight of what it was processing: first of had to process digital (i.e. binary) quantitative information which then become words through the linking + relinking wheels - at this point the s, feative was like in "Time out of Joint" in which objects turn out really to be words words are not the final level; the final level is binary digital sequence. Rest-motion. i.e. off-on. So we as biocomputers have to be able to function in a binary way, able to make a conversion from quantity to quality + then hypostatize (the info] into 3-D objects in the space-time-causation matrix. (It comes as a sequence of static, differing frames. My God; the "I Ching" converts binary info into Gestalts - i.e. hexagrams made up of 0-1 combinations. This is where Leibnitz got the idea for his binary system. What I call a "France" would equal a hexagram: an arbitary but constant number of "lines"! So the entire universe can be retrieved or transduced out of a very long series of 0-1s. Which brings me to the D-91 definition of the to that I like the must "that which first lets in the Dark, then the light" - i.e. decides on the sequence of us + is, out of which (as I say) the entire universe can there has be transduced (or retrieved). But to be a Tao in this sense, to go back + forth (enantiodromia?) between + + I (or Yin + Yang, in order to print out this very long number, so the dialectic is a function of the activity of, something that itself is above the dark-light 0-1 yin-yang + controls the sequencia. It goes from 0-1 not to Hexan grams but to words, then to objects. This is why Valis didn't think. My God - I actually got post the hypostatization into objects, to words (the linking - relinking wheels + the plasmate!). Not to the 0-1 (rest-motion) - + beyond that to the MMSK itself from which the info is transmitted + to which the processed results return as enhanced info to be permanently stored as accretions that reticulate + arborize âž€ Ah - the plasmate ale yes. I saw words language, in reality. Well, we're not supposed to see this; we're supposed to convert this language into objects + processes, causal (sic); processes. In "Valis" I define the plasmate as "living information." It is information that can think. Even the arrangement of objects (as I do say in "Valis") is verbal info - i.e. language D-133 a iggens fails to all you, you are stuite eagerly forward, over the cliff. He did not warn you of what he saw He only protects "the little things fores of the forest" who just want to live unseen, "untroubled of men." He killed no one; he simply did not warn (restrain). He has no lime responsibility to the proud + powerful + who they Circe's swine are former men but not men now thet go as/in a group, a throng, collectively, Jesus As in the N.T. when individuality lost casts the devils into the Here of swine + they Matthew 8: 32 "+ he (Jesus) said to them (the devils], 'go then, + they came out + made for the Pigs, + at that the whole herd charged down the the clift into the lake + perished in the later." devils were in men + made them demonfers - fierce (i.e. mad). Jesus cast then out. 3-18-81; this is I saw them charging over the cluff, mad. what we are irrational - mad. My 8:32. "Valis"! Belial in "Divine invasion" goat thing. I was thinking of "the Sibyl" + Dionysos. + zing together contemplating Belial: a e Wotan + lose confronting fafner, as snake (Satan). e ismanuel] broading, dark brown, somber Wotan ling browhile, or: Erde! Weiche, Wotan, weiche! i Horselover Fat is stigmatized as mad cirrational). So is God. This is the stated problem confronted in the novel "Valis": is not this o madness + death vs wisdom. madness the madness of Dionysos. Is it i s i i not Dianysos who I express fear of in "Valis both directly + indirectly expressed? Dionysos us Apollo - this is explicitly discussed i Druas, mick Jagger, succide, the counter‐ culture - is not this madness expressly that of Dionysos? "the God who takes you t D-184 a by thusiasmos, a man what name he goes by, is probably Dianysos. + this is linked to religion, Jonestian + death. Am I not saying, "Horselover Fat is possessed in his mad, religious ecstasies + vision + prophecies by Dianysos? isat this clear? + opposed to this is the Logos: St. Sophia, the wisdom of God, whom has invaded the irrational + is itself the only rational thing. Am I not saying, then that since I am Horselover Fat I am possessed by Dionysos, + my religious ecstasies + visions + prophecies are has - Dionysos' - + we should beware? This is the stipulated danged I e n n It seems to me that "Valis" formally the irrational + at the same time deplores i exults in shamanist ecstatic visions - eis which [internal contradiction] in itself s t is a is an irrational Valis irrational I perjoratively book dealing with the irrational; then who triumphs in it? Dionysus (Horselover Fut) or Apollo (Sophia)? Horselover Fat having a vision of Sophia is the irrational Dionysos) prophecying wisdom: the rational. the book through an exercise of paradox deplores itself! I.e. it is what It deplores: the irrational. It is an instance of what it formally stigmatizes maze, a puzzle, paradox, enigma, hence a the unique viewpoint that of a stipulated madman. What does it assent? It's the fucking "all cretan: Orelias" paradox as I told ursula, but I see it [now] as inister it formally castigates mad. ess i D-135 Gatologically is mad + hence covertly pleads madness' case. It is not a rational investigation of the perils of madness, not it has succumbed to the very pert it barns us of - but, if this is say does This not in fact reinforce it's case (against the peril]? I honestly don't know; it's like a demonic joke. Horalover Fat knows the peril; he has succumbed to it + speaks he is from that engulfed vantage point. inside madness looking out, not outside He says, "If a God takes you looking in. t over he is likely to be the mad God Dionysos. a God has taken me over. Therefore I am made a (i.e. but this means we can't trust what he Horselover Fut) says, so maybe its not true or (to argue the contrary) is this not ein ultra-profound indictment of madness in that it has palpably engulfed even him Have I not thereby who warns us of the peril? s heightened the statement by showing it at work Horselover Fat's religious fervors I delusions erify the severity of the peril by providing i salient instance. He is what he tears this not my very plan + intent + was heme? I saw the danger; I saw the amage; I wrote deliberately from inside it, as if crying for help, knowing I had uccumbed. Did I not accuse ursula of rissing this very point (paradox)? A did say (rather), "If Fat knows he is insane a so stipulates then he is not: e t think the problem is: there is a dis‐ inction between what I say the situation a "Valis") is + what it really is. I know hat I say if it, but what is it rely? Do I know t D-136 not know; I simply report. the reader must judge. But my final revelation in "Valis." as John clute points out is: "But God - the true God - has penetrated men + the world, + sobers the landscape." This is expressly t the antitoxin to, expressly, Dionysos. There is no way that this invading, champion God who in camouflaged form devours the universe is Dionysos. That it is expressly Dionysos that he combats + overpowers - this is never stipulated, + yet it can from a careful t e reading be inferred. Therefore it can be lis is int inferred that it is Dionysos who has Fat in his power; therefore in a certain real sense it is Dionysos himself who narrates the novel as Fat; Fat + Dionysos have become one hence the first sentence of the novel tells us the crucial fact: Fat is insane, + presently we learn (1) that he is possessed by a God, + (2) "any God who possesses you is probable Dionysos (who is mad]"; hence Fat is mad precisely because Dionysos has taken him over Thus Dionysus himself warns us of the danger by notifying us of his presence here, not as the savior to come; that as Sophia - not is reason ("sobers the landscape") - but as the very narrator of the book. + since I say early on that I, Phil Dick, am horselover Fat, I am saying that it is not fiction to say that Dionysos is here - +, more, must be - + will be - combatted by reason So when Fat seed Valis, it is e he is Valis there is in fact stonysos who sees Valis hy Fat + Fat alone can distinguish a camouflage because pat ares through the the D-137 then Fat, being Dionysos. is that which the reason-God Valis who fat/Dionysus the perceives - must combat + destroy. incredible irony is (+ newer saw this) is that only the mad God can see the This is why valid invading reason - God. injures Fat in his (Valis') rule as antitoxin. the true narrator of "Valis," then, reveals himself as the mad God Dionysos, in which case his visions, prophecies + perceptions are selfauthenticating because, being a God; he can Dionysos see what men - mortals - cannot see. notifies us of his presence + power, warns us of the peril of this situation, + supernaturally (with his Godly powers) perceives rescue for us at hand: the antitoxin, the reason-God Holy wisdom "who invades man + world + sobers the landscape" (both Gods are invisible to us, Dionysos who controls our world + renders it irrational; + the invading rational God. alis/Sophia/Logos). Yet Fat never says, v I am Dionysos speaking"; he says, "I it am mad. I am possessed by a God. Any God who possesses you is Dionysus who it madoss the logic is clear; Dionysos