ago I figured out most of this, how Christ passed on to those at Pentecost; Christ was the first; we all go back to him + are him. Pluriforms-proliferation. But our number is limited. So that explains Thomas in me. + one day I'll be doing the same. But this immortal life form going back to Christ isn't human; it's still crossbonding by an interstellar life form with humans. Thomas entered me long before folder 21 - 100 folder 21 - 100 3-74. It was in 3-74 that the macroplasmate sired Firebright ("birth from above" literally) to perpetuate the process. So I was never Thomas. I am in here with Thomas. ("There is someone else in my head..." etc. The human (e.g. me) receives it [the ETI], acts as host to it during his own limited lifetime - + then gets to be one: this is accomplished in the "marriage." The human becomes the plasmate in an unbroken line back to Christ + goes on to "ride" a later human host - + then that human is seeded into a Firebright, like a reward. (So I have 2 psychoi: myself + Thomas.) The "marriage" (crossbonding) is/was not accomplished by Thomas but by Zebra: using technology: in 3-74 Zebra crossbonded me to Thomas who then ruled as the stronger partner. But from 3-74 on, I am crossbonded, + already compacted [with Thomas] into the seed Firebright. ("Mustard seed.") So Thomas was originally a human, but not when he entered me - not any longer; nor will I be when I enter a later person. We are talking about the Holy Spirit. It (the H.S.) entered Thomas; crossbonding later took place; he became the H.S. + entered me, + after I die I will become the H.S. This is what the H.S. is. We are the mystical body of Christ. folder 21 - 101 This fits some of my earliest revelations. So it is no mere happenstance that Thomas was an apostolic Xtian! But the value of this isn't just immortality; first you have Christ [beside] with you in your head - entering by the 3rd eye -i.e. traveling as light up the optic nerve to the pineal body- but most of all, at the time of the crossbonding you become Christ temporarily, + then permanently after your body dies. So you actually literally encounter + finally become one of his pluriforms. {phone number of Mark Berkley / Camden Griffen, I leave it out from the transcription} ___ This does explain: "There is someone else beside [or with?] me in my head, + he (sic) is not living in this century." Thomas + I are positively two different people; I was born in 1928 as the natural psyche of this body - my mind + my body. Then later in my life Thomas entered in plasmate (Firebright, Holy Spirit) form as "rider," unknown to me, + continued on without my being consciously aware. He underwrote my writing. So reincarnation is not involved; there is no such thing. Thomas is not me + I not him, + never was. Then Zebra accomplished the sacred marriage in 3-74, between me + Thomas, + out of this crossbonding Firebright was born. He is me qua plasmate, me + Thomas together + so on back phylogenically to Christ the source. Upon my physical death, he will take off in folder 21 - 102 folder 21 - 102 search of a new human host. Maybe Zebra selects the host according to a master plan. So I am a homoplasmate: PKD as homo, Thomas as plasmate, but dual psychoi still (I think). Only in Firebright are we two crossbonded. Now this specifically is what I'm not supposed to talk about. It may be inevitable that in each homoplasmate the plasmate tandem psyche eventually surfaces - it would have to for the actual crossbonding to occur; otherwise the homo would not gain immortal plasmate form + the accretional process would end. I guess I shouldn't say, "I am a homoplasmate"; I should say, "we -Thomas my 'rider' + I- are a homoplasmate." Well, Firebright, then is a plasmate, not homoplasmate; he will enter another human (homo) + "ride" for perhaps years, covertly governing that [homo] human, until the time for crossbonding arrives. At that point, evidently, there is a total plasmate override, a temporary condition. Zebra has fired instructions from the outside world, to the plasmate within: for it to surface (neural circuits to fire) + take over. Now the 2 psychoi are crossbonded into one, + Firebright is conceived. (+ in my case, I am made immortal - the "incorruptible body" put on) This explains why Acts didn't seem like a memory or in the past, but a simultaneous present with USA 1974; I mean, it isn't reincarnation but dual psychoi in different centuries. folder 21 - 103 folder 21 - 103 Crossbonding between our race + a totally different interstellar race. In the homoplasmate, they have seeded their race here on this world, selecting "only the healthiest ones (humans)," to crossbond with/to. We are unaware that another species, not of this world, is breeding into our species + has been for 2000 years, creating a hybrid life form not know as native (indigenous) to either star-system. A highly advanced technology is involved inc. info processing. I gather that Zebra is in constant communication with the plasmate psyche of each homoplasmate through its [Zebra's] messages - which go unnoticed by the homo part, + by all humans. So every plasmate is unceasingly linked with the macrobrain. Then it is to the plasmates of the various homoplasmates that the covert messages in "Tears" are aimed at. (+ Ubik etc.) Aimed at + received by + acted upon: acted upon through the unsuspecting homo part, who has no idea (1) that he has a "rider" psyche in his head with him; + (2) that the messages exist either. I wonder what "King Felix" told the various plasmates. Originally Zebra signalled Thomas, + Thomas modulated "Tears" so that Zebra-messages "rode" "Tears" the way Thomas "rides" me - a modulating, informational (Sophia) riding; using me as a carrier. So it would actually be correct to say that the macrobrain's messages which I could discern temporarily in 1974, which we can't see, are aimed at a non-terran species secretly in our midst - aimed at + created by. folder 21 - 104 folder 21 - 104 The alien species is communicating with the parts of it which are seeded (crossbonded) into some of us to form a new hybrid species; this way all the seeded pluriforms (homoplasmates) are informed + retained as constituents of one thinking, arranging, planning entity, wherever they may be, whoever they may be riding. The plethora of info processing + traffic sugests to me a rather widely distributed + proliferated pluriformation. __ In Firebright, the plasmate part of the homoplasmate has annexed his fellow man, as he, too, was once annexed. The plasmate gives birth to another plasmate incorporating one more human + so the process continues. If the plasmate is (+ I think it is) supratemporal, there is a steady one-way growth of the homoplasmate population in ratio to the human. Make no mistake: although the homoplasmate dual psychoi situation is to an extent a means (to the end of crossbonding additional humans; i.e. wider seeding into our race) the homoplasmate, being informed by the plasmate part (itself informed by Zebra) is able to exert pressure -influence- on this planet + is in no sense a mere dormant or larval stage. In a sense a Firebright (which is after all a plasmate) is a way by which this life form creates homoplasmates; ends become means + means ends in this intricate process. Every homoplasmate is a latent augmented plasmate over + above the original "rider." But the folder 21 - 105 folder 21 - 105 homoplasmate is itself a successful hybrid, although the crossbonding hasn't occurred, + two distinct psychoi exist within the one body. What I gather is that the dual-psychoi homoplasmate is less regarded by the aliens than the resulting augmented plasmate Firebright; this is not, ultimately, an equal partnership, because {Note} every homoplasmate becomes eventually an augmented plasmate, which is to say, the human part (which is normally mortal + perishes) is inevitably converted into the immortal alien form - which being immortal is by all standards superior. It is undoubtedly an advantage for a human to acquire a "rider" + thus become a two-psychoi homoplasmate (a state which in itself is superior to mere humanhood), but even better is his ultimate crossbonding which converts him into the cumulative next-stage pure plasmate (Firebright): thereupon he is (1) immortal; + (2) exalted, able to know God, the Ground of Being which is not a species of created creature but the Noos of the cosmos, with which the plasmate is linked. {Note} Also, the plasmate psyche really directs, at least at crucial times + in crucial ways, although it may not control the human in a master-slave relationship. It is para: beside. (Hence the word Paraclete, which is precisely what it is: a beside helper.) Or "tutelary spirit," as it described itself - but it has plenery + plenipotentary powers. folder 21 - 106 When I survey this line of thought + discovery (which has its origins in my original revelation + in the earliest part of my exegesis) I see that a very grave + solemn -+ even frightening- reality is disclosed. Our race evolved to become instrumentalities of an alien, higher race but - this alien, higher race replies by elevating each human it "rides" to its own exalted + immortal status. Eventually the upshot is that we -our race- is absorbed into their race, in each instance after a finite period of dual life together. If all humans are "ridden" + become homoplasmates then logically it is obvious that the ultimate outcome will be the total absorption of us by them - although not extinction: conversion + absorption. From scripture + from my own personal knowledge/experience I count this a unique blessing - if for no other reason it marks our freedom from DNA programming (which reduces us to mere instruments). (Of course I should remember -in all fairness- that this freedom is the programmed purpose of the DNA in the first place.) (Rather than a thwarting or override of it.) But it is also possible that not all humans will be made -selected as- homoplasmates; the voice said, "only (sic!) the healthiest ones", the rest are sterile pranes, who simply die, as in vast heaps, unable to leave this world. I think Wilson + Leary are right: the goal of this interspecies symbiosis is travel off folder 21 - 107 folder 21 - 107 this planet. The time is close, but it won't be by rocket ship. This is not the mode of travel by a plasmate, + it is plasmates that emerge out of this crossbonding procedure. I think that the separate pluriform plasmates link to Zebra (I know they do) + Zebra is (I intuit) still directly linked to the "upper realm," be that Sirius or whatever; i.e. to its source. So homo to plasmate to macrobrain (Christ) to Noos - God, the ground of being. We humans are brought into these successive levels of interaction, + lose the separation from God depicted in Genesis! I.e. the fall of our ancestors down to this "low" world. This is, after all, the goal of our evolution, + it is a quantum leap - the quantum leap, the real one prefigured over millions of years of evolution. I, for instance, would not have survived 1974 had I not been a homoplasmate, had I not had the beside-helper to take over, + I could not have written what I (or rather we) wrote. I fully accept + rejoice in the fact that I was modulated as a carrier, a booster, of information. I know