closer + closer. In Exodus it's clear that it is life-threatening for man to be exposed to God to be close to him. There is too great a disparity between them. This ceases to be true with Jesus, but Jesus can be separated from any given man; he (Jesus) is not ubique. His voice is heard only by those within its physical range. But as Paraclete he can be within an unlimited number of humans + there is no way they can be forcibly sundered. This is signified by the eucharist. all who wish to eat + drink (i.e. intro‐ ject) Christ may do so. let me recall how I saw it when little Horace died + Pinky died; now I had them in me + I exclaimed Hosanna, a glad shout. Thus I correctly saw that the absolute relationship to the beloved was to be introjected or to introject him/her, o which we can't do with other humans or animals. + yet this is precisely what the disciples did with Jesus - as witness the eucharist. That is what the eucharist is all about I think, with all the consequences of introjecting God recognized. 95 If I had known Jesus perhaps I would recognize the "AI" voice as that of t my murdered friend - not only the "AI" voice but the personality whom I call "Thomas." It is a human personality from the first century CE Rome + yet although it is human it possesses total + absolute knowledge, shrewd wisdom + powers + it relates to outer reality as in/with / by a continuum of sentience + intentionality (Magdeberg Hemispheres. Afried + furtive as he was, Thomas was, even more so, vigorous + assertive bold + decisive + active + shrewd, in no t way did his fears hamper his effective ness. He was so swift to act that it seemed done without prior stages of ideation (ratiocination). Joachim del Fiore foresaw charismatic (spirit-possessed) persons replacing the exter nal church. This would characterize the 3rd status, that of spiritual knowledge rather than law or grace. Does "Tears" perhaps say, there has been a soviet take over of America "The murder of the kennedys + Dr King) t the deposing of Nixon, + the authenti Xtian underground - which exists knows it + is saying so - smuggling the message out (this, then, is the BIP. Pigspurt). + who ever se me itt i 196 the Xerox missive knew that I knew it - had to know it - on some level. So in the dream the death of Jason faverner hiding from the possee is the paradigm of the political murders that brought Nixon to power - where‐ upon they overthrew him (i.e. over‐ threw the us government). (Because of his pro-China policy? + Nixon Our + general Hague knew it. Ching policy is to seek help from the only possible place we can go looking for it. Does that make "Thomas" my own stifled real (i.e. authentic) per‐ sonality, submerged by a machine self subject to Soviet psycho‐ fronic control? Thrust down into my unconscious - displaced? + in 2-3-74 it temporarily was able to reassert itself (we would have to posit some kind of Soviet Psi weapon. My real self knew what happened [to it + to us all) + managed to slip it (the info) into "Tears covertly, even without knowing. So "Thomas" me" is 497 me of say 1969 - before the weapon 18 hit me + displaced me - i.e. "Thomas Hence the problem driving the car My "superimposed" view of USA I 1974 - I didn't see Acts' saw "Tears," + that is the BIP; a prison - Pigspurt, I saw reality as it is - with a secret Xtian underground (who know the truth "Tears" So I saw "Tears" is the BIP It is Pigspurt but we are occluded to the takeover. Thomas isn't the Holy Spirit, It's my real - displaced but still alive - self. Hence, as I woke up, I sensed 1) Pigspurt + 2) its power over me. It's not just me; It's over the whole country, "waking up" meant temporarily throwing the mind control off, becoming myself in control, + seeing reality as it actually is: BIP (gulag). 87 49 This would explain why so much that Hal said fitted 3-74 later on jese my writing for code. 2) PKD PKD, etc. 3) WWIII had secretly begun + the us had falles or pantly fallen. 4) + I was Pigsport without (perhaps) knowing it. (V #2) therwise, how do I explain the uncanny coincidences between what Hal said + 3-74? + "Tears" having code in it + what message did he (solarcon) want in "Tears"? perhaps the message that was in fact in it. About the takeover. Look - Hal was convinced that if sodium pentathol was given to me I'd remember. + I did, + what I remembered was "Thomas" - my real self - + what I saw was the BIP or "Tears" - i.e. Pigspurt everywhere. + I said, "I am a machine." perhaps I've had it totally So 1800 backward. The phosphene graphics wasn't Pigspurt psycho‐ real luence but my tronic in 499 self waking up + throwing Pigspurt Thomas wasn't Pigspurt; off me. he was the non-brainwashed actual my "dis‐ me briefly returning, sociated actions were me returning to autonomy (briefly). Hal knew I was 1) under Pigspurt mind-control + 2) He i knew I didn't know it. that override may have existed for years but it wisn't just me the Xtian underground is anti‐ Pigspurt Then what I saw + called "the plasmate" could be the plyspurt weapon itself: an information electricity - St Elmo's fire - like that has invaded us + our media Tesla coil stuff - static electricity involving info or directives Then my initial impression about the "die messages" on the radio - satellite override. etc - were correct Okay - if this is all pullshat, how come I knew in 3-74 that Pigspurt had found a way to boost telepathic signals by microwave? I even wrote to deningrad 498 I wasn't at that time falling victim. I was waking up, + I therefore thwarted my programming vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. The pentathol was unexpected, + allowed me to wak up, as Hal knew it would the occlusion depicted in "Scanner" Does it relate to the "plasmate" 2 psychoi- occlusion. is this ETI invasion, not Pigsturt? suppresses authentic self into uncon‐ scious. + occludes. "Bichlorides" are paradigm occluding life form. I threw it off - due partly to the lithium + The was vitamins, + of course the penta thil. The Xtian underground knows. EB: "the Holy Spirit is the main agency that restores man to his original unfallen state." This 2 psychoi situation is not new! In me the psyche that normally rules is not me + is occluded (by the plasmate?) v Calving 5:00 am insight: I forced Valis to imitate a living thing! There is a life form here, then normally imitation my non-living things. 999 so-to-speak tricked it. I The plasmate is how it propogates. it - not the DNA - programs you. Christ drove it out of me in 3-74 so I didn't die but it reinfected me. It suppresses my psyche in favor of its own. So the AI voice is my own real voice breaking through when the ETI psyche is weak. "I tricked Valis." My set of perceptual assumptions changed + it tried to accommon date, which it shouldn't have done. "the occlusion in "Scanner" related to the plasmate + to the person having 2 psychoi: his own which is submerged, + one - not his - imposed in its place: an occluded psyche, programmed, machine - like incapable of real reasoning + real perception is it a parasite could Valis be like a spread by the plasmate? cosmic surgeon, killing off the parasite + freeing the real psyche to regain control (Thomas) So I did die in 3-74. One psyche died + passed into the post mortem world, freeing Thomas to come out. The death of the "old man" - old adam who fell "I died with Christ + was reborn in the Holy Spirit," tandem psychic, one on this side of the grave, one on the other. For a while. 500 Thomas escaped the jurisdiction of the occlusion; he woke up + acted, mainly against a programming - successfully. All The debased faculties were temporarily restored. what I want to know is if this is the occlusion I observed in 1971/72 which I wrote about in "Scanner." The problem, the phenomenon of occlusion, fascinated me because each occluded person could perceive the occlusion in others but never in himself me included. I suspected mercury poisoning + the first written information in 2-3-74 had to do with "the bichlorides," in baby cereal, the that goes in with the Baby's kind of rice cereal formula. Is this to say, it occurs at birth? John Calvin discerned a debasement of the faculties - + some gone entirely. This has to do with the Fall. + (as the E.B. says) "The Holy Spirit is the prime agent in restoring man to his original condition." Also, this is the prime task of the Holy Spirit; it would seem. The EB also says, "the Father + son are absolutely united in the Holy Spirit": viz: Father Holy in West: t Spirit East father in hist 954 Son would be an odd coincidence is an (tian spirit from the time + place ac at a time of acute crisis + danger + near death that entered me it + deoccluded me (as well as counselling me + fighting for me + healing me teaching me the pristine sacraments + revealing to me the true role of the secret church in history etc) were not the Holy Spirit - especially since Acts 501 + it led me to the divine void, + it showed My name inscribed in a great book a lined ledger- obviously the Lamb's book of life o There were the charismatic gifts: prophecy s Xenoglossy, healing, knowledge of God's plan, The dialectic fight between Christ + Satan (based on Zoroaster's revelation), the reconcilia with my father, my seating myself + judging. My dying + being reborn in a renewed state. (Birth in/by the Spirit.) + evidental proof: the Acts material in "Tears." This precisely strictures - i.e. delineates - it. Acts is a vast cryptic landscape underlying the entire novel - in fact serving to yield up (extract) otherwise invisible + vital information. but maybe the final bit of proof is the change I saw on the animals' faces, +, later finding myself in the palm tree Garden. Who else could restore me to Eden but the Holy Spirit? but (see supra diagram) this does not exclude God + Christ. The Acts material (grid) in "Tears" is more important than I realized; it does not just locate at that time (ist century CE) + place Rome or syria) but is specifically Xtian: the nfant church + conversion to Xtianity due to a vision of Christ. + in 2-74 I saw Xtians. specifically (+ the Fish sign is Xtian) Wait. The Acts material in "Tears" developed was developed independent of the Fish sign Four years before it! I never have grasped he significance of that! It means that the dis t inhibition by the Fish sign wasn't just the power of suggestion due to the pentathil! + also 502 It makes me conjecture again that the Fish sign was purposefully shown me! i.e. in conjunction with the publishing of "Tears"! Viewing it this way, it seems evident that the level in me or mind in me which wrote the Acts material into "Tears was brought to the surface - released - by seeing the Fish sign. This makes a case for apotheosis + fits in with my writing "ich bin