prophecy. 3) The Head Apollo prophecy. 4) The "the time you've waited for has come" statement 5) The dream + code in "Tears" 6) The AI voice + my 2-74 - 2-75 experience in themselves 7) The overthrow by God of Nixon. folder 20 - 007 folder 20 - 007 This list of seven indications is overwhelmingly impressive. What other conclusion than that the 2nd Advent has come could be reached? If I reject this, I must assume I am unique in the whole scheme of things, which is absurd. Obviously I am not unique, an anomaly - obviously I + my experience are part of a vast supernatural unfolding. What I feel I've established here in these six pages is: 1) The BIP which I saw in 3-74 + realized we're in, is the "Cave of Treasures" to which we were exiled when we were expelled from the Garden. In some sense it is beneath the Garden. 2) The PTG which I entered briefly in 2-75 is our original home, the Garden-land. 3) The augmentation of my faculties in 3-74 was in fact a restoration of me to the original unfallen proper state associated with our first place (Garden) + condition. 4) + that this restoration, inner + outer, was trigered off by the [golden] fish (Christ) sign proves that 1, 2 + 3 are so, + that they are accomplished through Christ, as promised. + I saw Zebra, who I think is Christ; it was "melting" the iron prison, the causal bars that hold us in thrall. I was granted all this immediately upon the successful completion of my appointed task telling the good news in "Tears". This immediate salvation is actually a further piece of proof. + I was thereby enabled to read folder 20 - 008 folder 20 - 008 what had been written through me in "Tears". Wait - I see something important. "You aren't to tell that you're an early Xtian." Why? Because the resurrection of the early Xtians (which happened in me in 2-3/74; i.e. Thomas + my anamnesis) is an absolute sign that the 2nd advent is about to take place. Talk about evidence! This piece is truly startling. Like astral returning (signalling the return of the Golden Age) the rebirth (now) of the original Christians points to only one thing + of course their identity (locale; i.e. who they're resurrected in) must be kept secret. So I deduce that I (or rather Thomas) am one of a number of them. + brought back for openers[?], in connection with the Nixon (Roman) overthrow. ___ The early Xtians being resurrected (now) are the sole homoplasmates (i.e. restored-to-our-original-state men; see supra 6 pages); they are not fallen like us, but are, as promised, renewed. This, too, fits with scripture; they died, + are reborn this way: as we were before the fall. It was Thomas who had the enhanced memory + percept faculties, + was able to see the BIP + knew about it -had fought it- + entered at last the PTG. So homoplasmate = unfallen (or fallen + then restored) men = resurrected early Xtians. This is all in accord with scripture; fundamentals of it, in fact folder 20 - 009 folder 20 - 009 it was not through Christ's eyes that I saw but through a homoplasmate's, resurrected + restored early Xtian (who is bonded to me); perhaps he assumed the plasmate form or part + I supplied the homo part. This (the plasmate part) is the "Bright Nature" we lost. Well, if Thomas is the plasmate + I the homo, then we (not I) are together a homoplasmate. This is quite different from me qua me having my (sic) faculties restored. Something wholly different is involved. You take a former homo who has died + become transformed + bond him onto an ordinary future human (me in this case) + the result is physical resurrection + total restoration, inner (faculties) + outer (out of the prison + back into the garden), for the both (now a unitary syzygy) of us. I still have the nagging feeling that this early Xtian didn't enter me from the outside, but lied in some fashion latent in me - for example he may have underwritten my writing as an ur-personality (inc. the Gnostic tinge of my Kerygma, + the macro- microcosm Hermetic universe). The Golden Fish sign merely awoke him. But it was I who remembered in 2-74. I remembered that I was him + lived in Rome CAD 45. Yet - he then took me over; there was a difference between us. I suppose this (feeling) would be natural. His memories, his personality - him in control. Whereas previously he had been subservient + I had been in conscious control, now our relationship was reversed. But I still think his "return" was deliberately triggered off for + at that time. But all this is an attempted analysis of the mechanics of the restoration (which I see now as the first of the promised physical resurrection). The fact is, homoplasmates which are both resurrected + fully restored pre-fall men, are coming into folder 20 - 010 folder 20 - 010 existence. I stress the two aspects: 1) Physical resurrection of the early Xtian dead is involved. 2) + they are fully restored to the original pre-fall state (what I call homoplasmates). I had not realized before that both aspects are involved. Perhaps I will never understand the mechanics involved, but I do know that (1) + (2) are taking place, + these are two basic promises of the N.T. What remains are: 3) The defeat of Satan (i.e. the blowing up of the BIP, the "Cave of Treasures" + restoration of man to his home, the Gardenland). (With its vast spaces in which one can see all [levels of] creation.) (This, too, seems to be taking place.) +: 4) Return of the rightful king + judge (Rex Felix). ("Tears" + other evidence -prophecies- seem to point to this either now happening or soon to happen.) These four aspects are the total N.T. Kerygma as I understand it. This analysis is a milestone in my exegesis. Do you suppose that the resurrection (1) + restoration (2) make it possible for us to see (3) being accomplished + finally (4)? That there is a causal connective in this 1, 2, 3, 4 sequence? The physical resurrection of the early Xtian (1) brings about a restoration of the pre-fallen "Man of Bright Nature" (2), by whose enhanced faculties the prison is seen, +, in conjunction with God, these "homoplasmates" -as I call them- blow up the prison + release men back to their original home, the Gardenland (3); God, in assisting + doing this, at first concealed, at last makes his visible reappearance as King + Judge here (4). So these four elements are listed in chronological + causal -not arbitrary- sequence. folder 20 - 011 That it was not limited to me but was a vast historical upheaval is proved by 1) The "Rex Felix" dream + code in "Tears" obviously directed at someone plural 2) + the overturn of the Nixon tyranny: the most powerful tyrant the Empire had ever possessed. So actual -as contrasted to spurious- time moved forward in 1974, due to God's ("Zebra's") inbreaking. It picked up where it left off in CAD 45. __ "A vortex in the hologram." ? Synchronicity or control of synchronicity. __ If one early Xtian can be physically resurrected, + in his pre-fallen "bright" state (what I call a "homoplasmate"), x number can, will; it is not reasonable to assume it limited to one out of x; + the code message in "Tears" would verify this. + if they are out of the prison + restored back to the Garden -if even one is- then the Garden exists. The Garden in a sense is a place. But in another sense it is a state - that of being free of ("above") the prison + its narrowness. It is vast, + in it one can see all levels of creation: God + the angels above, not "a ledge of rock." The Garden is obviously one level up from the "Cave of Treasures". There is some thing to do with "being able to see objects afar" [...] mere "fleshly eyes", which I well understand; the main perceptual occlusion is visual (although auditory channels are impaired, too). I experienced this return of proper vision + said, "I have been blind, but now for the first time I can see." This has to do with augmented versus reduced perception of space. +, seen, too, is a vast extended present, stretching over 2000 years of time. folder 20 - 012 folder 20 - 012 The info traffic, + Zebra, the macrobrain. + finally the abyss. There is great ambiance to sound. It's like distant bells. In the Book of Adam + Eve, as in Genesis, it is said that God Himself (1) occluded us; + (2) exiled us from the Garden to the prison as punishment for our transgressions. He did it to us + now he undoes it. We are deformed + in exile, cut off from him. But he took me back, through Christ (perhaps as Advocate; viz: "if anyman have sinned, he has an advocate with the Father."). God has dispatched a savior to restore [me]. Is this a selective salvation ("my sheep know my voice.")? It is not based on merit, perhaps, but is predestined (which Will Durant calls "that awful doctrine" - of Augustine's). But it must be so, it can't be based on merit; all of Paul's writing makes this clear. Merit is just another name for fulfilling the [law]. We can't earn our way back. The decision is [...] + the basis is impossible for us to know; that is a fact. There are no known criteria. There is absolutely no evidence that any given act or group of acts leads to it, so pragmatically, effectively, it is predestination de facto. If we can't know what will do it we can't be sure that anything will do it; anyway, if we don't know, it's the same thing. The initiative is God's. There probably is a pattern, a logic; it probably is not capricious - a whim. I know that in 3-74 some kind of "Karmic" determinism over me was broken. That was the power of our enslavement. Salvation = freedom, which I now construe as the burden of punishment: the exile + deformity. The narrowing of the Cave of Treasures. Release from the "inner-outer tape" that I discerned which the system locks us into. Then is is the normal system: the way it works. The way it's supposed to work. There may be no dualistic religion here. Just a hierarchy of levels. We were reduced by the same power that extricates us. folder 20 - 013 folder 20 - 013 This could be so; I did see an integrated mechanism, a vast machine which effectively functions. (I saw us being signalled instructions - [...] of lights, + of course verbal + graphic linked messages that control (engram) us.) But I did see a Black Iron Prison under attack like a heavy metal speck in an organism - like a phagicytosis process. There was certainly a dialectic interchange involved. This makes our stint here a sort of probation outside the Gardenland. Our trial, our ordeal, what we have to learn. I suppose I could think of it in terms of initiation into the higher mysteries, as in "The Magic Flute", after the trials. There is something secret about it, e.g. I am told by the voice not to tell that I am an early Xtian (resurrected, + with the bright original unfallen nature intact: what I call a Homoplasmate). + I generally feel a reluctance to make my discoveries + theories + revelations public. This is distinctly not pistis Xtianity but, I guess, Gnostic (or