the "mirrors." This is where it still exists - is pre‐ I served, + changes introduced. After all, This [world] is in the past. Then it is memory contents + nothing more: retrieved as one does with a stored program for/on a computer. 28 e ah - the program is not stored in one mirror (person) but in a very large number which - as in "Ubik" - are intermeshed, thus forming the program as world. Each mirror adde more info + more precise info in a vast overlapping grid. not only did I discover memory traces of the future in me, but when I reached the actual situations involved I acted on information available my to me in these prior memory traces! dream: Ya (youth authority) + Ypsl (young people's socialist league) combined. "Ya" or "Ja" suggesting German. Interpreta + Q: How can a document be Ya (us authorities) + YpsL (CP) simultaneously? A: It is intrinsically CP but sent by us Thus the contradiction is split + solved G-21 This is represented by "gary Corp" - suggesting G-2 + OCCP simultaneously. t 4:30 am thought. The "King Felix" cypher states, "Christ has returned" (v. the dream in "Tears"). This was written in 1970 + published in 1974. In 1974 I "remembered" the time of Acts + was rescued by - well et's refer to the cyphers the cypher states "X is here. Ex being Christ. + then in '74, who helps me, right at the time the book comes out! + the AI voice refers to "St Sophia + it was at the time being born again. of the vernal equint 286 So if you put together: 1) The King Felix cypher 1970 some divine entity helling me 3-74 2) the St. Sophia prophecy - post 3-74 3) what do you get? (2) is identified as Christ. Conclusion: all 3 indicate that Christ is here again. (2) Then be comes proof that (1) + (3) are true, + 3) shows who (1) refers to or rather: 1) The dream in "Tears" refers to Christ 2) The King-Felix cypher refers to Christ 3) some divine entity helped me in 3-74 + I remembered I was an apostolic Xtian. + no one in mistory even reported an experience like This that I can find. 4) The "St Sophia will be --" prophecy. who, then, does this imply (3) is? Obviously Christ obviously he has returned; the Parousia is here + already. Now, the 2 species of the host: Valis (body) + plasmate (blood). Cosmic eucharist transsubstantiation. "We adopted you" + then the reason. "When I had no home you -" etc - re Covenant House. the theme of "Valis": the rational breaking + the irrational. God in-breaking, at the into ithoup. Valis possessing the goal seeking stimulation power of Aristotles prime mover (God) breaking the deterministic powers as Valis did - this is specifically what Christ does (the DNA death strip), returned + he saved me + I have Christ has set it in motion: anamnesis The Fish en him. 28 Oh yes - + the Acts material in "Tears." it now becomes explicit + precise. Acts is the time place where the resurrected Christ appeared, + is the "Gospel of the Holy Spirit" The blood (plasmate) is living info + the body (Valis) is living structure of reality based on the info. 2-3-74: the way of the cross (Eckehart). the info in all its forms, point: to the presence of a great thinking mind which is everywhere + which uses reality as a braing So that the info is physical. Thomas performing the early secret sacra o ments. + the fear specifically of Romans Passover: the angel of death. The paschal lambs blood as sign caused the angel to pass over the home involved (i.e. not kill those within). My experience with the cold white light illing the room, the angel of death, + then pinky as sheep dying on my plain wasn't this re-enactment of passover per se? + I connected pinky + the whole 2-3-74 experience with passover. then indeed my actual physical life was at take. He as the Lord died for me. If a number of discrete objects + processes set" ("Fire") (synchronize) in such an evident way as to indicate a design arranging them, then they are worked from within by a harmonized motivation. Now the way you could bring this bout through normal causality would be to arrange each vertical shaft independently of all the others, but if you had absolute power + absolute knowledge you could arrange a i 8) 286 synchronized horizontal (simultaneous) pay off so although you would - as Spinoza holds - be operating entirely by/within natural law you would get the unitary pattern you wanted - however you would be disclosing your own teleological tug or strain on reality since the horizontal pattern would embrace components not causually linked. Thus Aristotle's deity (who stimulates order + goal seeking) would indirectly disclose his existence. I say that the Jung-Pauli principle synchronicity is not an acausal principle; it of is anything but acausal. + all the cause - + effect trains are operating in the normal direction But - here Leibnitz must be appealed to. At any given moment in time (what I call the horizontal axis) there are prearranged vertical payoffs which form a pattern + come about on purpose; an organism or entelechy is involved with perhaps what bristotle called internal physical causes. with Valis I had the distinct impression consciousness as well as purpose. I suppose what I experienced fits Spinoza's panpsychism, although I do not posit necessity but volition chieved through power + wisdom. Perhaps will is he key term (not fully recognized until Schopenhaur) ut God wills through natural law, not despite Here Spinoza is correct. Put another way, what t od wills becomes natural law; it shows up as ratural law. But I believe in what I call pretextual aspect of natural law. Whatever he God wills will seem to us to be rigid deter‐ This is because it is a valence which a rinism. annot be resisted for the simple reason that involves everything; ergo there is nothing t which can resist it. (Where would that some‐ thing come from? His will pervades the total ystem.) (This certainly is Sankara's Brahman seyond a doubt, because a magic, a trick, an involved; viz illusion is 789 strikes a nail + the nail seems to resist But the divine will is as much in the nail as the hammer, so in reality both cooperate. It is only the quasi-independent will of finite organism, which experience resistance. Here the concept of acting in accordance with The Tao expresses what I mean.) (Put in terms of the Pythagorean y the divine will stimulates everything into a unified right [correct] branch te selection, but only in terms of the total system. Felix culpa" concept is relevant Here the since ultimately the divine will cannot err even the primordial crisis in the Godhead which led to the fall becomes an opportunity for a superior resolution, since, as we see, it necessitates the salvific activity - + hence existence - of Christ a transformation of Holy Wisdom which will finally see the assimilation of creation by the Corpus Christi its apotheosis. It is "transubstantiated from a thing into God himself (which is the exactly what I saw Valis doing!). fall of creation necessitates the replication of Christ at every place + time: ubiquitously Here the magic of the divine power misleads the evil one who unwittingly serves God's purposes: "Satan wills evil + effects good despite himself." God is the master stratagist He creates an adversary - + hence a dialectic which will strive + unwittingly aid in ful eilling the divine plan. Apparently there is some kind of superior advantage to the dialectic in 3-74: "I'm no longer blind; I can see!" i.e. both parts of the cosmos: the part that fell that we normally see only + the unfallen, the missing set part. They were united in me we normally are cut of from one of the two universes, or realms. i since we only see one part of two we can't make sense out of it. The missing part which we don't see is sentient, volitional + alive. Like Ubik, An actual functioning organ is needed to see it: the 3rd or ajna eye (of discernment/enlightenment). It is a dormant function, connected with bilateral brain parity. I prepared for this stage in my evolution exactly as an insect prepares for its next stage: by a series of instinctive actions t next leading to + necessary for this stage of growth. I did not know my goal any more than the insect knows its goal; the instincts were built into me + triggered off at the proper time, as with the insect (the vernal equinox, the Fish sign, "Tears" coming out.) The material in "MITHC" + "Faith" prove that goal-directed s engramming was laid down in me long in advance. Viewed this way, Thomas is a cluster of instinctive acts: the non-ideational + even involuntary carrying out of these engrammed (programmed) Acts. They seem to have been political in nature, + connected with certain unique + important historical events. Served by the ajna eye I could discern the author of this programming: it s Valis which is the very thing - part rreality - we can't normally see. But what is Valis? A titanic intelligent + powerful entity who guides + advances our race unsuspected + unseen by us. No - I did not s 291 I saw the imprint of its organizing, its mprinting of goal-seeking in (not onto) every‐ thing. It worked in me as a biological neces‐ sity. The horizontal pattern cross-fired mutually signalling each piece to + from all the others. their real causes (as Leibnitz taught) lay within them; the cross firing "causes" were pretextual This is where pretextual cause comes from: the horizontal cross-firing. They - the elements - are intrinsically preset in time, motivated from within. this synchronization in time got upset with me in 3-74 + briefly I "responded" to events (more precisely stimuli) in advance, disclosing this pre‐ textual nature of horizontal causation. I fired too soon. This was because there was some kind of override taking place. A latent cluster of instincts in me (Thomas) had been tripped a month previously, + now, disinhibited, was firing in place of what normally would have proceeded from my engramming - the latter apparently con‐ taining a death sequence. Well, it is possible that this override Thomas) was adventitious. In that case there i master monad (circuit) which can abort the vormal programming. This would be Valis, or Valis would be the visible "resetting" by an immateria von spacial entity, resetting of reality; in which ase I was originally right: Valis was an invader into our reality + its normal processes sequences (which ratifies Philo Judaeus + not pinoza). This would be intervention into an other vise closed or self-regulating (deterministic) system + we're back to the camouflage theme: B a 290 Spinoza's conception of reality that things cannot be otherwise than they are - that God must do what he does - represents the views of closed systems current at his time + involve unwarrented assumptions about "must." All That is necessary is to posit a monitoring system with override powers. The monitoring system can be regarded as part of one system which involves both (the monitored system would experience the override as an trusion if it thought of itself as complete. monitoring then equals corrective circuitry. The idea that there can be no intervention is some‐ thing like the idea that there can be no motion. it could even be tripped into action by some element, event or sequence in the prionary circuit, + so to speak cut in automatically. I.e. given circumstances Y Y (the override) will cut