powers' victory over you (i.e. Satan's victory). EB: "Kingdom of God ... means an event suddenly breaking into the world from the outside, through which the time of this present world is ended + overcome." The time dysfunction in 3-74! Valis breaks in + time gets deranged. + consider what the AI voice has said. __ According to "VR" YHWH + B contend not for the outcome of the universe but for its [ontological] nature: BIP vs PTG. (Our universe is an epiphenomenon.) Victory by YHWH at the end of time rolls backward through history in terms of what we know of as an alternate universe. Each time I read over the outline for "VR" I want to write this: That I saw in 2-3-74 folder 48 - 171 a worse track (victory by Belial at the future "7th battle") because YHWH had won a decisive victory in the future + had abolished thereby that track - + no one remembered or saw it any more since it now never-had-existed. But it was given to me to experience anamnesis + so remember + see the lingering image of that defeated track, which I depicted in "Tears." Then God did in-break + decisively alter history - retroactively. The dream in "Tears" did/will take place. What I have been waiting for already took place. ("+ the memory of the former things will not enter the mind nor come up into the heart.") Hence Thomas, + my subcortical impression of a cooler, higher, moister climate just a moment ago. This is what scared me so about "3 Women." Studying "VR" I can see that 2 entities (the dialectic I saw) are contending for the whole nature of reality: prison vs Garden. + as the battle takes place, no one remembers. Valis selected me + caused me to remember (2-3-74) because of "Tears" - it's connected with "Tears." The grace + faith of 2-74 - this is all very well as an explanation but alas it doesn't take "Tears" into account. I swear; "Tears" is left over from the defeated track - obviously it is defeated, not victorious. Because it was here; viz: in anamnesis I remembered it - memory of folder 48 - 172 folder 48 - 172 this world is recorded over it, + perception of this world over it. So it is not coming into being but once was, + "Tears" is the proof of this. But "Tears" gives a cypher showing why that world was erased: King Felix + the dream tell us why we don't have that world; viz: the in-breaking is, so to speak, not in this our world, but into that our former world: [Here I begin to understand!] "Tears" plus dream + cypher = our world. God doesn't break into this our world; he breaks into "Tears" the former world + thereby causes this our world. + now (v. the AI voice) he -as the next step- enters our world, which will result in yet another shift (toward the PTG). There. I figured it out: Our reality = "Tears" + dream + cypher (i.e. the in-breaking. Into that track, not ours.) The purpose of "Tears" is to tell the story to the true Xtians here in this world: to remind them (they'll read it + remember, as I did!). This (+ only this) explains why my anamnesis included altered perceptions of the present. Normally, recovered memory doesn't affect the present (you don't remember the present, you perceive it). The "remembered" world was shot full of the real presence of God, prison though it is. On the face of it, this folder 48 - 173 folder 48 - 173 seems odd. Prison + plasmate/Valis? Why? Because YHWH (Valis/plasmate) in-broke into that world (not this, ours): invaded it, penetrated it + (what I call) modulated it (into our world). Prison as ground; Valis/plasmate as set together = our world. Put another way, our world can be deconstructed into set + ground, with set as Valis/plasmate + ground as BIP. The set + ground combat each other, with set as invader-attacker (eagle + snake). Set is living predator vs ground: Dionysos vs prison, literally God attacking prison. This dynamic dialectic comprises our unified (at least seen as unified, a unitary) world. 1) Set vs ground in our world } 2) Dream + cypher + Acts vs world of "Tears" } analogs "Tears" is built as analog to our world; it consists of layers forming set to ground, or several depths (the parallaxis effect along the temporal axis). More precisely, "Tears" is our world minus some kind of veil that obscures our world + the truth; it is like an x-ray of our world - layer under layer. Orthogonally (vertically) built, with the top layer (our present) missing. "Geological" strata. Yes - in 2-3-74 I saw along the orthogonal axis. Our world is a lamination. In "Tears" I stripped the top layer away. But in "Tears" there is no sense of the set-ground dialectic, which is the basis of our world; it is a two- folder 48 - 174 folder 48 - 174 element contest, an event (the dialectic, set vs ground). As set (YHWH or Christ [!]) wins our world ontologically alters toward improvement. I perceptually unscrambled the 2 "signals" (sources). The interaction of 2 hyperuniverses. V. p. 975 I unscrambled them and saw them as set to ground, with ground being prison, + set being the divine. War between them. I never realized this before: set vs ground = the dialectic. Two systems intersected + now fight it out, with set = divine = invader (God in-breaking, which I saw as the "plasmate" + Valis). It is tearing down the ground - + an Xtian group exists penetrating ground, the prison, along an orthogonal-time axis as in "Ubik" (form axis). This isn't alternate worlds; this is one reality comprised of 2 warring parts which we normally can't discriminate perceptually. No true time has passed since Acts. It's building along an orthogonal axis actually; the linear one is irreal (merely apparent). So in 2-74 I saw ground. Then later, after the phosphenes, set, as well. The phosphenes must have been the coming into activity of my percept ajna faculty by which I could discern set in terms of color frequency. Have I ever done this before? Identified set + ground as the two sides of the dialectic? folder 48 - 175 folder 48 - 175 Our binary reality fights it out. With itself. Fuck the "alternate worlds" + "tracks A, B + C" jazz. What I have here is the correct explanation: decomposition by distinguishing the two sides of the dialectic as set + ground, in combat. Ground is the "planetary" or "elemental" powers, the astral determinism, sublunar, yin, form two, etc. + Christ is set. So Valis is the cosmic Christ: body + blood interpenetrating our world invisibly. Alive: growing - ach! It (set) uses ground as a stockpile which it plunders as a source of parts that it fits into its own corpus; the stockpile isn't the antecedent universe but the antagonist - like 2 life forms in combat, a metamorphosis like that of a butterfly, but it doesn't use its own body but rather that of its adversary (ground). My phagocytosis theory was close. Organisms in conflict - the organic model. No wonder it rides + cooks our (ground's) info media! Probably the AI voice is that of set. Valis is set: the cosmic Christ. Yes; it is transumstantiating ground, but: it is using it as a mere stockpile: it is also arranging it qua parts (for itself, i.e. for set). This is all taking place at the space-time locus Acts (as proved by "Tears"; in writing "Tears" I plumbed our world + came to the bottom layer Acts. folder 48 - 176 Acts is in the past along the linear time axis, but - along the accretional "form" axis of "Ubik" it is here. These are two different ways of viewing reality, + the latter is correct. Thus Thomas, citizen of Acts, is still alive. Set has deeply penetrated ground; Christ has enormously acquired ground qua parts for himself. The process (successful war) is well-advanced. "The Kingdom is not subject to being observed." Luke. I.e. our percept systems can't pick it up (discriminate it). "But it is within our grasp" - E.B. trans of Luke. I.e. it is immediate (somehow). As set advances the ontology of world changes. Progresses. Set grows, it being alive (at the expense of ground). So in a way (a meager way) I am right about the multiple tracks + - well, not really. It isn't parallel alternate worlds but a world (ours) being really 2 antagonistic set-ground entities, with set feeding (so to speak) off the corpse of ground. Ground is the old "law" universe; yes, based on the Torah, which I saw, which Christ abrogates - as he did in my case vis-a-vis the Xerox missive: here is a perfect example of set invading ground - which is based on the info formula the Torah. folder 48 - 177 folder 48 - 177 It isn't just correction of a signal; it is war between two powers. The old rigid (law) universe + the living new (vine, bread, root, blood, body). So in 2-74 I just saw ground - the BIP (Acts, Rome). But then my ajna eye (whatever that might be) opened, starting with the phosphene activity; + then (3-74) I could also see set: the body + blood of the cosmic Christ at war with ground. At the same time the mind of set entered mine. In 2-74 grace + faith; in 3-74 the Holy Spirit, so I saw the cosmic Christ: Valis + the plasmate, + communed with him (he informed me). Also, all that high speed tape stuff did take place, + my death was averted: grace to faith to Holy Spirit to sanctification to adoption to heir to freedom from the planetary powers. Salvation. + post mortem life - oh yes: that's how come I could see set! I passed on into the postmortem world; I went through the Bardo Thodol trip + came out the other side while still here! That's why I could see set! You have to die. Whereupon "the ajna" eye opens - this is extraordinary. folder 48 - 178 folder 48 - 178 In "Tears" in the dream "Jason Taverner" shut up in the house crying out "one single shriek" is Christ on the cross crying out just before he dies; i.e. just before they kill him, by God's command - God as the white haired old king. Christ has taken upon himself the sins of the world; hence he is "shut up in darkness." The dream is of the crucifixion, which took place at God's command. But we know Jason -i.e. Jesus- is innocent, + so he is seen to be later in "Tears." Felix Buckman = Pilate + Felix Jason Taverner = Paul + Jesus The innocent man ("the stranger") condemned to death by the procurator, set in Acts (Roman Syria; Palestine). But in the epilog Jason/Jesus is alive + okay, + the procurator is deposed + dies. + tears refers to king Pentheus, so Dionysus is also alluded to. = Jesus. __ 4:10 AM thought: re 2-74: the Xtians, the true ones, are secretly victors which tells me that Christ (i.e. Valis) is secretly victorious, rather than just being here. His activity re me folder 48 - 179 folder 48 - 179 is proof of his victory over + above the secret fact that he is here. Now he chooses whom he will choose. __ All my acosmic novels deal with the topic of "VR": putting your foot through reality - e.g. through the ground, the ground sinking away, as if you've stepped into an old septic tank, as in my dream: "almighty power who rules the Earth + sky / + variagated orders in confusion lie."