to what is conceivable as true. It is capable of generating advanced a dialectic of contraditory premiser -i.e. Pigspurt 414 31) dissociated (right hemisphere) self puts material steganographically in "Tears" knowing it will get Pigspurt instructions (response) back as soon as it is published. but: 2) sodium pentathol + Gold Fish accidentally break down dissociative barriers. Anamnesis I is misinterpreted along Xtian lines due to Fish sign. + because some kind of theory is needed 3) gradually Thomas wakes up (v. strident radio). Anticipates y: instructions. 4) instructions (Xerox missive) comes, but there is confusion due to pentathol disin hibition. The dissociated part of me, which is supposed to operate outside of my con‐ scious awareness (as witness my history of amnesia) is now visible to me, due to the iction of the pentathol; I am aware of dissociated self, ratiocination, memories. I actions. But Fish sign provides psychologically satisfying hypnoidal rationalization (viewed by me as explanation). It is syntonic to me. the whole whereas Thomas as Pigspurt is not. Xtian cast is a typical hysteria, such as fread elucidated (if Pigspurt were syntonic it wouldn't have to be dissociated.) in-breaking The game here memory (comprehension) points to a captive personality programmed to receive + act on external instructions, regarding them as hander down from God himself. This theological inter pretation will explain why the instructions come + why they must be obeyed. (Instead of me thinking for myself. I am a totally captive self.) 115 I may have consciously known exactly what I was doing when I phoned the Bureau. I knew what I had in my possession, why it was sent (due to material in "Tears") + why I had to ruthlessly turn it over to the Bureau + sacrifice the sender. My "doublethink" mind would make it possible for me to do it with no qualms of conscience als ob It was from a hated enemy: my survival was at stake. I was being smart, hard headed + practical (i.e. Thomas is shrewd + realistic, not sentimental). It was me the sender; I chose myself. or general Gomez actually commisar Pigspurt is "Tears" Marshal 5 generals/marshals: i.e. Pigspurt in place spain cabrillo" (caudillo). Inversion (cf Freud). is placent, cabrillo: spain. Mexicans ‐ spaniards. f it were a forgery, why would I avoid looking at it? I knew it was no forgery, that it was "Game hen" instructions; the time had come. "plasmate" simply = code available to my dissociated self. Thomas was not supposed to wake up until after I made contact (with or through the sender of the Xerox missive). The pentathol screwed it up + caused him to wake up too soon. I should have answered the Xerox missive reflexively, the way I wrote the martyrs against the communist world: as of (3) hynotized: post hypnotic suggestion. But the dissociation had been breaking down due to 416 the pentathol + to my tax fears. It misfired but just barely, partly because 1) I did not read the Xerox missive + 2) because I got it out of the house so I could not read it + hence could not respond to it: it was impossible, at that point. Suppose I'd seen the alive Holt cypher while I still had the missive around? e What I remembered as true in 2-74 was that the secret conspiratorial "Xtian" underground 1) existed, + 2) the world of "Tears" is the real world. well, (1) could be Pigspurt distorted by Xtian magery, + "Tears" could be us as tyranny + to prison state, not Acts, against which we conspire ot vertorrow then tonight re the game hen instructions I remem‐ bered (in the same jolted way) that instructions come to you to tell you what to do with the thing you in you, have + I soon transliminated the "thing" in dis‐ inctly Pigspurt terms with no Xtian coloring; I remembered that I knew to wait for instructions, + their arrival signified that the goal-stage - time to act - had been reached - + it had to do with rilitary uniforms + explosives - which fits in with he "Xtians" running away in glee from the fortific ations (?) they'd blown up. If you superimpose the above, + explicate all my re-associations with the game hen instructions, you it Pigspurt. The Acts material in "Tears" could be an allegory of igspurt vs tyrannical fascism. (I.e. secret Xtians vs t some all very well - but none of this explains Valiss. the "Torah Feldschuh" + partisans could be a road symbol for non-autochthons secretly here behind enemy lines) + receiving sophisticated chnological equipment + instructions form the kies" - i.e. from outside the BIP. This is what 417 we are like. Also the shastokovitch 4th sym phony could suggest the AI voice in the image of a very long communications wire leading from partisans to beyond the BIP the instructions. From someone. To us. As to how operate the weapons that have been dropped + are o already in our possession. It is the last stage, the It isn't that the situation is last thing we need. explained; we subconsciously know the situation. What is involved is that we can now act - go into combat. wait. God's in-breaking. This is what the instruc is point to. normal situation: BIP oppresses the prisoners (cf Gnosticism). We are surrounded prisoners) by the walls of the BIP This situation (when the instructions come). instructions from out - BIP I side the BIP - right? which transforms us prisoners from prisoners to some‐ thing entirely different: partisans: viz outside help BIP partisans outside t BIP So instead of. to partisans, note o be) You get that instead of BIP directed at t prisoners t the prisoners t The partisans now attack The BIP insted, + what is nvolved is that the prisoners who receive the instructions ow know 1) that they were prisoners but 2) are now not prisoners but partisans. They are it + know they are it 418 So the information conveys information even if its actual contents are garbled: 1) that outside in-breaking help has come; + 2) that the prisoners are now partisans. the existence of the information apart + above its contents conveys two vast pieces of knowledge. In fact 3: the 3rd one being: that the BIP exists + we are (or were, have been) prisoners but now a revolutionary underground exists, brought into existence by not the in-breaking but the linking of the in-breaking to the prison ers turned partisans. The linking turns them into partisans: transforms them. This is what I realized when I saw the game hen instructions - a furthering of the flash of 2-74, not an additional insight but the same one more clearly. When I saw the Golden Fish I flashed on the fact that a secret revolutionary underground existed, so 1) we had to be prisoners, so 2) the BIP had to exist + 3) we're in it - which is why I saw the world of "Tears"; the game hen insight shows how the secret revolutionary underground comes to exist: it is created by information - instructions This is another piece of rom outside the BIP - the "map," a further portion of the total map. +, ure enough, following 2-74, I began to receive info (instructions) both written + auditory (which I now see fits logically in). + it was made clear to he that I was sent here from outside! Of the story ine of "Tears": the Bacchae story of the stranger entering the tyrannical usurpatory Kingdom from utside (cf Hamlet + the Gospels). So it is a matter of supreme importance that am in direct communication with those outside t e.g. the AI voice), rather than being told about it. because this contact converts me from a prisoner victim) to a partisan. Then what is Valis, if not them here rather than merely is partisans! They (those in-breaking rim outside) have invaded; my great insight was 412) correct: Valis is a camouflaged invader + not autochthonic. Valis is not human; we are. So our in-breaking help isn't human. Even the 3-eyed race is hominoid. of course those outside would establish a beach head + not depend merely on aiding human old partisans. What a fascinating variation of the familiar s-f theme of the invasion of Earth - + yet - isn't it uncannily like "our friends from Frolix 8 There is a persecuted human underground + a police tyranny, + an alien life form links up with the cordonites. Do you suppose this is what I wrote that got the authorities after me? It seems to + it was published just be the correct scenerio! "Tears" picks up where before the hit on my house. Paul pointed out that my "Frolix 8" leaves off. description of the 3-eyed people is of the new men pictured on the hard cover book club edition of "Frolix is 8. + there is a real or supposed of traffic "line" between proving + Eric cordon. + the written (ordonite practs! Frolix: from: happy. Frolix/Felix: happy on pp 102/103 of "Frolix 8" is an accurate precise + detailed description of Valis, down the most minute details it's the Frolixan. to I give up. "Tears," "Ubik" + now "Frolix 8" comin I + "Faith." The descrip back at me. + "MITHC" on of Valis in "Frolix" even goes an accu cunt of Thomas based on a logical analysis Valis i.e. the Frolixany as it enters the human o brain like it does with any object + mimics it. didn't I just write supra that I figured out that "Frolix" was the right scenerio to the situation (as I now construe it! 2 revealed by 2-3-74? + then when I sit 1 down + reread it, not only is the scenerio correct, but there is as well a precise + detailed description of Valis as the alien from Frolix + who returns with provoni to help the Earth secred underground) I don't believe it. At what point did "the friend from Frolix P" take me over? maybe decades ago. What I call Thomas in me, + see outside me as Valis. It's all there in that me books ontological, functional, replacement mimickry large + small. + the only way you can tell (the "counterfert") is when it replaces your brain + with its own thoughts take place in your head like a psychosis' (direct quotes from "Frolixs?) I take this precise description of Valis in "Frolix" to be a confirm that the correct scenerio is "Frolix." But I guess the main thing is this tells me for sure what Valis is + why he is here + why my partisan thoughts t does not duplicate objects as in my I "Colony" but ontologically replaces story them - peope included. something infinite with the powers of absolute mimickry has invaded our reality secretly + replaced it, so that our reality is counterfeit - but So unitary, sentient, purposefull + alive, the entity is assembling its vast body using the original reality as a stockpile, a parts head, + the entity can enter our minds + take over; we would it's presence eel f takes motor controls it has personality; we would pick up its thin 419 i The crypte plasmate info traffic points dubitably to superior life form + technology rather than to God. (one's) you write a novel about your. their former memory contents to your fiction) being fed back to you as world ("Ubik" a + "Maze") + you write about a police tyranny + underground ("Frolix + a vast alien life form capable of ontological mimicry ("Frolix 8") + the next thing you know It's fed back to you as reality (2-3-74) or as a mimicry of reality. What does This imply? That your ideas are true? all of them? That you're living in an illusory reality based on your