situation for a precog, hence for folder 82 - 082 folder 82 - 082 -2- 3-8-80 anyone. First you have the unusual circumstances that I am a precog. You have the unusual circumstance of a lethal situation, unique in regard to the fear it produced on me, since apparently it (the situation) was the cause of my death. Yes, that's it; 3-74 (the Xerox missive) was the cause of my death and I foresaw it for years through precognition. Then the event actually came to pass. Time had run out; how could my precog faculty look forward any more? There was no more time for me! And what event would be more important to scan in advance than your death, especially when you didn't merely die but were slain, and by a trap, which, had you been able to figure it out, you would have survived (there was a way out); so in my writing in the Sixties I analyze the trap again and again, searching for the solution. I was successful (as represented in THE PENULTIMATE TRUTH); notify the authorities. This is utterly opposite from Jones' precog faculty in THE WORLD JONES MADE, where his precog faculty didn't help him avoid his death. Okay; as soon as I handled the Xerox missive crisis, a future opened up for me where, in the world that I didn't handle the Xerox missive crisis, there was no future; so all at once tremendous amounts of information from the new for-the-first-time future poured over me, all sorts of precog material: I had set up an alternate future by successfully handling the Xerox missive. This is why I always said, "I lived through the Xerox missive crisis twice, the first time failing to solve it, the second time successfully solving it based on knowlede derived from the first time." And then as a spinoff I saw Valis, the master controlling folder 82 - 083 folder 82 - 083 -3- 3-8-80 entity embedded in reality camouflaged by forward moving time. Part of me did pass over into the next world, due to my "death" sometime in early 1974. There were two alternate time tracks for me to scan, at this point: the original one where I died, and the new one where I moved to Santa Ana, met Joan, etc. But look; I had broken the power of heimarmene, my death strip, over me. I did successfully deal with the Xerox missive due to my precognition, but what a dreadful and strange situation: dreadful because I foresaw it killing me, and strange because when it arrived I overwhelmed reality and remastered my response; hence my "dissociated" actions -- they emanated from my precog unconscious which had become conscious but lacked verbal skills (right hemisphere). No wonder I had a vivid sense in 3-74 of being a machine! Of being programmed! It was my original involvement foreseen by my precognition, this involvement having the aspect of a rigid determinism that I was overpowering. It had the aspect of fate. Yes, it was a good question: When the death situation actually arrived, would I be able to overpower the faulty response that through precognition I foresaw and, due to the precog ratiocination regarding it, change the future away diametrically from what I foresaw? The premise of JONES was weighing on me, that the precog could foresee his own death but be able to do nothing about it. I proved that wrong, but it was a terrible struggle; I could feel my original foreseen faulty response weighing me down. As to time running backward (or stopping) there is the possibility that I was so programmed to die that some elements of the death strip fired anyhow, as if not knowing that I'd altered my response to the Xerox missive; I entered folder 82 - 084 folder 82 - 084 -4- 3-8-80 postmortem time (eternity) and world but was still here, as if certain vast forces didn't get the (new) message. So the veil to the next world was lifted for me, an unusual happening. The literal physical death failed to occur but -- part of me passed on over to the far shore anyhow. So what I saw everyone eventually sees. The angel of death had an appointment with me there in that apartment, but took Pinky instead. The vicarious sacrifice. Now, I should consider the possibility that my precognition was a God-given gift provided me by merciful Providence long in advance for that very purpose, to overcome my fate when death struck at me. This may have been Valis, whom I saw. Hence the engramming on the pretty girl with the fish teeth necklace. After all, I was told recently by the AI voice that I was "adopted," because I gave to the kids at Covenant House. Here's a major point: the Xerox missive trap could only be solved by twice tracking it (solution A and then solution B based on A). I had to fail, which yielded me the information I needed, and then I relived in utilizing that information. This is why I had information that I could not possibly (normally) have had, information THAT WOULD ONLY DEVELOP --COME INTO BEING-- LATER WHEN IT WOULD BE TOO LATE. The trap, then, was so constructed that you could only develop the essential information by failing to escape; you would then know what you needed to know. Providence saw how it could be solved: through precognition of faulty solution A. Through, literally tracking the situation twice. The paradox was: You could only get the information by which to succeed BY FAILING. And precognition got folder 82 - 085 folder 82 - 085 around this paradox by foresseing the failure, deriving the necessary information from it --it had to happen, the failure-- and then going through the trap again but this time (sic) armed with the information acquired from failing. Either this is a biological evolution survival mechanism of great quantum-leap worth, or God helped me; or both together. Yes, time did stop moving forward. And I did see Valis (God). (Well or some kind of supernatural entity. He arranged my Success: for instance, without the engramming on the necklace-girl long in advance I wouldn't have been disinhibited in 2-74. Not only did I have to have precognition I had to RECOGNIZE THE SITUATION WHEN IT DID BEGIN ACTUALLY TO OCCUR. A trigger slightly in advance was needed; that was the golden fish sign and girl at the door. As witness MITHC and "Faith of." What I must realize is that through precognition I did not foresee solution B, which did occur, the successful solution; my precognition foresaw failure. That's why my tension was so great, and why I almost did die. I foresaw the failure but derived the needed information from it, as witness PENULTIMATE TRUTH. But all this knowledge --ofthe trap and of the essential information by which to solve it-- was at an unconscious level in me; hence, for it to be of any use, it had to surface and take motor control and speech control --which is exactly what it did. This shows that "Thomas" is indeed intrinsic to me, not adventitious. This explains who/what Thomas was. Why he took over. How come he had the information he had. folder 82 - 086 -6- 3-8-80 Why there was a time dysfunction/disturbance. What it consisted of. Why I had postpartem experiences. Why I saw the world so differently (it had to do with stopping time and even running it backward). Why I felt as if I were reliving 3-74. Why I felt I was a programmed machine overcoming my programming in order to save my life. What was at stake (my life). How such unusual perceptions and actions and experience could arise. Why the Xerox missive scared me so. Why I knew it was coming and exactly when. Why the girl and the golden fish sign had the effect on me that it had (it signalled my precog uncionscious that the events it foresaw had arrived). Why the material was in my writing in the Sixties pertaining to 3-74. Why the AI voice knew that it was a forgery. Why I got out of synch with causality. Why I felt such fear and urgency, and acted in a dissociated fashion without ideation; why I wouldn't look at the Xerox missive. Why I had the feeling of divine Providence helping me. V. p. 8. What is NOT explained is "What was Valis?" And why such information as that dealing with Chrissy was fired at me. Unless I posit a retrograde time flow that became visible to me when I stopped folder 82 - 087 folder 82 - 087 -7- 3-8-80 forward-moving time (or stopped moving forward in time). And that when you see this retrograde time flow Valis is no longer camouflaged; and Valis is a master control entity, a giant brain processing information that has infiltrated into our reality invisible to us. Valis is in fact moving retrograde in time. So I was briefly in phase with Valis and entered dialog with it as well as being able to see it. It was aware of me and I of it. In fact it emgrammed me over a period of years in preparation for the golden fish sign and the girl, so that my precog self would recognize the situation --my death situation-- just in time, in order to surface and take control of me. Or: it is very possible that there is no Valis, that what I call "Valis" is simply reality running backward, and that the information I received was the information normally available to me on an subliminal basis; but because my unconscious self --he whom I call "Thomas"-- had become conscious, I was now receiving this information consciously; and the whole point of precognition is to receive information, to plug into reality in such a way that reality yields up information. The normal eye and ear receive information; all sense organs do. My precognition is a sense organ; therefore it receives --is attuned to-- information. The "pretextual cause" that I saw is due to the fact that when reality runs backward (or when forward-moving time is abolished) causality is abolished, leaving behind this "pretextual cause" which is no cause, no causality, at all. And plural reality seems unitary, as in a film of an explosion run backward. It was the semblance of mind without actual mind. folder 82 - 088 folder 82 - 088 -8- 3-8-80 My anamnesis must be re-evaluated. It has to do with my unconscious taking over, and the long-term phylogenic memory that it, as collective unconscious, possesses; this is why it occurred under sodium pentathol. Much of my experiences is connected with this seizure of control by my unconscious; i.e. a kind of psychosis, but one with a definite survival purpose in mind, not a mere inundation of archetypal contents out of control. My collective unconscious was signalled by the golden fish sign that the time had come for it to take control. Seeing the fish produced a shock of recognition on my part, an instant and powerful one that resonnated on an unconscious level. My unconscious self had been anticipating the arrival of this sign some day, and thus blocked (GABA fluid blocked) neural circuits were disinhibited. All this under the immediate pressure of an awareness of impending death. "Why I had the feeling divine providence was helping me." It was my own precog unconscious helping me; by "me" read "ego" or "conscious self." It had a vast, supernatural quality, as if very ancient and yet from the future -- the former because of the collective unconscious; the latter because of my precog ability, which is why it was able to help. The precog ability explains why I felt this vaster other mind to be moving retrograde in time. It was right hemisphere; hence the vast spacial sense, and the bells: the right hemisphere is sensitive to