ways. But the way our time perception [rate] is actually controlled is by the causing of things to look different; this is the regulator. I say, if the rate of things looking different speeds up we will think more time has passed, because we have no other yardstick (e.g. a hypertime) to measure it by. Here, the E. of Ph. statement essentially agrees with the AI voice, + is borne out by the EB experiment. In fact, the EB experiment is grotesque because it is not possible to count objects in the hundreds in ten seconds - so what really happened? Either the subject imagined he counted in the hundreds or - well, it's absurd, like a dream. Reality itself, including the subject, is abolished, he is not counting at all. This proves that lacking the regulator of "things looking different" he would have no time sense - not just a faulty one but none. Time would cease, + with it reality as we know it. (The EB experiment bears out what I present in "Stigmata," by the way, which is the real point I'm getting at, if it can be demonstrated that many events can be experienced in little or no RET, then folder 21 - 072 folder 21 - 072 what is meant by "time"? Simply things looking different. But (as I say) since this looking different is the sole regulator, without which time ceases, then flow-rate is only a tautology for rate at which things look different, + what is this rate measured against? If it speeds up, what does it speed up in relation to? Or if it slows down, in relation to what? Clearly the things looking different is the sole arbiter, + is not in relation to any other standard. The EB speaks of "history accelerating" - + this at an accelerating rate... The approach of the climax foreseen intuitively by the prophet is being felt, + feared, as a coming event. Its imminence is, today, not an article of faith; it is a datum of observation + experience. Well, this accelerating acceleration is being measured against clock time - but if clock time were also accelerating, + at an accelerating rate, I say we would not know. So things caused to look different exerts a total temporal power over us. That (or he) which causes things to look different controls our sense of how much time has passed, so through this mechanism he - But what if things suddenly look the same as [once] before? Then we assume time has reverted - obviously. But has it? Things have reverted to a prior looking, but does look = are (esse)? Obviously not. All the observer has is phenomenology, + he can be caused to see things look different + in what way, or the same (as before) + in what way. He will hypostatize reverted time out of this looking, + hypnosis discloses that folder 21 - 073 folder 21 - 073 how things look to us is not under our control (v. "He causes things to look different." He, not us). Nor do they look different on their own; this is an adventitious volitional act on things by him. Does he affect the things or us? The sentence doesn't say, but look it is, not are. 1) Hence an unchanging actuality behind or within things is pointed to 2) + it is outside the temporal process, which is just an abstraction from the looking different, anyhow. 3) We are being deceived: i.e. kept ignorant of this unchanging actuality. Now, I point out, even if it is correctly said to be unchanging, it may not always have been - one can't infer that, nor that it will always remain unchanging, any more than if you look in the mouse cage + the mouse is dead he must always have been dead. But how would the changing of this order of reality differ from what we now see? The key words are "look different" which I maintain does not equal "change" - whereas I believe "look the same" probably does equal "don't change." As the EB hypnosis experiment indicates, an unlimited number of "look differents" can be crowded into a miniscule amount of RET + the observer (subject) is none the wiser. As the E of Ph article + the AI voice's statement show, he would not suppose that "look differents" were occurring faster but that more time had passed - he would tailor the sense of time flow (whatever that means) to the "look differents." I rest my case for counterfeit time. folder 21 - 074 folder 21 - 074 But back to the Q on p. 67, the relationship between astral determinism + time. Time is now seen as a hypostasis of "look differents" so it is the "look differents" which are connected to astral determinism. 1) The "look differents" are not merely observed by the subject but include him as part of them. 2) They (the "look differents") are controlled by this "he" who "causes" them. 3) Therefore he controls the subject(s). Presumably, if the "look differents" reverted to a prior state, so would the subject, since he is part of them like any other part. 1) Then if there was a reversion to prior state Rome CAD 45 whatever subject perceives this would himself revert, which is palpably absurd - but so is the external reversion, by any known system or standard we know of. 2) I saw a reversion to Rome CAD 45. 3) I reverted in conjunction. What I saw was my world (inc. customs + language in me: a total, different, appropriate to this place and time me). 4) Therefore my self (ego) is a mere "looking" or aspect of seeming. + I am under "his" control, whoever "he" is. 5) This is astral determinism; it does not just determine what my world seems to be but what I seem to be (both experienced incorrectly as esse). So astral determinism doesn't just control my fate as outcome or final state of my life, or even the course of it, but what I see objectively + experience myself to be. 1) Therefore being freed from astral determinism would involve freedom from the world I am in folder 21 - 075 folder 21 - 075 ("Geworfenheit") but my self as well; I would lose both. 2) In 3-74 I did - both. Q: What world replaces the astral determinism world? A: I can only speak of my experience; the answer is the world of Acts. Q: What self replaces the astral determinism self? A: I can only speak of my experience; it was - someone else, of the world of Acts, who I call "Thomas" (he is as different from me as Acts is from USA 1974). I can't extrapolate. My real world is Acts and my real self (when astral determinism -i.e. the power of the mysterious "he"- is broken) is "Thomas." Because of the added AI voice statement, "This is why he smashes things," I am made to know that "he" is "James-James," + I know that James-James is the creator or demiurge, who I have reason to equate with Palmer Eldritch the master magician who is YHWH, the salvific power which breaks astral determinism is another God entirely. From outside what I think is a bubble of counterfeit time + counterfeit aspect of reality - i.e. true reality overlaid with fake accretions to make us think that a lot of time has passed since Acts. Summary: the actual time + place is Acts, + we are under the control of what is called astral determinism, which upon close scrutiny turns out to be domination by ignorance regarding our true selves + true world. Therefore astral determinism refers to a spurious mode of being regarding world and self - what the Hindu religion calls Maya: delusion. We are so-to-speak manufactured by this structure: the product of it, generated + controlled inside out. Only in such novels as "Ubik," "Maze," "Stigmata," is this situation dealt with. Throw in "Tears" + "Scanner" + "Eye" as well as "Impostor," "Electric Ant," + "Faith of -" + you have it all. Ego R.I.P. Worse, we are cut off from our authentic self (state) + world. This is what I must put forth in "Valis," + the Salvidor Salvandus. The impaired Godhead extricating its own fallen parts, + re-assimilating them. This broad view of astral determinism + its overcoming is fine - but in my case, the firing of the "death strip" DNA signal was aborted, + my life saved - i.e. the destiny aspect. ___ I am told, the 5th savior will take my burden off me - Ich unglucklich Atlas Eine Welt, die ganze Welt erschmertzen Muss ich tragen... Stolzes Herz - Und brechen will mir das Herz in Leib - I do not have to carry the burden any longer, nor pave the way ("Make a highway for our Lord"), I will be released - the savior will carry it for me. folder 21 - 077 folder 21 - 077 In 3-74 there was one cosmological principle which I literally saw but could not understand: it was the dialectic progression, but not like any dialectic (e.g. Zoroastrian, Gnostic, Xtian, Mani, etc.) that I knew of. They were complimentary + necessary + interacting dual principles - but not even like Empedocles' system, certainly not good-bad + not even Taoist. I now have read the EB article of Dualist Cosmologies (or religions) + I think what I saw is the Nommo-Yurugu dialectic of the Dogon tribe of the Sudan. This is the tribe which has the map of the twin stars Sirius which Bob Wilson writes about. Also, the cosmogony of the Dogon is virtually precisely my two source cosmogony. + Sirius is somehow connected with the Ajna Eye or Eye of Horus. What is important about this realization is that since "the Sirius connection" was already established because of the Ajna Eye, this additional connection would tend to point firmly at -not the Dogon as such- but to that Bob Wilson speculates is the source of the Dogon's science, + I add, religion. A superior technology is pointed to, once again. _____ 1) The Sibyl, in speaking about the civil rights leaders murdered by "the conspirators" included Jim Pike, i.e. stated that Jim Pike was murdered. 2) "Maze" had come out not long before my house was hit on Nov 17 1971. 3) That lawyer at St Jude suggested that the hit had to deal with Jim Pike + material (of a theological nature) turned -or possibly turned- over to me by Jim. 4) Was the hit on my house part of a conspiracy connected to Jim's murder? What I am thinking of is folder 21 - 078 folder 21 - 078 an attempt to [find material to] discredit me, which is the theory I present in the Aquarian. What makes me think of this is the account in "Cosmic Trigger" of the guy getting heroin sent to him through the mail by the DEA + syndicate + then busted - to discredit him vis-a-vis any testimony he might give re the civil rights leaders' assassinations. + there fits in with this the Xerox missive later in '74 (+ the response being the supernormal Sibyl entity taking me over; factoring out as Sibyl entity pitted against the conspirators in my case, + against the whole Nixon tyranny. "Cosmic Trigger" hints at some connection between the superior intelligences and the assassinations/conspirators, which is exactly my experience. Something sent in the mail to discredit you - they find you in possession of it. On 3/20/74 the higher intelligence knew that time was of the essence in getting the Xerox missive out of my apartment (but perhaps only secondarily to the Bureau). + now the AI voice says "an intelligence officer in the [US] army sent it." ___ Our universe is a 2-source hologram,