which is still only potential. So God exists in a universe larger than the actual, he exists also in the potential which means that time for him does not exist; or, he can change what for him is the past but is not the past for anyone or anything else, but is present s t i future (So they mystery of world as "memories 7 recycled" is explained. This is God's view, it is all recycled memories - i.e. the past the actualized but which he has the power t to change; this means that the whole "tape is run again + again, changed by him ach time with no one the wiser. This is what mean by orthogonal time. For me, a prime example of this is 3-74, the response to the erox missive. The dark counterplayer knows only of the one response ("track") which pre‐ t how there could fathom vailed - he cannot of it. be pre-knowledge 334 it follows then, that "programs" are run to their conclusions + then one or more crucial variables are changed. This provides a broad theoretical framework by which to deductively understand 2-3-74, to see it in context + to understand what kind of information was made available to me by virtue of my having lived through it. There is really no way to tell what specifically, in the future vis-a-vis 3-74 was actualized as goal by the change in 3-74. but the material in "Faith" + "MITHC" gives evidence of a prior, discarded track for which an override was carefully built up in anticipation of 3-74 (3-74 now correctly regarded as lying in the past) It is impossible for me to view the override as due to 1) need (distress) on my part, or 2) merit on my part because 1) other people have been in greater need (distress) + 2) have possessed greater merit. A structural plan is pointed to. But if I could discern it so could the dark counterplayer. Anyhow the dark counterplayer knows only the override track as do I, any other track is terely intuited - knowledge of it is conjectural must remain so. All alternatives have i been pushed back into the realm of the merely sotential. To know what it consisted of cor would have consisted of) you would have to have God's knowledge of the potential vs the actual, which is a wholly different sort of universe. At every given point God selects the best sissible actualization given the antecedents Thus I saw the antecedents must be there. him plundering the antecedent universe to t 335 the evolving structure - kosmoi. now I see how "pretextual cause works. every point is actually open (or free) to a range of actualizations. God, as teleological goal-seeking stimulus, effortlessly actualizes the best within the range, but it must lie within the range (e.g. a Fish can't turn into a bird; Spinoza is right: there are no violations of natural law - but God lays down sequences with goal in mind, selecting at each point in an infinite line of points that which is - not intrin sically best - but which leads to the best t goal. So efficient cause only provides the range, not the choice (potential to actuali zed) within the range. Wholes do not come into existence ex nihilo, but out of parts, which efficient cause - antecedents - provide. Then in a sense God is unfree; he must deal with the totality of antecedents as the given, but he is free to select the best choice actualization) at each point, + does. This is why my response to the Xerox missive in 3-74 required a history (sequence of proper causal antecedents)! also there is a vast reliance on synchron‐ lity: the synchronized "budding" of causually von-related trains. This is how the presence of God is best read. Kosmos is read along synchronicity axes, not temporal: i.e. read spacially (right hemisphere, as structure). This is how the "plasmate" info messages are discerned, + by no other way. 338 ( if God didn't limit actualization to the range of limited possibilities (potentialities) at each spacio-temporal point, irreality (dream-like) would be introduced into the system. But this is quite different the from mechanical determinism, since system is pulled as well as pushed. Now, if this "pulling" factor were literally seen empirically it would appear so to speak, as a warp or valence factor away from the plumb. (Efficient cause acting solely designated as plumb in this mechani‐ cal model.) + this is precisely what I saw which I termed Valis: a network of valences acting with invisible but obviously purposeful tug. Giving rise in my mind to the idea of a sentient + powerful presence, + this was a correct interpretation, since in the universe as we scientifically construe it no such warp - + coherent network of warpings - away from plumb can arise. I understood well + precisely what I saw, + knew it could not be accounted for except in terms of the supernatural. (or theological.) This was pure purpose involving intelligence, total fresight + an element of power or tug (what Plato calls persuasion"). Thus although I may not have seen God, per se, I had seen what subatomic physicists see as evidence proof) of subatomic particles: tracings or effects. (Hence I later - recently - thought 3 "It was not God but rather God's will. probably I saw because 1) my right brain as up to consciousnes -i.e. t is lo parity 337 i ) lot of teleological tug was taking place a then + there. as regards the Golden Fish sign, why, I am persuaded by its crucial involvement in the causal sequence to infer the truth of Xtianity + the reality of Christ, at least as a mystical presence This all is a mix of Zoroastrianism, Parmenides, aristotle. Spinoza, Pauli + my own thoughts + 2-3-74 experience; very little derives from the Bible. But I would be very inclined to say at this point that only a deliberately - + painstakingly intricated caused entheusiasmos could account for my 2-3-74 experience. So at this point I would tend to rank 2-3-74 with Zoroaster's revelation - + it is revelation which explains the AI voice. It was not a simple event to engineer; many factors is cause were needed. More than grace or providence was involved. + certainly in no sense was it something I accomplished. Exiet - unless (as I theorize in "Valis") Thomas laid down plans to reconstitute rimself. But I think Thomas was Jim bike, + God arranged it all years in dvance. It was like Elijah + Elisha, which s why I supposed it was Elijah + had messe dreams. (E.g. "Alto Carmel" I The koine, + the dualism, point t Jim + not Elijah t 338 I think I've got it. Jim was able to come back through the spirit of Elijah which is able to come back. Hence this is not spiritual ism but a divine event, + ful fills the prophecy: "In that day I will send the spirit of Elijah to you --" etc. plundering the antecedent universe as stockpile + "pretextual cause" are one + the same thing: involving choosing from the range of potential possibilities, viz: actualizing the most desirable possibility in terms of an envisioned goal (the God's teleological foresight). Apparently I was briefly joined to the God's mind itself, + so understood not only that it operates (decides) but how it decides: on the basis of what + what for (goal). 1) Zoroaster: Apriori foresight vs obdurate opponent with only hindsight: the dialectic a 2) Aristotle: teleology - stimulating goal seeking is primary function. 3) Spinoza: immanent, not transcendent; always working by, with + in natural law, rather than suspending it 4) Avicenna: not seeing time as we do (hence orthogonal change). 3) Plato: persuasion rather than coercion; Noos is ananke (v. #1). 6) Pythagoras: concept of kosmos. 7) Parmenides: forms I + 2 with 2 only seeming VIII + "the lie.") the mystery religions: power to break "astral 8) eterminism," which is the true basis of salvation + the action of In 2 339 9) Plotinus: union with God calso Sankara + ckehart). 10) N.T.: Christ as surrogate for us (in terms of bait taken by the histile power). The Holy Spirit (t 11) O.T.: Elijah + entheusiasmos. (V #9) jas aural prompting by the God, within each of us. Now, in 3-74 the arranged antecedents were chosen from to the limit of their poten tialities, but look at what had to be set up over a long period of time. This network of causes has always been an indication that Spinoza is correct (regarding miracles). Purpose teleology) lies along the entire length of this process (as witness "Faith" + "MITHC.") What 6 I have to assume now is that the ursatz which generated the material in the writing was necessary that 3-74 could occur. By the looks of This I gather that 3-74 was important above + beyond the Xerox missive as such. A reverse direction of causal flow was disclosed to me, against all normal (usual) perception. 12) Leibnitz: "best of all possible worlds? "matter is the body of God" - Spinoza. This is the one most important realization of all; from this the rest follows. To this I join Aristotle's view that the unmoved mover "stimulates goal - seeking (teleology). from Zoroaster the dialectic, the perpetual, in fact eternal triumphing by God who has foresight a priori + the opponent who has only a posteriori hindsight. God's foresight leads to long - range strategy on his part (as in go or chess). It is a game (i.e. contest). In fact it is a game per‐ petually renewed which accrues (accumulates: e hand each predicated on all the previous nes. Each "hand" when be comple comes the t 840 is I antecedent given on which the next draws o n pieces are selected out of the antecedent total by God + placed strategically in order to later win the next "hand." Yes, every constituent for the next hand is drawn out chosen/selected out - of the antecedent total. t This is the passive-active (at rest - in motion) binary modes I witnessed. This 0-1 oscillation is along an axis not known to us; in no way do we see it. it has no analog in normal perception of world. What is made of the "I" or in motion parts? Some kind of message or mind - thing or mens actualized in matter linked together physically. Are these analogous to neural con‐ nections in a brain? Linked + then severed, + new links established instead? If this is so, we know nothing about our world or God because nature is brain, not body. If thoughts are to occur must they physically occur? t (as in a human brain presumably each thought has a neurological basis of cells or veurons linked - none of this would be known to Spinoza) Then Plato's Noos requires a brain just as Spinoza's God requires a body. Nature is not soma, however, but specifically brain. But then what is the a posteriori counter player? Is There an anti-Noos (as in "Valis" the irrational is the rational, with rational as Noos? Are there two minds? I declare, Noos is brainifying reality wich in itself has will - the Valis has indeed invaded: one super entity attacking could it be another, lesser, stupider, prior one. 34 pure organizing sentience preying on something subrational? Giving rise to our idea of God? The Parmenides' forms one + twin dragons of Taoism. two as antithetical sentient but quite different from each other entities. suppose the obdurate counterplayer lacks true being ("being" construed as Pythagoras construed it: as structure, not substance). A phantom universe of the merely seeming. To make it real, arrangement is necessary: inter‐ related functioning. But this is precisely Plato, Noös vs ananke.