by way of death + Christ's surrogation. the ancient powers were deprived of their victim, finding God in the net, to their surprise, + not me fewer, more complex things are coming into exis‐ ence (inverse frequency to complexity); hence the limit. structure applies more articulated laws. The ultimate outcome would be a unique infinitely complex thing involving the ultimate laws of the limiting structure. This is like an evolving brain its thought contents. This ultimate, unique complex would be an adequate analog in the substantial universe of the totality of the limiting structure: the picture now at last equals the map. So I know the domain from which Valis prose, was a part of was, + it tells me that al though Spinoza is substantially correct about the or ti atur go h atan an retwee e 14s he knows the parameters of natural law as if all t But where Spinoza is is known to us already wrong he is less wrong than right where he is right. He incorrectly assumes a blind determinism which is planless + without foresight + personality. Here he is ignorant of Sankara's Brahmanism. conuulsive the t will" which my worlds show (in my writing) perhaps relates to nightmare visions of Brahman. suppose we conceive of one ultra macro‐ organism which is incorporating (assimilating) selected bits of its environment into itself, + that nature is one of structure - rather than it its being substantial, an object among objects - + that its structure obeys (follows) laws which derive from its volition (intentions, purpose, hence teleology); + that we can't see it because it does not possess esse but intelligere (it is self aware + strives for progressively greater organization +, especially, subsumation of reality its laws (intentions). Its primary concern to is of course its own growth + survival + the exercise of its intentions. Its method is to subdue + incorporate without the incorporated bit being aware that its own intention (for its own growth + survival) is subordinated to that of the ultra macrostructure. (The bit cannot tell when or if it is incorporated or that a macroentity exists which can + will the macro‐ incorporate it upon deciding to) entity installs programmed inner taped instructions in its microbits which act to synchronize them; the macroentity is thus in the microbits rather than acting on them adventitiously, which furthers the occluding of the microbits to their subsumation, since Their individual wills are insidiously pre-empted by the macro structure's, whether This is a gain (48 or a loss to them is a question which can't be answered. All this subsumation is simply a process in accord with universal tendencies toward complexity + infrequency yielding as a limit one unique infinitely complex macro entity which has fitted its entire environ‐ ment into itself selectively so that all functions serve a central will. The volitional laws by which this macro structure operates are the highest principles available, + over‐ rule less sophisticated principles wherever the two come into conflict. Thus a powerful teleology breaks into the deterministic efficient cause universe + combats it for the purpose of using it. The macro entity regards the antecedent universe as a disorganized plurality which is raw material The 10 sefiroth are the stages (like the Bardo Thodol) down which the dying human soul falls. It is fed its past memories as world (cf "Ubik"). Were it to recognize these events as its own past memories it would (obviously) remember; i.e. experience anamnesis + hence be reborn to life (reverse the sinking, dying + for getting). It would be in a prefallen state. Also, it would no longer be in the Bardo Thodol world but in the real world which is in Ubik/Valis or en sof: the Godhead. we have it backward: this "life" is death the other world is life. This is the big + secret, + meaning of Kaballa. We are all s presently in the half-life state of "Ubik" + like those in "Ubik" don't know it. 45 the key to waking up (to life) is to remember, + remembering equals recognizing "world" as one's own past memories. Then this simulated "world" is replaced by God qua world volitional, intentional, sentient world, Noos which thinks reality + in which a a one exists 3-74 proves that the "world" we normally see is nothing but our own prior thought formations (memories). it is not real. What is real is Ubik or Valis or Zebra or the Godhead. In reality There is nothing real but it. + we can be nowhere but in it, The Bardo Thodol journey set in motion by the precious metal Jewelry (2-74, + Tagomi in the park) is really a journey to life, not from life to death; it must be understood back‐ ward, just as our universe which Tagomi The Bards crossed into is the real one Thodol trip (such as I experienced) is not a sign that you're dying but that you're coming back to life! proof: I suddenly experienced rado cally different memories in 2-74 + the "reality" generator obligingly served up that of a ifferent [simulated] world, a l Acts/ "Tears." Thus I unconsciously began to understand, + by 3-74 (+ t the 2 letters) I knew (that my o reality was simulated all "Ubik" based on forgotten memories of my own) Thus I awoke to my true situation, briefly saw true reality. + our situation is known to us as "the Fall," + we know we are in a deformed, occluded state. I proved this, when I regained my original state. The pre-fallen state is characterized by being with God + hearing his voice (3-74). Born again as the "second Adam" - Christ. is this not precisely the experience that an authentic early Xtian could be expected to have if all went well? As to why I had it + others don't - its because am an early (authentic) Xtian, I in essence: renewed life + the breakin of Karma "unless a man be born again he cannot enter the Kingdom of God." If this all is correct, it would explain why in my 27 years of writing I regard the world as (1) irreal; + 2) the product of each human mind. (For (1) take "Joint"; for (2) take "Eye") simulated + subjective. What makes "Ubik" unique is their encountering Ubik or the Godhead, or what I now believe to be truly If this all is correct, then my real. 149 writing is both important + unique. + it explains what happened to me in 2-3-74; as an early Xtian I was born again (or born from above or born in/through / by the spirit) + thus leased to be in the pseudo-reality but rather in the Kingdom of God + experienced God + regained my repressed memories. The Fall is understood, +, more portant, reversed, + the faculties lost or impaired in the Fall restored (v. Calvin). (v. my exclaim "I am no longer blind!" a one of the most promising aspects of this model is that it incorporates the "they are all lying inert + unconscious + imagining reality" theme - obsession - in my writing; + the value of this is to include it as a factor in what took place in 2-3-74 inasmuch as I am sure that it played a role. + I was freed in 2-3-74 because I broke my Karma, my karmic punishment, by what I did later in 1974 by sending help to Covenant House. If you wake up ("wachet auf") you are free have the power - to break the karmic hold over you. You can escape the "taped" programming of your memories + get to a place which is actually new If your memories came back you'd recognize present reality as them. Or, if you recognized present redity as prior memory, it might induce general total massive anamnesis ( This explains the future memory 3-74 "dissociative" behavior; (knowledge) of based on unconscious Xerox "Future" memories what the missive) missive memories were drawn ist upon to âž€ + an understanding present situation ow of 150 So in 3-74 my brain had not only memory of the problem situation (which realization shocked it) but it had memory of the future in which the vecessary missing information existed - which my brain drew on to solve the problem (on an uncon‐ scious level, outside of awareness). There were two areas of anxiety + tension the 3-74 problem itself. 1) 2) Memory of it having already happened, including memory of portions which had not yet (in 3-74) hap pened. This gave my brain a distinct advantage in terms of problem solving but it made it extremely ense because - based on its future memories - it knew the severity of the situation, + was shocked to know that it remembered (which it could not account for) shocked as it was it made use of the information any‐ how. what if the AI voice is the self which has already gone through -lived this - before, + so knows? It would certainly make "Thomas" the me who lived it the first time; that this is the second time around would account for a latent personality, + one who knows what the Xerox missive is + what to do with it (based on his hindsight) "Thomas" is the other side of the memories - each implies (requires!) the other. Thomas would be in a much better position than me to handle the Xerox missive; he had gone through the situation once before, knew what the missive was + hence what to do. I, in the other hand, would most likely duplicate his error. The implication here is that the Xerox missive was sinister without parallel in my life. 3-74 Thomas lived my s (or his?) life through m odeath ( 3 + came back from 1928 i the next world to live it over again + successfully deal with 3-74; hence the post mortem experiences: he is - has been This explains why all my life - on the other sides I thought it was Jim Pike - i.e. someone come back from the dead. Hence the stereo vision of both realms upon his taking over, why, that means that Thomas is in a sense an earlier me (he lived through it before I did) + a later me (he completed this life which began in 1928 + died). This makes him a time traveler who has gone into the (his) past with knowledge of the future (which he certainly has shown). Hence the two psycho's in me "living in different centuries" - hence, too, the plot of "Scanner" This schema is not quite right. I would die, come back + not remember having lived this life In 3-74 before - until 2-3-74 when the crisis came would remember, inc. on into the future when the I needed missing info re the Xerox missive was available to me. So when I speak a myself as a "dying soul" who originally lived this life + am now being fed back my memories as world, this is what I mean I have buried memories of everything which has hap‐ pened to me, + this is what showed up in "MITHC" "Faith of" + "Tears" etc. This explains the 2-74 anamnesis; this world was seen as the past. So it was seen from the future (as I reasoned out, to the future it looks like the past). + of course to someone from the future - post Nixon - + the other side it would resemble/be a prison. The only criticism of this is that upon viewing it - Thomas as from the other side - it seems more likely that Thomas is my twin sister. One indication once, when Thomas was in control, I distinctly myself to be a woman. Other evidenced felt o I i t th #92 25 8 from the