himself, his self-perception starting an endless chain of dialectical pro¬ gression in what we know of as time; i.e. it brought time into existence by a sort of infinity of mirrors effect, that he caused himself to change by his very act of self-awareness. He could not be not self-aware and still be intelligere; thus the universe of the ontogons —and plurality— that we experience is in fact God¬ in-time, God in process, and this process is one of self-awareness, there being nothing for him to know except himself. Living at the time of Newton, Spinoza thought of causality as rigid determinism within a closed system; what I see is God's power in terms of the direction taken by probabilities. With reality as a unified field, God exerts a relentless power over the acausal factors (what we know as synchronicity) and so controls the universe; as Will Durant says about Spinoza's God: "His will is law." This is true, but causal law really deals with probabili¬ ties; however, God decides which shall be actualized and which shall remain merely potential. It is like a perturbation in a field, a perturbation of the astronomical sort...this perturbation points to God and the exercise of his will. "His will is law" but also I add this; "His thought is his will"; he need merely think it for it to be so. Thus God is absolutely involved with the universe, in the sense that Xenophanes spoke of. When we see an event we are seeing a materialization of God's thought; so I say, The universe exists in the mind of God very much as Berkeley believed (this is not "amiable nonsense," as Durant supposes; it is highly profound and accurate). But I ramble. All I want to say is that Valis was God, that 3-74 was theophany, miracle and pronoia, and pronoia based on an intelligent analysis of me and my situation, not whim and not -6- (on the other hand) something rigidly determined, which is to say something reflexive and mechanical. My sinister destiny was abolished; tampered with, so to speak, in the sense that the Greco-Roman mystery religions taught. It was a supreme adjudication of my case, and the books were, as the E.B. says, closed. I am tired. I've labored for over six and a half years to fathom 3-74, to figure out if it was (as I suspected) a theophany and example of pronoia or if it just seemed so because it had the pragmatic effect of these. I am now satisfied that all three did in fact take place. I have been relentlessly skeptical and relentlessly imaginative and I have done enormous research and tried out as many possible theories as I could come up with. The desert and abyss finally won my assent, as if by weariness. The negative way to God, perhaps. 636 1689 I just read over those 2-80/9-3-80 pages. There are only two points of merit: (1) History is a changeless archetype of war between the Empire and the Christians, a dialectic which produces Valis who is the Cosmic Christ of Chardin. The Empire and Christians are the two constants. (2) Reality is based on a verbal (written) narrative, one that tells a complex story found in Acts, the Gospels, TEARS, etc. It is about the antithetical dialectical fight supra and also it is the Easter story, passion, death and resurrection. What occurs to me now is that this written narrative is what I've recently been calling "the Third Torah." Oh; yes -7- (3) Valis is either the Cosmic Christ of Chardin or is actually YHWH Himself. I figured this out because I figured out that I accidentally reperformed the Easter Christian passion narrative.1 This was before I realized that the vast spaces 1 experienced in 3-74 pointed to Valis as God (cf THE WANING OF THE MIDDLE AGES). 1And got myself into Eliade's illo tempore. Also, in those pages, I figured out that the Christian churches when they reperform the Easter story (passion, death and resurrection) fail to use the golden fish disinhibiting sign; so their reperformance fails. (This disinhibiting factor was known by the mystery religions to be essential») So before I came up with the clincher argument that infinite volumes of space point to Valis being Christ or God I had already come up with the argument that I accidentally reperformed the Christian Easter sacred narrative myth successfully — and thus found myself back in the Christian illo tempore. Fascinating, the view that the dialectical struggle of the two historical constants —the Empire and the Christians— gives rise to Valis the Cosmic Christ, who builds his body out of the "stockpile of parts" created by the antithetical struggle. The Empire, of course, has no idea that the very struggle itself gives rise to the Cosmic Christ, so-to-speak feeds him, feeds him ever newer parts for his macrosoma. (Presumably the secret authentic Christians do know this; they don't need to win to win, so to speak.) (All they need do is keep the historical struggle going.) -8- The Empire always exists. The secret revolutionary Christians attacking it always exist. If you fought against the Empire now you fought against it in ages past; I learned this from my anamnesis. Reality is based on a written narrative that depicts this struggle (e.g. TEARS and Acts and THE BACCHAE). My most recent reasoning was that 2-74 could not have been an accident because it was preceeded by the Acts material in TEARS; and I have decided that that Acts material was inserted by the Paraclete whom I had been a host to for many years, which is to say, "Thomas" is the Paraclete. And much of 3-74 was an apotheosis of the Paraclete within me...but also, Valis was indeed the Cosmic Christ or God, shown to me by the Holy Spirit. So I am triangulating on Valis being the Cosmic Christ or God (by the arguments to vast space; to the reperformance of the Easter story; to the Christian elements in 2-74 and also 3-74). This realization troubles me because it makes me just another person "cuckoo for Christ," as Jay put it; I would prefer (in a way) that something more modern was the explanation. But I have to go where the argument leads. Anyhow, I have the fascinating revelation about sacred history: the two contending constants and the fact that their very contention, not just a victory by the Christians, feeds the building of the soma of the Cosmic Christ. And I still can talk about the meta-morpheme in TEARS that is a bit of the Third Torah (a bit by which the total material can be retrieved). -9- But I banalize my conclusions by these obsessive notes, and I must give them up; I realized this from reading the 9-2-80 pages. My mind worries and scurries, contradicts itself, comes to conclusions and then arbitrarily drops them; the exegesis does not build. There is no accumulative factor. Nonetheless (without repeating the arguments; I always repeat my arguments, stating them again and again in exactly the same words, like a stuck LP) I will say: I found myself in 2-3-74 involved with theophany, miracle, pronoia and enthusiasmos by the Second Comforter. Now, I will'certainly natter on past this point, worry and ponder and obsessively write for years to come; but this is a kind of tribute on my part to the importance of what I underwent, what I saw, what I learned; it is a way of preserving the memory of it all, this endless rehashing: that is the real point, to keep the memory —which is so cherished— alive. After all, it has been over six and a half years, nowi And I don't want to forget. Valis was the Christian God, whether YHWH or Christ; and inside me "Thomas" was the paraclete, and I have really always known this but what reticent to say so and hesitant to believe. Weariness has brought me to the point where I can say, I have followed all the lines of argument and this is where they lead; they lead to where I knew, at the time it happened, I was. But this is what an exegesis of a mystical experience is for, to develop it rationally, so that it can be expressed in words. Words fail in the end, though. But the attempt must be made. Because the basis of reality is a verbal (written) narrative, the Empire suppresses information and the Christians generate it. Valis is, after all (as I saw) primarily an information-processing entity (though he be Christ). A recent development in the Empire's strategy is the invention of disinformation, which is far worse than noninformation (the mere lack or suppression of information); this is a Pigspurt invention, and very effective. A handy ruleof-thumb would be, You can tell which side is which by observing whether they're generating information or whether they're suppressing it or sending out disinformation; no formal adherence to Christianity is necessary (I've worked all my life with no formal ties to it). Valis and information —and the generation of information— can't be separated. The Empire and the suppression of information can't be separated. So the dialectic is information versus nonor anti-information, out of which Valis, the Cosmic Christ, step by step comes into being, generated by the antitheses. The Cosmic Christ exists now but is incomplete. The Empire, which by suppress¬ ing information is therefore in a sense the anti-Christ, is put to work as half of the dialectic; Christ uses everything (as was revealed to me): in its very act of suppressing information, the Empire aids in the building of the soma of the Cosmic Christ (which the Empire does not realize). Since the basis of reality is a sacred narrative —information— the generation of new information is an act in the ground of being, in the ontology of the sacred itself. Reality is based on information, on a sacred narrative; and Valis generates information. Valis is ipso facto the generator of reality, as are the genuine Christians, those who generate new information, for whatever reason. -11- The sacred narrative on which reality is based (Acts) can be seen as latent in new information generated by selfunaware Christians; the sacred narrative Acts being the Ground of Being replicates itself in the microforms of newly generated information. This is what William Burroughs discovered (but interprets differently). To locate the spontaneous generation of the sacred narrative —Acts— in newly-generated information is to stumble on the truth of what constitutes the Ground of Being...and to plunge into the Christian illo tempore, where Christ is real. This sacred narrative —Acts— which is the ground of being depicts the two antithetical constants: the Empire and the secret Christian revolutionaries who I remembered (if that's the term; saw may be more correct) to have been contending down thousands of years of history — phylogenic history, so to speak; ontologically real history, not the epiphenomena we normally see. (1) I found this narrative in TEARS in both explicit and latent form. (2) By anamnesis I remembered it as happening, and also remembered participating over vast spans of time. -1- 9-29-80 It may be that to see Valis your ontological categories by which you order perception must change; for example, time may in some fashion be converted into or toward being space. Valis comes into existence when you perceive it, but your perceiving it does not cause it to come into existence; this is not a normal causal relationship; there is, instead, some kind of push-pull causation going on, a positive feedback. There is a parallel between Valis existing and your seeing it; when Valis is perceived it exists and when it is not perceived it does not exist: this is because "Valis" is a name for a certain structure, a certain pattern, and a perceiving mind is required by which to perceive the pattern. However, the percipient does not create the pattern, does not project