the other side" - i.e. undergoing post mortem experiences. Elisha to Elija: "When you go, send me back a part of your spirit." ("So I can do the things you did - inherit your mantle." "Speak with your authority.") But mainly it was the busy activity of the personality - so much like Jim. the view of a single world of past (Acts) present + future ("Tears") as one world could be a indication that the view comes from the upper realms which is supra temporal. As Avicenna pointed out, God does not experience time as we do; he (+ the upper realm) may see it all together as one gestalt. In fact, the view expressed in "Tears" where 3 or even 4 worlds are combined (past, present, future + alternate universe) may prove that an upper realm mind underwrote the book - + that thomas is from that realm + so saw reality superimpositions. This is how the upper realm - + only the upper realm - sees our world. So rather that this being a puzzle, it is evidence. The EB article on angels says they're from the transcendent realm "above space, time, cause + effect "- which is exactly what I experienced in 2-3-74. ---------- Jung: "In psychosis one day nothing new ever came into the (human individual's mind again, [..] the program congealed; the dialectic ceases; "one day nothing new came into it + it froze as the BIP." But then the divine, the new, irrupted into it - invaded it as something new - so the program was irrational (psychotic) as I put forth in "Valis." + rationality irrupted into it from outside - + thus, by starting it into motion again, made it sane. So dialectic process equals rational, + ossifying equals irrational. The program, then, may itself be (in fact the) - macro mind! Which means it is the biological aspect of the machine (computer). This is the hypertime (3) (slow thinking; it froze back in 45 AD. The new variable is trying to - + is - setting it back into motion. Or an aspect of the mind froze, forming what Jung calls a complex; the BIP; a [..] computer which must be dissolved. So the BIP is an occified complex in the macro mind (brain) which must be dissolved. The Holy Spirit is like) sic-like) a metabolic toxin, i.e. a medication (measured amount of poison); thus explains the "bichloride.." dream + the "aspirin of mercury" dream. +, like any mental complex, it warps other thoughts to itself - acts as a magnet, + creates uniformity (which is a form of entropy). There is - + has been - no progress or change in the complex for 2000 years. If the complex (the BIP) isn't dissolved. It will evertually shut down the macro mind (brain). It imposes its form progressively unless attacked (as if by a - or several- phagocytes). It is dead; the dialectic in it has ceased. Either it can get larger + impose its will on more + more contents of the mind, or it can be successfully attached + dissolved. Thus ZEBRA invades the macro mind to do battle against the stagnant complex, which (the latter) isn't rational (vide Jung's statement about "nothing new coming into the psychotic mind"; then, I deduce, the macro mind, due to the BIP complex is psychotic, as put forth in "Valis"). ZEBRA seems to be winning (v. 1974 + later). So this is what ZEBRA/VALIS was doing in '74. + this is why I correctly perceive the BIP as lying unchanged in the past, present, + alternate worlds (+ possibly future - + absolutely unchanging). The whole thrust of my published corpus of writing is theoretically a dissolving agent - dissolving reality i.e the complex (BIP)!!!! So my "reality dissolving" grand theme ( the reality isn't real) is a perception of the metabolic toxin dissolving the BIP - my writing describes an actual + vital process, which must take place if the macro brain is to become rational - i.e. time start up again. By "reality" real: frozen hypostasis. In "Stigmata" the spreading ubiquity of the complex (Palmer Eldritch's stigmata) os described. Also, my plural realities is an attempt to present the desirability of difference vs one reality or complex. The BIP Complex exerts a valence, this is its nature. The nature of the healthy mind is to progress through the dialectic, but the valence of the BIP slows it down generally + threatens to halt the [entitity]. Is it possible that what I call the android, + android thinking, is the result of this valence? i.e. those who have been combined with the complex? It is a distinct possibility. It reduces them, + the abreaction - reversion - to [prin] simpler, mine stable forms is evident here, leading toward entropy + consentience + uniformity. The formation of this complex may be the crisis in the Godhead, even, which caused part of the Godhead to fall into the lower realm. Once th BIP is dissolved, the 2 realms can reunite. In 2-74 I believed in it (the xtians + Christ), + at once it was true, + a month later it came into being, replacing this space, this time, this world. 543-9389 Messiah This is not a normal response to believing something (which is not true, obviously); + so I conclude that what I believed is is. + all I had to do to experience it all was believe so it was really always (already) there - all the time. ➀ [Diagram] ---------- The plasmate temporarily inhabis you + then moves on. It inhabited Jesus. I 3-74 in inhabited me. It is christ. It cannot be killed or even found (usually). It's some kind of energy life form with wisdom + personality. It is the new variable introduced to dissolve the complex (the BIP) of the macro-brain. It is not a part of, or a product of, creation (i.e. the program or macrobrain). It came from outside. Its job is to start time (i.e the dialectic) going again. Shamanism is involved. "The Bachae" is the paradigm. Nor are we going to know even who it is. ---------- ➀ Here is evidence. 1) Acts underlies our world (premise). 2) If you believe this you will see Acts. Q: How do we know it's not just autosuggestion? A: By the correct details of the world of Acts not known to me. Q: How can we prove I knew these details (or rather saw them) while not knowing them? A: "Tears," in which they appear. In "Tears" I acted as an analyzing maching deconstructing our world. I came up with sub-world A. Sub-world A which I designated in "Tears" as our world as it really is turns out (to my surprise) to be Acts. QED Add to the description in "Tears" (written in 1970) of the external world the inner analog self thomas, at the period,with knowledge + memory of that world, thinking in the koine, + you have total congruence of world + person-living-in-that-world. I consider the case amply proved vis-a-vis the 1970 material in "Tears" by the "thomas" surfacing in 1974 a month after "Tears" came out (due to the Golden Fish sign the month "Tears" was published). If the evidence is incomplete, I ask, what is missing? or, perhaps more accurately Acts is the world I am living in, + I am really thomas who knows that world + thinks in the koine this brings up the enigmatic, "there; someone else in my head + he's living in another century." However one explains that. In that case I reassert my claim (verified by the AI voice) that I am really a genuine immortal apostalic secret xtian under the rule - or a part - of christ, called by him as part of his Little Flock. The proposition "I am an apostalic xtian living at the time + place of Acts" is a totally different proposition from "it is - reality is- really Acts." + one I prefer, although it is hard to account for - [unlea..] one assumes it is done to the [Hilq spiner], which is an obvious + compelling possibility this may be the case; I am living in Acts. Not "It really is (in itself) the world of Acts." The reason I like this is that it locates me as under the jurisdiction of christ himself, who for me is literally alive + who converses with me. Really, all I actually know is that I am a person of the time + place of Acts - from my own "plural worlds" writing I should long ago have realized that this Acts reality isn't implied for anyone but me; in fact, this probably explains the presence of this radical theme in my writing! + the Q: "Why Acts + not some other time + place?" Leads me immediately back to the Holy Spirit, thus ratifying my conviction as to who speaks to me + who told me all things - + showed all things to me, esp. telling me christ will soon return. Then why do I see USA 1974? Perhaps the introduction of the new variable in AD 45 from outside was successful; the complex was dissolved + time started up again. The Act was accomplished then, not now. We (sic: "we") set time back into motion: reinstitutes the dialectic. + the Zeno "Frog Halving" spiral log makes the entire time available to us, who am in time C (3). hypertime. But more likely my inner-outer experience (anamnesis) is a case of macro-transubstantiation; that, specifically, is the miracle involved. It is a known miracle, of course. The Golden Fish sign: "in memory of me," time has abolished - turned into space, this is a miracle underlying many religious + mythic practices - plus the theolepsy. By the God! The two together so well that I can argue that the anamnesis could only have occurred if (as did happen) the "Mass" or Sacrament worked + the God took me over. + since it was to Acts I returned I know which God it is. This is the Cardinal Heart of all real religions: to be one with the God, who enters you. + if time is abolished, so is death. This specifically is what the real thing is all about; the rest is cargo cult. + our xtian churches have long ago lost it + forgotten it ever was. I should pose this Q: "Could I have been taken over by the God + not experienced anamnesis?" +: "Could I have experienced anamnesis + not been taken over by the God?" In both cases the answer is no. It is one experience. It seems clear that my being taken over by the God produced the anamnesis; conversely, the fact that I experienced anamnesis proves that it was the God who took me over. +, again, the fact that the "origins" I remember was Acts ("the Gospel of the Holy Spirit" who is Christ) shows which GOd it was. An upshot of this realization is that indeed the Holy Spirit spoke for me in 3-74 as promised in the N.T. Also, consider how amazing it is that it could take me out of this world + relocated me in Acts - cause me to remember Acts, see Acts (i.e. be in that world) + be a person of that world? Specifically an apostolic xtian, knowing the secret handshakes + sacraments + koine, + to know that Christ had just died + would soon return - + to hear the "AI" voice - the Spirit's. + to see VALIS! to know all the cosmological cosmogenical matters - + control of causality; the breaking of astral determinism (through Grace). So if just I was located spacio-temporally in Acts then my radical epistemological critique is verified; we do live in plural worlds. So this interpretation of my 3-74 superimposition is more compatable to me