by the God produced the anamnesis; conversely, the fact that I experienced anamnesis proves that it was the God who took me over. +, again, the fact that the "origins" I remember was Acts ("the Gospel of the Holy Spirit" who is Christ) shows which GOd it was. An upshot of this realization is that indeed the Holy Spirit spoke for me in 3-74 as promised in the N.T. Also, consider how amazing it is that it could take me out of this world + relocated me in Acts - cause me to remember Acts, see Acts (i.e. be in that world) + be a person of that world? Specifically an apostolic xtian, knowing the secret handshakes + sacraments + koine, + to know that Christ had just died + would soon return - + to hear the "AI" voice - the Spirit's. + to see VALIS! to know all the cosmological cosmogenical matters - + control of causality; the breaking of astral determinism (through Grace). So if just I was located spacio-temporally in Acts then my radical epistemological critique is verified; we do live in plural worlds. So this interpretation of my 3-74 superimposition is more compatable to me even that the "we're really all living in Acts" is, + more in accord with the 3-74 decade thrust of my thinking. + it makes more sense ➀ This is, then, an important realization in this exegesis. I've been locked into the single world point of view (an A or Ā bifurcation). (i.e "We are either in Acts or we are not.") The truth, evidently, is that the Holy Spirit so-to-speak transported me back to Acts, producing the perplexing situation of my being here + now, + there + then simultaneously. (Which is dealt with correctly in "Valis.") This new view removes the dysfunction aspect + - much prefereable - places me under the direct jurisdiction of the Holy Spirit, declaring both its existence + its love for me + power over me which saved me in several ways in 3-74. ➀ Athough it's an extraordinary miracle, to be at a different time + place, + a month before that, to have remembered. Seeing Acts, therefore, + remembering, + becoming thomas, viewed this way now all serve as indices of the indubitable presence of the Holy Spirit. Thus I can infallibly declare the power + reality + helping presence, now, in my life of the Paraclete, the Second Comforter who I know to be Christ, Holy Wisdom, the Logos. When I consider that we teach that the Paraclete is a form God takes, then I know that my safety was guaranteed by God Himself - + "Valis" as a book is probably valuable. I believe that the Holy Spirit kept me perplexed as to what happened until "Valis" was completed so that I would come up with as an original + creative - + non-doctrinal - formulation is possible avoiding stereotyping. The qualities - even including the fears - on thomas' part defines my role in history transtemporarily as express in the film "Julia" about Lilian Hellman + the Fascists. To lift me out of Calif 1974 + place me in Judean in 45 AD requires a transcendence of space, time, ego (mine) + causality. So there must be an upper realm above those catagories as the EB article on Angels speaks of. Time, space, ego + causality must consist of nothing more than ordering, (so-to-speak partitioning) of reality + not reality itself. But in a sense the problem is even more complex (i.e. if Acts does not underlie our (one objective) world. But rather the Holy Spirit superimposes two spaces, two times, two me's). This is expressed in "Valis" in the "someone else is in my head + he's not living in this century." We have to assume the irreality of world qua world, that it's imposed directly on our precept systems by God (v. Bishop Berkeley) this fits "Ubik" - in a sense reality is spurious in terms of empirical objectivity. I was stimulated into seeing another space + time - i.e. another world while still in this world. Some kind of simulated or programmed reality (actually plural realities) is involved. Then the whole thrust of my "Bantam Novels" is correct; the more radical the epistemology the closer I apparently get the truth. Consider the causal dysfunction which I saw the "Melting." Animate (?) reality. Purposeful. Consider my time dysfunction when I reacted to things (stimuli) in advance. Out of synch. Consider the two spacio-temporal superimpositions. Consider PKD + thomas. Two psychos in my head. Consider the AI voice. Inside me. Consider the dialectic which I saw. Consider how I saw "joinings" of parts of reality to form information. Like a macro-brain. All around me. Consider the Black Iron Prison + the xtians attacking it. Consider the set-to-ground duplex reality. Q: What does all this add up to? A: Simulated plural realities for us. A vast biological - computer entity utilizing a (binary) dialectic involving negation of negations (v. Supra). A macro-brain/mind. A congealed complex + a free variable dissolving it. A series of run + rerun programs, comprising our plural realities. Some kind of efficient cause binary progressing of the program which is inexorable into which the free variable has been introduced from outside to alter - dissolve its inexorability? - it. The program or macro-mind/brain computer is psychotic in the sense that its process (sic) has congealed + the dialectic has stopped. So a free variable has been introduced from outside to dissolve the complex + start up the dialectic - i.e. make it (the mind) rational again. So reality after reality is run. The Free Variable inserts itself in new selective ways. Trying for the "phagocytosis" forever. This is the Holy Spirit. So in 2-3-74 I was given a major change to see the total system (which gnosis the Paraclete is specifically stipulated in the N.T. to be able to provide + to do so). It would not seem as if anything was withheld from one as an object of knowledge; I knew what the Paraclete knew: it unfolded all the secrets of creation to me including knowledge of the Godhead (the Vast Void). The Vast Loving Living Sentient Personal Void is not the Macro-Brain, the latter seeming to be a combination organism - computer (i.e. machine). The Void is simple; the Macro-Brain although unitary is infinitely complex (intricate). The latter is in process: of growing, of subsuming progressively more and more of its environment (so it is not everything, by definition). It grows + subsumes but the congealed overvalent complex (BIP, metal splinter) exists in it, requiring dissolving: a rerun of the program via the Free Variable which will abolish it. The Free Variable is trying different possibities (at different spacio-temporal coordinates). It is not bound by space or time or causality or what I call "track." Its activity makes sense out of much of what I experienced in 2-3-74. Put another way, without its activity I would not have had the chance to discern (experience) what I did in 2-3-74. My "considerations" could only have been available to me due to its intervention (+ this intervention would have to involve me specifically in order for the doorway to perception to open). To get down to particulars, the Free Variable was involved in the Civil Rights + anti-war movement of the sixties, + in "Tears." Which is where my involvement with it becomes clean. I saw the "King Felix" cypher: the information entity. This set-to-ground freighting is what I dealt with in "Ubik" as UBIK itself. UBIK exists. It is the Living Information entity which I now call VALIS + identify with the thoughts of the Macro-Brain. Also, I detect what seems to be phylogenic memory in us + hypertime, the latter moving so slowly that only via the phylogenic attention span or prolonged present can the ratiocination taking place within it (of the Macro-Brain) be detected. We seem to be back to Xenophanes + Heraclitus. ---------- I read over my dope-state writing c. p 32 we're a binary computer program that has a stagnant complex in it (which has partially ended the flip-flop dialectic which is the life process of the computer); a free variable has been introduced into the program (or plural spurious realities) to dissolve the stagnant complex which is overvalent + must be dissolved so that the life of the computer can become rational once again; its thoughts (infoarrangement) are impaired + so it is psychotic according to Jung's definition of psychosis ("one day nothing new even entered the mind." etc). The Free Variable from outside the dialectic is known to us as Christ / Paraclete. The BIP represents stasis which means the end of the truly real. Since the truly real is the binary flip flop process of the computer's thinking: it is a clot of death, a failure: it is hegemony - the Empire. + must be dissolved. The Free Variable will accomplish this, + reprogram to start up the ceaseless dialectic again + thus restore rationality. okay - our reality (or rather realities) are a simulaton by a binary computer which is experiencing difficulties: a stagnant clot (stasis) in its dialectic thinking has formed which must be dissolved by means of a free variable not generated by (within) the closed system. My final proof of this is the information fired at me in laser-like fashion (re Christopher's birth defect). Here the computer (Macro-Brain) openly overrules its own program (as part of a much broader intervention). Any attempt, following this, to preserve the notion that our reality is not simulated (much like in "Ubik") is bound to fail. Our reality is a program-in-process which repeatedly gets revised in an effort to abolish the stagnant clot (or complex) whose presence renders the computer psychotic (to some degree). So withing the program exists one variable not a product of the initial pair of para-truths of the program which set its flip flop dialectic in motion. This variable points indubitably to a higher reality outside the program which the Free Variable know of. + which it can reveal to those humans it chooses - as it can also reveal the simulation nature of our plural realities (if it so wishes) These two disclosures are inter-related, obviously. If the Free Variable does not choose to reveal +/or intervene, we discern no spuriousness in our reality. Thus true perception on our part is totally dependent on the gracious aid of the Free Variable from outside our closed program. It is axiomatic that nothing arising from within the program conveys any overview of the actual nature of the program + our condition is a function of it. Viewed this way, the salvation which the Paraclete (the Free Variable) offers us has a valve defying verbal assessment, so vast is it. I get the impression that the Free Variable is judicious in its presentation of disclusure. It (a if it wishes leave us absolutely bound to this system of things (i.e program), which is to say the "weary wheel of maya + karma." Thus I affirm the basic truth of all the religions which teach salvation: xtianity, Gnosticism, Brahmanism, Buddhism, Neo-Platonism, + the Greco-Roman mystery religions + Manichaism, + Zoroastrianism. All earthly goals + values (those arising within the program) pale into mere delusion in contrast to the value of this salvation: they are literally dokos. The xtian doctrine of vicarious atonement + human sin only makes sense if one realizes that since the Paraclete discloses the true situation (via the gnosis) to relatively few people, the Mass of Mankind - virtually all humans - would remain bound within the program otherwise. The death on the cross is a hot-wiring of the Salvific Act to make it generally applicable. Anything less would be inhumane, + not in keeping with the loving nature of the Godhead. By studying the fact of Christ's voluntary death we can