CP-KGB contact would be counterpro‐ ductive + equivisant to us G-2, so fake or real, the Xerox missive would have to be responded to the way he did. + quickly in fact the worst thing that KGB could do would be to make the mistake of contacting him; it would compromise him as much as any us ploy. + Thomas would know that directly upon "Tears being published something like this would likely happen - because he knew what was in "Tears" Thomas could reason the Xerox missive was a us G-2 fake because KGB was not supposed to ever. contact him or, if through stupidity or error. KGB did contact him (it was no fake) it was a tactical error since he was under suspicion, + he would have to quickly + vigorously repudiate it (which he did). Probably it was a us G2 fake. actically, there was no difference. Stupid KGB or smart us Army G-2 - pragmatically the same + calling for the same one response on his part. only a dedicated Xtian marxist would have the scorn for affluence (money) that he has + the suspicion of it (+ its source) as a tactic to buy him off. Thomas, as a dedicated marxist revolutionary, wouldn't be thinking inwardly of himself the way we would regard him; his own inner view would be + a liberator + heater + an agent of God's his torical plan - a modern Xtian. Would we expect him to view himself as vicious + evil + cruel? Consider che. No - Thomas views him self as ushering in the millenial Kingdom of freedom + peace + equali i 10 to say he's wrong? He is an idealist, but very shrewd (true) + energetic (true). from his up he is a true, secret Xtian, which I never grasped before, + he perceives capitalism as enslaving; i.e. Rome the BIP, This explains why I said what I said at disneyland about shooting the watergate conspirators; that was Thomas speaking + it emanated from idealism. This is a totally dedicated idealist determined to free mankind from the tyranny of the past. He belongs to a covert conspiratorial group which practices violent overthrow This is why "Rome CAD the government + revolution. is" + USA 1974 could be syntonically superimposed; they were two divergent views of one reality. He was in intruder secretly in the camp of the enemy, + well ware of the need of codes. it suggests to me that Xtian revolutionaries may have infiltrated the marxists the way Rome infiltrated took over Xtianity. This is not a sinister person even if we were to view him so). This is a secret concealed from the world. The true secret Xtians thin the marxist camp, at its core. wis It's definitely more likely that the "Acts CAD 45" world I saw was not another time or place or alter‐ vate track but this world viewed through other eyes, someone for whom Calif 1974 looked like the world of "Tears"; also, since I wrote "Tears." This other person has been in me since at least 1970, + the fact that I saw the world as I depicted simply points twice to an alternate persona it lity in me. He sees USA 1974 as evil + the past Does this tell me that he is from a better place of is a lin This future time on ea 17 have never thought of before; I assumed of it looked like the distant past it was the dis‐ -if tant past - i.e. past to me. But maybe It's the same world, i.e. Calif 1974 not two dif‐ ferent worlds superimposed but two views superimposed - it's past to him + present to me, good to me + a prison to him; there fore he is from a freer future. He saw Calif 1974 down the long tube of time + sees Our world as a stage of the Roman Empire He is here to overthrow it; he is a secret agent + revolutionary. This would fit in with such elements as superior technology te + an evolved human with enhanced faculties This makes the 3-eyed people evolved humans from the future (a theory I originally held). This conforms with his knowing that the Xerox missive was coming + what it really was. Also this does fit in with an alter. of history in terms of remastering the past; however, 1974 is the past (to them), + thus It looked. But we're back to alternate tracks This again, engineered from the future makes a certain sense. + would account for everything: a plethora of diverse phenomena Paranormal + divine) which I experienced e.g. the info cooking: the plasmate. There really just isn't the technology now to place another -e.g. OCCP -psyche in my right hemisphere but someday there will be. We can theorize 1) supernatural - divine; or 2) ETI or 3) the future 18 My big new clue is to infer that if to him USA 1974 looked like the past, ergo he must be from the future. This is a torturou line of reasoning. I have to assume that it is one world, not two superimposed, + that points to this conclusion - if these are two views of one world, not two worlds superimposed. But it would explain their being syntonic which otherwise I simply can't account for, except in the most barogue elaborate way. The occham's razor then is, our world is the past to him + a BIP to him, which tells me a lot about him i Then my logic was totally 180° off when I p assumed that if he saw "Rome CAD 45 he was from Rome AD 45 + was remem‐ bering it. But I did remember it in 2-74! I give up. The fact is when in 2-74 stopped believing in USA 1974 it went I away, + Acts appeared + I became someone that time + place with a knowledge of the If it's a miracle it has no explanation. koine. Valis" teiner it's a machine (AI) mind, which we're lugged into; it's more real than the phenomenal niverse. In 3-74 I met it halfway. She is its signer: she is the Logos of it but God created it t used it to exist; she envisioned it as thought + h kned it into reality. But who is she who mentally ceived of it. The bird woman. Cosmic egg into the hter of which is placed the seed: Valis (cf Pythagorasi monal growing within the irrational. The seed is next thought by her a superior design (geo‐ trically expressed, like a 3-D colored graph 10 The plasmate is her blood. The reality beyone the thought. Idn't encounter the design (made into creation) but rather her. Ultimate She is brain to reality: her blood + body. mind (i.e. Valis] (creation! - i.e. Brahman. But creation is mind beyond that mind (Noos) is brain: her. (1 mind brain: her as blood + body with phenomenal Brahman a brain whose mind thought holds the thought of our universe which God causes to have esse: to exist (she) which I encountered: it is beyond of mind (Brahman) yet also she exists in microform plural in our world. This is the Hermetic "as it is above so You have to assemble the religions; they're below." individually pieces. So one encounters her as a human. I'm just saying, Christ is female. she ultimately is beauty: Helen of tray who atched from an egg. + of course most of all she thought in my sisters my sister; I am a is mind. She is - like "Ubik"! - she is alive; I m dead dialectic push-pull flip flot A) I am alive + she is a thought (archetype) in my mind or alive + "I am a thought B) She is her mind. (In my dialectic axis in this is the original negation-generation, idectic flip flop along which I exist posed think. It is the memise/problem one as a component in the vast organic circuit board. mate of i are 26) she + beauty - my gift (i.e. to me). This is the treasure-axis of my kosmos, due to the nature of the problem posed me. The righest act/direction for me is to seize old of this precious treasure - her + esthetics - which had of necessity to be it into my world (component) in order thro to perse pose the "Ubik"-like] problem. My dialectic problem is a puzzle expressed in a koan-like written piece of wisdom, in story form Hence Sophia as verbal wisdom - which I saw as huge pages. + eventually the pose becomes page in a book of wisdom which mo a Tagomi is reading in the park (where he So saw our world due to the Golden pin our world is a scene in a work of Action in a book in the hands of t's a loop. 1) I wrote "MITHC" in it I create Tagomi. He sits in a park + stares into i n himself in our world, described within silver pin. Then our world is the product of a work of fiction ithin our world. It's fun playing by St Sophia: the joyous ide of wisdom: these ultimate puzzles - little fories, like long parables; (e.g. "Once a man took etc. Finally, "now was the X a y or a 3-74 one stage in the progressions of reality: a age in a book of wisdom read by a man on a wisdom is all. She pervades her creation. I don't have to worky; well never + bench but - she'll appear to me in a 1000 disguises, + I must find her e parted. baffling there, + do so when I find (1) wisdom Wisdom 2 the bigger (macro) can replicate itself in micro, + so any given bigger cau be smaller than anything else. So the herarily of levels of truth + meaning themselves enter a paradox, where the higher becomes the lower. Wisdom as a verbal riddle: its most micro form. Most condensed so in a sense most esse (onto). Then the smallest form level) of it is the most real. Size is inversely proportional to hierarchal reality. we assume cosmic = most important argest. (Cosmos = cosmic). Wrong. Look for the seed. "Break a stick + there is Christ nearest at hand. The cosmic is no more "the part is contained in the ltimate. i hole." No; the whole is contained in the There is no hierarchy of meaning. art there are alternate models only, each as true + the others. It's not A or I. what I have is my syster. Permeating this osmos - my kosmos. Her blood + body - my olster; I am in her (cf "DR Blood moner"). I in in her body, + she is in me as my ani ha: the puzzle of my master (component part) axis. me i me in her (body the computer. Her I + her in one of me 2 i But this is not just a puzzl It's a dynamism which drives permutating dialectic reality along an infinite path. So (heres another level but another model) not s it's a simple machine: r 8 s The mind which helped me in 2-3-74 which telepathically contacted me, + took over to solve the Xerox missive trap is Kathy Demuelle. This is why I see Diana. This explaine. Sophia + the cotholic tint. This explains the Acts material - + material about her! "Tears." She is - my RC brother in these are like mutants. She is my sister physically reborn (reincarnation). stantia my immortal powers in 3-74 - are lent Kathy in a real sense is me by her. to dreaming me - I am a product of + a thought in her mind - because her mind controls mine + determines my t realit t mutants such