disinhibiting stimulus, etc. so that it all fired on schedule. I saw, then, not Adonay but the will of Adonay. Natura naturens. This is a highly sophisticated mechanism, far beyond anything we humans know of (normally). But it resembles more primitive systems utilized in lower creatures; Disinhibiting signals and inner-tape instinctive responses that are acted out under the force of governing law. This is the way creation is regulated; the way the selection from among choices is made, etc. It is all to promote life. That is clear to me. The idea is to promote the development from one stage to the next of a given living creature; it is moved irresitably through its life cycle. FIDDLER made this clear to me. An interesting point is that this analysis verifies my impression at the time: that I was completely programmed and hence could theoretically be made to do anything; I just didn't know where the programming was coming from. I didn't know that Adonay programs human as he does sheep and ants. (Except that it's tailored to the individual, not the species.) This, too, is why I was responding to stimuli (external stimuli) before they happened; my inner tape was a little out of synch, a little ahead of itself: firing before the disinhibiting stimulus. This is what scared me the most, because it revealed that I was indeed programmed. folder 82 - 128 folder 82 - 128 -4- 4-8-80 From a theological standpoint this means that enthusiasmos existed (the existence of Thomas verifies that). But really it was only a sophisticated version of when a spider weaves a web. But people -- Wait. What do you get if you collate all this with Christianity and the fish symbol. Programmed (and engrammed) to act out Christian actions (for example, the original sacraments): and to possess x from inside you the scret knowledge regarding the hidden Church? Along with anamnesis back to the time of Acts. Memory that the King just now died but will soon return; and then what the AI voice says; e.g. "St. Sophia will be born again; she was not acceptable before." You get a revealed religion... yes, and the Acts (and other scriptural) material in TEARS. folder 82 - 129 folder 82 - 129 -1- 4-9-80 Interlinking and phylogons are one and the same. The ontogon is not interlinked with anything. Thus kosmos and phylogons are one and the same. Thus the thematic interlinking that FIDDLER created Saturday night was a creating of phylogons out of ontogons (and a phylogonization of my life per se). FIDDLER wove 13 themes of my life into the permanent structure of the phylogons -- i.e. kosmos. Thus there are no isolated phylogons and no interlinked ontogons. What makes the phylogons eternal is this interlinking into the structure (kosmos) since the structure is permanent. This is the assimilation and incorporation of parts out of the stockpile that I saw Valis doing -- creating phylogons and adding accretional layers to them in linear time. valis sees how the ontogons can be fitted into the permanent structure, thus converting them into phylogons. There is no way a phylogon can be conceived apart from its structural involvement in the ediface as a whole. The ediface is permanent, and although it is here we can't discern it because it is not involved with time as we are; time is a spacial axis for it. Could "rest-motion" equal ontogon-phylogon conversion? This is the "plantation" view of reality; constituents are raised as on a plantation and then, when they are ripe, incorporated into the permanent structure as phylogons. Of course, the question I'm wondering about is, Did 3-74 represent my conversion from an ontogon into a phylogon? You would be incorporated at your ontological peak (this has nothing to do with physical age, but it might have to do --in my case-- with my work. My work is the permanent part of me; perhaps when I brought TEARS out I was thereupon incorporated into the permanent structure; this explains the cypher (plasmate) in TEARS -- the phylogon on it. It folder 82 - 130 folder 82 - 130 -2- 4-9-80 could mark the completion of my ten-volume meta-novel. It is one unitary thing that I brought, at last, to completion, whereupon it was whipped from its rest mode to its active mode and inserted into its proper place in the structure, forever. Thesis of VALIS REGAINED: The primary role of God is to provide ontology to world (and to self). I think I see now how this is done: through the inner tape (self) and outer tape (world) meshing. Further, by this mechanism the integration of all the main themes in a person's life can be achieved (they can be woven into a tapestry) (As was done for me last Saturday night with FIDDLER) (Whereupon all these themes --hence the person's total life, and not just that moment-- is rendered real! A retroactive ontology is conferred on the corpus of vast themes of his entire, existence, hence existential being is equated as congruent with his experience of world as such!!!) Then this knitting together is an ontologizing of his life-in-the-world and it can be achieved retroactively, as the pattern (1) emerges; (2) is completed (3) given ontology. Therefore ontology equals coherency (pattern, which is to say meaning! Rather than solidity in the material sense.) Pattern equals meaning equals ontology; this is what confers ontology. Bedeutung ist Sein. And Bedeutug in turn derives from the coming into being of coherent pattern, which is to say Kosmos. Thus FIDDLER turned 13 ontogons constituting my life into a network of phylogons by interlinking them; my life was made real because thematically it was made coherent. Each strand had a role to play vis-a-vis the other strands; they formed a unitary entity, and folder 82 - 131 -3- 4-9-80 this unitary entity linterlinks with the overall kosmos; there is only one kosmos, not many. The idea that God promotes "good" may be meaningless because "good" is not defined; but to say that God promotes being may be a meaningful sentence, especially if "being" (ontology) is defined; my definition is, A coherent interlinking of many things, possibly all things; an overall pattern; a thematic tapestry. This is why I felt Valis to be present last Saturday night, because at that moment the ontogons of my life were suddenly made into interlinked phylogons; so of course I felt Valis to be present! This is a definition of Valis' role vis-a-vis the universe and the lives in it. So I believe I was not mistaken; I felt the overpowering presence of ontology in the world binding on me, and now I understand why. Everything hinges on whether when you see this you feel it simply happened, or was, rather, caused to happen. I believe --perhaps know-- it is caused to happen (e.g. last Saturday night) because of what I saw in 3-74. This was a card played by the Deity against the dark counter-player; this is negentropy versus entropy, form versus the form-destroyer. The form-destroyer can never see how the Deity is going to give form to the given person's life; in my case who would have thought that FIDDLER would do it, by my seeing it that particular night? This is Deity's paradigmatic victory. But, more, this sudden moment of ontologization governs the person into performing certain sacrament-like acts, done in rigidly determined (programmed) ways to achieve clearly defined ends. Thus a ritual is enacted that is solemn and significant, at such crucial times. The total history of the person forces him to act in folder 82 - 132 folder 82 - 132 -4- 4-9-80 the exact way in which he acts, without free will. There must be no error, here; Deity sees to that by governing the person himself (that is, it is the Deity who acts in the person). Completion of structure imparts ontology. The last piece, the missing piece, goes in, in to a large number of discrete ontogons, and transforms from a plurality of ontogons to a structure; upon this act --at the moment of this act-- no latitude of deviation is permitted by Deity, who is playing his trump (final) card. At this point he acts as steersman; he is, after all, the one who plays the card (which brings about completion). The completion of structure marks the occasion of the solemn entry of the structure into the total kosmos, but earlier in the temporal sequences may have been points at which Deity played cards and enacted events in surrogation of the person involved. The goal of the Deity, here, is the perfection of kosmos, not the extrication of the person. There is probably no goal but the perfection of kosmos. Since not everything is kosmos (completed structure) I saw Valis within an environment which it assimilated -- which is why I could/did not regard it as God; but this environment is the larger universe of the ontogons which have not yet been converted into phylogons; i.e. not yet given ontology. Then is Valis kosmos? Is which case Pythagoras is right; kosmos is alive, sentient, and expanding outward, assimilating the atelos. This is all beginning to make sense, what I saw that I called Valis. My views are consistent. folder 82 - 133 folder 82 - 133 -1- 4-11-80 "A principle of organization" is a functional definition of God (cf Whitehead's "A principle of selection that realizes the good in the world process." My definition is better -- more objective and meaningful -- and based on experience). It is not a principle but the principle (since it is everywhere). Especially (this proves it) it is total structure "with everything fitted perfectly into place." Kosmos per se. The card that Valis finally plays is inserting a piece at the right time and place that locks everything into total structure (as with FIDDLER on Saturday night). This lock leaves no latitude or play; the structure becomes real. Here is a titanically important point: until Valis plays the card that creates total structure, no one can see how structure (organization) can be achieved or even that it can be achieved; all that is seen are unrelated threads, which is to say chaos. This is what I saw as stockpile. Valis fits them into the soma at the right places and times (kosmos). Stockpile equals chaos. Soma equals kosmos. Anything short of kosmos is chaos -- if one piece is missing you still have chaos (stockpile). There is no such thing as partial kosmos. I actually saw Valis doing this. It is not the M.O. of Valis, its operating principle, but its purpose. Its goal. It is its end, not means. This is not a theory I have about Valis; it was revealed to me six years ago, but only now do I understand what I saw (the plundering of the stockpile to form the soma), now, as a result of FIDDLER when, for me my chaotic life was turned into kosmos. Thus the synchronization of plural parts --which has been the hallmark of my 3-74 revelation (hence displaying the attribute of a folder 82 - 134 folder 82 - 134 -2- 4-11-80 unitary volitional sentient entity) is Valis; i.e. is kosmos. This synchronization is the Urgrund of what I observed which gave rise in my mind to the notion of Valis. I see now that it is precisely this that is sought for, is achieved (by the principle of organization). I was indeed seeing the ultimate miracle of the universe; the primary activity of God in the universe, converting chaos to kosmos. What I saw that I called Valis was kosmos, and it was something achieved by a process, a selective process; I saw that process at work, and it was guided by absolute intelligence (stockpile to soma, as I have been calling it). Then what I saw that I called Valis was localized total organization. Last Sat night was another