was planned from the beginning. I am going back to defining Valis in terms of Aristotle's unmoved mover "who inspires - stimulates - goal-seeking activity"; i.e. teleology. suppose by "sins" "Christ died for my sins. you read "Karmic dept" - the inherited totality of the determinism - astral determin ism - that I had accrued throughout my entire life. It had, in 3-74, all caught up with me The consequences, for me, of all I'd done now brought me to death. + he did not just assume the consequences of my sins + die in my place, but in so dying he gave me renewed life, a new kind of life, like that of before the Fall. So what is or seems to that someone be, initially, a negative thing, must die (yourself or Christ) in fact becomes the opportunity for a spiritual rebirth in which the person's status is fundamentally improved: his original state is restored viz: A nonoccluded original state I original state I which is occluded state h exactly what I experienced) death "I am no 3 longer blind! i.e. condition one does not otherwise exist in the present life. This is called "the original state" because this is how we are supposed to be; the divine intention is for this, + we are built for This morphologically. All I can presure is some primordial catastrophe. I deal with this occluded state in "Scanners heavy metal poisoning o like My perception of this usion is a milestine in my thought. If you can catch reality acting as one coherent (i.e. unitary) purposeful entity one time you have proved teleology, although you can't be surc if (1) reality is doing it on its own (panpsychism) or (2) if some kind of adventitious mind is controlling it A) the plurality of parts seemingly unrelated are "aware" of one another B) They - it - have / has a goal toward which they/it grow/grows. conclusion: unity + purpose are related: If there is unity there will be purpose or the unity will be destroyed (i.e. there will be chaos + hence no unity). But in seeing purpose we may really be seeing that interrelation which inevitably occurs within the parts forming a unity. So what I've been calling "purpose" may in fact be the process-functioning of a unitary thing (or entelechy), in which all parts fit into one another. "Purpose," then equals coherence [Note] This is fine with me because I still have the element of the intentional + it embraces much most or all of reality; it is cosmic. Not in process (change or growth). It need not have goal states. Process + interaction are enough, + awareness (sentience) on its part. (Which carries intent.) Consciousness diffused throughout it (cf Xenophanes) is "the whole of him thinks. t I do not think that creation is set aside from God, that God is transcendent to it. He is immediate. Then Spinoza is the universe as body of u basically correct ( God, + God operating through natural law, rather than suspending it). - I have reread re Spinoza re Deus There is no doubt whatsoever sive natura. that 2-3-74 was a perception of God as Spinoza understands him to be - precisely. + Spinoza says, to have that intellectual understanding of God is to become, in a certain real sense, God. all that was needed for me to figure this out was to see that I had confused unity with teleology. I was not seeing teleology. I was seeing unity 3-74 at its most fundamental level consisted of nature turning into God - thus verifying Spinoza ("Deus sive natura.") Also I saw the natura Naturans level of reality, (the realm of God's will.) from which all the epiphenomena of the natura naturata are generated, + recognized it as the real universe My confusion between the unitary functioning of a (i.e. one) totality (that appears as a plurality) + teleology accounts for my inability to grast the significance of what I call "pretextual cause." What we are dealing with that i s 512 discrete things is simply a normal system of signalling or notification among parts of the (one unitary) whole: it is a language (or anyhow like a language; it is information that triggers off response). The signalled part intrinsically knows what to do when the signal comes (due to the panpsychism which Spinoza correctly attributes to all nature). So what I observed that I've been calling h "pretextual cause" is more evidence of the unitary + sentient basis of reality, + fits with my prime observation: that of Valis itself. A good example of this is my knowing (unconsciously) what to do when shown the Golden Fish sign (+ really having no choice about it). I have to view 2-3-74 as an event in the total system if I am to understand it at all. It was a transaction utilizing me without my knowing what was happening. I guess I am saying that immanent cause (the mind of the total system) is always the real cause, + contingent, efficient cause is not. It is the dumain of natura naturans that wills things to come into being. in summation, I seem to have experienced is Deus sive natura" as Spinoza a priori figured God vis-a-vis the world had to be (logically, God could not be separate from world; v E of Ph). It's as if Spinoza predicted what I was to experience + no other system except Sankara's does. I don't know - it just hit me. Spinoza proves (for me; he does the a priori work) that Valis is God! + this is no atavism to a 3 primitive anamism on my part. It is really a very sophisticated experience + concept certainly more so than that of the traditional transcendent theisms I'm not sure I saw natura as either matter or mind but rather as structure a third attribute of substantia? Perhaps structure (form) + information. Ah - I saw natura naturans: that realm which is substantion or God itself! (The plasmate: information) Valis: structures, unitary, coherent + alive a Nonetheless, the Holy Spirit (Shekhina) is the agency which puts you in touch with Valis (God). according to Spinoza by entering you, The vast spaces; one of the two modes in which we perceive God: extension. This, too, was enhanced. of course: the totality was perceived by me; I'd have to see augmented extension to see enough of the whole or all of it) to perceptually grasp it. I was inside it. in the inner realm of it as mind (as well as extensive - as extension - in space.) What I saw was purpose in the sense of intelligent interaction, which thereby formed a unity based on wisdom: knowing what to do with - where + when to put - each piece. it normally posed as plural, random + inext. A psychosomatic entity, + its will (the realm of natura naturans) is law, as I discovered; I had total power over me (me as part of the natura naturata realm: a mode.) This is have to rea who 3-7 out I 514) mode of the natura naturata, was feeling the absolute will of the natura naturans realm (+ later was to realize that this latter realm is the real universe). This caused me to understand that the natura naturans realm is sentient + integrates everything into a unity. I was like the stone falling at the rate of 32 felt per second per second, in that I had no free as in will of any sort. "valence, as I call it relativity, where the straight line is warped. The object will follow that warped (bent) path, inexorably. This is precisely what I experienced. The "shortest distance" (straight line) led me into some very complex actio vity. But it was the shortest distance literally. Thus natura naturans governs the behavior of natura naturata. With inexorable power, as if everything is in the realm of physics, + we are talking about particle trajectory. given one vast unitary system that is intelligent (has absolute mind) you could predict a vast, constant flow of information traffic everywhere! So again - as with 1) pretextual cause + 2) of "valence - my vision is consistent The natura naturans exerts a "brainification" on the natura naturata modes, organizing them into information so that as a realm they are coherent knowledge in the form of objects + processes. This is the "valence away from plumb" Natura naturans: natura naturata:: mind: brain, This exerting is what we talk of as "God's will." It was exerted on me in 3-74, so what I did with the Xerox missive was a transfier (process. ) of info (it) from one station to another 1) 5 brain transaction. These are not goals but a rather a constant process (activity which is natural). It warped space so that the shortest distance was my contacting the Bureau. my own mind processed the cypher-info out of the Xerox missive, later. ts lines carrying information. (But "wireless.") You can intersect a line (i.e. beam) + transduce it. Since It is alive, what an experience that would be: to intersect + transduce! All that information trans‐ ferred to your brain gratuitously. i I came pretty close to Spinoza's position on my own: 1) I discerned the realm of law which he calls natura Naturans, + I distinguished it from natura naturata + 2) I toyed with the - probably correct-idea that Valis is not God but the will of God. (+ of course 3) I had the pantheism + panpsychism immanent, not transcendent, deity). Valis sive valence sive will of God sive Natura naturans. sic I'd habeo! I express it thus: the realm of natural law is intelligent, + the valence it exerts is sentient: it is absolute will. absolute intelligence + will - Whether it is also purposeful I do not know, but it is what we know as God's will. Pure mind as well as spacial extension. It is mind te will, intelligent will, ensive in space as e 619 I just realized: this makes The natura naturans realm that of karmic law; it is immutable but: being intelligent, it can make use of its own integrated corpus of laws to lead to (for want of a better term) an overruling of the accretional ag gregate (sin, cause-+-effect, karmic debt, astral or planetary determinism) It is the same agency that determines the law that overcomes it, not by sus‐ pending it but by wise use of it to achieve certain results: to annihilate the accumulation. Only because it is wise (intelligent) can natura naturans do This, + this is what I saw in 3-74 That I called Valis. This is not a suspension (as Philo believed) but a making use out very (deft use of natural law) deftly. This deftness is precisely what gave it away to me: what I called Valis. So Valis) Valis requires - for it is to exist - intel lingent natural law! So intelligence does not lie in the objects but in the laws governing the objects. + when it was exerted on me in 3-74. I became a snerned object, subject to those laws. Then pronoia is the extraordinary occurance where these laws (being the will of God) show concern for the then person elfare of a are not 517 (Philo is wrong) but a valence shows itself. The result is that the inexor able causal process is robbed of its victim (the laws here regarded as a bad fate) the divine mechanism seems to be to substitute the wise mind for the person at the moment of crisis (karmic pay off) whereupon he uses reality is a new way. This substitution is known to us as the vicarious sacrifice. In this substitution the natura naturans replaces a mode (the given human) of the natura naturata domain. These must be the "upper + lower realms" the