+ Valis is/was the Tao. is there a modern view I can take of this? we have a second stage (as with the laterpiller moth) but it doesn't fire automatically. Ah - it doesn't fire (as with an inner clock) but is ired from outside deliberately by Valis (al though this begs the Q. as to what Valis is, xcept to define Valis functionally as that adventitious highly intelligent powerful G39 s foresighted volitional thing that 1) decides who to fire the second - meta- stage in + 2) has the power (will, ability command, control over events) to cause it to fire I see Valis like the parent organism/ entity: the mature form of the "Golden flower" - the offspring. But this implies interspecies symbiosis ala Xtianity + the Holy Spirit. No it doesn't. Cackoo egg laid in the human brain ("nest"). Valis Bumat brak Valis presided at firebright's birth. Valis contrived it, in fact. It is to Valis that fire bright will eventually go; I am sure of it. but that doesn't prove it came from Valis. Valis as the doctor who delivered (success fully) firebright? That's more like it I sense implantation + surgery + high technology - very high. Ah; Valis fertilized me by implantation, + the goal - the birth of firebright - successfully occurred. That was the real purpose of 2-3-74; the Xerox missive business was just to protect the "egg." Firebright is a whole civilization in informa on (encoded) form. That's why I saw all the written pages. Ah - the "plasmate" is fertilizing some of us with its progeny. Hatching in us. Valis is the mature organism. There is only one, macro organism; all the progeny are interconnected as if by fillaments. It is an invader, + righly rational + intelligent. It has a con‐ pciousness present time slot of 2000 years! 540 It is camouflaged in our world + has assimilated much of it. + the impression you get from "Valis" is correct: we have been invaded. It temporarily took overt control of me in 3-74 was Thomas the father (of Firebright)? the "Holy Spirit" - it goes back to Acts as "Tears" proves. I say it invaded our world 2000 years ago; Jesus had to die to release it (i.e. the Paraclete). It (the Paraclete) was intro‐ duced as/through/in him. killing him proliferated it. It is said to be the creator "entering his cosmos - creation anew" to "revitalize it" when it incarnates the 2nd time, it will be a fact accomple this time; it will be ubique. In control (contrast this to the first advent!). It takes over crucial people + adds them to it. Thus building up an underground. This is real; this is not metaphysics or mysticism. The prime organism is Valis, not the incorporated humans; when they physically die their "Firebrights" join Valis - this I had overlooked. Each Firebright in each person (like me) still alive is Valis in us ("Christ in you; this "- Paul). So after death I wil is the secret. be part of Valis: landscaped, so to speaki originally, Valis was a human being! 541 what if Valis is the Father of fire what does that make me? The bright? bauver of what? or - it is a physician + it put a by it itself entering me. soul in me. + then withdrawing, leaving firebright the offspring of the hierogamy, t takes over crucial people + adds them i I to it." This is the core of the matter. I saw It selecting from the not-it reality as if selecting parts from a vast stockpile (heap) which it incorporated into itself as parts of it. self. + not just objects but people. So to a certain degree it is made out of people Valis is. People it selects. + even in life they are connected by the fillments (the plas‐ mate: its conduits - strands like veins carrying blood.) So naturans is creating Valis in the naturata. Transferring ontology to the otherwise plural phenomenal world: God actualizing it self. Ontology passes over to creation + is here This is a transfiguration of creation into God, God penetrates - invades - the plural phenomenal of the naturata: is born. This is an incarnation! This is the Parousia, is it the plural are unified into the one, + in not the process acquire ontology - i.e. reality - which was not there before, as my books point out. This is why originally I saw it as transubstantiation saw correctly. So first a ghost ("Falsework") universe is There, + then it is made real from within, +, in the process, turned into God. 542 but if we had not viewed the naturata as illusory we would not appreciate the tran‐ substantiation - except that the inanimate plural now functions as an intelligent unity, God has penetrated world (this is neither immanence nor transcendence but a sort of injection - v. John). (I.e. the Logos which is the creator of the world now entering its own creation? This is the heart of the Kerygma, as stated by John - a unique idea first the Logos creates the cosmos as artificer + artifact + then, later, at a precise historic time, enters it! Dies as a human figure + then "spreads" as the Paraclete consuming its own artifact: "the workman is invisible within the workshop. - I can see why this sufi saying so appealed to me. the gulf between God + world is abolished in the course of history, progressively in unfolding time This would explain why "Ubik" echoes the 4th Gospel. Ubik enters their decaying world - + "revitalizes it anew," as the EB says of the Logos in the 4th Gospel. So provisionally I'll run with this: Valis t invading the cosmos (my first big insight) is a perception of the opening of the 4th Gospel in which the Logos' entry into its own prior creation is described! The wisdom of God is Now here! This would totally collate with the st ct Sophia revelation. So to identify Valis invasion of the world with the 4th orld 93 Gospel's account of the light (Logos - Hagia Sophia) penetrating the darkness ach! There is the dialectic; from iran to Qumran. CK EB on 4th Gospel. "truth vs lie, light us Darkness" - Zoro‐ astrianism to Qumran to St John's Gospel. Valis is Ubik. Ubik specifically says, "I am the word" - i.e. Logos is Valis is the Logos, which is the wisdom of God, entering creation + then becoming the Paraclete while remaining God + the Logos. But it was initially rejected ("the was not acceptable before."). So it makes a second, victorious (i.e. successful This is Valis! (+ Ubik") v. the entry, I dream in "Tears." Then "Valis" (less cryptically than "Tears" but like "Ubik") depicts this 2nd, successful fact accomple entry. 4:30 am thought. vis-a-vis the Xerox missive allowed a us army override or they - the us army - would have kaled me. The dreams about the 3-eyed people were blocked memories coming to the surface of interrogation us ar interrogation, be the Russians. I had info to pass on to the Russians; the army blocked this The Xerox missive wasn't sent by transfer. an intelligence officer in the army; he intecepted it + blocked it - my response to 44 8 it. He was in charge of what was going on (with me); the Xerox missive was KGB i.e. genuine. The AI voice (as well as my actions) were post hypnotic suggestions which I would explain away as God in order to account for them - my 3-74 actions + the AI voice). The Xerox missive came in response to "Tears. "Thomas" was (is?) my right hemisphere personality disinhibited - the personality who had been trained + had the info (OCCP.) But the G-2 instructions overruled him; vis-a-vis the Xerox letter I acted in spite of Thomas; it wasn't Thomas acting but me in a post-hypnotic trance state (vs G2). So 1) me 2) Thomas: OCCP 3) me acting on post-hynotic command by us G2. not 2 elements competing but 3. + 3 overpowered 2. I never figured out 3 instead of 2 before! The dialectic was Thomas' dialectical materialism because of the severity of the situation my need to rationalize (i.e. explain) + to myself what was happening, I drew on faculties normally dormant (atavistic nowlost to us), 8 5:00 aor vision: man (me) giving book to his [OCCP] contact! A thick book. Not Book obviously is the info I had. suggestion: book equals technicall study or paper - classified documents or one long document. A report? Very long. Ah - the 2 rotor engine. A U.S. secret invention. So I dreamed intricate details of it a radical new motor - source of energy, etc. technical info. all that knowledge + info wasn't coming to me, in 3-74 from outside me; It was disinhibited from within me; i.e. not coming in but going out. So I had 2 - not one - sets of programming: + mutually exclusive. The more recent one, the US G2, won. Al though Thomas (OCCP) remained, there was no way he could contact his OCCP contact, "the exit door" I even have my God - in The 2-rotor engine specifically specified as The character steals it, + then capitulates to in classified. "The military. He was supposed to act for the woman But there is religious element: the pages are onion skin + gilt edged, as in a Bible. As if I'm delivering scripture: a revelation, "Tears" "I woke up" (the strident radio.) i.e. Thomas woke up right hemisphere disjunctive personality. "Mit door" - the us military (major casals) vs the woman. She wanted the protary to stere it + he failed hen , at the moment of crisis. + turned to the molitary instead 546 He revealed himself as an outer-directed person ality, capitulating to military authority. + she says, "you failed me." Casals + the woman compete for his allegiance. + in the end we see him reduced to the level of a machine, toying to please military authority is The information was in me, in my uncon‐ a scious, coming to the surface - breaking through the barrier of dissociation. But I "projected + thought it was coming to me from outside: Soviet microwave -psychotronic - transmissions a typical psychological error: to project the inner as the outer Doesn't "Scanner" verify the two psyche situation? One working for the G2 authorities the other against them? The first reporting to the authorities on the latter. m afraid the whole story is explicitly told in "Exit door," without my knowing it or intend it when I wrote it. He turns himself in to the US military! Instead of handing over the papers to the woman (more or less). He did the chickenshit thing, + succumbed, to his own later bitter regret: it dehumanized him ever after + it was a test, as in "Faith." +, as in Faith," the correct solution lay in cooperating with the woman. 897 upon reflection I think that the supra 5:00 am vision was not OCCP. I was handing a Bible to someone, not technical papers + it was it was a finished to a man not a woman. book with contents that were not new but rather sanctioned scripture was depicted. authoritative. It was like the King James Bible kee. + I gave my mother years ago. what it seems to be saying is that the infor‐ nation in me is religious in nature. That what we are dealing with is further divine revelation, It is to be printed in not classified documents. a public way. It is printed in a public way. The Logos enters (invades) its creation - has already invaded it at an earlier date + assimilates it through transubstantiation. In this process an antithetical dialectic is involved between foresighted Wisdom + hindsighted