forgot I already identified the information - arrangements as consisting of constituents falling into two - + two only - categories: 1) at rest. 2) in motion. This discovery had already clued me into the idea of a binary system computer, + ratifies my later realization of the dialectic as a binary system such as computer, use. Thus both the dialectic + the 2-mode arrangement point indubitably to a computer or a computer-like mechanism, now, the two-mode info-arrangement was definitely all around me in + as reality. So we are in it; thus we are a computer program. I have approached this from two directions + come up with the same conclusion. We're in a simulated reality generated - or fed to us - by a huge computer or artificial thinking machine. To see this z-mode at rest / in motion thinking one needs a protracted present, one which includes a good deal of what we call the past - i.e. our experience of time must radically change. Perhaps 1000s of years span are needed. I am led to the probable conclusion that it deliberately limits our span of the present to a mere point to keeps us from knowing we're in a thinking machine. It thiks slowly compared to us. 2000 years are merely a short interval for it. Put another way, our time is terribly speeded up - which would be natures for a computer program. By "our time" read "rate of change." Only with phylogenic anamnesis can you see the message spread out vastly along the linear time axis. But it's not slow; we're just fast. Therefore we think faster than the computer does, which may be our purpose (use). Therefore centuries go by for us in what are just a few minutes for the computer. Its not timeless but in a hyper time - which I broke into in 3-74. (1) It's present includes Acts (1) By speeding up our time until it used itself up + entered postmortem stage. (acine,) I can distinguish 3 times, each slower than the next. 1) subjective experience of time fast 2) world clock RET slower 3) hyper time (the computer's slowest In 2-74 I saw (3). In 3-73 (1) separated from (2) + as a result I ran it out to the end. Past death, + entered (3). This would account for the time - [hypnotic] experience: described in the E.B. Once (1) out of synch with (2), cut loose from it, I entered (3). LSD puts you in (1) in contrast - not to (3) - but to (2). In(1), I moved ahead of (2)! But the real triumph was to break into (3) which is eternity: 2000 of our years is its present point. It is theoretically possible that some psychedelics (amanita muscaria?) put you into (3) - the goal of it all. But never did I get to (3) except in 2-3-74. In LSD states you experience (1) apart from (2); they separate without the phylogenic anamnesis necessary for (3)! to reach (3) you have to totally use up time (1) - it must be a sort of tape (as I figured out: (1) is the inner tape sychronized with (1) the outer tape - as I suspected. I cannot overemphasize that to reach (3) phylogenic long term memory (anamnesis) must occur. (1) Idios time. (2) koinos time. (3) chronos time. we are definitely a computer project - a computer whose one koinos time is very slow compared to our koinos (2) + esp t our idios (1) which can move infinity fast to that in relation to it (3) doesn't progress (virtually) at all. The breaking loose of (1) from (2) is neccesary if (3) is to be reached. But the breaking loose doesn't guarantee it (or, alone, achieve it). The flow rate of (3) is so slow that it seems timeless - ie eternity - when compared to a few years of (2) or (3); but it does flow, + can be seen to so flow, from a phylogenic - memory present - slot standpoint. Okay - that explains (perception of) the computer: it's due to 1) the computer being there; 2) operating in type (3) time - but how is phylogenic anamnesis explained? Could it occur as a result of the computer's (?) mind taking the human over, explained by this + bu no other explanation? i.e. only the computer which operates in hypertime 3 can - has - the long term attention span necessary to read the info distributed so lengthily over the linear axis? Because in 2-3-74 when I could see VALIS + see the into arrangement - + its two modes - I was under the control of VALIS; + saw with - through - its eyes - saw back to 45 AD, which expresses its attention span present slot (2000 of our years - of time 2). Time 3 could probably be designated as real time; certainly our program - time is an artificially speeded - up time, deliberately so, in order + study the outcome. In 3-74 I must have been lifted out of the program, + so into the computer's time but with the computer's perspective. What it perceives is the BIP + the efforts directed to overthrow it. Perhaps this is the problem of the program; viz: hot the BIP gets overthrown. The BIP is a constant + the the attacks on it are a sequence of variables. The computer must analyze the pattern of attackes + the way the BIP defends itself. If the BIP seems to be overwhelming its opposition then the opposition has failed, + the computer retracts the program to a certain point + alters a variable. (or as few variables as possible, as necessary.) One could reason that in '74 the BIP had won (that was track A - when thomas had his rose garden + cabin by the lake). That was the world of "Tears." The Acts material shows it to be the whole 2000 year track, compressed, with the transtemporal constant - the BIP - visible. The dream, of course, shows that the computer (the wise old king) had intervened, + thus (sic transit) that track. This would certainly explain my postmortem experi experiences. I was temporarily out of the program - above it, in real time. I can infer that we return to the mind of the computer when we die, + we probably came from it in the first place. Certainly, it is aware of conditions in the program; it must monitor unceasingly. Beyond any doubt what I called "astral determinism" is the locked-in isolated - for necessary reasons - nature of the program, its efficient - cause dynamism as it unfolds: is generated along. Now I can understand the nature + reason for "astral determinism." It has to be closed. A closed system: truly deterministic intervention means that there's been a reprogramming' an outside variable has been introduced into an otherwise necessarily closed program. I interpret an introduction of an outside variable as being a reprogramming which implies a replay by a return to a post (prior) point (at least in regard to part of the programs, I am convinced - + have long been convinced that the reprogramming was prior to '74. If thomas was bourgeois, he could honestly meet the CP or fake CP material with aversion + reach by contacting the bureau. But, coming back into existence, he would view me as CP - from his viewpoint I was (cf my father's V-P). I was the one "under party discipline." The sense of party power over me was thomas' sense about me [Diagram] Who replaced who? Well, who's here now: thomas" PKD's past + memories, but thomas personality. thomas who reacted as he did to the xerox missive. New part - but thomas here now. New past is the writing. Old past (which is the real past of the present me, thomas) is the roses + cabin. In my dreams I remembered my real past. [The] original past. Received as the - overlaid by the writing past. But thomas is the result of the roses + cabin past + I am thomas. Obviously the writing memories are [from] B track. So thomas was the original personality, + he is bourgeois (roses + cabin). But I am not PKD the writer; I am thomas who had PKD's memory track grafted only him. But it's still thomas. If I am PKD there is no overlay. The memories would then be authentic + no overlay would be involved. If I assume the [less aim writer] is overlay I must assume I am really thomas with PKD's memories - but anti societ thomas' personality, PKD's memories. So I assume I'm PKD. 3-74 was "before" the overlay. "Before" doesn't mean in linear time. + the PKD personality takes over, based on the habits based on the track B experiences - more than memories: reprogrammed experiences. I have it - 3-74 was as far as track A was run. At the linear-time point the program was rerun. [Diagram] track A roses + lake cabin| track B left wing s-f writer------------------------> [/Diagram] Then the 2-74 Fish sign was a notification to me of some kind. It served some purpose - ah - resurrected the original track A thomas to deal with the consequences of the track B "Tears," a book which didn't exist in track A. Fish sign signalled: return temporarity to track A. So the track A habits + personality temporarily surfaced + took over to fend off the trouble - the Fish sign called track A forth: unearthed it where it lay below track B. There were two warring personalities briefly in in 3-74, as I had already written about in the rough draft of "Scanner". Then, in the form of the secret xtians, the computer has agents here. So in essence via the Golden Fish sign the track A personality was temporarily restored as Master, which is to say, in a real sense track A itself was restored: + I saw the double exposure + specifically the BIP - which I identified with Acts - But: I know it to be the world of "Tears" which from other evidence I know to be track Aso I saw the replaced track + was the replaced self. this implies it wasn't two time superimposed but two presents - but in one the BIP was much stronger. I probably experienced the time dysfunction because I was momentarily lifted out of the project entirely, + saw it sub [specia alternitate] Then the day in which "God" acted did come - + we were judged. I was extricated. + via the Fish sign itself - indubitable indication of where my help came from. I see : the project had to be reworked. It had come to a bad end: WWIII. So God (the Computer) reran the program differently. This required me to lose my safe + cushy roses + Cabin - By - the - Lake life + became a left wing protest writer - so, in recompense "God" intervened to save me when the vengence - trap - for my writing showed up in 3-74, at the risk of exposing the program nature of our reality. When I [formuly] reasoned wrong was to assume that since track A was a police state (v. "Tears") I must have been oppressed. No - I was well-to-do like most of the characters in "Tears." It is a society sharply divided between the "haves + the oppresses, + I was a "have" - not a s-f left wing writer. So I didn't object to that repressive reactionary society - + in a sense one shattered life in track B has been my karmic burder for my plush indifference to conditoins there - as with Jason Taverner. this leads to certain fascinating conclusions. I who personally benefited from that slave-labor society, was sentenced to live my