does not duplicate objects as in my I "Colony" but ontologically replaces story them - peope included. something infinite with the powers of absolute mimickry has invaded our reality secretly + replaced it, so that our reality is counterfeit - but So unitary, sentient, purposefull + alive, the entity is assembling its vast body using the original reality as a stockpile, a parts head, + the entity can enter our minds + take over; we would it's presence eel f takes motor controls it has personality; we would pick up its thin 419 i The crypte plasmate info traffic points dubitably to superior life form + technology rather than to God. (one's) you write a novel about your. their former memory contents to your fiction) being fed back to you as world ("Ubik" a + "Maze") + you write about a police tyranny + underground ("Frolix + a vast alien life form capable of ontological mimicry ("Frolix 8") + the next thing you know It's fed back to you as reality (2-3-74) or as a mimicry of reality. What does This imply? That your ideas are true? all of them? That you're living in an illusory reality based on your own former memory contents? Once the idea of a vastly intelligent capable of mimicry alien life form, is introduced, a life form giving aid to Earth's political prisoners turned into partisans - was the Frolixan confirming to me that it was indeed there? That I was right? Okay. I have long suspected that 2-3-74 was my own books being fed back to me. finally I hit on "Frolix 8" as the prime one. I read it, + find the description of the vast alien aiding oppressed humans in a police state This alien is capable of high order mimicry including getting into your mind, so it's not your own thoughts any more. what do I conclude from this? I don't know; I'm baffled. But it means something wait. I was reading "Frolix 8" specifi‐ cally to see if the alien who offered or 426 rovoni help resembled Valis, having already perceived that Valis seemed to esemble a helpful [to an oppressed human eopulation] alien that invades Earth + istablishes a beachhead. + I find the part bout its "heatoric M.O. for survival being ntological mimicry with no upper limit en t that it can mimic (replace) a human brain with teself whereupon you experience pseudo-psychotic thoughts not your own." Then I am right. I.e. I am thing to see if Valis might be a helpful alien which has established a beach head here in camouflaged form: reasoning back from seeing Valis (+ the other 2-3-74 experiences) induc tively toward a premise. "Frolix 8" carries the premise that if a helpful alien existed, this is how it would be constituted + behave: it would camouflage itself except to [some of] the human prisoners-turned- partisans it had come to help I don't really think its mimicking my writing. rather, I think my writing is/ has been under‐ written by it, + my evidence is the Acts material in "Tears." There has been a mind in my head other than my own going back to my high school days. [my] reality doesn't resemble my writing: contrarily, my writing is based on reality, a reality not known to me but to Valis/Thomas in me, who knew the true situation. I have to ask, why was I re I mean, if not to find a number 84? "Fr 1421 resemblances - not just to 2-3-74 overall but specifically to Valis. + I found very precise resemblances - too close to be acci‐ dental. If the helpful alien is going to turn prisoners into partisans against the police tyranny it would tend to camouflage its presence (in contrast to e.g. "war of the worlds" + "puppet masters") Wait - I just thought of something else. I'm conceiving of non-autochthones (human dids) being sent here, which differs from "Frolis is programmed + then disinhibited (otherwise 81 2-3-74 makes no sense; v. my letter to brad Steiger; we are not autochthones). So of course if I were a non-autochthone sent here pro‐ grammed I would know the true situation + it would be detailed in my writing I'm forgetting the "Star people" thinking that led up to seeing the relationship between 2-3-74 in terms of "Star people" + "Frolix 8" due to my als, in contrast to the attempt to specifically "Star people." The whole "Star people" concept does u not account for Valis. Likewise, "Frolix 8" does account for Valis - but not for the "Star people." the two narratives must be combined "Star people," which accounts for my disinhibition + anamnesis in 2-3-74, + "Frolix 8" which accounts for Valis, + upon reading "Frolix 8" does it account for Valis? Boy, it sure does! Right down to precise details, inc. the mimicry so "Frolis accounts for Valis, + the "Star people" accounts si for my 2-3-74 experience + apparently the contents of my writing. The dream of the little boy Philip on the raft. I 422 It is to be presumed that the "Star people" are engrammed with subliminal knowledge of The situation, + this is what fires at the moment the "DNA memory packets" are triggered off. The info bled through into my writing As far as I am concerned the description the Frolixan as possessing unlimited powers not just mimicry but substitution-at-an ntological-level mimicry (as opposed to that in "Colony") i.e. substitution mimicry (what I think of as transubstantiation) makes the case for Valis being a helpful alien invader an appealing + strong one. I read "Frolix 8" for that answer + I got it. Now, my oftime, sense of being unknown even to myself a Pigspurt agent secretly This probably factors out re the above 4 to my being an agent for Valis with a large part of my mind (brain?) dissociated off + operating outside my perview + control. + that part belonging to Valis or being Valis (as ") ("pseudo is described in "Frolix 8. psychotic thoughts which he correctly recognizes + as not his own. So the ultimate issue is Valis + not the Star people": the latter are just an adjunct of Valis. This fits with my intuition that of everything I saw, heard, knew + experienced in 2-3-74, Valis was the most important, + required the most explanation - + the most scrupulous one igorously arrived at. If I could account for Valis, everything else would fall into place. if I could not account for Valis (e.g. the "Star theory) I'd have achieved nothing. The real people" ssue, then, has always been Valis; hence the 1423 title of the book. "Star people" are in fact his mind satellites of Valis; when disinhibited floods theirs + they - we - possess his memories knowledge, perceptions + he gains control of their - our - motor centers. As described in "Frolix 8," he becomes us + we him. It is interspecies symbiosis, with him ruling But my apperception of Thomas was 1) that he had once been a human being 2) at the time + place of Acts 4) + his language was Greek. 3) + a Xtian nonethelies, Valis was not humanoid, + had the mimicking attributes described in "Frolix 8." could he have been a human, died, left, + returned in this macro-form non-hominoid mimicking way? you have fallen asleep. (Jesus speaking. Cf "Maze." "Ubik" "Maze" "Frolix 8" "Tears" "Scanner" - all superimposed. theory: your world consists of your forgotten memories is thought contents/constructs fed back to you. someone figures this out. Thereupon his thoughts that his world is his own prior thought contents fed back to him get fed back to him as world - if he is right. (i.e. if he starts to catch on, this catching on will itself be a thought which he will later forget, so it itself will eventually become a forgotten prior thought, content or memory + get fed back, as world if through some mischance he should recognize it, he will be in "This is the odd position of seeing a strip reading not real" past through the reality tape-head, as reality, viz: reality correctly labeled "this is not real" will get fed to him, eventually. The doubts (424 of years ago will contaminate the veridical aspect of current reality. Viz: 1) Strip w passes by in say the 1950s. 2) He senses that it isn't real, 3) he writes down a quasi-fictional analysis f this irreality + keeps it. 4) Decases later the doubts of the 1950s pass by as strip yo 3) He compares them to his reactions to strip in + recognizes them, since he has kept the quasi-fictional analysis of w. This is 6) Now w is contaminated by y which in turn is contaminated by 2. If he lives decades longer, 2 will pass by doubly contaminated (by his analysis in the 1950s + in the 1970s). Each time the strip passes by him posing as reality its veridical quality is vitiated by an added layer of doubt. The reality served up to him in the 1970s is the 1950s vitiated by the doubt he felt then, which took a permanently written -down form in his writing. Now (in the 1970s) he doubly doubts it, but what is more, he has actually itiated the reality itself because his doubts are/were (in the 1950s) correct although when he xpressed them he did not know that they here prior forgotter memory contents served up as eality; all he knew was that he sensed them as cake. This sense on his part caused the 1900 ape (4) to be so vitiated that when it later showed up (in 1974) it was severely weakened; he has introduced a "noise" which will ositive-feed back build on itself each time sa it re he 2 the vitiation is magnified each time, leading to a corresponding magnification of doubt which generates a correspondingly greater agnification of vitiation. The semblance f verisimillitude is waning rather than, as is usual, increasing with each pass It's not supposed to work this way; it's supposed to work the opposite way: with each pass it should become more binding, more karmic, more concrete. The authority of the take (which is a dokos) should build on itself with each pass. But for the same reason that it normally builds in verisimillitude with each pass it now weakens [itself in a positive feedback loop] each time. the pharmacy girl + remembered in 2-74 I saw for a split second. This began a disintegrating process of reality-lock with total breakdown in 3-74 with the 2 Pigspurt missives. Thereupon from then on, whole masses of palpable memory as-reality got served up, since the machiner couldn't be halted. It is as if doubts rather than beliefs got served up. Doubt fed on doubt rather than belief on belief. N Yet - this is the dibba cacchu enlightenment which the Buddha spoke of the burning up of Maya + Karma âž€ This is the element of accomodation by reality of which I am so suspicious. It shouldn't have accomodated me in 2-74 by substituting Rome c. AD 45 for Calif 1974 AD by doing so it let power by it over me pass to power by me over it, which set up rapide positive feed back that hasn ye 426 apparently I momentarily fully awake, but all the way back in the fifties I was becoming dubious. This factored in a weakening element + it fed on itself - there was a lay. Reality didn't disappear the moment I doubted it; what was needed was for that doubted reality to come bopping past the playback head again, 25 years later. I didn't know the Xerox missive was going to come; I remembered I it began with the pentathol. I don't think This pass was the first time I remembered; I think I remembered