can only see it later. I wish I could understand. The slap rag music of black shoeshine boys - vs "good music"! "Days of Heaven"! 1) BIP "Tears" world is hell. I was formerly there & remembered it. Past. 2) this world, Purgatorio. 3) the Garden showing through into (2). I will be going there. Paradiso. These 3 realms are co-axial. folder 49 - 142 folder 49 - 142 The thing is, I remembered (anamnesis) the worse world - & saw it - but did _not_ remember the better world - the Garden world, although later on I did see it. I was never formerly in the Garden world. These worlds have all the aspects of Dante's three worlds (which are probably based on Orphic & Neoplatonist sources). During my lifetimes in _this_ world, Purgatorio, I was adjudicated as exculpated & passed over into what I have called "Post Mortem" experience. Which are actually experiences of the better world Paradiso, & I have found myself in the top level of Purgatorio that Dante describes - the last level of _this_ world. These worlds & their many layers occupy the same space; they are coaxial. As in Dante, I have my psychopomp. Just as once I was taken out of the hell-world, now I am being extricated from this world; the final world shines through it to me, & I am moving toward it. As I said in my Metz speech, Christ taught how to get across to the next world, Paradiso, while still here. (before dying.) It involved death taking him surrogate instead of you. This fits in with the Golden Fish Sign, etc. Only Christ can arrange to spring you from this world while you're still in it. The purpose of the anamnesis of the previous bad world is to be freed of your two-tape programming to go on to the next one, via the surrogate death by Christ for you. Breaking the hold of "astral determinism," the two synchronized tapes, is just one part of breaking the hold of this world per se - all of it folder 49 - 143 folder 49 - 143 so that the chains of this world are loosed the way the chains of the previous world ("Tears") were, by Christ, previously loosed. The phylogon - ontogon basis of reality shows that basically Plato was right (realism is right); reality accrues in terms of the Forms (phylogons), although the phylogon is not (as he supposed) imposed on the many ontogons but is derived from them. This makes him more right than wrong; he saw the process so-to-speak backwards, but it was the right process. (phylogons are what is real). I saw, in ? the furiously fast laying down of layer upon layer of each of the billions of phylogons however they were distributed in space (Noos is omnipresent, so there is only a spatial _here_; no spacial there, & all changes occur only in time). So there _are_ form axes, & they do get advanced in time. Noos scrutinizes the constants. It only sees the constants (phylogons). The constants are real to Noos (verifying Plato). Once a phylogon comes into being it can be subsumed by a Greater phylogon, which tends to make phylogons imperishable. Meanwhile they are real but part of process. It is essence as opposed to accidents; Noos sees no accidents. Ontogons possess both substance & accidents, but only when the accretional process is seen at high speed can the difference between substance & accidents be determined. In that essence will persevere, & be retained when incorporated into Greater phylogons. Ontogons are the building blocks of phylogons, & phylogons are the building blocks of the universe (like atoms & molecules) : the universe consists of structures of phylogons. The total structure is Kosmos. Structures geometrically arranged. But what is the role of information? It links layers of a given phylogon that are distributed at various loci in space - so it permits layers of a phylogon to travel to be in a lot of places at once folder 49 - 144 folder 49 - 144 but the past is never gone for Noos; once a phylogon has come into being through the process of per mutating (layers of) ontogons it is there to stay, except it is farther down. The time axes are like 3-D space. (as when I saw the Bible in 3-D according to the dates of the text; i.e. how old they were) : so the temporal axis turns out to be space : depth (parallexis). So the location in the structure in terms of depth is along the temporal axis. The value of information is that it can replicate & travel about in space (& time), & be in many places at once, & it can link & relink in many combinations ; it changes. We are dealing here with _physical_ information & _physical_ phylogons & structure in time-as-space. My writing constitutes a phylogon as Sladek's Parody proved. Thus it will always exist ; Noos has built it into the structure. This has nothing to do with its survival in time. (i.e. what we call "immortality." No phylogon can cease to be.) I am an ontogon but my writing is a phylogon. Much of this - including Noos or Valis - is dealt with in "Ubik." What I saw as set or the plasmate (e.g. "King Felix") is simply a new layer of a given phylogon being put into place : it is current, i.e. new. So it is embossed, rather than at a depth. The plasmate, therefore, is the present constituents of various phylogons moving into place as the top layer, so still "alive" - i.e. in motion. folder 49 - 145 folder 49 - 145 I was seeing the life - activity - of the system in motion. Well, then, King Felix is/was added to a phylogon somewhere & it is therefore a permanent accretion, (1) where the rest of "Tears" is not! (1) somewhere I was right from the start : in terms of information "King Felix" is part of a greater (longer) message. Somewhere, it fell into place in a phylogon formed up through the accretional (temporal) layers. There may be _one_ unitary aggregate of information (the Torah?) to which "King Felix" was added, an information component in the structure of reality; i.e. reality _as_ information - a narrative. "God is the Book of the Universe" ("a Platonic idea."). In any case "King Felix" was the phylogonic part of "Tears" which otherwise is an ontogon. All of it will perish except "King Felix," which will be added on somewhere else as a layer - part - of a phylogon. This is what I saw. What about the business of Valis pilferin' from the extant (antecedent) universe to self-construct it own body? Does it "grow" phylogons & structures of phylogons & then incorporate them? Reading the "E. of SF" re my writing. Let me recap : my world in 3-74 resembled my own writing to too great a degree (after it too obligingly served up 1st century A.D. Palestine. It folder 49 - 146 was trying to correct its error. It's intelligent & it shows you what you expect to see. + "& she shall see the sea." This would impinge directly on your senses, although there is some kind of objective matrix out there. However, I got to see from the VP of the mind governing all this. We are yoked into a slave system (the twin synched tape programming). Since the word you see is the world you expect to see, the illusion has a built-in _ostensible_ veridical factor, the creation of your world knows what you would be most likely to accept & believe. It's psychomorphic. Meanwhile, each ontogon puts out more information than it receives, a net gain of info & hence negentropy. (_more_ info, & diversification & proliferation.) It all has to do with phylogon creation & information generation. The source for your world is your own forgotten memories. It's a feedback loop. What destroys the "Magdaburg Hemisphere" system is the occurrence of an impossible event, _however small_, since this results in a withdrawl of belief & & leaves the external world unsupported. It will then adjust, since it is now in an impossible position : 1) as it stands it is not convincing. 2) Okay, so it will change & become what _is_ convincing. 3) But in doing so, the act of changing discloses its psychomorphic quality. 4) But it could not have done otherwise; to have _not_ changed would have been an equal failure. 5) It will pull out all the stops on the "as you desire me" script circuit. But although folder 49 - 147 folder 49 - 147 this will win for it in the short run (the percipient now had not what he would believe, but, better, what he wishes for) it will - is doomed to - fail in the long run because its desire to please, it (world) will fall into the error of overkill. In terms of what the person wants; viz : the person will figure out that only _he_ knew what he wanted, so world must be drawing in some way on _his_ mind. What emerges from all this are these realizations : world is actually sentient & aware of the person, & has _posed_ as the inanimate & insentient. Having been double-bind lured out of that pose, world can't return to it! Not unless the percipient forgets, or is so pleased to be in an enchanted Garden that he is willing to forego reality testing. What happened in 3-74 was a failure in amnesia. The memory loss that is normally there always (1) - it broke down, revealing a discontinuity. I had _not_ been there in that place & at that time; &, moreover, there was not even continuity in self (i.e. me). Probably these discontinuities are common, but masked by the occluding amnesia mechanism. Secondly, my perceptual occlusion briefly departed & I experienced Valis laying down the layers of the phylogons. (1) memory loss of real memory replaced by retroactive compensation - v. Altman's "3 Women." Fake memory derived entirely from the present & in accord with it. folder 49 - 148 folder 49 - 148 2-74 obviously jarred my real memory into coming on. (Christ story as memory aid; it was intentional). The messenger came here with news from outside but instead succumbed, fell asleep & forgot. The discontinuity of memory (itself) was serious enough, but even more serious, _it produced a discontinuity in external reality_, as if reality was attempting to accommodate two different selves with two different sets of expectations. It settled finally on a "she shall see the sea" wish fulfillment enchanted Garden that was so emotionally & spiritually satisfying that it worked. However, I soon realized that it was drawing on my own mind - the contents thereof - for its source material; it was mirroring my own mind back at me, selectively. But I had experienced something that is _real_ : Noos building the phylogon at enormous speed; (1) Sentient unitary reality in process : reality as macro mind dysmorphic to me, & in complete control of everything; Noos (Valis) _as_ reality, not _author_ of reality. (1) completing itself. with ontogons as the building blocks of the phylogons, the latter ordered into one coherent structure; Noos' Soma, Noos building itself a Body. folder 49 - 149 folder 49 - 149 Noos completing its physical body spanning 1000's of years, as Kosmos. "Damn them to hell." The God of the phylogons is _not_ the same God as that of Christ. Christ represents a revolt against the system, & his messages are smuggled in to us. It continues the theme of the James-James dream. Christ is the champion of the tortured ontogons. If this is the eschatological judge passing sentence on the system then he must be above the system (cf Paul