Kingdom of God lies is solved: it is right here, but must be discriminated (unscram sled) from the lower realm for it to be visible as such. Then the lower realm can be suppressed is ground to set the latter becoming hieroglyphs or information. Separated from the upper reali 183 the lower regresses (in time, alon the temporal axis); it seems, by itself, to be located in the first century AD. Again, "Tears" depicts This ossified lower realm - at the end of which the old king or Christ breaks in - entering it - + time advances (the dream on, inc. the epilog). No, This is not correct; from the dream on, the lower realm is abolished (by the in-breaking) Then I did indeed enter the Kingdom of God 3-74. in There is a certain tension between the two realms, the lower one resisting change - i.e. resisting the upper: resisting time itself. could it be - as put forth in "Ubik" - that the lower realm actually moves, on its own, so regressively in time, + the upper one forward? that "Ubik" is the correct model? (With its form regressions?) After all, when the two split apart for me, I saw massive time regression in the lower to Acts (world of "Tears" - this is wouse than mere ossification!). Our world of the present is due to a dynamic balance between the two. On its own the upper shoots ahead to the post mortem existence + the lower devolves back 2000 years. Then indeed the upper one is the Kingdom of heaven, which can be reached in this lifetime! But only through the spec tacular act of ritual death - bonding with the + killed + risen Lord. (Kyrios this, then is the gift (action) of Xtianity, + it what happened to me in 2-3-74. is So in "Ubik," because they have died, the world pulls apart into its two component worlds: one of form-regression (the lower) + Ubik (the upper, + alive, + restorative). 26. 649-4000 103 dirport centur Hatel could it be that Ubik tracks our (lower realm) world + extracts the temporal Fix information it wishes? + the pure activity of tracking (playing) is the Kingdom of heaven, like music to an lipt was this not precisely demonstrated by the otherwise inexplicable superimposition (syntonically) of two time continua in 2-3-74? The Logos extracted two messages simultaneously for me via two psychoi in me. N The BIP + the PTG (lower + upper) are superim. posed to create our world. In "Ubik" they have separated. Through Christ one can inhabit the upper (the PTG) alone, + leave the lower. The BIP. one can escape the Empire. But also the true Xtians (incorporated into Christ) are blowing up The BIP, to destroy it; they are activists against it. "Ubik clearly shows how the upper realm (Ubik) Acts on the lower, but not vice versa. my "two source cosmology" is the correct model after alls âž€ This makes each psyche a tracking instrument extracting temporal information. The temporal fix is within the given psyche. Two psychoi can track the same reality + extract different information. what we call "time" is information. But the psyche no more decides which information of will retrieve than the stylus of a phonograph decides which record it will track. It is placed in contact with the information + it begins to track it - programmed to extract (retrieve) specific information. Thus the complete life (span] of any given psyche is already there upon its beginning to track? 1104 the psyche follows the track rather than creates it. Hence my feeling about karma programming, precognition, being a machine + this explains my getting out of causal synch briefly in 3-74. This explains my inner-outer tape" impression: my sense of Leib uitz' pre-established non-causal harmony This explains my "selenoid clock" impression. t the psyche is retrieving - extracting - information which is already there. This is why I get the impression that I've lived my life before This spe 3-74. I'm getting close to figuring out how information - + in fact a self - from the future was imploded back to 3-74 + the crisis at that time. There was a track - ah. The information was there als ob it were later grooves on an LP or a farther on stretch of tape. The tracking psyche either did it or it was done for it. The conventional (method) of sequen tial tracking was violated, which proves that future information - the future itself is there This is shown by the crucial information having already appeared in e.g. "Faith of" & "MitrC" the information does not in itself exist in the seque This means ance (order) in which it is tracked. that every space-time moment tracked by each unique psyche exists forever, + what we are really seeing is a vast Nous remembering, but never is it he past remembered but the present - made so by the tracking psyche, which is an agent of the vast mind which reviews itself via the tracking psyche: knows itself. âž€ + the future self The vast noos is constantly engaged in self. xploration: "when me they fly I am the wings. 105 since it is the job of the tracking psyche to retrieve information the 3-74 experience is in accord with its general function but not in accord with its general method of function g. It violates procedure but in the service its customary purpose; it is a heightening technique, a sort of ultra resourcefulness s It's as if it did under stress more of what It is it normally does. If it can it will. There to retrieve information. In this situation It amps up its metridology. It presses it to the limit. Here it makes use of, for its own needs information it is supposed to "remem‐ ber - i.e. retrieve. By remembering prematur sty it extricates itself, which is to say, it really possesses the information, + so why not use it? But this discloses the fact that it is tracking. The information is not created; it does not come into existence. It 3-74 could be is just sequentially known. regarded as a purposeful malfunction, with a clearly defined goal in mind, in which case the tracking psyche is unexpectedly confronted by its own actual nature of it can induce such a malfunction + since such a malfunction is possible. a basic maxion is involved here: infor‐ mation is only meaningful if processed in the proper sequence. This is exactly what the tracking psyche does along the time axis. in 3-74 the psyche ceased to be the instrument the information it served to retrieve but instead lundered the information for its own needs: out of equence. probably the vast noos construed he tracking psyche to be valuable + - irradiated into intense "remembering." 108 again: "Ubik" depicts the fallen or decomposing cosmos, with the spiritual principle re-introduced as if from outside, as if attacking, invading coming one way at the from outside to devolving (decomposing) world: Thus Ubik is uncanny, as Lem points out Ubik must act on world to restore it. + at the same time Ubik is information which is strange; why is it information? because it is alive. {Note] + is an "I." It can say, "I am Ubik" its words are its thoughts. it thinks + it speaks. What do we assume if we see written information? That some sentient entity is or was present; the writing is evidence of its presence, its thinking, its knowledge. âž€ No, it may not be alive; it may be an AI system. But it is an intelligence. It is aware; it knows. It is intentional. Writing is higher on the evolutionary scale than speak also, writing is a trace left by something which thinks; it may not be present (it may have left or be elsewhere) but this is evidence of mind; only mind can produce writing Yet there is a deeper significance, + that is of: divine writ ("die heilige Schrift") writing of this sort is passed downward from above. it represents something possibly superior to man + certainly his equal. Also, writing is an arrang ment of matter into the intelligable. It is an ordering of reality by the influence of mind. reality is perturbed - influenced. Something beyond it is pointed to. Voices may merely be hallucinations but not writing. This entity which revives reality + which 107 inscribes its writing onto it is clearly deity. If we are ever to become aware of deity most likely it will be in this way. 1) Reorganizes reality (improving it. 2) including inscribing words on it Even without theological knowledge we are instinctively aware that this is deity. Two things are involved: 1) repairing a decomposing (dying) world + 2) communicating or at least thinking aloud. that which repairs decomposing reality thinks, + that which thinks repairs decomposing reality, much is implied here. Unless we are to presume an artificial construct we must assume that we are experiencing "hieroglyphs" of God - if we are ever to get proof (evidence) of God it would be in such forms as this: repair + communical on. At least this is my understanding of what is meant by "God." There is no anthropomorphism. no hominoid figure: this is the ubiquitous artificer who is pure intelligence as well as artificer, + that he repairs shows him to be benign: he is good, he knows + he has power over reality + he seems to be everywhere (cf Xenophanes): He is distributed throughout the landscape - who else, then, but God" Also, as in 3-74, he impinges directly onto my mind; the voice written texts + visions are in me. My mind is not solus, suddenly; there is a dialog in which he instructs me. + I am protected + adopted - as to the latter, the reason given for this is a reason which conforms with what scripture tells us as to why God adopts humans (broadly speaking). It is the essence of the Hittite covenant where the powerful protect the man weak. This was moses' basic understanding of relationship to God, + was 108 Then axiomatically to be extended by strong men to weaker (less fortunate) men; viz - as God to man:: mants weaker men based on the principle that it is the basic duty of the strong to protect the weak - This is the Hittite covenant in res summate That's right - a long time ago the AI voice described itself as my tutulary - i.e. protecting - spirit! It is the Hittate Then my covenant of the God of thoses' childhood dream, upon reading the Bible (the O.T. specifically) is realized! + the idea of adoption links it to the N.T. as well. Here an elevation of the man adopted in implied i as I saw in 3-74, reality is made up of two parts: 1) a devolving regressing mass 2) onto which a divine power ubiquitously Acts. These two parts are shown in "Ubik" Hence "Ubik" is true. Ubik is the source of the written messages which show up in "Joint" +" Exe." In "Ubik" I got it right. Two parts to reality: 1) a regressive "inferior bulk" + 2) divine power + messages inserted everywhere into it. Sophia? The trick is getting the two components to disentangle is to somehow die to the world, whereupon it devolves away off into The past, leaving you in touch with the divine which does not regress. Again, I had this right in "Ubik" - the strange half-death or death which leaves you - I know what I alive - in a second birth? Wait did: I speeded up + got out of synch with world so that in relation to me it regressed. 107 through a series of reincarnations until Macro Christ i one + the same: me in myself him,