(as in "Ubik") that we are dead. Hence when I came to life I was no longer here but (found myself) in another world - much larger + older entirely. We must be plugged into "polyen cephalic fusion" + not really here. Our for‐ The gotten memories fed back to us as world smaller newer world. But actually we are dead + in a prison; the life before this was real, which is the life (world) I remembered - abreacted to. where I died (+ am now dead; I remembered My death). So I didn't remember my previous life but my [actual] life. (Where + who + when I actually am, "enchanted" so that I suppose I am me + here + now in this little universe t of course - the vast technology that Valis displayed is quite capable of enchanting us + causing us to experience this far world 569 If I hadn't seen Valis I'd be at a loss to account for the necessary technology. But Valis has it; Valis generates this world The way a stereo generates sound. In fact we are in a sort of prison + are in some sense dead. It's all a trick - a conjurer's trick (Maya). Valis simulater reality - partly by occluding us Christ wakes us up ("born from the Spirit"; when you are born you begin life) Yes - the body is the tomb of the soul - so when I woke up I had out-of-the-body exper emies which were post mortem: post body. we are educated here, perhaps. Constructed, in as the insect is torn fact, as in a laboratory. down in the cocoon + rebuilt. We must be a s sort of crop. If we feed on Christ we gain eternal life. Valis poses as the universe + feeds a thou‐ sand thousand impulses to us which we are pro‐ grammed to accept as real shrewdness. Discerning something as not real (i.e. not what it appears to be); this is the essence of wisdom. To be de-occluded. To come forgotten to life ("born from above"). but once we were alive, + the to memories of that life are recirculated back to us as ersatz world; this is the prison. What for? in "Tears" my waking self was trying to signal to me to wake up, to remember (the world - the real world) of Acts. Speaking to me the AI voice: waking voice. The AI voice is "wake + knows the situation. Who is the enchanter? Valis? No, Valis has embedded himself in our ersals reality + sign to r vo He has penetrated into our world of darkness (uns). The universe that I abreacted to was more real than this. Why? If the prime bestowal of wisdom is shrewdness - this implies that reality is not what it seems. is Valis trying things out on us to see if we can discern them as fakes? (Cf Lem's paradigm: could the brain detect The spuriousness of the reality being Fel to it?) In that case the Xerox missive was the supreme test for me in this lifetime, toward which everything moved did so discern: that it was fake I suppose the test had supernatural overtones; + It was the test of my function, my primary ability, which I had developed - or rather which had been developed in me - over decades: the matter of fakes. My salvation (whatever that means) depended on the outcome. It had the quality of ritual, solemn high initiatory ritual. a greater person in me, as me, than I knew existed, was being tested: my macro-self in its entirely. Like a component part, having been made, now receiving its crucial test - will it work or not work? In my case, can I tell this is a fake, given no clues? A perfect fake. so only pure shrewdness would suffice. Then Holy Wisdom would have to live in me for me to pass. Perhaps what was being determined was whether Hagia Sophia did orded viewed as us ta old Sophia live in me unction. 8 not hypostasis: like luck or precognition, etc. Then the epiphany of Hagia Sophia was not the means but the goal; the test was not the goal but the means. Having - being? - Hagia Sophia, then, is regarded as a state or even degree or level of spiritual existence, the ultimate to be sought for. Like a kind of spiritual birth (metamorphosis). s in hypnagogic state I was granted a vision of how the system works. living creatures must have cognitive + percept systems which give them only approxi mate knowledge of the outer world; otherwise kinetic life would cease; viz: if owls knew absolutely were where chipmunks, + chipmunks knew absolutes where owls were, all owls could catch all chip. monks, + all chipmonks could escape from all owls, so neither owls nor chipmonks could exist. It is necessary that some owls catch some chipminks, + some chipmonks escape some owls for both species to survive. (Like a pitcher none of whose pitches can be hit pitching to a batter who can hit any pitch; the situation would seize!) So a given amount of cognitive throughout!) he + perceptual occlusion must exist within t biological realm. However, Hagia Sophia can judiciously introduce that very quality of absolute knowledge (cognitive-percept cojoined) at certain times + places in the total system, whereupon at those times + those places - i.e. those situation - approximation (+ occlusion) gives way to knowledge: i.e. occult absolute shrewdness (in pr the of the meaning s terd is 572 but this must be very judiciously applied, the latitude (so to speak "grease". Not of the system will vanish. Hence I can see ) that mere approximate cognition-perception must be the rule, or there will be kinetic death in the biological - i.e. higher - realms. + 2) this precise missing quality of Holy wisdom - absolute knowing - can be injected p571 into the total system if kept to a minimum. This stamps the origin of Holy Wisdom as ndubitably adventitious + for sure based on elestial decision + not chance or caprice; it is done where it can safely be done i.e. with out stering the system. So I deem it qua gift as the maximum gift which the celestial powers can give, temporarily elcrating the biological organism involved to the level of the celestial powers themselves or itself. This necessary normal occlusion will have the regretable spinoff of denying all biological organisms understanding of the celestial mechan nics - but if Holy Wisdom is injected into one of them temporarily he will see + understand but never be able to tell about it (since his vision is the absolute amidst the approximate hence irremediably dysmorphic). Not part clearances within a moving set of elements, as in an interal combustion engine, etc. If a missile were built which could escape any interception, + an intercept mechanism were built which could shoot down any missile, what would result? A stall or oscillation! Burpose ther be ful abolished be would activity 573) a latitude based on approximations on the part of missile + intercept mechanism both (why both? Why, if in just one of the two, the other would instantly obliterate it. So the area of mere approximation must so to speak float everywhere for all biological - i.e. sentient participants! It has to be a verity, a con‐ t stant, a ubiquity, in the total system perpetually It is literally the space-time which permits motion per se: the space-time in which the participants - all of them - move. It is literall a kind of space! nonetheless St Sophia introjects pure (absolute) cognitive-perceptual shrewdness at selected loci but this act can never be the rule; only the exception, + not even reportable in that it bears no resemblance to the cogniti perceptual approximating mechanisms installed in all biological entities perforce, + it must soon be withdrawn or the fortunate entity will become a juggernant. After the target t situation is over, it must be taken back as gift So - to go back to the chipmunk + the out - the must exist this neutral space in which they by participate + into which each - both - can move in + our, forward, backward. I envision it mechani cally, this model works to explain why we are occluded for our own good, + we are occluded, I found out in 3-74. (Due to being calculates de-occluded so I could solve a lethal problem absolute shrewdness generates inexorable actio who cannot err. fail, misfire, fall short etc is scary. The biological organism bein fect mechanism that will not deflect, s 74 5 perception at its disposal. He is like a killey intercept missile, which does not even need to know in the ideational, conceptual sense; he needs no mere hypothesis, no theory; it is like a zen archer. He does not have to think because he does not have to figure - reason anything out. Also the outcome is not in doubt. A wholly deterministic series has come into existence in fact the presence of absolute knowledge would introduce paradox into the system, a functional oxymoron. You cannot have owls that can catch all chipmunks + chipmunks that can escape all owls. The introjection of absolute knowledge would soon upset + void the system; on the other hand, absolute wisdom herself would know when, where + how she could safely introject herself, So in doing this she could not unwittingly err. But I say, holy Wisdom is the very element necessarily absent from the system‐ This is a realization so important as to beggar description, inasmuch as as I know, Holy Wisdom (absolute shrewdness) exists - exists but cannot, must not, be imparted. except in precisely limited bits that in no way suffuse the system. The key term is balance. withholding holy Wisdom permits balance within the echosphere, via the space of approximations on the other hand the judicious introjection may be also a balancing device - like measured amounts of poison that serve as healing medicine. these measured bits would (I think) jolt the system heverely, small though they be (viz: formula: "a tiny amount of absolute knowledge offsets a vast of approx. mation/guesswork mount 16 c t proposition: a biological organism granted Holy Wisdom would - albeit temporarily - know everything (as when a blind person abruptly becomes sighted: if he can see he can see everything that falls within his purview, sight is sight + absolute shrewdness is absolute shrewdness. The only limiting factor would be duration/memory. The organism would understand everything totally + then forget it after the gift was withdrawn - to its baffled irritation + dismay + frustration. Also, it would lack semantic mechanisms by which to hypo‐ statize what it temporarily knew. Thus Holy wisdom gets in + gets out. It would be the practical application in terms of action (deed) that would permanently count, not retrospective ratiocina. (theorizing). So Holy wisdom must stand outside the echo‐ sphere, precisely as Valis does or seems to do, monitoring it + perhaps introjecting absolute knowledge into it to maintain balance. It is impossible that absolute knowledge could exist within the echosphere because 1) if it were unevenly dis‐ tributed it would generate suggernacts or 2) set up infinite regressions of antithetical paradoxic dialectic that would lead immediately to seezing (i.e. 3 kinetic death). However, if John I is to be interpreted as Holy wisdom entering the echosphere Holy Wisdom would drive out approximation i pace, hence change, + set up something like Parmenides' static monism, although the illusion of change might persist or be allowed ban to 8 So if the echosphere is to exist at all, Holy visdom must, although present, suspend its speration except in cases where its operation the actually balances - increases balance - in echosphere rather than abolishs it; so it would