unconscious; i.e. a kind of psychosis, but one with a definite survival purpose in mind, not a mere inundation of archetypal contents out of control. My collective unconscious was signalled by the golden fish sign that the time had come for it to take control. Seeing the fish produced a shock of recognition on my part, an instant and powerful one that resonnated on an unconscious level. My unconscious self had been anticipating the arrival of this sign some day, and thus blocked (GABA fluid blocked) neural circuits were disinhibited. All this under the immediate pressure of an awareness of impending death. "Why I had the feeling divine providence was helping me." It was my own precog unconscious helping me; by "me" read "ego" or "conscious self." It had a vast, supernatural quality, as if very ancient and yet from the future -- the former because of the collective unconscious; the latter because of my precog ability, which is why it was able to help. The precog ability explains why I felt this vaster other mind to be moving retrograde in time. It was right hemisphere; hence the vast spacial sense, and the bells: the right hemisphere is sensitive to music. SCANNER was again a precog phenomenon, being written just before my right hemisphere personality Thomas took over; the final draft wasn't even done yet. Here is the best case for precognition in my writing of all. I do have two selves, one in each hemisphere, the right side being precog. folder 82 - 089 folder 82 - 089 -8- 3-8-80 It relates to time totally different than the left, as it does to space; what I was seeing in 3-74 in regard to time was the way my right hemisphere personality sees (experiences) it, and it isn't linear time. This is probably true of everyone, but usually your right hemisphere doesn't take over. Mine did because due to its precognition it understood that my death was at hand and it, due to its precognition again, knew the way out. So it had to take over consciousness, if I/we were to survive. That was Thomas, and that is the AI voice I hear. But what, if anything, is Valis? folder 82 - 090 folder 82 - 090 -1- 3-11-80 All I can really be sure of is: in 2-3-74 I was tracking these events for the second time, and this explains why I knew they were coming, why I wrote about them in the Sixties, but, most of all, why I felt myself to be a machine. Obviously there was the danger of tracking it the second time the way I tracked it the first time -- which would lead (had led?) to disaster. "Divine Providence" helping me was my own memory (anamnesis) of these events which was unconscious in me, but stimulated into seizing control of my motor centers when the critical situation came around again, for the second time. Thus the anamnesis makes sense. But what I don't know is: What does it signify that I was reliving these events for the second time? Does this mean I am dead and on tape? Is this the truly postmortem life? Are we dead and in purgatorio? Is this a punishment situation or an opportunity situation? And what is Valis? And why does the retrograde time seem like UBIK and Valis like Ubik? Is UBIK the paradigm? Because they are dead and don't know it. Is that our situation, but in 2-3-74 I arrived at the situation that killed me, remembered, and successfully rebelled against it, and so this time didn't die? "Divine Providence" does not represent the pressure to retrack (track once again) as I tracked before; no -- that was experienced as a sensation of being a programmed machine. "Divine Providence" was experienced as a sense of override and a departure from retracking as before, the opposite or anti-machine principle (agency, force, etc). So that would be Thomas...who knew, remembered, what happened before and wished to avert (deflect) it. folder 82 - 091 -2- 3-11-80 "Divine Providence" was experienced as an uncanny supernatural knowledge of the gravity of the situation, the necessity of not retracking the same way, and, most of all, knowledge of what should be done INSTEAD. But all this is my precog faculty at work. But my precog faculty is based on the fact that I was reliving 2-3-74 for a second time, and I myself causing it to come out differently. You see, you can't just say "Here we have precognition," as if precognition is natural. Why is there precognition? How did it come to arise? It came to arise BECAUSE I WAS TRACKING REALITY A SECOND TIME; THAT EXPLAINS THE ORIGIN OF THE PRECOGNITION. I will accept this because I think it is the correct explanation. The existence of another personality --Thomas-- points to it. But I cannot fathom what this tracking a second time implies, except this: it implies a vast system --macrocosm-- similar to Lem's paradigm, and Valis is, like Ubik, the entity --mind-- on control of the system. The system would of course have a mind of itself or an adventitious operator; if we find people wired into retracking we can infer a large system of which this is a part, and, if there is a large system, there is going to be (as in UBIK) a macromind running things. I mean, systems like this aren't spontaneous; they don't just happen. I was in contact with Valis' mind, and, my goodness yes; Valis does program (i.e. engram) us, and from birth. So Valis is for sure in charge of the whole thing or is the whole thing; and it generates for us the semblance of a reality -- which accounts for my radical acosmism. There; I've explained Valis, my acosmism, why we retrack, everything. I can close down and mark end. So my previous article explaining everything on the basis of folder 82 - 092 folder 82 - 092 -3- 3-11-80 precogition on my part is a failure because it doesn't explain the precognition; and the fact is, I know where there was precognition: I had lived the events of 2-3-74 once before. The precognition is a clue to a vast mystery, and one which would account for Valis (as the mind of the system which arranged the retracking and without which the retracking would not have occurred) Precognition alone does not account for Valis. But a system which sets up retracking does -- especially retracking where a successful solution (B) replaces a faulty one (A). Hence I say, Time is illusory. "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." The system is semblance of reality -- which explains our perceptual and memory occlusions. Now consider the significance of my original insight: Time ran backward. There was a time disruption. Obviously the spurious time of this pseudo-world was aborted at least subjectively for me: I saw things as they are, which means, outside of linear time. Hence my analogy of an LP record or tape. If time were real it could not be disrupted, it could not be made to run backward. This is further (and massive) evidence of the spurious. In fact, this is precisely how you do determine that our situation is spurious: if you can get time to stop or run backward. Then you can see things as they are (the "two stereo signal" world). This, precisely, is the revealing dysfunction. folder 82 - 093 folder 82 - 093 A major conceptual breakthrough: there is a hierarchy of coaxial realms in which causality undergoes a progressive modification from (1) total external determinism as cause --reality is acted on, not out of. Spinoza's view derives from the Hebrew view of the Torah. (2) Some external determinism and some internal entelechy system-growth; (3) Total internal entelechy system-growth -- cause herewith not seen as a realm of laws ala Spinoza but as stages of growth within the unitary entelechy as if its volition. And nothing outside the system acting on it, but all change as emanating from inside the system. The laws are the regularities of the unfolding stages of the system; it is not forced to conform to laws external to it. Spinoza is describing realm one. We live mostly in one but with perhaps some trace of two. "The Kingdom of God" is realm three. The third realm represents total freedom and an escape from heimarmerie; one is total heimarmene. What I saw that I call Valis is world seen free from the external coertion of heimarmene, hence totally self-regulating. Then realm 3 equals Valis equals pantheistic deity. These are really different realms and not one realm viewed three ways. It is not subjective. They are spacially coaxial. This represents a more sophisticated view of my 3-track 3 alternative world Metz speech. Realm one has the aspect of a prison. The second as we see it, overlain over realm one. The third is a garden, above our world. These are levels (these three realms) of progressive homeostasis. In realm 3 no law (causal law) is imposed on it; it itself generates all its own laws out of its own inner nature, as one vast folder 82 - 094 folder 82 - 094 -2- unitary entelechy. This is the conceptual breakthrough I have needed; here I make the great quantum leap lacking over the whole 6-year period. The ultimate vision of reality is of Valis for whom all cause derives from within itself, generated out of its own growth stages; it knows of no realm of causal law; it knows only its own intrinsic growth. Its will to become. Whatever it elects to do seems to us to be causality but, for it, it is not. To our eyes, no matter what Valis does (elects to do) we will automatically see cause and effect; what I have been calling "pretextual cause." The significance of this conceptual breakthrough is incalculable. Causality is an illusion generated by the growth decisions of the total entelechy that I call Valis. In our realm there is cause and effect but in its realm there is not. "Cause and effect" is an imperfect view of Valis' changes. It does change because it grows and it assimilates its antecedent self, constantly surpassing it. In other words, causality follows from what Valis does, not the other way around. Valis is then the ultimate all-enclusive entity -- embracing all reality, and not subject to anything outside it -- therefore ipso facto it is God. Anything which would contain causality would de facto be God. Valis also stimulates us humans into doing or not doing things (responding to stimuli) by means of pretextual causes; the real causes are in us, which is to say, Valis itself (it is the pretextual causes as well). folder 82 - 095 folder 82 - 095 So, within the same 48 hours, I've proven (to my own satisfaction anyhow) that (1) it (2-3-74) is Christian and nowise else; and (2) Valis is God, hence the Christian God. Valis, for whom cause is internal to it and a result of its intention. To grow and surpass itself and the similitude of cause and effect is created when it acts, as for instance when it prompts us to do something. Valis being everything is us, too. It is not merely external to us. It contains causality within it. To briefly summarize the argument for Christianity. The Torah says, "Love thy neighbor." But Christ adds, "You have heard it said, 'Love your neighbor.' But I say, love your enemy." Christianity extends love to those who are palpably unworthy of love. (Such as worthless New York street kids.) This abolishes the justice or retributive system; my "messenger" dream where the messenger arrives in time to insert a blank white sheet for your bill of particulars. There no bilking of the heimarmene machine by acts of charity as such; something qualitatively different is needed: acts