one matrix world serving for all three realms, de-occlusion would be required for (2). Infinite space, infinite time, in the Eigenwelt; so: you are no longer blindered. But this is not something you can do for yourself; Christ has to do it for you. Thi is the adoption that the AI voice spoke of: the intervention. I must never forget that the AI voice explicitly made it clear that there had been divine intervention (and even said why). So I didn't just (sic) reperform the Easter narrative; what was also necessary was seeing the golden fish sign. This fits in with orphism and the other mystery religions; and this is unknown to Christians today, who reperforra the Easter narrative without the disinhibiting stimulus (the golden fish sign). I'm sure I read in Jane Harrison's book that the Orphic initiate was taken from a dark chamber into a light-filled chamber where he was shown a glittering-in-the-light golden object (and told that he was a son of Earth "und starry heaven"). What does the glittering golden fish sign say? Does it just work subcortically through the optic nerve on the brain? Or does it tell you something? Let me ask myself what it told me. It told me: Christ lives. And he calls to you; he notifies you (i.e. that he lives). So resurrection is real, and it is real for you. Which is to say, the legend about Christ's existence turns to a fact; knowledge (transferred to you) that it is so. CHRIST (HIMSELF) SENDS YOU THIS MESSAGE (represented by the shining golden fish). HE SPEAKS TO YOU VIA THIS SYMBOL; i.e. behind the symbol is the sender, Christ. The above list of (1), (2) and (3) all have to do with DNA programming : (1) The DNA programmed you to die. (2) The DNA occludes you so you can't experience the Eigenwelta Instead you experience the Prison, the world of TEARS. (3) The DNA keeps you a slave in the immutable cause-andeffect realm of the Umwelt. To sum up, the DNA kills, occludes and enslaves. This is the heimarmene of the Gnostics. The ritual reenactment of Easter, if it includes the disinhibiting stimulus, overrides the DNA and causes it to fast-forward fire itself into oblivion. Since no organised Christian church knows about or uses the gold disinhibiting stimulus tnen it is the case that they do not possess the salvific Gnosis; but there may bo a secret under¬ ground church that does. "The DNA kills, occludes and enslaves." These logically go together. They are not grouped arbitrarily. And consider what a malignant packet they consist of: you are occluded to the beauty of the world (which is to say, the unfallen Garden); you are ground down into ceaseless drudgery in dead —repitious— time; and finally you are signalled to die and you do die. Now, again consider the infiltration of our media by the plasmate, i.e. by Valis. If this is not an occluding mechanism, not part of the triune packet listed above, could these inserted messages, this riding and cooking of our communications media, be an attempt to wake us up? To alert us to our situation? To try to extricate us? The only riding that I know of for a certainty is in TEARS and it is Biblical material, undoubtedly with the objective of offering us aid (the KING FELIX cypher points to that!). The Gnostics held the view that Sophia smuggled helpful messages to us "in the inferior bulk." Anyhow, if the DNA has occluded us, would it be necessary for the DNA to ride our media with messages? These messages operate on us subliminally or (and this is possible)(they are aimed at the secret Christian under¬ ground) or both. I doubt very much if the plasmate is an occluding agent (like Burrough's information virus). I may be wrong but I identify the plasmate's messages with the secret Christians and as an attempt to wake us to our real condition. Admittedly I am limited to the cooked material in TEARS but that, certainly, was not an occluding mechanism; if read properly, TEARS and its cooked material would tell us that we are in a prison, which is to say enslaved without knowing it. Hence TEARS roused the antagonism- of the authorities. It has been my view for several years that the plasmate’s messages were a "contamination," but this view is based on (1) Eurrough's information virus theory; and (2) paranoia and paranoiac fear. Now I tend to think that our own internal DNA acts to per¬ ceptually and cognitively occlude us...what got me onto this was my thoughts about the mellow jello and how it possibly may have washed out of my neural tissue in 1974, permitting me to see truly for the first time (hence I exclaimed repeatedly at that time, "I am no longer blind!"). This points to an inner occluding agent; and wouldn’t it be inner, most likely? Further, I reflect now that back in 1971 and 1972 I was noticing an occlusion in people that I attributed to drugs and which I wrote about in SCANNER; it is in fact the topic of SCANNER...and then I noticed it down here with people who had had nothing to do with drugs (although it was on a lesser scale; still it was there). Ply own was very real, and this is what got washea out or lifted —removed—- in March, 1974. If it wasn’t the mellow jello being washed out it was some kind of Christian miracle, a restoration to the state of pre-fallen man; and the occlusion is that which John Calvin so strikingly depicts. Yet the very real possibility exists that the plasmate is an occluding agent or the occluding agent, and if it is, and this is truly terrifying, it is probably a life fora. I reason that it is bad enough if our genetic programming enslaves, occludes and kills us, but — a life form that is here camouflaged? How can I tell which it is? Well, Valis fired information to me; it taught me, the opposite of occluding me. It was in fact lifting the oc¬ clusion. But...suppose it normally occludes us but decided to make an exception in my case as a kind of reward? The research going on now points to DNA engramming as what is called "selfish." There is every reason to believe that for example the DNA fires a death strip. So we are (to use Robert Anton Wilson’s phrase) "DNA robots." In that case the plasmate is not necessary; that is not how the occlusion works; it works inside us. To repeat; I have only the material in TEARS to go on (three elements: (1) The Acts material; (2) The John Taverner material; (3) The two-word cypher) and these are obviously connected with the secret Christian underground that has penetrated the Prison that is the Umwelt, the hell-world. And it was this very same Christian underground that roused me, that disinhibited me and caused my occlusion to lift (as well as saving my life). And it has often seemed to me that what I call "the plasmate" is the living information blood of Christ, tne cosmic Christ. Therefore it would be wisdom per se, the opposite of that which occludes. Another point. Our legends speak of a primordial fall including an impairment of our faculties (vide Calvin) and Christ is said to have the mission of restoring us to our originsal state (vide the opening of PARADISE LOST). Ox course that fall could be the aay in which the plasmate arrived,..but the plasmate was (as near as I could discern) related to Valis, and beyond any doubt Valis was benign; at least it so treated me. If Christ is an occluding agent, what hope have we? I have the intrinsic nature of the subliminal material to go on; I have the lifting of the occlusion over me to go on. I have the accumulations of narrations about Christ’s mission of salvation to go on. Wait; I have decisive evidence based on the direction fusion between ray mind and Valis'. Valis is an information generating, not suppressing, entity. It links our morphemes togdther, treating each of our morphemes as a phoneme, thereby creating a meta-language of staggering complexity (two of our morphemes constitute one mor¬ pheme for Valis). This is the endless linking and relinking that I saw. This process is basic to it: its very ratiocination. (This in addition to the binary rest-motion two-mode system operating in terms of its dialectical basis.) What I call a "two-word cypher" is actually one meta-morpheme that Valis has constructed by linking two of our morphemes together, so this is how it thinks; it is using oar communications media to think witn. Also I saw the phylogons with their accretional layers, the reticulation and arborization; this is a thinking entity, and in no way does it act to suppress information; it generates titanic amounts of it at enormous speed. In terms of us it does utilize an engramming method based on a clutch system, but this is to inform us, not occlude us. Also, consider: for it to lift my occlusion, Valis had to engram me over a period of decades (on the yirl, on the fishteeth necklace, dreams about Rome and the Caesar, etc.). hnen it fired the information to me about Chrissy's birth defect it (Valis) made use of a clutch-system engramming: on a Beetles song ("Strawberry Fields Forever"). Thus it is communicating with us despite our occlusion, but to lift the occlusion —even for one individual— is a task requiring decades of work on the part of Valis. However, it is a fact that according to the Bible, God imposed the occlusion on us in the first place, as a punishment. The Gnostics deny this, but to do so they must enlist a bitheism (still, the monotheism that posits first an occlusion ana then a mechanism of removal of that occlusion —which is to Say a plan of salvation— has theoretical drawbacks. But it is protected by- this theory, if I have it right: God imposed the occlusion because man had obtained forbidden knowledge, and then later on selectively lifts the occlusion on an individual basis; tnat is, one person at a time is restored, due to Christ; and the AI voice did tell me that I had been "adopted," as it put it, because of what I did vis-L-vis Covenant House, wnich implies an exculpation of me and consequent restoration of my primordial faculties. So the source that occludes us is, ultimately speaking, the source that restores us, based —to put it crudely— on the rule, think you're ready to be restored, now"). _20_ This whole thing now has a "we are a biosphere and we are owned" aspect. But maybe that's so. What I'm saying is that Valis originally occluded us and now selectively restores us, but restoration is not all that frequent; we have to demonstrate that we merit it, .having been judged guilty originally, when our DMA programming came into existence. Yet I saw Valis in dialectical combat with an adversary, and it seems to me more likely that it is this adversary (known historically as Satan) who occludes us. Perhaps the solution is to view the situation as hierarchical levels in an evolution of life on this planet; that the DNA pro¬ gramming is danus-faced (to use Koestier's image). It insures species survival (or tries to, anyhow) at the expense of each and every individual (ontogony serves phyloyony). This is the blind will that Schopenhauer noted; it does press toward life but it does have drawbacks (noted by Schopenhauer: it is essentially irrational, which brings to mind my dream about James-James the insane genius who appeared to be the creator deity). Okay; into this system, this mechanism of blind species will, comes something new, as I depict in VALIS REGAINED: what I call the Beside-Helper who if course is the Paraclete