- hence it is called "untimely, not just "early." Second, during the period between the mental + physical death when Christ controlled the person the divine plan the Father, acting in human affairs of (history) could be aided (these would be Acts only understood by Christ/God / the Paraclete not the person); Christ would be in poss session of a physical body again, for a time + (perhaps months). Third after the physical death of Christ he would return to the person the advocate + comforter + guide him to ultimate salvation + immortality: the divine as power would have claimed the person in perpetuity Satan, as death, would have netted Christ the vicarious sacrifice once again, which Satan has no claim to. Thus Satan got nothing, + God got everything. So the link with Christ once established is permanent. God has adopted the person + the person is at Pentercost + knows through the Holy Spirit God's plan to redeem the world through the second Advent, preceeded by the fall of "Rome" - i.e. the tyrannies of this world Valis: Father Thomas: Son AI voice: Holy Spirit ote: the reason why the inner strip must be rushed forward out of synch is that the person most mentally die before he can become Christos, i.e. he must go 99 127 through the stations - way - of the cross through humiliation, death, then the trans‐ figuration or resurrection as/with Christ. There is no other road, as Christian mystics realize. Christ has passed from This realm to the upper realm. In a sence he cannot come here without the person first going there; as the RC Brotherhood put it "I was born in the father, died o in Christ + reborn in the Holy Spirit. There may in fact be apotheosis here as well as enthusiasmos; I do not fully understand it, but I can see that their is the trick This road (way) + this road only. to get him through the stations without is physical death so that he, upon being on the other side is resurrected in Christ (that is the best way to put it; I don't pretend to understand this, the ultimate wonder of our religion, toward which the The eucharist is of course directed.) person must follow [after] Christ, so that Christ can invade him. This (apparently) is possible except in this fashion. This not is the "born again" or "born from above" or "born by/in the Spirit," + the old man, to be so born must first die. So there is real (although not physical) death + real birth. These are not metaphors, nor mere ritual or symbol. Christ is part of the upper realm missing second signal" + remains with the person only so long as the person dwells Thus the simultaneously in both worlds. person is (as I have noted before) a micro‐ repair in the ruptured cosmos (en sof + hence a restored bridge Shekhina) + between this world + the diving 360 2 simply cannot be brought about any other way. This, presumably, is man's prefallen original state: he is once again in comity with the Father, from which state he fell + lost his faculties in so doing. God is not prepared at this time to invade this realm. So when I saw Valis I saw more than this realm; it is not a view of this realm (the world as we know it). Hence my set/ground discrimination: these are two signal sources. Together they constitute the intact cosmos, but in fact the cosmos is not intact, + to see it as intact the human involved must be a This cannot easily be micro intact cosmos. achieved nor long sustained + it only holds true in the idios kosmos of that person the who literally spans the two realms. one, problem is, there are two realms, not now. True, total + permanent restoration will occur when God breaks into this lower realm from the upper, not a given human moving the other way. but this is why Christ is said to be the second (restored) adam. So Valis did not invade this world - yet I just suddenly got a total signal (both sources). The upper realm isn't upper spacially but right here‐ the 2 sources combined this way are the Kingdom of God. (Here on Earth but in this secret way.) This is how it's done 30 This certainly explains why I've ofter thought that Jim came through to me from the other side. Actually, I went there while remaining here. I may indeed have been met by Tony Boucher. I've left out one important point: the initiating disinhibiting stimulus which starts the inner tape speeding up does so by producing anamnesis this experience apparently causing a shock (blitz) which pries the inner tape loose from the koinos by per‐ turbing the person's experience with time. He is briefly taken out of "profane" time + lifted into "sacred" time + ince out, doesn't get back. Once out of "profanc time he doesn't re-lock, resynchronize. How could he? The slip has already been induced. Momentarily he was taken out of his spacio-temporal fix. What he apparently was reminded of was his former existence in the pleroma from which he came. He remembers not being here (i.e. Geworfenheit). Anyhow some kind of crucial memory hologram resonated. There is a limited in-breaking into This world by Christ. As the person moves into the upper realm - initially There follows a reciprical invasion of the person + hence this realm, although to the person confined it or orc ar 30 but Christ ("Thomas") is here + has full use of that person as a vehicle. A sort of channel is opened between the two realms, although it begins from this side. Christ has the upper hand in is the (cf "Scanner"). So the person person t i experiences an adventitious psyche, divine in nature, taking over - ravishing - his own. This could well be the ultimate Goal) purpose, what God can thereby now effect in human affairs here. A corollary of this is, there's no use speeding the inner tape ahead unless death - untimely or otherwise - lies in temporal proximity! Thus I was dis‐ inhibited - anamnesis was induced - in 2-74 + had to be at that particular it couldn't have been done, say, time is years prior. all this is really shaping up; now look to "Faith" + "MITHC" + see what you see! It was carefully charted out long in advance, but it could only be done at that particular time. Still, it did fit in with historical events. This might help explain why me; someone programmed t to die at that time was needed, to act as a channel. no - the temporary but real micro epair of the cosmos is the ultimate goal too the link once established is never completely broken, as witness 303 my situation now where I'm patched into The paraclete as a sort of audio line to the upper realm. - I think I'm missing a major point here. If the life strip continues on past death + the Bardo Thodol trip to a post mortem life with God we (in having the strip speed up + pass on to this final stage while we are still physically here) have proved the existence of 1) personal immortality + 2) God; + 3) return to God. +, if Christ takes us over, 4) the presence - i.e. reality - of Christ. So the Xtian through the speeding up of this strip, has knowledge of the soul's pre-existence (in anamnesis) + post mortem existence as well as what that istence is like (it is beatific; it is bliss) + he sees God + so-to-speak is himself Christ. These are not small matters; this is the Kingdom of God on Earth. of this I am certain: for a while I was in that Kingdom. Now, consider the purpose of the mystery religions in general. Has not Xtianity delivered? the power of "astral determinism" is broken per‐ sonal immortality is not given as mere dogma but is experienced, as is God, + Christ, + the Paraclete. The keys to the Kingdom do lie in the Xtian church's hands (God creates humble man + then exalts him by adopting him, higher than angels: as sons of God, his heirs, the bond being achieved through + by Christ So the Xtian shares in the future glory now. He iterally lives in the next world now: the barrier is i pierced. This is what happened with me Then what I got in 3-74 was a taste of the ile to come + must be so regarded. This is very comforting. The strident voice on the radio - in 3-74. I suddent remember that tone: it is a hypnotic suggestion to it of a hypnotized state (connce wheelen). wake up ou 304 t what the hell does this imply? Shortly thereafter I was acting out "dissociated" acts - i.e. as if programmed. As if under post hypnotic suggestion ( 1) I had an intuition that the radio was an OCCP microwave cooking. 2) my "dissiciated" actions began as soon as the Xerox missive arrived. 3) "Faith" shows I knew it was coming: knew years in advance. I don't like this. The next question is, what does this make the "King Felix" cypher in "Tears"? The "Kabbala" code in the Xerox missive? + the AI voice (saying e.g. "an intelligence officer o in the army"?) - could it be a replay of things said to me under hypnosis, acting as post hynotic sug gestions? She is my control - i.e. sadassa ulna? or a psychotronic voice? The implication here is that I had/have a second (right hemisphere] personality who was woken up, either accidentally (e.g. by the pentathol etc) or an purpose; hence I said, "I am no longer blind, the point here being that his eyes were literally open for the first time. "Faith" suggests it was on purpose. But how did it get there in The first place? (Cf "Scanner") Did it have a mission? The strident tone of the radio was sub‐ jective, indicating Thomas was waking up - a rather being wakened! What this points to is that Thomas was intrinsic, not adventitious + 2) tha he wasn't Christ but human. + since this all to do with the Xerox missive - what are the chances that right hemisphere second personality would be only oincidentally - non causally - related to a Pigspurt ocument, or seeming Pigspurt document the pentathol. That's really what did is t some as wrana it 305 was my response to the Xerox missive. 3-74 has to be regarded as a functional Fuck up - except from my standpoint. A programming was over‐ ridden miscuing. I wasn't supposed to do what a I did This is why I was so anxiety stricken; the issue was, could I do it; the slave personality to the pentathol. had ceased to be slave - due At This point I'd guess I was - had been - under Pigspurt discipline without knowing it. The pentathol impaired the repression - dissociation: the latent personality began to break through like in a psychosis; hence my extreme anxiety. I did not act in a dissociated way when I contacted the Bureau; I knew what I was doing - but I was fighting off Thomas, or rather I was fighting off my programming which now was conscious - not kept out of awareness. I was aware of my dissociated behavior: non amnesia: with dissociated behavior there is amnesia. This was all being acted out within the field of aware The suggestion here is that prior to 2-74 ness. Thomas had been in control from time to time but that I always had amnesia afterward; however, the pentathol abolished the compart th mentalization + true dissociation. So this was the