- & macro) were one, & so this a mirror effect of Leibnitz. They were! Perfect monad occurred, & that monad is God. Back & forth mirror showing God inside & out: one. 1). My writing (esp “Ubik” + “Tears”) showed the real Nature of reality. 2). I in a blitz realizedmy writing was true; hence I realized the real nature of reality & set up “the perfect Monad” Hermetic Leibnitz mirror situation : an infinity of power transfer back & forth in terms of form (Eidos) hence God. (1) I flashed intuitively on 1) be My writing was true; & 2) what it meant that my writing was true, In view of what’s in my corpus of writing, which told me that what she said, & the Golden Fish, meant that we were in apostolic times, since in “Faith of” Tanya Brings him the truth. (1) I’d see the girl, unconsciously remember “Faith of”; believe 2 things: 1). thaat what she said was true (Acts) & 2) that my writing was true. e.g. “Tears” But “Tears” contained Acts, the same thing as the girl said. So a positive feedback loop was set up, like two mirrors facing each other: {Diagram: 2 mirrors facing each other, labeled "Tears" and "What the girl said," with beams representing reflections} Inner & outer totally linked ratifying each other into perfect symmetry the inner (my writing, esp. “Tears”) & what the girl said (outer) world be perfct analogs of each other & would merge into one. The girl proved the writing was true & this writing ("Tears")(1) proved what the girl said was true (1) & “Faith of” 3 temporarily there ceased to be any discrepincy + between my inner picture of reality of + "Tears" reality (due both to "Faith (or Pythagoras' Kosmos) - + then I saw Valis which was the same as Ubik in "Ubik" + so three lines of forces inner back + forth existed between a picture of world + outer world - the magic mirror phenomenon). my inner analog picture synchronized per fectly with reality, but it was not the picture + reality I + other people normally hold to, but a complex acosmism, an idealism + Pantheism + the dystopia "Tears" which is set in Acts. the blitz that occurred was what Philo cails knowledge of God in contrast to knowledge or belief that God exists etc. The empirical was assimilated totally by the a priori or innate cate aories (forms). Psychologically, I annexed the world p introjected it I had discovered that by consulting the innate (a priori) contents of my own mind I could per fectly know the outer world + even predict ("Faith of") what would happen next. What caused this corres‐ pondence I do not know, but there it was. "Faith of" was the first then "Tears" + "Ubik" + "Tears" linked up with what the Girl seemed to be really saying. The clue as to how the inner analog could be correct - even to details about the out. side world denied to me a posteriori, lies in the AI voice - whatever that may be It would be, too, the Hermetic microcosm - macro aff. cos fo ( No - the clue as to how the inner analog could be correct lies in the hermetic formula, "as it is above (macrocosm) so it is below (individual human mind]." I achieved Paracelsus' magic (the inner mirror + it worked; the blitz occurres firmament, etc.) The alchemical transmutation which they sought for, which produced the original unfallen Adam: my nature (faculties + cognition) were restored 1) My writing was based on innate knowledge (micro) 2) In 2-74 to 3-74 in a blitz I comprehended that it applied to the outer world. (Macro-cosm.) 3) This transformed me, restoring me to my pre‐ fallen state, since I contained (+ knew it! The entire universe - as Adam had (he had "extended throughout the universe"): viz: as kosmos inner + outer 4) Hence I reflected back infinitudes of space + time, + all that they contained. 5) Thus my 2-3-74 points to a totally differ ent kind of universe than we suppose: 6) a universe such as Leibnitz supposed of pre‐ set harmonies, + not cause + effect - which was my original insight decades ago (in the forties). The peculiar situation arising in which an interna hap comes into existence independently of the territory which it depicts, + makes possible the cognate under‐ tanding of features not visible in the territory but stipulated on the map. This leads to the eerie experienc of analyzing the outer world (territory) by looking within (non-causally-related map). This is how. The ching works. This suggests a logical interaction in the outer world that it follows laws something - i.e. is a kosmos. That like mathematical laws these same laws pertain externally + internally + so give ise to a correspondence. This correspondence is the great basis of Hermeticism. Faith of" proved that what the girl said was rue. What the Girl said proved that "Tears" was true. All facets of this self-reinforced: writing to world + back to writing. Or: writing ratifying tself though world: faith of" 7 gint s m "Tears" I 2) N i He inserts clues thints - to himself in his swn writing: as to the real situation. For example, "Faith of" was written in 1967 to rescue him + partially restore his [own] memories in 1974. Such novels as "Joint" are clues regarding the "reality generator" of all "Ubik" is the most important, because it depicts 1) the true situation; + 2) in Ubik, Could he be Ubik? Ubik challenges what truly is itself: it as creator us it as creation - analyzer. It is all one vast puzzle, but he is not lost in it, due to the clues he himself lays down. In 3-74 he tricked the reality generator into a situation where to be consistent it had, paradoxically, to contradict This emanating in response to a para‐ itself. dox Chinese finger-trap: the Xerox missive. Posed such an ingenious puzzle, he responded by posing one back even more ingenious giving it nothing but wrong choices to choose from. Hence it chose wrong, + verified "Ubik" ("Tears" was just a rigger, like "Faith of" - a red herring). Many of he books + stories are red herrings; "Ubik" is the real one camouflaged by the others; "Tears" con‐ ains pseudo-code, or rather prank code (mickey quinn me example, as is the Acts material): the answer to he question, "what is the true situation) of appears amidst a series of books asking "what is? so is disguised as the answer, it only appears question. Whereas "Tears," which seems to to answer, merely rephrases the N.T, telling us nothing new. It tells, but adds nothing to what as we knew already. "Ubik" is radical + new recognized be in. Lemites. Ubik is a vision of Pythagoras' kosmos + an incomplete one, but it is the closest vision of it presented in modern times, + I deem this kosmos as the ultimate order of reality, since it fits everything together in the harmonious ordering of beauty, + is in it self alive, + self-constructing, just on these grounds, then, it can be argued that "Ubik" is the one correct book or answer. kosmos unites the two realms, which otherwise are splitting apart; hence my sense of set-ground + postmortem experiences when I had an inner-outer kosmos achieved of all the fitting-togethers, this is the ultimate one. When a human experiences kosmos it is cosmi an an aid in repair, since both realms are joined in him interestingly enough, this is what The Cosmic Christ is said to be doing. The blitz (upon seeing "Tanya Lee"): that we are tyrannically ruled by something (or which she + her secret group are opposed) which 1) does not appear as it is; + 2) may be - in fact actually is an antiGod demiurge - the "slug," + connected with OCCP. supernatural evil in power. We are being made occluded. Dokos engineered. Hence, I now (2-74) see things as they are - fulfilled in 3-74. 2 realms: the one we see being actually a delusional OCCP-slog-God of the ot-run an secret me invisible salvific revolutionary t one. What we see is not really there. BIP rule by a monster. Her (Tanya's) secret organ. ration turns out to be apostolic Xtians, which makes the monster an anti God. "He leaves clues to himself in my writing." is there a "he" outside/beyond lother than me? Yes. Thomas. He wrote "Faith of" to achieve what it did achieve in 2-3-74. So he disin He knows this "reality" isn't hibited himself real - like the note left for walt in "Stigmata" which reads: "This is an illusion - left by himself. In "Joint" he shows he knows it Hence the Then is he in a real + other world subcortical reflexes pertaining to the other reality? (Cf also "paycheck" + "the man who Japed" So he lays down written stimuli to disinhibit t himself (3-74) + defends - upon being disinhibited by an attack on the reality generator (he is well aware of the reality generator); he gives it a no-win puzzle + it contradicts itself although this would not tell him anything he didn't already know. The solution to the "Faith of" material being given as, "He is writing clues to himself to later come onto" explains the Acts material in "Tears." The Acts material told him something, + just afte the "Faith of" material triggered him off. The point the "Faith of" material was not just to tell him of something but to cause him to come out - to remember himself + regain his identity. Hence probably the Acts material likewise. Theory: once he had recovered his memory he would recognize the Acts material what it was; it would be familiar to him. Inference he is an apostolic Xtian. The supposition here is That there are not 2 persons but I - with dissociated memories + hence identity, that we are dealing with amnesia, the clues then, bypass the memory block self: it sends a letter to itself signal the conscious o (the "legend of the pearl I But what kind of self would remember back 2000 years + also -oresee exact details of future events? Is this a human self at all? What was dealing with the trap? the real payoff of 2-3-74? retrieving his/my true self + memories? Tricking The reality generator (whatever that may be)? Over‐ throwing the Nixon tyranny? Acting as evangedist vis a-vis the 2nd advent? Passing judgment? both coincidence? i code in "Tears" + Xerox missive). Set-ground discrimination - code decyher grid. occe code I There wouldn't be code in a us forgery. Not only ded it contain code but I knew it would, how. It was Pigspout, but us G-2 was monitoring its progress toward me, + the trouble would have come from them. "An intelligence officer in the army [was waiting for an excuse to bust me). No - it was Boehme's blitz. Realization that 1) my writing was true; + 2) what this implied: where: Acts. What: Logos That's it where/when: Acts ("Tears") what Logos ("Ubik" our situation is as described in "Ubik"; we are dying disciples, the intering trip to the Kingdom infinitely prolonged. code" in Xerox missive was plasmate t telling me what to do II by cooking the text galvific message: the Logos communicating wer e i one. It was occp. "Olive Holt" wasn't see cypher but info to me to help one the stress situation (Xerox missive problem, was used to induce blitz 'inner-outer fusion, self 8 find for the OCCP + code elements as out weighing the religious + supernatural no that was real but a blitz occurred described in MITHC: Tagomi + the park. t see another part of 2-3-74 which I wrote about forgot