Hidegger's authintic being. Without realiztation it, Heidegger-- probably by way of [agnosticism?] !! -Rediscovers the lost actual [cutoff] [transmitting]-- experience! He reconstructed [cut off] via gnostic concepts of [throa aes], the [Freoned], [cutoff] to, demostrating that gnosticism is authentic! [cut off] [tianicy?] (Man and God v. World, etc.). The whole thing has to do with facing the absolute power of would kill you, and that it will. D-173 inevitably kill you + then, no longer running from this fate instead you go to meet it, confront it + perform what I call "the heroic act," whereupon (1) the power of world exercised as fate is broken (which I realized) is but what I did not realize is: (2) in place of world-as-fate ("Heimarmene") you acquire - not just authentic ontological being (or as Plato put it, through anamnesis you recover knowledge of your immortal soul) but (+ this is terribly important) you acquire what Heidegger calls Geschick: historic collective destiny in place of world-as-fate (the latter being world that kills you: ushers in nothingness for you). (+ from which you have been fleeing all your life. the link between original authentic secret Xtianity + Heidegger's authentic being is: Gnosticism, beyond doubt. There, thus, is a link, but he does not know it, nor does anyone else My recognition of "the heroic act" shows that I have a clear conception of the existential nature what has in fact of this (3-74] transformation. happened is that world (in the Gnostic sense) is broken, + the person + God are correctly allied restored to union) against it. What self has gained in terms of ontological essence, world has lost. Force now operates from self onto world, not from world onto self. The entire dynamic polarity of reality is reversed. It is no longer world that possesses reality (sern) but self. + world, now at the mercy of self, is "reality field" that self "perturbs" a D-174 as an exercise of its (self's) will. Self now is God; + world is information that it (self) processes. "existential or historical time." So I see my "chains... web" essay as the great comprehension, deriving out of the story that, in my rereading of it, sparked this under‐ standing off. "Willows" recalled to me the old lost God or Gods, vanished from history, who returned in 2-3-74 to save me. t Then correctly saw my anamnesis in terms of my own soul - i.e. my own ontology - rather than epistemology; it had to do with me, my einai, not [primarily] world. + I had seen myself as Dionysos or ruled by Dionysos - + then I read "chains... web" over, + understanding at last came (I comprehend how Heidegger connects with authentic original Xtianity via Gnosticism). + I link Dionysos with Jesus. It all has to do with the Fall (verfallen) at the time just after Parmenides. In me the primordid Fall (separation of noein from einai) was reversed. pure being. My essay says it all. I probably long ago sensed Heidegger's thought when I read "existence. who would ever have guessed that going toward one's fate (heimarmene) would abolish world, usher in God + historical time +, most of all, recovery of authentic self? The key terms are: death, flight, evasion, the heroic deed, dread, fate, history, destiny (in contrast to world-fate), world; Christos, nothingness, being, an abolition of the subject-object dichotomy. jetzt lass' mich ruhen; is ist vollbracht. D-136 not know; I simply report. The reader must judge. But my final revelation in "Valis," as John clute points out is: "But God - the true God - has penetrated men + the world, + This is expressly sobers the landscape." i I the antitoxin to, expressly Dionysos. There - is no way that this invading, champion God who in camouflaged form devours the universe is Dionysos. That it is expressly Dionysos that he combats + overpowers - this is never it can from a careful i stipulated, + yet n aminat therefore it can be t reading be inferred. e t t e inferred that it is Dionysos who has Fat in his power; therefore in a certain real sense it is Dionysos himself who narrates the novel as Fat; Fat + Dionysos have become one hence the first sentence of the novel tells us the crucial fact: Fat is insane, + presently we learn (1) that he is possessed by a God, + (2) "any God who possesses you is probable hence Fat is mad Dionysos (who is mad]" precisely because Dionysos has taken him over Thus Dionysus himself warns us of the danger by notifying us of his presence here, not as Sophia - not as the savior to come; that but as is reason ("sobers the landscape") - the very narrator of the book. + since I say early on that I, phil Dick, am horselover Fat, I am saying that it is not fiction mme to say that Dionysos is here must be - + will be - combatted by reason So when Fat sees Valis, it is ho is Valis i this is in fact sionysos who sees Valis why Fat + Fat alone can distinguish camouflage because fat a through the valis the counter (insane) God i Go D-137 then Fat, being Dionysos. is that which the reason-God Valis who fat/Dionysus the perceives - must combat + destroy. incredible irony is (+ newer saw this) is that only the mad God can see the This is why valid invading reason - God. injures Fat in his (Valis') rule as antitoxin. the true narrator of "Valis," then, reveals himself as the mad God Dionysos, in which case his visions, prophecies + perceptions are selfauthenticating because, being a God; he can Dionysos see what men - mortals - cannot see. notifies us of his presence + power, warns us of the peril of this situation, + supernaturally (with his Godly powers) perceives rescue for us at hand: the antitoxin, the reason-God Holy wisdom "who invades man + world + sobers the landscape" (both Gods are invisible to us, Dionysos who controls our world + renders it irrational; + the invading rational God. alis/Sophia/Logos). Yet Fat never says, v I am Dionysos speaking"; he says, "I it am mad. I am possessed by a God. Any God who possesses you is Dionysus who it madoss the logic is clear; Dionysos is speaking, +, as I say, this is why he (1) knows the situation (world irrationality); + (2) the solution: the invasion by Valis, whom he correctly identifies the rational invading the irrational as an as Fat's powers are that if a God. He t antitoxin. mad, as he says, but he is also a God. Which s does not say. But which can be deduced. he then (as I jokingly suggest in the Platt interview) was I insane (i.e. possessed by Dionysos) up to 2-74, +, upon "Thomas" for the first time invading me, become sane D-138 was not, then, invaded by Dionyosis on 2-74 but was invaded by the reason. God" I sobered up. I must have gone mad (to be precise about it) sometime back in the 50s or 60s, perhaps due to the speed, then completely gone nuts around 19ga when nancy became psychotic; I was psychotic when I wrote "Tears" in '70, + certainly also in '71 '70 + '73, + then in early '74 my psychotic "speed" -self collapsed + a submerged sane-self invaded it This would corrolate with "Valis" + the "eight years of projecting horselover Fat" - as clute says, "...his confession of sustained psychosis [For 8 years]," which Sophia healed; viz: she caused Phil Dick + Horselover Fat to merge back together an one unified sane person - a Healing miracle proving her really to be the Messiah. the narrative technique, then, is very complex + mysterious + tricky, as clute notes. may well be unique in the history of it literature (I meant it to be). or: Did 2-3-74 constitute - not a sobering up - but a manifestation of the mad God's power when caught in a snare? Dionysos did not go away; he fully seized control + revealed himself, as in "The Bacchae"? In other words revealed PKD to be - not a mad human; but a human possessed by a man but very powerful God? In which case (very obviously) he himself is Valis, + to impune rationality to Valis is an artful device, an obfuscation? There are not 2 Gods, here, only one, in two modes: (1) latent; (2) active D-139 this would certainly explain why "Tears" is in fact "the Bacchae" + Dionysus himself in me + us me wrote it. + his true power lashed out in 2-3-74 when he found himself in a traps a carefully laid snare; he discerned it with super‐ natural powers; + his true memory returned (my anamnesis); he is, after all, immortal. No wonder I could see set/ground, etc. No; i.e. what no human has ever reported seeing before. + remembered! (3) ➀ I - he, Dionysus - abolished space + time + causation, knew a priori, + perturbed the reality field + prophecied under stress + under sodium pentathol remembered/recovered my real identity. The "God who took me over in 2-3-74" was my own intrinsic nature (which "the Bacchae" substrate in "Tears" verifies) epiphanizing. (2) So I was the author of the time + causation dysfunctions I observed! As I have often conjectured 3. This is why I saw ancient crete; there + then, of Dionysos started out. Then the irrational deity who Fat talks about ("Yaldabaoth") is himself - is me I 2-3-74 was not enthusiasmos; it was an epiphany; "Tears" proves that, + it proves by which God? Oh my God - then my 10 volume meta‐ world, my whole 30 year Corpus, is the work of the mad God; it is reality viewed by a by the - mad God Dionysos. But what I see as most important of all: his prophecies, put D-10 forth in "Valis," are then probably true; Dionysos Acts as an oracle, like Apollo. This is one of his supernatural powers. this realization makes more reasonable (if such can be said) that I would be in poss estion of such revelatory knowledge! then I am (as clauden first suggested) a Shaman, periodically taken over by the God, given his powers + able to prophecy. Now: what about the "Jesus is/was a cypher for Zeus-Zagreus," + the Acts material in "Tears" along with "the Bacchae"? these are not two deities but one? + "St Sophia will be born again"; suddenly I don't see this as mere psychosis (as I always sort of did). think we are dealing with deity here + have been at least latently (esp in my writing) for decades; with 2-3-74 being restored full identity, powers + memory. Under the duress of the lethal snare in 2-3-74, in the face of imminent death, Dionysos in me (as me!) broke loose, broke his bonds of amnesia + lost his human form, + limitations. Then I am what I call Valis. (As I have always realized was one very real possibility, but I couldn't ever say how this could be.) my (sic) meta-abstraction of 2-74, then, was, very simply, recollection (anamnesis) of my own nature fidentity: that was my realization. + that nature soon ineluctably broke through - the phosphene graphics "trip." A final extraordinary thought. If I as Dionysos (Zeus-Zagreus) put "the Bacchae" + Acts material in "Tears," which I certainly did, then I put the King-Felix cypher in + it probably refers to me + says, "I am here. D-141 am in it referring to myself. - No wonder I was intoxicated + manic in the spring of '74 when my true nature epiphinated. Then 11-17-80 was Zeus talking to me: My Father. Well, it would appear I was right supra when I said that Dionysus is the real