it (mind) had trapped the trapper, had lured it premeditatively. folder 21 - 065 folder 21 - 065 The thing is, I would never have seen (or used) the Xerox missive as an opportunity on my behalf. This was impossible since I did not know who had sent it - could not know: it was masterfully disguised - in fact perfectly. No internal evidence gave any clue to its source + hence its meaning or intent: i.e. what it was. I am now told that it was a US Army forgery, + so the meaning + intent can be inferred unerringly - + what response (out of all possible ones) would benefit me (in the normal spectrum none would have). Since lying is impossible by the divine, I had to be sincere in what I wrote the Bureau. Therefore I could not know at the time what I know now. (Even then I recognized my occlusion as necessary but did not know why.) Had I known, I would have had to engage in artful duplicity, which the divine ruled out. It waited years to tell me, when knowledge was academic. Since it was a U.S. forgery, it was to my advantage, + mine only, to send it to the Bureau. No KGB agent was flushed - the U.S. Intelligence Services did not benefit, as they would have had it indeed been Soviet, as I supposed it to be. I was the sole beneficiary; thus the mind-response was for my sake. Unless I am to suppose mind overruling itself (monism) I must assume a dualism: divine mind vs. the [evil] adversary, for which read Xtianity vs the Empire. It must be kept in mind that my published writing presents the saving gnosis (truth about ourselves + our actual situation). In particular, the fifth folder 21 - 066 savior is being prepared for (Part II of the Siddhartha book). "Tears" probably contains cypher referring to this (King-Felix). Then I am a messenger. My writing is a letter designed to subliminally remind people, but only in conjunction with the other messages, not by me. Recognizing my role as messenger I can make more sense out of the anomalous -or nearly anomalous- fact of my 2-3/74 anamnesis + all it brought me. I merely passed over from unconscious messenger to conscious (as in "Dies Irae"). My maximus opus "Valis" will be consciously formulated: restored man, redeemed Xtian superman, with his powers, knowledge + faculties intact - + the process of metamorphosis. It could not be written from an unconscious standpoint. Maybe it can't be written at all - Wait. Siddhartha. There is the handle: to cast it in a non Xtian but Gnostic mold - rather than Empire-dominated orthodoxy. I will present it as the Buddha, or, even better, as it is: I will depict the fifth savior not identifying him with any of the previous four. He, the 5th savior, must supercede the previous four + be unlike them (be Pantocrator) But what a task! Am I Elijah coming before him + preparing the way, as John the Baptist did? Elijah must come first - +, as I told Tom Disch, I originally felt it was Elijah who had taken me over - maybe it was, + for this purpose. Yes - consider my overwhelming intuition folder 21 - 067 folder 21 - 067 at the time - I was sure of it. I knew it. And the Elisha & "Alto Carmel" dreams. The way I figured it, he had returned as John the Baptist + hence was so afraid of the Romans, despite his fiery vigor. + I put out the cup for him - + I bought that book which told how he enthused people at Easter time. + the dream about Elias! (Bowed in sorrow at the Xerox letter not being returned to those who sent it.) I still have the drawing of Elijah up on my bedroom wall. Then Elijah scourged this land (re the Empire: i.e. Nixon) to pave the way for the 5th savior who, uniquely, will be Lord and Judge. Thus, almost 5 years later, I return to my original, initial view about who took me over - but this time on scriptural grounds; viz.: because I know it prepared the way for the 5th savior who is soon to come, or has been born already. I long have forgot the ferocity of "Thomas" - he was anything but meek. He was like a whirlwind. He was like the ira itself. After all, he hurled down the Western Empire, pitting himself against the modern King Ahab. He made the land acceptable to God. "A record was written before [the Lord] of those who feared him + kept him name in mind. They shall be mine... + I shall spare them as a man spares the son who serves him... the day comes, glowing like a furnace; all the arrogant + the evil-doers shall be chaff... but for you who fear my name, the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in his wings, + you shall break loose like calves released from the stall. On the day that I act you shall trample down the wicked folder 21 - 068 folder 21 - 068 for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet... Look, I will send you the prophet Elijah, before the great + terrible day of the Lord comes..." ___ In "Deus Irae" I identify the Xtian God with Apollo. ("The head Apollo is about to return.") ___ Elijah will come first -before the Messiah- + "restore all things." Vis-a-vis 2-3/74 I felt that everything I had lost had been restored; v. the trophy + washerwomen dream. Well, it was: My state of exculpation -exemption from suspicion by the state, the authorities- was restored, etc., + much more. + the pain of those bad earlier years washed away. And it was Elijah who heard the "still small voices" such as I hear. It says in 1 Kings that Elijah "was afraid + fled" + he was suicidal at times. Mainly, he stood in opposition to the government (King Ahab), he sent back two parts of his spirit to Elisha. ___ EB: "Victory over astral determinism is a victory over time (and destiny) [Note]. This info is important, since, for me in 2-3/74, the breaking of "astral determinism" over me was accompanied by what appeared to be a dysfunction or perturbation or even dissolving of time (i.e. it was no longer 1974), + because of this I viewed time as irreal (it became so for me, anyhow). The lower level (realm) of necessity, of immutable (Yin) cause + effect was invaded by volitional mind. This stamps my sense of the breaking of "astral determinism" with the seal of authenticity. [Note] + according to the EB, this is the main purpose of Gnosticism. folder 21 - 069 folder 21 - 069 Q: What is the relationship between "astral determinism" and time? Is it because causality functions within + only within time? EB on time perception: "A hypnotized subject may be exposed to two clicks that delimit an objective, 10-second interval but is told that it lasts 10 minutes. On being asked to count objects for 10 minutes he may report having counted several hundreds without difficulty over what the experimenter's stopwatch shows to have been 10 seconds. (An objection, "He only thinks he counted several hundreds" is meaningless, because we are talking about perception, not time itself. + this is what I am talking about - not time but our perception (experience) of it. E of Ph: (time, consciousness of) "Our consciousness of time's 'flow' is our consciousness of things changing." To quote the AI voice again: "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." Let's totally analyze this, since it agrees with the E. of Ph. 1) He. There is a conscious, volitional entity with the power to cause. 2) causes. His power. 3) things to look different. Not "be" but "look" i.e. look to us, appear to us phenomenologically. 4) so very important. Purpose; what for follows. 5) it'd appear. He deceives us. 6) time has passed. Since it only appears so, it must in fact have not. "Things to look different" folder 21 - 070 folder 21 - 070 stands for "observable change." We deduce from the "observable change" -which is really him causing things to pass through successive changes of appearance to us -that "time has passed." Now, is it possible to imagine any way that things could be caused to look different (to us) without them actually changing? Yes. Examples: 1) Under the influence of a drug, a completely unchanging object can look successively different. 2) Viewpoint of the observer can cause an object or objects to look different as that viewpoint changes. 3) Summary: changes in the observer can cause "things to look different," i.e. changes limited to + in the observer. But maybe "look different" isn't = to "look different to us." They actually do look different i.e. present changing aspects. The notion of time is abstracted from things changing? No, from things looking different; these two statements are not identical. There stands between them a universe. A study of the proposition "our consciousness of time's 'flow' is our consciousness of things changing" is inaccurate: "things looking different" is correct. We can't say they change, only that they look different (or, appear to change; but "appear to change" doesn't equal "change"). The proposition should read, "our consciousness of time's 'flow' is our consciousness of things looking different." Which, as I wrote supra, we linearize. But suppose it is a revolving sphere. Well, we linearize that, even though it repeats its looking different. Linear time is a conception, not a perception (v. the cyclical concept of the Great Year.) However, the thrust of the AI voice's statement is that "he" wants us to think time has passed; this is the objective, his purpose. Causing folder 21 - 071 things to look different is a stratagem, a means, to that end. Here the 10 second-10 minute hypnotized subject's ability to count objects in the hundreds comes in, only it is reversed: he is told that more time exists, + because of that he can see (effect) more changes. What if his experimenter had said, "You will count 300 objects and when you have finished, ten minutes will have passed," - or rather, "300 objects will pass before you, + when the 300th has passed, 10 minutes will have elapsed" - + then, first, 300 objects are shot past in 10 seconds of RET, + then one hour of RET. Still, the experiment as stated proves that we can be made to experience time in elastic ways. But the way our time perception [rate] is actually controlled is by the causing of things to look different; this is the regulator. I say, if the rate of things looking different speeds up we will think more time has passed, because we have no other yardstick (e.g. a hypertime) to measure it by. Here, the E. of Ph. statement essentially agrees with the AI voice, + is borne out by the EB experiment. In fact, the EB experiment is grotesque because it is not possible to count objects in the hundreds in ten seconds - so what really happened? Either the subject imagined he counted in the hundreds or - well, it's absurd, like a dream. Reality itself, including the subject, is abolished, he is not counting at all. This proves that lacking the regulator of "things looking different" he would have no time sense - not just a faulty one but none. Time would cease, + with it reality as we know it. (The EB experiment bears out what I present in "Stigmata," by the way, which is the real point I'm getting at, if it can be demonstrated that many events can be experienced in little