me + I can't tell anyone if only saw the camouflaged Valis at the time the info about Chrissy was transfered to me. So probably it wasn't an hallucina‐ probably something was there. It mimicked the BG but it moved just a little; its camouflage was in a sense perfect, but it was still palpables The point is, Valis did not step for‐ ward out of its state of camouflage (asI say in "Valis" + as I've always believed). I just saw - detected- camouflage, mimesis, that's all which is quite different because in point of probably t fact, therefore I never saw its actual Form is have no idea who or what was camouflaged this point has escaped or how it really looks. me all this time - up to lost night. + my -it realization is based on an earlier belief can't be called a realization- that there was an invisible (i.e. camouf laged) antmropomorphic figure there: that of the Savior. I quickly jected that idea, or rather tried to reject it, but it lingers. I saw + heard (as I somewhen say supra) all the peripheral indications -sosus- of the presence of the savior (e.g. bells, animals), but him I saw not. It was as if there was ablin spot in the center of my field of vision, that blind spot being that which was camouflaged Now that I look back I realize: indeed I I saw sophisticated mimickry, but not perfect t of 14 sene to te this is aearming. I have no idea what was there. There already seemed to have been a manipulation of time + space. so it was this a "close encounter" with ETIs" I go on the peripheral signs I'd have to say it more likely was the savior, because of the nature of those signs (bells, animals, etc). Plus the fact that the whole thing was set off by the Xtian fish sign (+ chiliastic stegenographic history was disclosed) keep forgetting (because it isn't mentioned in "Valis") that the flash of Light came from the Xtian Fish sign on the window. It was all like I had been put into a hypnotic trance, the words in the beates! t song ("strawbeny Fields") assumed a pecliar stridant + compelling quality, like connie wheelers voice when -oh God!- when she brought me out of t my hypnotized state; she woke me, + the song's words woke me - the opposite of putting me under: first the words + then the flash of Light, as if I had been given a commant to wake up, whereupog I knew about Chrissy's birth defect. + I saw tre What I call Valis, but I saw only the camon flage, I now realize, saw that something perception was present + camouflaged - thes to my there, quite wakened. + I sensed something being close to me; that was sentient, in effect it hun I am not content with the Gita because It presumes a static universe. I am not content with Western theology (e.g. "The Commedia") because it presumes a distant (transcendent) God not here immediately at hand in this world. Therefore I seek combine [elements of] the two: process + nearness added respectively out of this comes: the cosmic Christ indhas invaded this world to transmute it into his own macrometasomakosmos - my own idea (since I am an artist, first I destroy the two former models -summa moders- the Gita + the Commedia, + them then, amid the wreckage I build a new model; this is the artist at work. I need: the [dynamic] process of Xtianity. & the proximnity of deity of the Gita. I will destroy both models, take some thing from each, + build a new one; in fact I have already done so ("Valis"). I cannot get nearness out of western theology. I cannot get process out of Eastern. So I will destroy both, take what I want + build another. What I saw I 3-74 is my own artistic, creative vision of deity. Here (Gita) + in process (Xtian). This is my vision as an artist. It is a new vision. In 3-74 I actually experienced/perceived my own vision. The two main elements an are: nearness + growth-process. This is why for 6 3/4 years I have not been able to find my vision in any known theological system. 1-3-81 The incident of the pink light and the info about Chrissy differed from normal daily reality only in this regard: I was consciously aware of it; we must subliminally pick it up, like my engramming on the fish (teeth) necklace. Evolution-wise we must be like the apes in 2001; we are on the lip-edge of evolving to where we'll see Valis/the plasmate. It's like CLOSE ENCOUNTERS at the end. A life form, sacred and beautiful, right here. An information life form. It is what it says; it doesn't have Logos; it is Logos. Its body is its own information. There. This is why it takes the form of physical arrangements into info. This life form is that. Damn it, it's a life form that doesn't use info; it is info. Time turns literally to space: both another (fourth) spatial dimension but we see this imperfectly as augmented 3-D (space). This is why the past doesn't perish in the MMSK, why when something goes into it —is incorporated into it— it is permanent. The past is still there — this is the essence of the MMSK, to preserve the past (as what I call reticulated phylogons). The MMSK exists in 4 spatial dimensions and is physically right here; our 3-D world is it, imperfectly seen. Hence we can't discrimi¬ nate (live info) set to ground. The next step in human evolution will gain this as-it-were ultra-parallaxis. As we previously added color. I remember how it looked: an additonal spatial axis created (the ability to distinguish) set to ground; my set/ground is only discriminated when 4 spatial axes exist (can be seen). New temporal events enter as spatial accretions, reticulating and arborizing. So to see this information, which is sentient and alive, we need to see all 4 spatial axes, and the MMSK of which we see only it in 3 dimensions These insights are titanic insights into what and why I saw it in 3-74. Evolutionary leap in depth perception, hence seeing the life form that is info as set to ground. This is new on the planet, this 4—D perception; it is not found in antiquity. I saw Valis and the plasmate (and the MMSK: our world in 4-D. Where the past doesn't perish but is preserved) because I saw in 4-D; it is as simple as that. My God — the truth (true explanation) is quite simple: I saw in 4-D and saw a living info life form here. Why, it extends along the temporal axis as a spacial axis; hence my Bible-into-hologram in DIVINE INVASION. And seeing King Felix. The various physical depthlevels in TEARS. Time as space. 1-3-81 This is a short insight: "I saw 4-d space. Hence I could discriminate set to ground (for one reason) because it lies along the fourth spatial axis." And it seems implied in VALIS where one reads again and again, "Here time turns into space." But to link: (1) Here time turns into space with (2) The plasmate as set to ground, living info life form (never mind the subtlties, such as "it's the Logos), arranged along the fourth spatial axis. Color (of a sort) becomes added as a sort of sense of depth: color as depth or depth as color — yet not quite color. It's like it's alive. Hence there is feature extraction by the percipient, as if set moved. Yes, it (in contrast to ground) is free to move along the 4th spatial axis which we experience only as time. This physical (i.e. spatial) motion freedom "gives it away" to the percipient. Acts was here because Valis the plasmate is/are both here (USA 1974) and there (Acts) along the 4th spatial axis. To it, any given spatiotemporal "set" is a sort of wafer-thin hologram, an "accretion," like the flash-cut phosphene graphics: each of the billions was a spatiotemporal "set"; I was a Shaman moviny backward thousands of years in time, hence through billions of spatiotemporal "Sets" arranged along the retrograde physical space form axis as it is put forth in UBIK. All the billions of phosphene graphics were prior spatiotemporal manifestations along the integrated world-formaxis; the forms (eide) are not separate as in UBIK but are integrated into the MMSK. The prior "sets" are latent within tne present, as in UBIK; that niyht I was abreacting along the 4th spatial axis to Acts. Ah, proof. The MMSK recedes along spatially the 4th axis to Acts. One must not think of years but of depth. This is more than religion. And more than science (e.g. physics) and more than epistemology, yet all of them. It has to do with human evolution, i.e. the human percept system. This evolution was visually symbolized in my dreams by the 3rd —or ajna-- eye. It sees time as space. Okay. Let's say a sense organ comes on for the first time — like the eye, the ear, etc. Well, it picks up something that up to then you either could not perceive at all or perceived imperfectly (only 3-D seen, plus "time") and not at all: the content- -81 of-the-sense data is totally new; Valis/the plasmate can be seen, and this was not seen at all before the enhanced depth (4 spatial axes, not 3); this is how it works; wereas the plasmate/Valis and the MKSK are what it saw: Valis/the plasmate is new — never seen before or suspected — and the latter is our 3-D and time world. In short: we imperfectly see the MKSK but we see the plasmate/ Valis not at all. Look: I didn't figure it out in VALIS but I did give a date and expression to the event of my seeing this; in future centuries they'll know what happened because my experience will be repeated more and more widely. All this is one guess out of hundreds over almost 7 years. But this guess happens to be correct. Proof; one theory explains almost everything about 2-3-74. I was staggered by what I saw; Valis/the plasmate, the MMRS, by what was happening; Yes, I did meta-abstract. So it started as a cognitive leap, leading to a percept-system leap: the meta-abstracting began it, in 2-74. .And that led to the phosphene graphics, my first vision of the 4th spatial axis, or my 3rd eye coming on. I was seeing back through the ages when I saw the phosphene graphics; in UBIK I theoretically postulated that each eidos contains all its previous form-manifestations, which Patrice pointed out was a major philosophical break-through. Like I say, I am in a world where other people still say, "One apple plusm one apple equal two apples," and I say, "one plus one equals two." My meta-abstracting caused meta-perception at once — well, very soon the "3rd eye" organ came on. Repeat: there is no theory, account or explanation of this in antiquity; this is a new, evolutionary leap in (1) meta-cognition, followed by (2) meta-perception of world. VALIS, alas, is told from a two-eyed standpoint (about a three¬ eyed reality). "Christ, the Logos, invading, the plasmate, Valis, transubstantiation," etc. are all 2-eyed terms dealing with a 3-eyed reality. Someone else will later have to figure out what happened. But I got the clues from reading over the first half of VALIS tonight. Where I have been right is; to have treated 2-3-74 as titani¬ cally important and to have toiled for almost 7 years to figure out what the fuck happened, and, as a result, what it was I saw. Ky big breakthrough was in October '80 when I realized about the cognitive meta-abstracting (of spatiotemporality). Only tnen did I