- a woman. St. Sophia as spirit? The spirit's nature is shown in its manifestation at the all night gas station, that of agape. It so to speak passed over onto/into Buckman for a little while. Now the dream can be understood - even its meaning proved: the return of God. No; there is more. The man must die; Christ as Xtianity must in the historical process decreed by God (the white haired old king) die. The ostensible story is: YHWH decrees Xtianity's death, but in cypher its life, not death, is decreed. folder 48 - 057 folder 48 - 057 So on the surface YHWH willed it to die + underneath (secretly) he willed it to live. This -latter- is the [new] news, the Kerygma (good news) hidden in the bad. The bad news is not news to the secret Xtian underground - + now I am positive that there literally is a secret Xtian underground, to receive the good news in "Tears" - i.e. King Felix. But beyond any doubt the dream shows the in-breaking of YHWH at this time. "The man shut up in darkness" may be a cryptic reference to Belial who must now perish (using the Zoroastrian-Qumran terminology for Belial). First the woman dies: Xtianity. This is followed by the in-breaking of God acting as the force of divine justice + decrees the man's (Belial's) death in recompense (i.e. the death of him who is responsible for the woman's death). Buckman weeps because he is a Janus-figure: symbol of the Empire (procurator) + so weeping for the death of Belial; there are layers upon layers, here, + much ambiguity. Two deaths: first the woman's, + then the man's (in retribution) at the hands of YHWH + the host itself. God has now acted. The cypher bears this out. The cosmic tables are turned, from tears to joy. (As Jesus foretold: "Your sorrow will turn to joy."!). King Felix he is alive (A) = YHWH He is alive (B) The same illuminated red + gold "plasmate" embossed colors. folder 48 - 058 folder 48 - 058 King Felix [he has been transplanted + is alive] (A) = YHWH he is alive (B) (B) decodes (A) for me. It shows I had correctly (more or less) interpreted it from the start. But it refers to God (YHWH) + not to Christ (who is God's wisdom). This follows the analysis in my "2nd coming" Bible that the old king with hair like "white wool" is God + not Christ, since Christ would not judge his own case. YHWH = Ahura Mazd. Christ = Asha. Belial (Satan) = Druj; they are -have been- in combat, + now God, the old king in the dream in "Tears" intervenes + awards the final victory to Christ at the crucial moment. (Cf the Qumran scrolls.) YHWH + the host have intervened to give victory to the light which [otherwise] was being expelled (defeated) by darkness. At the eleventh hour - as prophecy foretold! The true (i.e. actual) Xtians had been reduced to a secret illegal underground on the periphery of state + church power in this world - vis-a-vis the Empire. Then "Stigmata" + "Faith" tell the true story! Worship of Belial as YHWH - in YHWH's place. My analysis of the visage in the sky in 1963 was correct. Belial ruled this world in a YHWH costume! The real YHWH is Ubik, pushed to the periphery of trashy TV commercials! folder 48 - 059 folder 48 - 059 Palmer Eldritch ......vs...... Ubik (center) ...................... (trash layer : true divine power) Satan in power ................ YHWH (Logos) evil .......................... on the periphery sacraments!.................... cheap TV ads! ......Both are everywhere!...... Author of irreal worlds ....... Reality - My God: it's specifically stipulated that Ubik is the -not a- reality support! ("He causes to exist whatever exists", functional description of YHWH!) The underlying secret (cf "Hamlet" + "The Bacchae") is that the true king (YHWH) (Ubik) has been deposed + an impostor (Palmer Eldritch) rules in his place, as [if he were] him. ("Bacchae" - "The Christ Story" - "Hamlet" - "Tears" - + also "Stigmata" + "Faith.") That's part one. Part two is that the true God (YHWH, Ubik) has filtered back in on the periphery. But the impostor is at the civil + church center. Thus people think they are worshipping Christ-YHWH-Ubik but aren't; they are under a spell (of delusion - which Christ/YHWH freed me of in 2-74). The acosmism of my writing may stem from the fact that Belial spins out irreal worlds; + only the world folder 48 - 060 folder 48 - 060 supported by YHWH is real, the former making up much of what we perceive (maya). (Dokos). It is part of the lie (cf "Joint"). (+ "Stigmata.") Thus I saw Valis as an invader in our world transubstantiating the irreal into the real. Assembling a real cosmos out of it. He said he would send Elijah first, on the day that he -YHWH- acted. Well, now he has acted. So Elijah must have come here - perhaps a few years ago. __ The in-breaking of God would be connected with a massive repair of the world. Suppose this repair has already been made retroactively, so that track A (the BIP) is already replaced with this track B. + in 2-74 I remembered track A ("Tears") where Xtianity was illegal + Belial ruled. "The final world is here." Alternate presents. "Tears" is how it has been but we've forgotten. Like the ending of "3 Women." Which is why it scared me so. So the 2-74 view was not of this world as it actually is, but of it as it formerly was. [No; Qv sub] __ The word I want isn't "co-axial" (v supra); it's concentric. The world of "Tears" (BIP) + the Garden (highest level of Purgatorio) + the post-mortem world (Paradiso) are concentric, + I know which theology-philosophy that points to: Plotinus + Neo-Platonism: the original fall + reascent of the soul, not spacially, but "up" through concentric rings of emanation from the One (Valis!). As with Plato, anamnesis is crucial for the rise to the next concentric level. folder 48 - 061 What happened in my case -having to do with my rising- totally depended on my anamnesis of the previous "ring" (world). I have no idea whether Dante knew that his Commedia was a beautiful description of the ascent of the soul, in its successive incarnations. "St Sophia is going to be born again; she was not acceptable before." I.e. the first advent was a failure - I have to face that. Crucifixion was not the intended goal. There is no original sin + hence no vicarious atonement. Paul made it all up to explain why Jesus "succeeded," whereas the light went out + a false (Satanic) church arose based on the cross not the fish. Jesus was the wisdom of YHWH. At Armageddon (70 AD) the army of light -YHWH's- was defeated since Jesus was dead ("not acceptable"). Now YHWH is doing it again: instilling true knowledge (Holy Wisdom) in people outside the centers of power (church + state both). My vision of the BIP "Tears" world is a vision of true reality. True Xtianity is illegal + underground, made up of people approached directly by YHWH. The transplanting of YHWH here has been successful; he is alive here. (Valis?) "Tears" is not a former, lower or alternate world but the world as it actually is - seen from the POV of an Elijah-like prophet of the true God. The cypher in "Tears" folder 48 - 062 folder 48 - 062 carries the news of the second advent which is the in-breaking of YHWH (the dream). This time he will be successful: this is the "final world" i.e. outcome battle: final determining conflict (invasion by YHWH: Valis). The dream: The posse "... sparkles in the sunlight." Taverner: "...in the... darkness," killed. This is God leading the army of Light to successfully kill the leader of the army of Darkness. Sunlight vs darkness. Palmer Eldritch can't be YHWH because he spins irreal worlds. Likewise the "Xtian" God in "Faith": these writings unmask the true nature of the god who is worshipped as YHWH but is an evil impostor: the metal visage I saw in the sky: the god of this world: anti-YHWH, against whom YHWH has come to do final battle. In "Valis" the whole idea is that there is an incumbent god who is irrational, + another God, Valis, who is rational, invades. My recent revelation identifies this invading (successfully "transplanted") God as YHWH. His invading is a return by him after being shaved out, at the time of Acts. When you think about it, isn't it logical that the in-breaking God is Yahweh? It fits Biblical prophecy. folder 48 - 063 folder 48 - 063 There is no other deity who is foretold as going to in-break! + St. Sophia is the wisdom of, specifically, YHWH. In fact my whole acosmism is a perception that the God we worship is not "he causes to exist whatever exists" specifically. It is my key insight by which I unraveled the mystery of, "what is wrong?" Ubik, is however, "what causes to exist;" therefore YHWH. + then my insight that Valis is an invader! + turning the irreal into the real! __ My whole experience was based on anamnesis. The anamnesis was based on, upon 2-74 happening, remembering that it had happened before (deja vu, which is to say, anamnesis). I then remembered the world of "Tears" which I then saw. Apparently I was retracking my life like replaying a phonograph record. This is why the 2 CP missives appear in "Faith." {Note} This is why Valis + an explanation of Valis appears in "Ubik." This is why the previous track which I remembered in 1974 appears in "Tears" which I wrote in 1970; it only makes sense if I was tracking a second time: a coaxial but higher world. Right now I am reading over "Ubik"; beyond doubt it is based on 3-74, but 3-74 was memory (restored memory) of having lived before, in the worlds I wrote about. The resemblance between Ubik + Valis just proves this realization is true. {Note:} + this is why I could solve the problem of what to do vis-a-vis the Xerox missive on the spot. folder 48 - 064 folder 48 - 064 When the Xerox missive came I remembered it; here is a case of deja vu opening up into actual anamnesis, + with the unusual fact of my having written much of it down in my novels + stories. In 3-74 I was encountering Valis again. This brings up "3 Women" + my reaction to it; I grasped the true situation. We're in irreal worlds + possess false memories but: YHWH is reaching to us with authentic reality. We are in the sort of "half-life" Irwelt depicted in "Ubik." Reality support = "He causes to exist whatever exists" - i.e. he -Ubik/Valis- is YHWH who has been excluded from our Irwelt: "the final bulwark against nonbeing." Then in 2-74 under the pentathol when I saw the Golden Fish sign + the girl I remembered [having been alive + having died] + woke up - + saw Valis/Ubik (YHWH). We must track + retrack. YHWH is rescuing us by 1) reminding us (awakening us) + 2) transmuting our Irwelt into reality {Note} ; 3) entering our Irwelt with battle plans to depose Belial. {Note:} Hence the acosmism in my writing: I know the truth: this is not YHWH's world. Viz: A) YHWH causes to exist what ever exists B) Our world(s) is/are irreal. C) Therefore they are not YHWH's creation. They are, on the contrary, like the dream worlds in "3 Women" + are not consistent! We are perceptually occluded, + our memories falsified to make the Irwelt seem convincing. This is the real "Fall."