like chess. With her ri pple 199 card fox re-enters + in a commanding position, since she, not mork, gets to determine whether R is cured. The game is over; Fox won so o won, + so did r; hence M. Acts correctly in fixing the coffee The keys to the Kingdom lie in perceiving the simultaneous two mutually exclusive stories: 1) he lost. 2) he won. If only one of the two is perceived - either of the two! - the key is not found, because a new must (or higher) reasoning comes into being in which two mutually negating propositions are seen to exist within one corpus (in this case this story), + out of this the infinite dialectic which I saw in 3-74 is created - so that infinity itself is created (by a kind of oscillation); this is the true basis of reality since all else eventually expires: immortality is put on by the man who "the man who can think this (the dialectic). knew how to lose" thus flip-flops back + forth endlessly, each of the two stories instantly giving rise to the other, its opposite, upon its own coming-to-be, + the domain in which this flip flop (which never ends) occurs is not on the paper but in the brain of the percipient who upon reading it, reads both stories simultaneously (in symmetric balance). This accounts for why many of Jesus' parables were illus rations of paradoxes; paradoxical thinking is the via regis to the Kingdom or God-state. physiologically, I guess the synapses fire forever. an infinite number is generated. Hypostasis is converted into process feeding on itself; as signal it does not decay. I 11 26 my being a prisoner is not unique or even usual; this is a prison world + we all are prisoners - but I tripped Ma'at represented in story as Linda Fox). She miti‐ gated my sentences. No wonder I love her. didn't just deflect my life but saved it that's an important story, the first in which St Sophia is represented (as i (inda Fox). Her strategy anti-death plays I'm just down now because I'm cut de from her, the Fox, St dsphia. Rommey has out me off. the woodcut art. Joe cocker. My writing - inc fies "tories. Fox's real targed was the plasmy for its Stigmatizing Romnay as death-producing! s The technicians realized. What does his imply? (Mind: B, is not sick.) major: AI thinking is deranged e.g. the plasma's analysis of Romay) this is a very importantistory! How f Sophia, representing the new 2 brained uper race (e.g. me) defeats the I brained e (like). 2 races are in con‐ lict here, between the Fox the plasma this is i what o 3 or AI spirit - is the voice [of?] a new race. It forms a collective - we form - mine: she is the anima of it. K., according to the new race, is not deathproducing, via Christ’s miracle; to the old race she is death producing. This 2 - proposition reasoning - The “Panther Engine" - is the reasoning of the new race (So Fox is helping R, too; if it is will, M. is okay. We trapped tripped Ma'at & got the greatest reward possible (“the Fox”), after we’d been through almost infinite pain. Dope is Good} Dope is Bad} } Set up 2 personality centers - v. “scanner” - the first book about us, the 2 Brained new race! which the Fox story deals with But to a lesser degree - “Scanner” is the real picture of us. - “Valis” tells about our collective vox's St Sophia. Even if nothing more came out “scanner” did it. I’ve succeeded already. R. is Fox’s antagonist -vis-a-vis M - & yet the Fox cures her! Hence Fox combats the AI plasma which called K “death producing”! the AI plasma represents KW's linear logic, and is opposed by the Fox, Met Fox excuplates R - made her not - death-producing - to save me! the logic is even more intricate than I realized. the plasma & the Fox use two totally different ways to save M. the plasma says “K is death-producing; avoid her.” Fox renders R cured & hence not death-producing. Is It is the practical vs the Xtian solution. this is the real story plasma = practical (a-ethical) Fox = Xtian Miracle (ethical) & Fox prevails. the story is a Fucking Masterpiece in which the practical & the Xtian MO’s are reduced to (viewed) as two different types of reasoning, the 2nd (Xtian) higher (& it wins over the other!!!) the original version simply Gave the two. KW, By denying the Xtian, forced me to reduce & then explicate Both in terms of their Logic - which had the result of showing the Xtian not only as higher (more ethical) But winning. (More powerful than the old Linear kind, & destructive - antithetical - to it! No wonder Jeter pondered over it (the added material) so long. Fox is Christ (St. Sophia!). imagine - to have proved the logical (2brain) superiority of Xtianity - (in fact, to have analyzed true Xtianity as a hyperLogic. When you hold 2 mutually exclusive propositions integrated simultaneously (why “Dope is Bad/Dope is Good” “R is sick/ R is sick/R is well” Fox tells the truth/ Fox lies”) you coordinate Both Brains! very important! Re the Xerox Missive there were 2 such antithetical propositions, and 2 brains in my synchronized - and a (ie one and an effective one) course of Action resulted, proving that using Both Brains and 2 simultaneous mutually exclusive propositions does not paralyze you. But useful for problem-solving which By linear unibrain couldn’t be done at all. this means that evolutionarily the 2-Brained Folk will defeat the unibrain linear “Adams.” We have Biological Superiority - the next step up! this is what fox represents: she defeats her Foe (R) By healing her not by dumping her. Xtianity can be defined as a new (postaristotelian) meta reasoning in which 2 mutually exclusive propositions are maintained simultaneously involving Both Brains, leading to a superior solution (action) e.g.: “it is CP.” “it is us - ie not C.P.” that is the Mystery and puzzle of the Xerox Missive What Line of action does that lead to? to know the correct line of action you must know the truth of Both[ul] propositions: it is and is not us; is and is not C.P. This puzzle forced My dormant other Brain [??] and caused Christification. Christ Qua Meta-reasoning : Binary reasoning, this screw up in the RS Story - VIA the paradox “to Be Loyal is Bad” (Mary) “to Be Loyal is Good” (ROBOT.) Mary = Christ = St. Sophia, Like? Fox! Xtianity is a 2 Brain Meta Logic where the practical and the ethical are not bipolarized but fused. hence we call it correctly “Holy Wisdom”. Here is the paradigm : By treating R as well, M causes her to be well. Had he treated her as sick - evicted her as KW held - he would have made her sick - since Both propositions are equally true and the action by M defines the unified resolution. You don’t act on “is” But on “is which you wish[ul] it to be - and so it Becomes. I treated the Xerox Missive as C.P. and so, in the Meta World, thus is Became C.P. how! the solution (action) Generates the truth as much as the truth the solution; there is a reciprocality not just linear truth to solution. there is a Loop in time : Feed back! not cause to effect The actual past-present, future linear time is perturbed with the later effect (act, solution] affecting the cause (truth). This, too, I experienced in 3-74 when I obtained the "key locked within the car to the car". This is e.g. the type of problem the new meta 2 brained Logic enables us to solve since it affects linear time! ("Because the Late effect affects the prior Cause!) What an evaluation step! Viz: {Diagram: "The actual situation"} Y, Null Y, Act so Y, Act or Ȳ, Act The choice is that of the 2 brained person, thus in the world of the 2 brained person, the future has power over the past; hence the material in "MITHC" & "Faith of" & the Acts material etc in "Tears." I have discovered it, experienced it (2-3-74) & written about it ("Scanner" & "The Exit Door" & "The Man Who"). Wait, my conscious brain considered it CP. So I can infer to my other brain it was null CP, ie vs army G-2, if the dormant brain acted, & the AI Voice is that brain's, What this 2-Brain reasoning system can deal with! When the information adds on to 2 parallel mutal exclusive propositions and yet action is required, the Linear unibrain can't hold the propositions but [alms?] act [???]. A unibrain receiving the [???] would have had to act on its ostensible nature ([???]). Biologically, it is not intended that always the left (digital) brain & right (analog) will reach the same [respects?] by 2 [dull routes?], the linear brain (eq the plasma at [Fomachaut?] Just goes into a cybernetics stall. 1. "He is degraded" } Christian transmutation out of the 2, the paradox 2. "He is exalted" Each proposition endlessly generatses its mirror opposite: the dialectic which I saw - as in "the man who" 1. "we are in the prison" } 2. "we are in the Garden" The 2-Brained logic brings you into contact with the well-springs of the [true?] dialectical logic of reality, & away from Aristotle & his phony hypostases. The ethical nature of the [Xtlan?] problem - solving system puts it in touch with the order known as Ma'at, an ultimate principle. The [Venux?] response shows: it can act act on both at once, without choosing one proposition over the other. Utilizing both brains, [ideation?] in me, [motn?] in the others, but how it does that even I don't know - some kind of fusion when ideation of the left & motor of the right line up - strange. {Diagram:} Y, Ideation, Motor, Ȳ } ? Y, Ideation, Meta (Christ), Motor, Ȳ Suppose there is a species within a species, & I have defined its difference. What I wonder is, does the 2-premise metasystem plug into the [order?] which I call "Ma'at"? (I have characterized it as a fusion of the ethical & the practical in a wholy new sense which we cannot fathom). A thinking entity is envolved: Sentient physics - Yes; this would fit the causal train melting - Valis! The volition Universe. Appeal to Macromind. This is the upper realm in the face of which the lower realm is plastic. The lower realm is a - complex thought, a total thought (ultimate complex or Kosmos), in the MIND, which is the order to which this species appeals. (ie the mind.) Okay - the normal flow of the order (complex) (physics) is ethical but we can't see it & don't know how to appeal to it. (Make use of its laws at that - ie. ethical level) The 2-Brain species utilizes its laws - how? By knowing them? Is Karma involved, the feeding in of prior thought-forms, which only come back as reality on a delay basis? {Diagram: Prior thought, self, reality generator} This feedback loop? Does the other hemisphere act to feed into the past, ie the prior thought-formations which make up present reality? and in the 2-Brain person that hemisphere is syncronized with the dominant? is it drawn into the reality analysts customary to the left - the right custom-arily generates it and the left analyzes (receives) it, then if Both hemispheres are syncronized, Both generate and Both analyze. It is generated out of the // \\ // ceaseless antithetical dialectic. It is the dialectic which underlies everything - so the 2-Brain species plugs into it and exerts control over it