It is because deus sive substantia. If it is real it is YHWH. If it is not real it is not YHWH. So the real is the via ad deum. It (the real) is not the artifact -made by- of God but is God. The Roogna letter was dysyntonic: it "could not be" - i.e. it was a rasp. Could not be, given me + world. + yet I knew that the Xerox letter would follow. So there's more here than rasp. If it couldn't be, given me + [my] world, how could I know that the Xerox missive would follow - as it did? This points to incommensurates left over from a previous, cancelled track. Which is why anamnesis would be induced. It would be of the former track, the "Tears" or BIP world. "Outside" then equals something from a suppressed memory + other (different) world. Deja vu. This points -this knowing the Xerox letter would come, + it did- points to the rasp as being a case where something from a previous track got left over - i.e. it folder 48 - 118 folder 48 - 118 wasn't expunged. "This can't exist" I kept saying about the Roogna letter + yet I correctly knew even the day the Xerox letter would come. Retracking of different world as pointed to. + fake memories laid over real memories, the latter returning due to the rasp. OK - something at the end of "3 Women" that reminded Spasek that that woman wasn't her mother but was (had been?) her roommate. This explains my "high moist cool" sensations! "A moment ago it was different." I hadn't really "always" been "living in Orange County" i.e. hadn't been me; hence Thomas took over. Returned. I had [just before] been another person at another place, time, world, + the rasp bits were left over from it. + "Tears" shows this impression was true: it has in it things I don't know + couldn't know (e.g. Acts). Therefore the Xerox letter was syntonic -normal- in that other track. Soviet America; hence illegality of Xtianity - yes, hence "Tears." I had been an illegal Xtian in a Soviet America. I was afraid of the Party, not drawn to it; since I was an Xtian, it was dangerous to me; it represented a letter from the authorities. The "ir leg." Like an IRS letter in this world. I hadn't been a Pigspurt agent (secret) but an illegal Xtian afraid of being found out; a Pigspurt (KGB) letter was a letter from the government: they had found me out (to be a secret Xtian). Hence the danger to me. folder 48 - 119 folder 48 - 119 The code in "Tears" was left over, too. I wrote it, as a secret Xtian; i.e. Thomas wrote it. I having been Thomas, + world having been Soviet USA or "Tears." That's why the "reality" was worse. But had to do with God; did he retroactively abolish it? The first rasp was the Golden Fish sign. Due to the Pentathol it reminded me I'd been a secret Xtian; that world came back due to percept anamnesis. (V "3 Women"). This is why "3 Women" terrified me. In the previous world the KGB had authority over you, because it was in power. 1) Xtianity illegal + 2) CP in power (KGB) } dovetail + I have "Tears" + saw "Tears" to prove it. Hence secret Xtians blowing up metal (?) buildings: not set in past! Not epiphenomenal world, but a whole bunch of them, as in "3 Women." Only YHWH is real (Valis). Looks as if YHWH won a victory (v "VR"). Hence "Tears" retroactively disappeared - but left a few rasp bits behind. There are clues in Beethoven's music; not just "Fidelio" but the war in heaven ending on the Missa Solemnis. Nonverbal info. folder 48 - 120 folder 48 - 120 1) "Tears" fits in with a prior defeat of YHWH. 2) The remastering from BIP to this track points to present (later) victory. I know of defeat by anamnesis. Experience. + I figure out victory. Logically. Am I saying that via anamnesis I actually remember the defeat that brought on the "Tears" Pigspurt world? Yes. + since that world is replaced I can deduce subsequent victory, which YHWH contacting me proves. YHWH is now winning. 1) First YHWH lost hence "Tears" 2) Now YHWH wins: this world + the AI voice + visions. + prophecies. There will be - "The final world is here. The work is complete." "Final" does refer to alternate worlds. "Work is complete" = crucial battle won. Hence I wrote the outline; I know the situation subliminally. 2 secrets: 1) YHWH did lose, but 2) YHWH is now winning. He shows + tells me. + "VR" reports 1) defeat (70 AD) + 2) victory: at end of "VR." 2 parts to the story. Defeat we don't know about + later replacement victory we don't know about. folder 48 - 121 The defeats + victories depicted in "VR" represent alternate worlds, + this is stated in the outline - the rollback in time. Due to outcome of future battle. "They fight for the nature of the universe, not its outcome" i.e. ending. "The BIP will never have been"!! 3 Women. 1) He (YHWH) lost 2) but the "The work is completed. The final (sic!) world is here. He has been transplanted + is alive" shows now YHWH has won. 2 secrets. Multiple tracks. Question: whose presence does Belial acknowledge by writing "Yahweh-Asher-Yahweh," his own or Yahweh's? Consider the Xerox missive. Did the cypher declare Pigspurt's presence (Belial) or mine (YHWH) as revealed to them by "Tears"? 1 "Tears" {arrow pointing away} 2 Xerox missive {arrow pointing to} 2 cyphers in sequence. First "Tears" announces YHWH here. Second Xerox missive: announces Belial + Belial achnowledges the first. Traffic between Yahweh + Belial initiated by YHWH thru me. (My writing; i.e.) folder 48 - 122 folder 48 - 122 As in first: fan letter. Second: form letter + Y-A-Y response. "Tears" = fan letter Xerox = form letter + Y-A-Y King Felix {arrow to the right} Olive Holt {arrow to the left} in return. Neither one from me or to me. I was carrier signal. Yes - fan letter said "Asher" - cypher unknown to Herb Asher. "Asher" = "King Felix" - instigated by YHWH + from him announcing his presence here. Then acknowledgement in return, also in cypher. Q: Was the trap in the Xerox missive? Or was it not rather in "Tears" - the cypher in "Tears" tricked "them" into revealing themselves; hence Xerox was "piece of cake," only needing to be sent to the bureau - not threat but opportunity. "They" fell into the pit, not me. Cypher in "Tears" was for this [trap, trick] purpose. As related in "VR" __ Point: the cypher in "Tears" obtains the rasp answer: things aren't as they appear to be. folder 48 - 123 folder 48 - 123 How about this? The self that arose at birth, if lucky, encounters late in life a rasp (i.e. something, a part of reality) that won't fit in with its -the self's- hypostasis, which is the total hypostasis + the Magdeburg mirror opposite world of the self. When this happens the rasp, the "knock at the door," causes the hypostasis to explode, + as a result a second + new different self is born (with of course a new Gestalt-hypostasis) in Magdeburg syzygy to it. This is the "eleventh datum" that won't fit in with the first ten + so flips the whites to black, or blacks to white, as in "Othello" the game. There is a turning into opposites. The Greek "running backward"; self-+-world are turned inside out, as if pulled through infinity. All [eleven] data now fit, but a totally new Gestalt has suddenly come into being, in a blitz, self + world both. This meant first death of the old + then new life. It is a psychological process but so profound that it produces a religious mystical experience (theophany). folder 48 - 124 folder 48 - 124 A) Pseudo world A / Data one thru ten : Pseudo world, since the ten data add up to the wrong template (Gestalt) B) Real world B / Data one through eleven : Opposite to A, due to conversion to real, due to incorporating the incommensurate, the eleventh datum. The total ossified world view bursts, + authentic reality enters - + new self. I.e. "everything you knew + believed turned out to be wrong - proved so by the eleventh datum, which discredits the first ten. Maybe you even see world as it is, without hypostasis (auto-generated by your own mind) at all. Up till then you were in a world you generated - till the "eleventh datum" proved it irreal, auto-generated by you. What has to come along is a datum that can't be (in your hypostasis). My datum was: Xtianity is true (i.e. secret + revolutionary + real). The Xerox missive was only a confirm. 2-74 was the "eleventh datum," not 3-74. By 3-74 I was in the real world (koinos). I had become sane. The original "eleventh datum" led to a long process ending up with understanding YHWH folder 48 - 125 folder 48 - 125 + the nature of the universe as real but epiphenomenal. It brought about -ushered in- the holy into my life + world + self. + view. + hypostasis. This is the waking up, the coming into contact with reality which is knocking to be let in (Valis) as described in "VR". The being born described. Essentially you have become Christ: born, died, then resurrected really alive! God has given you real life! Because you have been given a real universe, not the one you auto-generated, which is just reflections of you back at you - the rat and the pleasure center lever. "VR" is perfect - right on. You were still just in yourself, you as your own womb. 1) "If my world (seen as one Gestalt) is true, this (fact, datum) can't exist." 2) "But this fact, datum does exist." {Note} 3) "Therefore my world isn't true" {Note:} It comes from outside my world, + is as if coming from outside the world! An invasion of reality! Ah - Xtianity isn't just a eleventh datum; it is the eleventh datum; Xtianity is supposed to do this (born from above / by the spirit). Not just any eleventh datum will do it - usher in the Holy. folder 48 - 126 Thus it is YHWH who rasps -knocks- at the door for Asher. __ 1) Remember. 2) Lose occlusion + see. } Different world, + I was reminded by the Xtians. It is a rasp that in this world they are illegal. That is impossible; it doesn't fit. So it woke me up. Born (the 2nd time). 2 degree: fully born (= wakefulness, + being out in the real world). "God" = that which is outside the dream, + whose touching can't be worked into it; also, he intrudes deliberately, for the purpose of rousing you (to 1) remember yourself; + 2) experience the real world - which he (as Valis) is in! Sleep equalling death, he therefore gives you life, + gives you real world. The illegal Xtians were not -could not be- part of my irreal world, + so started me waking up. ___ What, of all the Valis showed me, was the most important? Answer: he faded out one world (space + time: i.e. Calif 1974) + faded in another (Acts), + at the same time he faded me -PKD- out + faded in Thomas who is related to the space + time of Acts. Thus he revealed his nature as "Yahweh-asher-Yahweh" + no other. But I did not understand this until I studied -not just concepts about God- but about YHWH specifically. The turning point for me came