more precisely the removal of a block to remembering, but it must be set in motion by empirical perception, not a priori ratiocination (Plato knows this, probably because the Pythagorians and Orphics practiced it). So it isn't a prenatal existence in the pleroma; it need not be, anyhow; a "former" spatiotemporal incarnation will do fine -- may be precisely it -- ponder my theory that the morphological realm, realm #3, is exploded through our space and time. That would explain it, i.e. the disinhibiting stimulus! This exploded through our space and time, thousands of miles and years, by the morphological realm, realm #3. Boy, am I on to something here. Two strands of my exegesis have just now come together, and they work. It's exactly like the form-axes in UBIK: "The man contains --not the boy-- but the former man." I was on to it then, when I wrote UBIK. I must subliminally have noted the exploded morphological realm #3 here in our spatiotemporal realm #4. So Platonism and Neo-Platonism was proved by me then, in UBIK; it {folder 01 - 066} 10-21-80 8 didn't begin in 2-74; it peaked in 2-74. Why, then the meta-morpheme KING FELIX in TEARS could be -- well, it's no age at all, because time is not a factor in that realm; that's the whole point. But that realm, the Form realm, is just swimming around here before our very eyes; but we can't discriminate it; ah! I just logically proved that according to Platonist theory there should be set versus ground ... and as I saw when I regained my sight in (3-74), so there is! The eide are here as set; the accidents as ground. And a lot of set is information, which is to say, conceptual. The Christian fish sign was normally part of another cluster of spatiotemporal accidents, yet it was here in this cluster of spatiotemporal accidents; by being in both it was (or seemed to be, was taken by me to be) part of the eidos involved. I'm too tired to go on. But a given accident carried over from one spatiotemporal cluster to another would be or would seem to be a element of the underlying eidos. This is why it would serve as a disinhibiting stimulus to anamnesis (anamnesis, then, is not precisely what we think; not at all what we think). But Plato knew what it was, from the Pythagoreans and the Orphics; he just didn't spell it out in his writing. We don't know; he did. (See pp G41-G45 following.) This is heavy, very heavy, the heaviest material I've dredged up so far. You'd have had to have lived at that other place and time for the stimulus to act, for it to be a stimulus; you'd have to --ah; here is why it's called memory or recollection-- you'd have to contain the entire cluster in you as a memory; in you!! Memory, and in you; both. Oh god how weird. Who are we? Is this reincarnation or phylogenic memory or is it something else, a third thing? More weird than even multiple tracking. It's split tracking or something. Wherever the particular crucial eidos is, you are; you are part of the eidos-structure, inseparable from it, over all time and all space; wherever it prints out, you are printed out; so the soul, the immortal soul, does exist; and the Orphics are right: the body is the tomb of the soul, in some way. It prints out in many places at many times, but this is realm #4 perception; in realm #3, which is the real realm, it is there in a unitary way; so there is a fall of the soul, and a reascent: from plurality to unity! That's it; it isn't just world that turns from the plural to the unitary, but you, too, as a soul. Oh my god; a pluralized soul, divided up over space and time, perhaps many, many times and places; and how many people regain unity? Get back up out of realm #4? We are dead and in Hades. Realm #4 is Hades -- we are horribly pluralized; in a kind of prison. {folder 01 - 067} Following 10-21-80 p. 8 well as Plato's anamnesis? Since through it you become aware of the reality of the universals (eide), hence the mere accidental semireality of the spatiotemporal world? On page 10-21 p.8 I spectulate that Plato, due to his contact with the Orphics + Pythagoras knew exactly what anamnesis consisted of + accomplished. Now I have come to this new conclusion as to the real purpose of religion (to free us from the tyranny of the [spatiotemporal] world + that Platonist anamnesis is the most successful way of doing this. So is it not likely that Plato knew this -about anamnesis + the purpose of: the Mysteries! He has adapted the secrets of Orphism, Pythagoreanism + the Mysteries to philosophical purposes -intellectual metaphysics, in answer to the question "Ti to on?"- but for sure Orphism + Pythagoreanism utilized anamnesis, so why not the Mysteries? They were related to Orphism (Dionysian rites to Orphism & Elusius)! + Orp- Jesus as cypher for Zeus-Zagreus i.e. Dionysus as child who is eaten to obtain divine immortality. Let me, tremblingly, recap what anamnesis does. The soul is splintered over thousands of miles of time + space, anamnesis [... (1) Free ...self of the] {folder 01 - 068} spatiotemporal world by revealing time + space as irreal, (2) the morphologically-arranged realm as (A) existing + (B) as real; + (3) the morphologically arranged realm of the eide is exploded through time + space like Dante says of God in the final canto of the Commedia: the Book of the Universe; + most important of all (4) the soul, too, as an eidos (immortal + divine) has fallen into the spatiotemporal irreality + hence is splintered + forgetful. Anamnesis abolishes the rule of the spatiotemporal world over the soul, + the soul re-collects itself + reverses the fall through what it knows (remembers); thus it regains divine immortality; + this anamnesis is -has to be- triggered off by the person seeing something in the spatiotemporal world that is a manifestation of an exploded eidos or connects two space-time continua + therefore serves the same purpose. What, though, is the enthusiasmos? I experienced it due to anamnesis! It happened to me! What is it really? "Christ as the Paraclete took me over" - i.e. Zagreus. But - what did happen? Something took me over + it remembered back 1000s of years. A God? No; the imploded restored soul that in the spatiotemporal world is splintered up (fallen, forgetful) over 1000s of years + miles: many places, many times. {folder 01 - 069} This intact soul is immortal + divine + when it re-collects itself it is [like] a God; if Gnosticism is correct it is God. Hence the absolute necessity of the Eucharist in Xtianity to tie it to Dionysos, Zagreus, Orphism + the Greater Mysteries (the dying God of vegetation annually reborn; to abolish time [Note2], which means abolishing the spatio-temporal world). However, this was done for me by the Golden Fish sign, it served the same purpose. I have now tied Plato + his theory of the Form World, i.e. universals regained through anamnesis, to Xtianity [Note1] through Dionysos - Orphism - the Greater Mysteries. [illustration presented below in text format] Dionysos -------------- ....... ---------Xtian Eucharist (Zagreus).............. Orphism -------------------- ----------------------- ....... ----------Plato's Metaphysics - --------- ...............................the Form World arrived The Greater Mysteries....................at by anamnesis So there is no conflict between my Platonist anamnesis + Xtianity; the common link is the Eucharist + Zagreus + the Greater Mysteries: abolishing time (the tyranny [reality] of the spatiotemporal world + regaining lost divine immortality (the "imploded" soul no longer splintered over 1000s of years + miles + forgetful). (I.e. ignorant of its own origins + nature.) [Note1] Because of the Eucharist. [Note2] The E B article on cyclic time speaks of this vis-a-vis the reperforming of the [Eucharist] - but we no longer tie it in with the [...] {folder 01 - 070} I think that just now by linking Plato's anamnesis + Form World with Dionysos + the Greater Mysteries, + the Xtian Eucharist to Dionysos + the Greater Mysteries - which links Xtian Eucharist to Plato's anamnesis + Form World - which renders the spatiotemporal world irreal, thus abolishing the power of "astral determinism" over you, which is the basic task of religion because then the splintered soul implodes + again is divine + immortal + knows it - I succeeded! I figured out why Platonist anamnesis explains my Xtian restoration to my pre fallen state. Both evolved out of the same source: the Greater Mysteries; part of the secret passed to Xtianity + part passed into Platonist metapsysics, later to become Neo-Platonism. By joining the two parts together you can reconstruct the secret of the Mysteries: what was done, how + why. + is this "The secret stolen..."? It was indeed kept secret; it is still secret; you can (1) read Plato forever + not get it; (2) be a Xtian + reperform the Eucharist forever + not get it -- Both have to occur: be rejoined. + this is what happened to me in 2-74 leading to 3-74 + the enthusiasmos. + Valis? There was [a] God there. First known in the world as Dionysos. Look what [...] {folder 01 - 071} I saw my little saint statue grow grape vines, + heard either Erasmus the greatest Greek/Biblical scholar of the humanists or it was Dionysos. The Joy God. Look how I ended my U.K. speech with that verse of Pindar. Underlying "Tears" there is more than Acts; there is also "the Bacchae" + I have known this all along: the King of Tears destroyed by the stranger - the prison burst! + Hoffman's theory that LSD was used in the Greater Mysteries - + John Allegro's mushroom theory about early Xtianity. Divine Joy - intoxication: permits you to see the truth: spatiotemporal world (i.e. the prison) destroyed. When I saw the second signal, the plasmate, etc in (3-74) I was intoxicated, not by LSD - it wasn't a flash-back - but by - Camouflaged nature God - life form - Valis Everything must be read backward. Ecstasy is sanity. Sobriety is madness. It is the King of Tears who is insane. I'll tell you who stole the secret, smuggled it past the angels + placed it in one's - i.e. our - hands: He who we know of as Dionysos to Zagreus to Orpheus to Christ to the Paraclete where it then peters out. {folder 01 - 072} 10-21-80 9 This doesn't fit Christianity at all, even Gnosticism. Then VALIS alludes to a vast mystery understood by the Orphics, Plato, Plotinus and Pythagoras; but no one knows about it now. Jane Harrison's book makes clear that Orphism was a conscious effort to get you up out of realm #4 and back to a unitary soul as eidos in realm #3, and this carries over into Platonism ... but what a dreadful secret lies here, one I am just beginning to glimpse. And what dimensions salvation has! For you to be unified again ... could Jesus have known about this? There is no indication of it. I see; the One became Nous; unity was lost; with each lower realm came more multiplicity, and here we are, splintered into a thousand fragments in this spatiotemporal, atomized realm; not just the realm atomized but each of our souls. What a fate. Gnosis or a savior is needed, or both; this is a dreadful condition; the Judo-Christian theme of the Fall underestimates its dreadfulness. Not just the Godhead fell into plurality (sparks) but each individual soul did, too. So Thomas was another portion of me, of my soul, rejoining the part that PKD is; two parts --did this comprise a whole, a totality? Or are