107 this planet. The time is close, but it won't be by rocket ship. This is not the mode of travel by a plasmate, + it is plasmates that emerge out of this crossbonding procedure. I think that the separate pluriform plasmates link to Zebra (I know they do) + Zebra is (I intuit) still directly linked to the "upper realm," be that Sirius or whatever; i.e. to its source. So homo to plasmate to macrobrain (Christ) to Noos - God, the ground of being. We humans are brought into these successive levels of interaction, + lose the separation from God depicted in Genesis! I.e. the fall of our ancestors down to this "low" world. This is, after all, the goal of our evolution, + it is a quantum leap - the quantum leap, the real one prefigured over millions of years of evolution. I, for instance, would not have survived 1974 had I not been a homoplasmate, had I not had the beside-helper to take over, + I could not have written what I (or rather we) wrote. I fully accept + rejoice in the fact that I was modulated as a carrier, a booster, of information. I know about the Empire, + I know "the Empire never ended." There is an antagonist ("Yurugu"), + he is being defeated, from which we benefit, from which we are saved. But this is heavy. This is not something to plaudern about. I have solved (with the beside-helper's authority) or deconstructed the situation which peaked in 3-74. But which began decades before. Many times I've felt I'd reached the end of this exegesis. Maybe now I have. It is an ending of solemn moment. What now, human? Little man, what now? To the stars! Ad astra. Sed non per hominum. folder 21 - 108 folder 21 - 108 It's interesting that most of this I've known from the beginning, but I lacked the context to place it in. Undoubtedly, the eye of Horus does refer to the interstellar race which is seeding itself into our race + has been for some time - it also refers to the brotherhood which knows, + probably consists of [some] homoplasmates like myself. I wonder: can a given plasmate diversify itself into more than one human + so create more than one homoplasmate? If so, the number of homoplasmates could be large. At Pentecost, Christ as the original plasmate, the Holy Spirit or beside-helper, descended into a number of people; but - Here is a point. If what I've figured out is true, why hasn't the account surfaced? Why hasn't one single homoplasmate who has undergone crossbonding broken the stricture of silence? 1) If he employed traditional Xtian terminology, an interesting result would occur, because of the counterfeit open, establishment Xtian church, which routinely employs this terminology, he would blend with them + seem to be talking about what they talk about, which is nothing at all. 2) Those in history who comprise the brotherhood really do not talk. They really do stay secret. But if they did talk what would they say? Again, exactly what the Empire's forgery-church says. So the forgery church serves a useful purpose (without intending to); they mask the real, hidden church. This is the last thing folder 21 - 109 folder 21 - 109 they would like to do, but how would they get around this? They would have to know that 1) they are counterfeit; + 2) there is an actual but hidden church who is not them. Worse yet, if they talk about it, the main result would be to discredit them + perhaps even bring about their collapse; they are in an untenable position - so long as the true hidden church sticks to traditional terminology, I see no solution for them. But when the true secret church departs from traditional terminology they're either heretics + get persecuted along with all the so-to-speak spurious heresies, + again blend. Then there were the R.C. + Paracelsus + Bruno + the alchemists + Hermetics, etc who knew to obfuscate. + of course the Gnostics. For one thing, terminology is adapted to the time + place - mine included. I'm probably no more correct than they were - in fact I believe less so, since I've done this solo (except for the para-helper of course, + I did have the contents of Thomas' mind, which was extraordinary - + for good reason). My gnosis is from the supreme source, + directly. But there is another possibility. Bob Wilson writes about interspecies symbiosis, Sirius - much of this, esp the DNA material + the 8 levels of consciousness. I am a professional writer. It is natural for me to write. Much has appeared in my already-published writing. Has a decision been made to go public? No, because I was told not to say I'm an early Xtian. I wondered why, + as I learned more I began to see why. folder 21 - 110 folder 21 - 110 __ A point. My plasmate para-helper Thomas is not living in this century. Each of us is in his own space-time world - about 2000 years apart. Yet we function as a dual-psychoi entity. How do we do this? I saw his world + it was syntonic to USA 1974, which implies all I've put forth over the last 600 pages -for example, that time does not exist, only change- + so forth. But the cosmological structure remains a mystery to me. Thomas is in my head. My head is in USA 1974. But Thomas is in Rome C AD 45. How is this done, + what is implied cosmologically? I don't think I'm going to be able to figure this out. The real nature of world + time is too different from my limited concepts for those concepts to serve. If a radical idealist epistemology is employed, world can be abolished as a category. I have the datum confronting me: Thomas + I live at two different space-times + yet we're both in my head; but - All I can assume is that no time has actually passed since Thomas' world. My space-time world is a way of viewing the same world he is viewing but in a different way. Rome CAD 45 + USA 1974 are aspects of one reality. Supra, I've gone deeply into this. I have the extraordinary revealed sentence to go on: "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." I have energetically folder 21 - 111 exegeted this sentence, with stunning results. To recap: there is only seeming difference. Therefore there is no real difference. The purpose of this seeming but irreal difference is to bilk us into believing time has passed. Therefore no time has passed. He does it; therefore a conniving, deceiving "he" is involved who has power over us - specifically the power to generate what I call "look-differents"; all this somehow explains how, when Thomas epiphanized in me, his world + my world could be superimposed syntonically. The key to this syntonic superimposition lies -if anywhere- in this AI-revealed sentence. But I simply can't grasp it. What is really out there? Aha! The word "things." I.e. "external objects." So an objective reality of some kind exists, but although it appears to change - + from this our brains erroneously infer that time (whatever that is) has passed, it does in fact not change - i.e. the "look-differents" are fake indices of change - Aha. "Look-differents" are processed by our minds as change which is processed by our minds as indication that time has passed. Maybe if there was real change, it would indicate, correctly, that time had passed. I claim (somewhere supra) that a normal brain-function has been deliberately tricked. We're constructed to monitor change folder 21 - 112 folder 21 - 112 as the sole source from which our perception of time (or time passing) is extracted. Change is the sole regulator for us (v. E of Ph article on time). This is valid as stated. Time is a category abstracted from change. But "look-differents" are not the same as change, which can be readily realized upon a precise definition of "change" + of "look different." When something changes it usually looks different, so we go on the latter + do not appreciate the distinction. Someone -this "he"- has traded on this elementary confusion, this so-to-speak laziness of our brains. Who the hell is this "he"? My syntonic superimposition experience is inscrutible, + the sentence is so pregnant with meaning as to be open to a variety of explications - but: if the two are joined, then the truth emerges - I grasp it intuitively, but can't verbally formulate it. 1) The sentence explains the experience 2) The experience strictures the meaning of the sentence into precision. Okay. USA 1974 looks different than Rome C AD 45 (Acts). This is an instance of a "looks different." The exegete above qualifies "look-differents" as not being the same as change. Therefore although Acts + USA 1974 look different this does not verify true change, folder 21 - 113 folder 21 - 113 as our brains incorrectly assume. So it is not correct to say, "B looks different from A, so change has taken place." Okay, next step. If change takes place we correctly abstract the category "time" + the flow thereof. But no change has in fact taken place. Only a "looks different" has taken place: B looks different from A; i.e. USA 1974 looks different than Rome CAD 45. Ergo, although time may have passed, despite appearances to the contrary there is no basis to presume it. Okay. Next step. Change is the sole basis by which correctly to infer time flow. But we've failed to show change (call change "C"). If C then "T" (time flow). But C is unproved. So T is unproved despite the "look different" (which I will designate AB). If C then T AB does not equal C We have AB Therefore T is not proven. Objection: AB seems to indicate T, based on common sense + custom + normal inferential reasoning. Answer: Yes, because we fail to discriminate between AB + C. AB must be proved to indicate C. In some cases AB = C "Some cases" doesn't = all cases. Therefore although T may be present, it may not be. The matter is metaphysical + not open either to a priori analysis or empirical analysis. "He causes AB so as to make it appear that T exists." Syntactic analysis, or semantic folder 21 - 114 folder 21 - 114 analysis, urges us to the conclusion that in this sentence "appear" carries the force of "give a false impression." I'm sorry, but that is the way I asses "appear" in this linguistic context. In fact I am positive of it. In that case, if that is accepted as a given, then: AB = C rather than AB = C So: we have AB which equals C. If C = T, then C = T. So AB = T in this context (formally). USA 1974 + Rome CAD 45 = AB. So USA 1974 + Rome CAD 45 = T + not T as would seem. By the law of the excluded middle I get AB indicating T rather than merely failing to indicate T (i.e. it is either T or T. This is all based on equating "appear" with "give a false impression"; viz: AB gives a false impression of C which = T. Therefore AB gives a false impression of T. "False impression" = T. What other interpretation can there be? In those cases (which I presume do exist) where AB does = C, then in those cases AB = T, but this is not an instance of that. To go from logic to empiricism. I say we're dealing with a very high order of duplicity here: in magnitude, in power, in