not only encountered Valis is mind (which could have been psyche, psyche of world as soma) but in fact saw it. The EB marco article on Taoism says, "The universe is a hierarchical structure," the micro-macrocosm correspondence. "A hierarchical structure." And I conceive of Valis as existing as a higher level hierarchically than anything else, so that we see only its plural constituents at our hierarchical level... so here is yet another element of my revelation that turns out to be Taoist. In viewing Valis as the Ch'ang Tao, and the dialectic as Yin and Yang, I should view 3-74 as an alchemical enantiodromia: the hierogamy that rises out of the depths of abasement and seeing the weak (Yin) go all the way to its extreme, where it reverts to its opposite: what Parmenides calls a "dry" or "fiery" soul, which is to say, made up only of Form One. But I see it more as an alchemical chemical wedding, a hierogamy: reconciliation of opposes after the opposites became totally estranged (bipolarized) in me. So two things may have occurred: enantiodromia of the weak (Yin) into -24- the strong (Yang) and enantiodromia of estrangement of the opposites, total bipolarization, into reconciliation, the hierogamy. This would be quite some transformation: weak into strong (Yin into Yang, or Form Two into Form One) and total estrangement into total reconcilia¬ tion and equilibrium (this would also be Empedocles' strife turning into love thus producing a total krasis in me). (And based on the micro- macrocosmic principle of correspondence, like to like, I would then perceive the macrocosm as one vast krasis.) (X.e. Valis, which I now think is the Ch'ang Tao.) Enantiodromia along two axes simultaneouslyI Weak to strong; strife to union. And all focussed around the golden fish sign...the shock of moksa upon seeing it initiated the double enantiodromia. Mysterium coniunctionis. My revelation is clearly a cumulative Western Taoism, in which the dialectic functions to provide new components for the building —assembling— of a kosmos that will replace the original creation, which to the new kosmos is a mere chaotic stockpile; this kosmos is a latent structure pervading our universe; it is one level higher hierarchically: we see only the plural components at our level, rather than the unity at the next higher level. This kosmos is self-assembling, sentient and alive; it is totally homeostatic, having brought itself into existence. There is a micro- macrocosmic correspondence; for example, it willed itself into existence in me as a microform of its macroself. The kosmos exists through a secret reconciliation or marriage of the contending opposite forces of the dialectic that are responsible for the strife and flux at our lower outer level. It is possible that the reconciled realm of the phylogons -25- is our world as represented (even in fact remembered) in God's mind, God conceived as noos. The ephemeral (flux) world of strife (the dialectic) continually passes into God's mind where it becomes internally reconciled as he arranges the constituents according to meaning, reticulating and arborizing them. Thus in a sense I was seeing the mundane world from God's standpoint: the past exists at only one place and that place is God's memory. In connection with this, my anamnesis (as I've often pondered) may not have been my memory but God's memory (in the form of the Holy Spirit). It may have been God linking me with the past; i.e. placing me in the realm of the phylogons: what I called "anamnesis" is in fact myself in God's memory or mind where I am put in place in terms of the phylogons, the reticulation and arborization; this would be why I would understand myself within the total historic context — which God perceives (remembers). I experienced how I fit in/will fit in as a part of that eternal realm. This somewhat resembles Plato's world of forms except; It derives from our phenomenal world, rather than the other way around. It in fact is our world, remembered and conceptualized according to plan or meaning by God, within his mind. If this is heaven, it is a view of what heaven is that no one has ever come up with before. The person —I suppose as soul— fitted into place in the unchanging —i.e. not passing away— con¬ ception of this world in God’s mind. You occupy a permanent place, and the only change is later accretions. So I now connect my anam¬ nesis with my view of the world of the phylogons; ah: my anamnesis (not just perception; experience of: illo tempore!) was an actual perception/by me of the phyloqonic world, with myself in it. -26- That's it. Anamnesis equals illor tempore equals the per¬ manent timeless world of the phylogons; why didn’t I ever realize this before? I got into the world of the phylogons, the kosmos that God is assembling in his mind — on contrast to the flux world. In this phylogonic world are the constants (phylogons); the ones pertaining to me are: (1) The Empire, my adversary. (2) The revolutionary secret Christians, my colleagues. This is my Dasein, k my way of being, in the phylogonic world. How could I ever have failed to see that the world revealed to me by anamnesis is the same as the world of the phylogons, reticulated and arborizing, with the new accretions con¬ stantly being laid down. Of course: in that phylogonic world the revolutionary secret Christian underground Is always attacking the Prison; these are precisely phylogons l And I experienced my place: I am always with the secret revolutionary Christians in all the guises and forms they take in our flux world as history evolves. as history evolves the ontogonic guises of the Empire/Prison permutated, and the ontogonic guises of the secret revolutionary Christians permutate, but under these accidents the essences remain constant; this is what I mean by phylogons. What a realization! I am immortal, and eternally in the role I have been in during this life time. The place and time and language and manners change, but the roles remain the same. The paradigm is Acts: the original Christian church —the acts of the apostles— versus Rome. And I discerned this latent form in TEARS!! I discerned the realm of ontology underlying the flux realm! -27- Dimly, the phylogonic world shows through into this world, in TEARS. Perhaps TEARS is based on phylogenic memory in me. The phylogonic world, that I found myself in in 3-74, is our world as God perceives it: sub specia aeternitatis: our world as it really is, in his mind; the world of eternal constants. So I was experiencing world through God, with God's perception replacing my percept system; this is why I could perceive in a priori and empirically both; there was now no longer any difference. This realization (my anamnesis equalling the world of the phylogons) is terribly important, and I can't see how I could have missed it all these years...or, if I realized it before, failed to see the importance and hence forgot about it, forgot that I had realized it. For a long time I have asked, "Where is this kosmos, this world of the phylogons with their reticulation and arborizing and accretions?" Well, I was in it and I am in it always, except that normally I see through oritogonic eyes —my own— and not God's. A lot of the difference has to do with the way God experiences time as com¬ pared to how humans experience time, and this in turn relates to memory. Perhaps what I called "anamnesis" is actually perception of the past as still here, and not memory at all; yes I This is why I saw the superimposition of the world of Acts onto or within our own: both of them here now...which is not memory. So the world I was in is the world of the phylogons, which exists as an object of thought in God's mind (noos). And I saw the dramatic narrative that underlies reality: it is Acts (at least as far as my involvement goes; as I once figured out before, there may be a number of narratives running). Acts, then, is Torah, which -28- preceded creation and for which creation exists. Acts must be fed perpetually into reality and can be extracted back out as I did in TEARS. I have been thinking for several hours about this realm of the phylogons which apparently I was in by what I have long called anamnesis. This is an introduction into immortality, but I think there is only one way you can be introduced into that world. It as a world is the world gesta Christi, and it must be the Holy Spirit who awakens your perception to that world. It is not the afterlife and it is not reincarnation; it is a world of eternal constants, and these constants point to Christianity which in turn points to the Paraclete. It is his role to remind you of Christ, to unfold the mystery of Christ, to cause you to understand all that Christ did and said. John makes this clear. 9-6-80 The solution: a morphologically-arranged realm, which is where I found myself (my "anamnesis"). It is not ordered by space and time; that is how we (humans) order reality. This is the world of the pylogons, Plato's Form World, where Plotinus says you can find yourself, whereupon you come into contact with the One (God). That is the basis of it, however; that is, also, the kosmos that Valis is assembling (building); its own soma, out of our world as stockpile, as chaos. This morphologically arranged realm is ontologically real; or it is anyhow more real than our world. It is, as Plato taught, the real world. I saw that it is reticulated and arborizing. This is why I could be in U.S.A. 1974 and also in Rome c. 45 C.E.: they are morphologically related, although not in space-time. -29- This realization also gives me some help in answering the question, "Where is the realm of the phylogons?" Answer: It is not in space and time; it is a conceptualization in Mind, in God's Mind, involving memory, which is to say, the total past is there; the present is just one more accretion laid down in this -cosmos. Just start with the notion of a morphologically-arranged realm such as this (and not arranged in space and time) and try to imagine what it would be like to "rise" into it (as Plotinus speaks of). What transformations in your reality could you expect? Exactly what I experienced: vast amounts of time and space, and a world involving thousands of years and many places somehow all present and somehow woven around constants: the secret underground revolutionary Christians and the Black iron Prison (the Empire), with these constants extending throughout all the centuries and miles with their accidents differing from one space-time to the next, but their essences always constant (exactly as Plato describes, his distinction between accidents and essence). (With essence and the Form World identical.) Here in this kosmos of the phylogons there is only essence.,.what Plato did not realize is that the Forms are interwoven; later on, Christian thinkers figured this out, that the Forms are a realm in the mind of God. They constitute, I discovered, Pythagoras’ kosmos (I'm not sure if anyone has realized this part of it). This realm is morphologically arranged because it is a mental conception, not psyche and soma but noos (vide Hussey for the distinction). This would explain my tenvolume meta novel, my conviction that in some sense the world we see is not real and that another world lies beyond, within or behind it. -30- So the realm of the phylogons is here, but "here" really refers to a ubiquity; it is not here versus there: that has to do with space and time. The accretions as they enter this kosmos do not arrange themselves according to mechanical laws nor according