no long lapse of time into the promised These are not two second Advent - as if advents but one (which is how the O.T. prophets saw -correctly saw - them t Hence I understand why I saw Acts + USA 1974 superimposed; the two spatiotemporal continua in a single historical became unified narrative happening at the "same" place + mysteriously. the "same" time. Here, then, i G-6 the explanation of what puzzled me the most: the "common essence" of the two spatiotemporal sets, the "meta-abstraction"; it is because in a supernatural way both advents are essentially one. There is could have had any worth no way that "Valis. e as scripture (II without Sophia's Kerygma; with i out that it would simply be a retelling set in modern times of Advent one. Any biplical scholar of apocalyptic literature would discern this change -or addition or progression or departure - at once. The so-to-speak missing material (unfulfilled O.T. prophecy) (that failed to occur at the first Advent) is now added; + yet it still is (as I say) mysteriously (to repeat) the First Advent - as if there are not two advents but one. The same story is told again, but crucially differently... This crucial difference being stated in Sophia's Kerygma, but, more, it relates to certain specific historical events (the deposing of the Nixon tyranny) (+ the prophecy that this will recurr soon). then in "Valis" well over + above the account of the Holy Spirit is O.T. prophecy fulfilled... But The Holy Spirit as the spirit of Christ has a vital, vast role in this (also part of O.T. prophecy!). If Advents one + two are construed as a single event composed of two "passes," as the O.T. prophets viewed them/it. My 2-3-74 experience of it makes sense. It is apocalyptic time from an O.T. viewpoint. + yet, the Parousia is here (but 2-3-74 was not quite yet it - hence I saw Acts. + Acts showed up in "Tears" as a sort of tracing of an underlying realm). (When I first detected "Acts in "Tears" I should have suspected the Holy as - not just Valis but that the Spirit C-7 Parousia was imminent (but not yet here; does the Parousia occur in Acts? No; Acts is the interval immediately following Christ's death + resurrection, specifically the period of Penterlost, of the Holy Spirit who is with the disciples during the absence of Christ - i.e. between the two nevents. Here, the prophecies by the AI voice (Holy Spirit + Ruah/Shekhina) must be vigorously paid Heed to - especially the last one: "He has been transplanted + is alive"!!!! So the "solution" to "Valis" is that it treats the two advents as a single event. (i.e. from an O.T. prophecy standpoint which is how YHWH would see it.) Which, then, is really the proper way to see it: This is how it really is (hence I saw true t reality - apocalyptic history - + saw it, as well, in the right sub specia aeternitation way 1) history can be regarded as a gigantic sluce gate, winnowing fan - two sources known to us as light + dark mingled, for a time, + Now, finally, draw apart once again; this separation (again) we know as the eschatological ludgment, but it has to do with nature (or ntology); by our acts we reveal which of the two we are, + this involves a problem, because both ave mingled in us. It is as if the commingling reated the problem of ontological identification sark contaminated light, light "contaminated" dark. out all the self-revealing deeds have been done This is why historical time had to be protracted: so hat sufficient deeds would be done so that the two atures (unknown even to the persons involved) would reveal themselves... i.e. go, in each case, one to be entirely free to had Hence we a 8 ia or the other. commit evil Acts; this is why God has D-41 you have to understand Malebranche to under‐ stand what reality would be like without God. Reality is a field (i.e. unified) by virtue of the modulation (information) passing through it: like the stoic Logos! It's as if the info arises on the spot ex nihilo (by no means is it confined to the sum words; the overall descruption is: signals). total or essence of this traffic always boils down Anokhi, if read properly for what it is. to Boy, does this resemble "Ubik" 3-74 is, then, the actual apotheosis of my con‐ ceptions underlying "Ubik." Q: What purpose does world serve? A: the eide cast out infinitudes of unique, transient, imperfert unstable particulars (every possible combination of recombining of the "aspects" of each given eidos) + the are they reacquired by the eide as structural reticulation; so kosmos as memory results reality field is a matrix or medium in which if (i.e. space.) Plato these particulars occur right about the men semireality of the sensible world. Then 2-74 was Platonic anamnesis + a recovery of the Forms, strange insight in tiefer Nacht. Cause + effect The action of one thing on another- is a state‐ as ment regarding a process or sequence in linear time: from "then" to "now," from "before" to after," not just from one body on/to another: "this" acting on "that." This is precisely where what we call "causation" is an illusion. The reality field at any given time (call that time N) is complete + cannot act on a later reality field; here is where reality is discontinuous: not between objects existing at one time only) but between earlier + later reality D-42 its (he separate frames in a movie film. This "before" "after. This "then" "now" is either the real problem or the greater problem : how to we see event or thing t provide continuity. X followed in time by Y, + our minds cause us to supply a visible link of action between them; we literally see y act on y - literally see it: this is not just an interpretation it is a perception but it has to do with sequence in linear time not just the action of one thing (object) on another: No: one comes before the other. what I saw in 3-74 that I call "pretextual cause" was the removal of my projected impression (perception) of Y acting on y in linear time, not just x action on y as one body on another in space; no: there is action along the temporal axis, in the temporal domain. So this related to what I have been calling "a time dysfunction" in which I reacted to stimuli before then my occurred. This "pretextual cause" was correct perception of causation along the temporal axis (cause before effect, by definition) so that my mind did not supply the "hypnotized" spurious motive-force link in time (not [just] in space). Thus I saw X followed by Y but saw that X did not cause Y; we project, literally, the causal connection. In actuality, events in what we call a causal" sequence are somehow intrinsically selfgenerated, like the pre-wound + pre-set clockin orever, to add an element needed to explain how "causal" trains work, there seems to be a signalling or disinhibition of 4 by + + this is is is as if i what we take to be causation. It of it. scious no he a D-43 of it signalling; thus the field was alive, +, more, sentient: self-aware throughout (each "part" aware of all other parts - but in fact There were no res extensal but, rather, one field internally notifying itself, from one locus (thing) to anothers so causation takes place - not in space- but to what I guess is space-time or time, + because we incorrectly perceive objects as discrete our minds have to supply a causal link between elements of a sequence of events (actions or this is how Hume viewed I motions) in time. it in terms of before + after) thus (as I seein) the real issue is not so much how one object here acts on another object there - which is how I'm been conceiving it - but rather how the "before" event relates to the "later" event. As I say: since we incorrectly perceive discrete objects, it is necessary for us to see discrete object a act on discrete object B in a "then - now" sense, + to see this, our minds must supply a connective. these connectives are precisely what create the impression of the continuous flow of time; this is in fact, what we call "time," this uniform connected unrolling of causation. In point of fact however, objects are not discrete; they form a field; "they" + "now" are discrete, not bridged by but causation (time. It is like a procession of still frames, each of which is slightly different from the previous one. But they do not really act on each other. If we could see it properly we would see a causal" train as a progression of discrete is self-generated transformations linked only in the sense of notifying signals. Each event in the ence knows - literally knows - when the previous one has fired, + is set to go off a upon that firing as signal. Thus I realized I was seeing - not plural discrete ob. D-44 but one unified field, +, moreover, it was that the appearance of linear conscious. time unrolling is created by our minds supplying causal links betwen "before" + "after" events I did not realize latil last night; the real discontinuity is along the temporal axis, not the spatial one; the field is unified in space but not in time in time it is a progression of points with each point timed to fire after the previous one: but we project a continuous continuity on these discrete firings. Thus 3-74 + my perception of Valis herely my conceptual insight of the 4:5 about causation, but now actually perceived. in the final analyses our perception, literal perception, of causal connectives along the time axis is due to the fact that we cannot conceive of it being other wise hence the causal link that we project is literally an hallucination based on a primmy delusion (that being that reality consists of res extensal, plural discrete objects). So we actually see objet x physically bump object y thus causing Y to exhibit an effect, whereas in fact the modification is in Y intrin‐ We thus, then, supply continuity in time sically. to compensate for a misperception of discrete plurality in space; so one basic error (that of perceiving reality as discrete plural objects instead of a field) is compensated for by viewing discrete points in time as a sort of flow change unified asflow of action + reaction. - is as if our minds have to construct some kind of unity in reality, but have got it along the wrong axis this is why, then, it is So difficult to define time. Two errors, not just one, are involved. The solution (which occurred for me in 3-74) is to see reality properly at one simultaneous instant, which is to say out side of that this time, as a continuous self-aware field. field is that which Malebranche, Leibnitz + Spinoza conceived of + reality as modern quantum t mechanics conceives of - here is the solution. Perhaps the discoveries of modern physics, then, make it possible for the first time in history for someone to actually see reality as the Cartesians a priori knew it to be. The instructions to fire could be understood + even apprehended as infor‐ mation traveling through the field, using the field as a modulated carrier: the instructions passing from one part (spatial locus) to another, or, more likely, manifesting simultaneously throughout the field without time-lapse. (After all, the modulation is not introduced at one end of the field, like current into wire.) If