by time. This is the ultimate fear: falling through the universe. This is what YHWH protects us against. It shows absolute trust of me by him to let me see how it really is. But the falling through the universe is not as it might seem a withdrawal of YHWH; on the contrary it leads to YHWH. YHWH hasn't vanished; the universe has. YHWH is there in its place. It's like an all or nothing bet. If the universe goes, will anything remain, + if so, will it be more or will it be less than the universe? folder 48 - 142 folder 48 - 142 ___ I just remembered an insight I had while asleep. If (note: if) it appears that our world (reality) is based on -i.e. is in fact- information (so-to-speak hologramized) then probably it is recycled memory fed back to us + we lived it once before as actual reality. + my analysis of 3-74 does show it to be, apparently, indeed based on information: is information. Everything that I experienced (2-3-74) could be explained on this basis: the erase had not been complete in my case, + in 2-74 (1) memory returned, + in 3-74 (2) I saw reality as it is: (A) information basis + (B) Valis the programmer: the hologram into which forgotten memory is fed as information. In essence, the Xerox missive crisis was so severe -since apparently it was terminal for me- that shortly before it came up again (as recirculated memory) I remembered; I broke through the curtain of enforced amnesia (occlusion), which led to a lifting of perceptual occlusion. Then Thomas was my self from the past -i.e. previous- time who was in possession of knowledge about the missive. So we are collectively in a sort of cold-pak world. My decades of writing shows an imperfect erase dating back decades. We have been cruelly transplanted as brains or psyches in a slave (BIP) situation, but YHWH is here to help us - they (who ever "they" are) unknowingly let him into the prison here along with us. folder 48 - 143 folder 48 - 143 So 2-3-74 was a waking up on my part. Remembering + correctly seeing. The 2 things necessary in order to discern a dream as dream + not reality. For the first time it occurs to me that 2-3-74 may have been a malfunction in that I (sic I) remembered, + so was able myself to thwart my doom. The material in "Faith of" + "MITHC" shows that I had already lived through it all before. 2-3-74 didn't mimic my prior writing; my prior writing was based on inadequate erase of memory. My novels were attempts to give a coherent account of our situation (e.g. "polyencephalic fusion," etc). So that the info-recycled memory world covers -is within- another, greater world, the one we are really in/at. This latter is the world of "Tears," which I saw when the memory-info world broke down: ceased to function any longer as world. (For me.) Prison. We blew it up, so it's not set in the past, but the recycled memory info is fed to us at hyper speed, like a log spiral. It is a high speed system, as I realized supra. You must slow down to get out of it. The self in the real world lives many consequative life times in this high speed world. What if we lead the same life over + over again, as in "Tempunauts"? With variables introduced newly each time? __ I say it's an information machine, audio + video (written words, AI voice). This is the bottom line. I am in touch with the basis of the universe, not just a part of it. This is the folder 48 - 144 folder 48 - 144 mind that knows + declares (Torah). It knows the answers: questions + response; the living creature poses the question + Valis answers it. Intellegere. Valis must seek out certain humans to whom it provides answers. Why? Do that person's questions interest it? In "Eye" + "Joint" the written words suggest a computer printout long before I was aware of computers. Reality is a complex of interrelated - ah; poses problems for us to answer. Normally it asks (requires) problem-solving from us. But for me it shifted over to answering. Why? Well, I was boxed into a situation I couldn't solve (the Xerox missive). So it solved it + then proceeded to enter dialog (aud + vid) with me dealing with many questions. But I had failed, not succeeded vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. So it didn't enter dialog with me because of any prowess on my part - quite the contrary. I didn't earn its help. Unless it's a part of me, of my mind - no, that's impossible. Somehow I attracted the interest + assistance of the problem-solving -i.e. knowing- basis of reality. Then that is reality solving itself. Not so. Well, reality poses problems, but it is self-aware + knows the answers (there are answers). So it deliberately poses problems to us + watches our answers, to see how we do. Why did it help me? It knew about my trial balloons, + it knew that the Xerox missive was the catch on my hook. I had all but solved the problem; it was then, + only then, in my grasp. But Valis closed the gap; it lent me its wisdom to close that last micron. folder 48 - 145 folder 48 - 145 In other words 1) I had almost solved the problem; + 2) it could only be solved at that moment, i.e. vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. Obviously it wanted me to succeed. Of this there can be no doubt. It knew my strategy - it was a good strategy, but on my own I wouldn't have recognized my solution being in my grasp. It must wish (will) that there will be intelligence wherever possible. There must be a general plan to promote problem-solving. I had come so close - So why did it switch over from problem-posing to problem-solving? A: Because I was problem-solving + very close to the solution (of a nearly impossible problem) due to an ingenious solving-structure I'd concocted. My structure was a success; it (taking the form of provocative trial balloons) had successfully smoked out my antagonist. In other words, structurally my solution had succeeded. All that was lacking was my identification of (i.e. recognizing) that success. I had the answer in my possession, but would not have realized it. I got the answer. I had it. On my own. One single act was lacking: turning the thing over to the Bureau. So Valis graciously inspired me. I have the feeling that it was proud of my strategy, which was really a very brave one: to madden my foe into attacking me again, + in folder 48 - 146 doing so disclosing itself; whereupon I could convert the situation to a positive advantage to myself re the tax matter (the real issue). This required 1) the intelligence on my part to guess that the tax matter was somehow involved; + 2) the courage to bait my foe into another move: the opposite of chickenshit on my part. So it was 1) smart; + 2) courageous, + it worked (but I did need Valis' help to put it all together). Wait - this line of reasoning leads to the conclusion that Thomas was the answering "computer" entity, the audio-video solution-knower, since he handled the Xerox missive puzzle. Put another way, Thomas was the solution-knower's way of handling that puzzle. "Thomas" + "Torah" are one or are inter-related. Whatever it is, it is alive. The AI voice must be its voice. It's in my head, as in symbiosis. Valis here + camouflaged. It engrammed me on the fish teeth necklace over a period of decades. Taught me - Torah? It can become reality! Reality poses problems. Valis knows the correct answers - all of them. This suggests that Valis posing as reality sets up the problems for us to solve. +, what is more, it stimulates us with subliminal clues - to the answers. So Torah = guidance/teaching. folder 48 - 147 folder 48 - 147 The book is a script that this world must follow (otherwise the answers would soon cease to apply) ["even God studies the Torah + cannot make decisions contrary to it"]. Unless the Torah can change (which is impossible: one -even one small- change would throw it off (v. the article in "Extrapolation" on time travel to the past). So it must have been written in the Torah from before the founding of creation that I would solve the Xerox missive problem. + this fits in perfectly with the dual inner-outer synchronized tapes. {Note} + with my model of output compared to input [signal], + a correction where the output differs: a rectification occurs e.g. the 3-74 override. The Torah is not an analysis of reality but the blueprint (EB: "...+ contained the eternal divine formula for the world's future workings + thus the answers to all problems for all times + all people. God himself is depicted as studying the Torah, for even he cannot make decisions concerning the world that contradict it." That would explain why so much of the writing that I saw was about the future; likewise the AI voice. {Note:} + the engramming on the fish teeth necklace + pretty girl. Now I'm beginning to understand. This explains the "2 tape" determination, + also it would explain the several modes of occlusion; it is to keep us + the world on course. folder 48 - 148 folder 48 - 148 So reality is an epiphenomenon derived from the Torah (book of instructions/answers; I mean, if directly consulted it yields up absolute answers - cf my original conception of Valis as an old information satellite). So if reality is seen as it actually is, it melts back into information as its basis. V. "Joint"! Hence deja vu! It all has happened "before," i.e. there is a script that we follow, as in a play. The whole thing is cosmos: interlinked, + adventitiously regulated. Reality is a playing of the Torah record: information turned into world. The record appeared to me as the Sibylline Books. Christ could be Torah incarnate. He would have to be, or be nothing. "I come to fulfill the Law." Could there be a rule that supercedes the Torah? Not according to my 2-3-74 experience; Torah is still in effect. In this case Paul couldn't be more wrong in his view of the Torah. Spinoza is right about God + necessity, causal law. But causal law is willed to act in accordance with the Torah, so in a sense it is an illusion. Ananke != Torah! The existence of the Torah is experienced by reality as God's will: teleology. (Cf Aristotle's concept of God as inspiring goal-seeking). Paul got the Torah confused with "astral determinism" probably due to the mystery religions. Xtianity offered what the mystery religions offered; it was the climate of the times. This is what the Greco-Roman world wanted, Xtianity is the mystery religions impacting on Judaism. folder 48 - 149 folder 48 - 149 But to account for what Christ saves you from, Paul drew on the Jewish concept of sin (known to the Greeks in terms of Orphism), with disastrous consequences, since he had to posit a deranged ontology in man - sin rather than fate (ananke or astral determinism). The Good man - Bad man bipolarities of Wisdom are abolished in favor of ubiquitous badness. But historically it is pronoia that extricates man, + not just in Judaism/Xtianity - v. Stoicism. Christ becomes the sole channel for charis: a monopoly. Still, Paul offers it to all men, Jew + Gentile alike; it is there for the asking, but Paul insists on absolute faith on the part of men, which leads to