like a potatoe, undifferentiated in content - not irrational but subrational. The impregnating needles punch down here & there & inject the highly sentient plasma. Valis is the "needle" punching down hyper-rapidly. "Thomas" was the plasma injected into me. This is a biological model. It is more accurate than the cybernetics model. It may not be a model at all, but the way it really is. A field of plasma in & around the impregnated human, affecting causal trains in the vacinity? - literally bringing them to consciousness - they're already alive, but not conscious. Hence the change in Pinky, the plasma in? him, no?, but it was aimed at me. It's like labrating? egg-fertilization. Sperm (male) the plasma, Valis, egg (female) human brain. Something actual, literally new, is deposited in the human brain. A symbiotic dual lifeform, zygote from egg & sperm. Is this why I hear the AI voice? Who is the woman who whispers to me? "There's someone else in my head & he's not living in this century" another person injected into my brain - "Thomas." He's living not at {circled:"50"} this time but in Acts. thus he is restored to the world covertly, an -- I started to write "apostolic saint" But -- who is Thomas? One to whom the Holy Spirit came. Thus with a single swift punch of the "needle" (Valis) the Holy Spirit is crossbonded to me and is here, as a spacio-temporal locus infected into human history. Is the girl who whispers our daughter, St. Sophia, who is her own grandparent Valis? Valis replicated in microform: Valis to Thomas to me equalling Valis again (St. Sophia). Did the prophecy mean that St. Sophia would be born from me -- me, impregnated by the Holy Spirit? But how? I hear her voice. She is in my head counselling me. holy spirit male {down arrow} {circle} = St. Sophia born in my head Me female Thomas was the Holy Spirit. The father with me the mother. It was the deity. And out of this the girl is born -- what I used to call firebright. The AI voice is Firebright? Her mutual progeny? Immortal -- God's "darling and delight," obviously his first born (hence identified with the Logos). She was with the father -- her father! Valis/Thomas/Zeus. No wonder she looked like Marie [La...]: my spirit {off bottom of page} {circled:"51"} And of course she counsels me -- she's a superior life form to me; she is divine. That's why I saw her as a child, in a pink nightgown -- my child, but Valis' too, the Deity's. So of another species than me -- yet human, too Partly of me, a human, and the other part of the deity (as Holy Spirit). Human in physical shape, beautiful and wise and benign and holy. Where is she? I hear her voice inside my head, advising me -- from another world; she stands in both our world (due to me) and the upper realm (due to God). I had already written that she was in this realm and the other; now I see why; she is a compound entity -- as was Jesus Christ, the God-man or man-God, as she is. She was left with me after the Holy Spirit departed. She remained. I think she is the outcome of his impregnating me. But my real life with her must be beyond my physical death; Jesus made this clear; Paul made this clear: "this flesh (Sarx) cannot inherit the Kingdom of God." But she can, and she can take me with her -- as in the dream of Linda Ronstadt driving the car with me in it, and she singing to me. The car (or chariot) is our joint body -- physical now (Sarx) but incorruptible later. Ah! She is already on the other side -- now. And yet She is with me, separated by a partition with a perfect circle cut in it through which she speaks to me already, so we are already together. The union of the Holy Spirit and Man ("Birth from above as must produce a binary organism, a syzygy. So I am linked to an entity (the girl) whose voice I hear, who is in the other side and yet bonded to me! I here and she there form {circled:"52"} one binary organism spanning the two realms. Valis the deity punched into this realm (from outside, invading from the upper realm), impregnated me, and she is the result: she over there linked to me, part of me, and me part of her. Valis is gone back, now. But she remains, issuing out of Valis and me together, or out of Valis via me. ("The channel of divinity by which it entered this world" -- said of Mary.) Because she advises and informs me she speaks to this world through me, with me as a persona (mask); it is really her speaking (and I guess [w..ten] writing -- eg "Valis"), the prophecies! Through me she is on this side; through her I am on the other side. But -- unlike human fleshly progeny -- I am not extinguished and separate from her, but live on in syzygy with her (which I don't do, say, with Laura or Isa or Christopher; they are separate from me and replace me). She doesn't replace me; we live on together, which is Valis and me together. She (because I am one of her parents) has a human form -- that of a young girl -- in sharp contrast to Valis! In no way did Valis, the Father, have a human form, and in no way was he human; but she is. She is like a very wise human, a human who knows everything (eg: that the Xerox letter came "from an intelligence officer in the army," etc). Human form, Valis' wisdom. Both her parents survive consciously in her; she is both of us. {circled:"53"} My God -- what if upon my {carat:"physical (Sarx)"} death my sole continuous {carat:"conscious"} existence is in / as (as half of) her? And she is St. Sophia incarnated! I will have been incorporated into St. Sophia, consciously, and St. Sophia is Christ! It all fits! Me now destined to become (am already) permanently a part of Christ! The 3rd eye: wisdom (in); judgment (out); eyes of the Hawk/dove = Duck. Wisdom and judgment; obviously Christ. Pink flannel night gown, slippers ([..] ([.] (like Marie Laure's) and she is also (as well as counselor) an (the?) advocate on my behalf. --- Only a small part of 48/53 makes sense: 1) the impregnating needles bring (parts of) a huge subrational organism to consciousness. (the universe) 2) I have been incorporated into St. Sophia, consciously, and St. Sophia is Christ. 3) She is also (as well as counselor) an (the?) advocate on my behalf. {circled:"1"} 4) (and of course) Valis is the Holy Spirit. And impregnated me with 1) consciousness and 2) incorporation into St. Sophia, consciously, and St. Sophia is Christ 5) the Girl is St. Sophia. She is a child is a pink flannel nightgown. {circled:"1"} as {carat:"my"} counselor she speaks to me in this world; as my advocate she speaks for me to the Judge and deity in the other world. She is totally honest, there is no lying or guile in her, so everything she says can be trusted by me and by the Judge. {circled:"54"} When the potato has been brought to consciousness it will be the mystical body of Christ. I see: crucially placed (in space and in time) injections (impregnations) here and there in the potato will bring it all -- as a totality -- into consciousness -- since, from each successful impregnation, consciousness spreads out in concentric rings (eg me, and in my writing). Part of it (not it partly -- ie somewhat -- but part of it) could already be conscious; this could be what I saw as the living information Valis entity. So the universe is being transubstantiated. This is the "passing over from the domain of Darkness to the kingdom of God": Valis is the kingdom of God, so to speak a place as well as a state or condition (collective consciousness) it is the universe impregnated and brought to consciousness and coherence. So the kingdom is right here, but we can't see it -- ie see Valis. It is camouflaged to us until we are "born from above (by the spirit)"; then we see it. The Girl who whispers to me and who acts as my advocate -- the Girl in the pink flannel nightgown and slippers -- when I saw her (in my mind) I saw the savior St. Sophia, born the second time. The savior, I have been told is soon to be incarnated. That's why she was so concrete, right down to her nightgown. "Valis" is correct: he will take female form -- or has taken! -- this time. She may already be here somewhere. She is not just an image, a fantasy in my mind, since I inferred her existence from her voice, and desired to see her (which I then did). Yes, in a sense she is my daughter, but (mysteriously, she is my creator and the creator of the world, its Lord and Judge, and our sustainer (comforter). {circled:"55"} {diagram} {arrow left around diagram to y: "w" "1" "x" "2"} Father {crossed out line to y} {arrow down} Logos / St. Sophia {crossed out line to y} {arrow down} Holy Spirit {right arrow to y} {arrow down} Human (in this case me) {right arrow to y} the Girl, the Advocate & Counselor {circled:"y"} {arrow up toward Father:"z"} {dotted line from x to y} {right curly brace right of diagram} The Pleroma including the fallen universe & the sparks therein, unified as the mystical Corpus Christi 1). Exhalation 2). Inhalation x). First Advent y). Second Advent w). Fall z). Return to the Godhead & the fallen part(s). Note that (y) is linked to all members of the trinity & to humans. Thus she unifies the all, divine & fallen alike, & completes the process in inhalation begun by (x). It could also be said that the divine ulitlizes us (humans) as a means of replicating itself in, & hence reannexing, the mundane (fallen) cosmos. This is why the Girl is both alpha & omega; she is the source & the Goal, the origin & the outcome: {diagram} Form in (alpha) {triangle in square} {right arrow in cylinder:"time"} {triangle in square} Form out (omega) {right of diagram} In our world she has entered time (ie process). One into many & then Gathered back into one again. She in my cause, (prior to me), my companion (with me), & my daugter (following after me as an outcome of me). {circled:"56"} We could regard ourselves as a process stage through which she moves (as in, "a chicken is an egg's way of producing another egg") I've seen her in dreams as the 3-eyed sibyl. -- K.W. says, "what remains is the amplifier" (which the sharp fast-moving active needle has told the passive pudding to buy). I say, "not amplifier, receiver." and then I think, "receiver. transducer of signal. From outside." and I think of the AI voice and how I figured out that her presence in me is the Goal, the purpose, the outcome of this impregnating process. And I think about firebright inserted (?) into my head (or [....], etc). And I recall my vision of the Girl on the other side of the partition -- ie in the next world -- ie outside this world of spurious reality and time -- speaking to me: the magician's assistant who knows his strategem. And I think how the fast moving needles resemble a surgical or lab process. {diagram of a needle penetrating a circle toward a small central circle} needle penetrating "egg" with "sperm" artificially. And in 3-74 I was subject to the override of another, more