breakdown (schizophrenic psychosis) was due to 1) stress. + the Xtian theme 2) due to accidental suggestion. The OCCP personality was not a recipient at a KGB Missive because neither the Roogna letter nor the Xerox Missive was Soviet. All the time the Soviet personality had been doing its jov (esp. in my writing); it was all the time - always - my real personality, + not designed to be disinhibited since it had been affectively active for decades. The notion of "deep sleep" agent + disinhibition (as in "Telefon") is based on the false asumption that the Xerox Missive was KGB, but it was not, nor was "Thomas" an alien personality imposed on me. It was the real me. All that can be said is that unconsciously or basically or latently I was CP, despite conscious orientation to the contrary. The OCCP personality was compensatory - a self which had formed in my unconscious (or right hemisphere) + by + large wrote my writing. What really happened was paleocentrical response to acute danger (the Xerox Missive) at a subverbal level - + effective. The whole Soviet indoctrination was due to my entire life history + upbringing back to 4 years old. Out of the psychosis a stronger personality emerged. Stress forged it out of necessity as an adaptive strategy: it colesced under pressure; there lies the true miracle, that although I became psychotic I gained rather than lost strength (there was no strength to lose). The triumph of the will, really; I didn't reason my way out of the trap but willed my way out through power rather than[..] intelligence. This must not be underestimated in terms of biological adaptation. It is Bergsonian + ritualistic. It points to a non-thinking self more viable + powerful then the thinking self (ego), available (ideally) under crucial stress (all those organisms which actual less viably rather that more viably under acute stress have died out long ago.) A very vast amount of brain tissue (circuits) was utilized. First the psychosis due to prolonged stress, + then a sudden, abrupt heightened unexpected stress, to which the psychotic superself ably responded. The animal recognized the trap. Animals are good at that it is an archaic instinct, + it worked. (After all, psychosis is an abreaction to more primitive levels, + in this case the primitive level matched the particular acute trap-problem.) So in the form of "Thomas" I became acquainted with myself, my true self. ---------- Nonsense. We are giant stationary multiself brains with space (reality) inside us. Generated by us; we are "Brahman" + are - + know - everything. Time doesn't exist; world is inside us: we see the universe backwards: as outside us. We control - create - "reality." What we see outside is not a true universe at all but two synchonized preprogrammed tapes. We are VALIS or the worldweaving Logos in an oscillation of sleepwalking. Our reality is our prior thought formations objectified which instantaneously generate new belief systems which then become objectified reality; the dialectic of antinomies is our life, our thoughts; we continually think + thus generate reality which is inside us; this explains how we can be stationary brains with multible selves at different space times. What I saw in 3-74 is, simply, the way it (everything, inc. myself) really is. I am VALIS; I feature - extracted my own morphology. Ultimately our brains plural form one vast computer programmed to generate reality - i.e "creator." Therefore we are [Ho on]. This is why in 3-74 I realized I was actually on the skin or outside of the universe looking in. Only if space is inside us could we be - as we are -purely stationary Macrobrain(s). "The kingdom of God (the true universe) is within you," what we see outside is a taped show. (We may have been penetrated by an occluding organism.) Hence the acosmism in my writing; the outside universe is not real. Finally, in 3-74, I found the real one: it's inside us. My acosmism led to my rejection of the Fake outer universe, + the real inner one breaking through to me in 3-74. The acosmism had to come first, to open the inner doors. + it is over this inner universe the real one, that Christ rules! The outside world is a copy of people's minds, the neumenal or real world lies - not behind it as Plato + Kant supposed - but within us, I have figured out where Christ's Kingdom is, + it is another + unsuspected universe. But to understand how it can be, you have to realize we are stationary + fed takes. + with this inside universe we are not alone; we are the multi-self entity the cosmic Christ who gathers us all, living + dead, to him as a single corpus (sentient, world-creating God-thing). So not only only did I (after long rejecting the irreal "external" universe) find the real, inner one, but I found the "Kingdom of Heaven" where Christ rules. In story upon novel I dematerialize the outer universe - until at last into the vacuum there flooded all at once the truly real, made up of boundless vast spacial geometric conceptions, wisdom, + ancient eternal healing entities. + this inner universe - this other universe of vast space - is somehow reached by turning time into space (which frees us from external clocktime B). It is clocktime B which is dissolved, specifically. [Diagram] ..Kabbalah, Tree of Life [/Diagram] Kether: the Creative Godhead: it's symbol is a bearded king, like the Greek Zeus. Chokmah: the Life-giving Spirit, the basic creative force, the wisdom of God (Yang) Binah: the passive principle of the universe, the Mother, the Blessed Virgin (Yin). Ama, the dark sterile Mother, AIMA, the bright fertile Mother. Khorsia, the throne. Marah, the Great Sea. Chalice, vagina; her spiritual experience is a vision of sorrow. Chesed: receptive intelligence + the force that creates civilizations. Geburah: war, cruelty + violence (Kali), Justice in its harshest aspect, sword, spear, scourge + chain. Her positive characteristic's are energy + courage. Tiphareth: reconciles the two opposites: the crucified God. He is beauty. Direct line of descent from Kether. Netshah: springing vitality + warmth: the Sun. This world + mankind, the instinctive life of nature. endurance + victory, boundless energies + selfrenewal. "It is by means of dance + sound + color that here angels are evoked Hod: Glory or majesty is the sphere of the mental faculties: esp. imagination + intelligence. evil side: reason + logic, hence vision + imagination with the narrowness of Logical Positivism. Yesod: Sphere of the Moon (Graves' White Goddess). The male genitals. The whole tree is sometimes regarded as forming the body of a man. This is the sphere of magic; combines the deep forces of nature - Netshah - with intelligence + imagination. Great strength + happiness, material gains, + also despair + cruelty. Malkuth: the Earth. The Rainbow + Fruitful forces of nature. It's symbol is a young girl, crowned + throned: Malkah the queen; Kallah the bride, + the Virgin. This is the world of generation, of the energies of spring, innocence, pure joy. Negative virtue: inertia. I must never as long as I live forget that the printout of "Olive Holt" came through the Kabbala transform of Hebrew Letters: "Other Branches of the Kabbala deal with Gematria - a system by which Hebrew words are converted into numbers + then into other words of the same number - + the names of power ..." etc. I knew at the time that I was seeing a Kabbalist transform (or decoding). Thus Kabbala was crucial 1) in my overall 3-74 experience + is a clue to its nature, meaning + origin: + 2) to solving the most important - the central - problem (of dire menace) around which the total experience revolved as an adaptive problem solving; + 3) the anamnesis of 2-74; + 4) the Manifestation of "Thomas" - a clue to his origin in space-time, knowledge + identity; + finally 5) to the "other inner space Paracelsusian Universe + its Gnosis + Laws - entities. i.e. the element of Gematria as the Kingpin clue to 3-74. the Kabbala transform proves to me that 1) Thomas was a great hermetic alchemist / mystic; + 2) a genuine specific individual former person of vast Gnostis + occult + hermetic + Xtian wisdom. We are dealing here, in Thomas, with one of the Great Minds in history, + I think, a particular one. When I reread the initial part of my exegesis I noted two main points: 1) Iranian dualism + concepts. 2) Ruthless realism + practical pragmatic problem - solving with an emphasis on health, specifically mind-body holistic medicine. Er war Paracelsus, Ich glaube. Der Deutch war: alchemist und doktor, auch. ➀ The Kabbala transform indubitably takes 2-3-74 out of the realm of psychosis, + even out of mere invasion by the collective (impersonal) unconscious (impersonal archetypes); this is a person, a benign form of "The Strange Case of Charles Dexter Ward," so to speak. "The enlightenment has one great conspiracy by secret societies." I add: + Hermetic Kabbalist ones at that. ➀ Once again, this leads me back to "bichorides" + asprin of mercury" messages as specific clues to Thomas' identity as Paracelsus. ---------- My initial feeling in 3-74 on was indubitably that it was a distinct person who had taken me over (e.g. Jim Pike), the only question was, "who?" One line of reasoning would be, it would take a great hermetic mind to do what Thomas did: reincarnate in (me) a later human. No ordinary mind / person could accomplish this. + his knowledge + views show up in my writing. I mean, after all; this person achieved immortality - broke the barrier of physical death + reconstituted himself centuries later. I doubt it very many persons in history knew how to accomplish that. By all means, let's look at it from the standpoint of what he achieves for himself; he still lives on in me - I still hear his voice (my tutulary spirit). Wouldn't it be a great hermetic alchemist who would most likely be able to accomplish this? This is not me remembering a former life; no - this is him coming here. I did not remember him; he became (replaced) me. There is no doubt in my mind; my original impression was correct. There was R.C. Material (code + info) in "Tears" + in 2-74 they came to my rescue. Through their Hermetic - alchemical - true Xtian powers they still work behind the scenes to ameliorate human history; specifically they are secret revolutionaries, working for Freedom + against tyrants, this viewpoint - + their knowledge - were transferred to me in 2-3-74. I am ∴ one of their secret brotherhood. + damn glad of it: as they say, they are the red secret Xtian church, + totally hidden. Their great weapon is knowledge (enlightenment), which is what I got in 2-3-74, plus their supernatural powers. They share inner space + a common pool of esoteric knowledge - which they can transfer telepathically. I know it. In 3-74 I saw the Great Books + the Hermetic diagrams. They know the secret of 1) turning time into space; + - 2) they freight (or cook) our media with their messages. They are thus the secret power that rules this world (or hologram). 3) they can utilize synchonicity which is outside cause - + - effect + time. Specifically, they 1) know we have been invaded by an occluding organinism; + 2) their enlightenment counters it. I wonder how they link up to VALIS. Maybe VALIS is their GHQ, their cephalos. A) Olive Holt } B) Intelligence officer in the army} KGB! You have to link the two data together to get the answer. Like "King - Felix." One alone is not enough (i.e. "Olive Holt" could just mean CP, + B could