the solution it was preceeded by mere punishment: penury. That part ended. Thomas, my original self, certainly is a sharp operator. I (PKD) balance his acquisitive proclivin lies; together we are a balance syzygy. 2 my - Thomas - original crime was an indication of a deranged psyche. It had to be reprogram med, + it had to find its own way to rectitude, by free will. It could not be ordered to convert the material into the spiritual; it had to will this, voluntarily, by an act of sincere choice without knowing that in so doing, it would save itself + restore itself. This certainty explains the syntonic superio position of the BIP: this is a black Iron Prison o (world) for me! Christ works here to effect the pardoning + release - restoration + return, inc anamnesis - of prisoners; he has the power to commite sentences - or to judge when restoration is achieved. He ruled that my giving to Covenant House was sufficient, + my remaining term of servin tude - or Karma - was obliterated, + in advance of my action! (4 years in advance.) Had he not intervened, I would have died in 1974 + been unable to rectify for my crime, + so would have had to be born here again; but now that is unecessary; I am free to return. Rome. Hence his intervention did not cut the time short by merely 4 years but by - well, perhaps I wouldn't have rectified in the next in carnation either; it could have dragged on + on So I was right: Christ intervened in 2-3to extend my life, to overrule my fated death at that time, but in addition there was a very specific reason: if I lived on into 1974 instead of dying in 1974 I would rectify my prim ordial transgression + be freed permanently from Karma, the wheel of rebirth + death, + can go home. What I had to do I had to do for totally disinterested reasons; so I could not know of my primordial crime + slow returned 125 So thwarting my fated death (ananks) in 1974 + extending my life was not the goal of Christ's intervention in 2-3-74, but a means to a of much more important - permanent - end: that makes karmic restitution + salvation itself. This my it clear that my salvation was desired, not punishment. In a sense there was no punishment per se my actions in 1978 vis-a-vis Covenant House also caused me to enter dialog with the AI voice who is someone back home, so even now - even back in 1974 - I am/was restored to contact with my own race. This has made my life a happy one, + I've seen what she looks like The strategy to save my life in '74 was to temporarily restore my original personality (who I call Thomas), who could then deal with the problems at hand. It worked then I returned, + resumed my largess, which was also necessary my punishment - compelled to give away all the money I ever had - led to/was my mechanism of salvation (re Covenant House.) (Which was not an accumulating quantity but a precise reversal of the original baleful transmutation of the spiritual into dross metal.) (The motive had to be precise, + The result precise, to balance the original crime of degrading) (so helping the poor or needy would ar be a precise analog of my original crime, however well intentioned. The reversal of degradation was essential.) (in the rectification, "Gold" + "sacred symbol" are rendered into the set of human dross metal vs human uplifted to dignity, a series of analogs.) It is kether who is the dying soul in cold-pal; he disdained his crown + so he descends through the sefiroth below him, dying (v. "Ubik") until he reaches the trash layer + the Shekhina (the AI voice) + can see his crown (the Gold fish in 2-74 as he should see it, + be led back to his throne." 126 the answers lie in the trash layer - with Ubik/ the Shekhing where rether, the wanderer, finds him self again. As her, which I (sic) have done. The t creat search. It has been successful. I who was punished for seeing the religious object (crown) as merely gold, have returned + as I should be, not as was. He presents himself with a reality derived I from his own memories - + when he discovers this, recognizes + identifies himself (e.g. as me). It is a big shock, for he knows he has died, is a dying descending soul living in a Bardo Thodol world of his former life. This is technology; v. tem in "Ubik." prior memory fed back as world": Acts! So it is a feedback loop in which the memory hologram + reality are compared; in 3-74 they differed, so an adjustment in the megasignal (world) was corrected to comply, from Lem's paradigmatic analysis of "Ubik" the significance of this can be inferred. This is a dying brain no longer in touch with a truly not-it reality. My 3-74 experience consisted precisely of cor‐ rectly experiencing world (life) as post mortem; this is the Kingdom of God: reality as it truly is, hence yoked to a true next world (domain). The "two signals" know that I died - spiritually, when I rejected the gnown + left my throne to journey. In the trash I hall find her, the Shekhina. technological fuckup - I compared "reality" to memory holograms + knew the truth, understood our Ubik" situation, in an instant. But I am waking i p; I am leaving here, restored to life (wakefulness). 2-3-74 verifies not only Ubik but the "Ubik" situation This is the one thing I can be sure of, as Lem as, "could the brain tell? Yes - in this way, e.g. + then (thereupon) a technological fuck up occurred the causal train meeting, t proof of he memory. i Dick is a declared enemy of Capitalism; he hates scoffs at it. But he is possessed by it (as if + would he attributes to it a metaphysical dimension: This because again + again of a opposite [ulterior] capitalism, a capitalism over the earthly Eastableshmems (transactions) beyond; the speech is "one sees, capitalism as significantly more durable than the universe. Lem 1977 So 2 events 1) reality consisted of prior memory "worldified: 127) t 2) causal train melting; Valis visible - i.e. the booster-computer, whatever it is. Reality generator. 2 proves that I signifies what it seems to 2 t here is absolute verification of the "Ubik" situation Lem's paradigm. All the Kether stuff is just so much poetic imagery. Maybe what the AI voice says is to obfusticate to cover the technological fuck up (s). The AI voice is (2) which wishes to ore-conceal itself (doesn't it employ camouflage + mimesis?). 622 as agent payne said, "Do you believe every. thing you're told?" There is evidence for a tech nological fuchup ala "Ubik," but I only have the AI voice's word for what it tells me; there may be an attempt to cover the fuck up -to distract me with red herrings. in "Ubik" I guessed the truth, one out of many. But 2-3-74 verified "Ubik" as the correct model but in 3-74 I did see reality is a Black Iron Prison + me (hence) a prisoner last night the AI voice told me my crime + which got me put here. "But here." In a simulated test reality where I get to repair the damage I did? by reliving it a second time? This is not a prison planet but a prison mode of existence, the AI voice is from outside not another (home) planet. the technological fuckup shows: 1) he cannot be separated from the reality confronting him since it con sists of his own mental contents (memory holograms) 2) run through a vast computer-like construct as actually being information, This is "Ubik" + Ubik. How did he get Into this situation? 3) as in "Ubik" he died. in did he die. 4) spiritually: for rejecting has crown eeing it only as metal, or so I am old. He is now redeemed (I am told, 129 He fell from the real - i.e. living world, the world in which he was actually alive + reality was real. The pre-fall (bomb blast) world. He is or has been being retrained to see his crown as spiritual symbos not as metal. He succeeded in + 2-74 + began to be born again of back into life So he did not die in 2-3-74 but returned to life - as with/in/by Christ. when it saw the Golden Fish sign 1) it remembered (that it came here from the stars). + 2) that this is a prison. past night it remembered its crime "from the stars" = actual world. This one is an information- based simulation here the fallen person repeats + repeats his life until when faced with the ruceal situation he makes the right choice - + wakes up. (is "saved" or restored.) I've got it! It (he) lives its life, makes in error (or several), dies, enters Bardo -as I did! - then gets to Thodol state relive the life (as simulation based on info from his memory holograms) + reviens decisions + confront the cruced als tuation again - for me the Xerox miss ve, + this time choose correctly + go m to moment of salvation by sof t had lived the Xerox Missive situati before (as I suspected) + chose wrong died, + so lost my chance at the 1978 salvation for my primordial crime (this is why I knew the exact day the Xerox missive would arrive!). Hence My post mortem experiences in 3-74; originally, I died. + went to next world. This here now is a simulation or etc. The Bardo Thodol trip is the key clue. Hence my dissociated behavior -+ Thomas taking over) - in 3-74; this was second time around. The first time around I didn't have The memories (v. "Faith of" + "MITHC" to draw from, + so erred. This second time around isn't a punishment but an opportunity to end the punishment. So I didn't write. I must have gone into some ther field - college - based, where I knew reek + had a different personality (Thomas). es the presence of Thomas proves I did ve my life at least once before - + fell iction to the Xerox missive So I have known all this lifetime round about the giant reality generator hich I first called Ubik what if my situation is unusual or en unique. (The others havent died come back). So I know about Ubik + reality as info which they do not + t 1311 the unisual epistemological - theological info I live in my writing because I have info based on being in the post morten world - + have returned, I have a feeling this is true of many many people, though. Everyone starts out as I did + wind up as I did: coming back. You can make many runs What seems to emerge as the irreducable grunnesatz is that 1) I had lived the 3-74 Xerox missive crisis once before; + 2) I realized it at the time. Many of the phenomena which then took place can be traced to (1) + (2). In addition, I seem surely to have been armed with foreknowledge at the time which could only be developed much later - this precisely because I had lived through it once before + so had what might be called hindsight or knowledge after the facts, + this specifically saved me my successful problem-solving cannot be under‐ stood in any other way. This rerun quality of 3-74 is what initially gives it the air of the simulated - but there