of a higher -the highest- order. I guess to me the fact is that none of these other names allude to God in the sense that YHWH does. It is as if the others are attributes or cultural (i.e. man-made) hypostases, + YHWH is YHWH; viz: there is no God but God, i.e. the God who "is what he is," the tetragrammaton. The others are names humans give to God; YHWH is the name by which God referred to himself when he conversed with Moses; it tells who he is. It is (v. the E.B.) his personal name and means "He brings into existence what is." I used to doubt the creator aspect of the deity, + leaned toward Aristotle's teleological cause prime mover, but not after seeing the Altman film "3 women." That produced a terrifying Moksa (Satori) in me. Actually, what I understood (more precisely) was the idea that creation + all things, creatures + events in it are ideas in God's mind + so on their own have no existence; what esse they have they are loaned by God, who alone exists. This petrified me when I understood "creator" in that sense. This prepared the way for me at last to comprehend Yahweh: "He brings into existence what exists" (Yahweh asher Yahweh). This understanding was one of the greatest moments in my life. folder 48 - 043 folder 48 - 043 I understood that I + the world had no being independent of God + he could will (or think; i.e. cause) me +/or world to be whatever + whenever he wished. In a sense this was the beginning of true wisdom on my part. I feared God because I knew that I was abjectly nothing -+ hence absolutely helpless- in relation to him - + this was not an intellectual idea (concept) on my part, but moksa (realization); + it made sense out of the 2-world superimposition in 3-74 (+ the 2 me's). My fear was the fear of -that is, it consisted of- total + pure understanding (of God, world, self, time, space, esse). Wow. I barely survived it, but have since been reassured. (E.g. YHWH could cause it to be that I had never been Phil Dick living in Calif in 1974/9 in the first place.) So for the first time in my life the meaning of the personal name Yahweh was communicated to me - + explained just about everything epistemologically speaking that had puzzled me all my life ("why is there something rather than nothing?"). -v. p 849Oh good gracious - this would explain what I call Valis. The palpability of the synchronized, intentional + sentient. That was indeed theophany (as proved by the unitary + purposeful nature of it); viz: it revealed that the universe of multiplicity (i.e. creation) pointed to a reality behind it which was not a multiplicity + not blind, etc. There exists one more whole "thing" besides reality - the latter subsumed by it. folder 48 - 044 folder 48 - 044 This is not precisely immanence; this is creation as dependent on something else (which is unitary, volitional + sentient, + also it was aware of me + kindly disposed toward me - it helped me + informed me). So the universe in a sense does not exist per se. My decades of acosmism now has led to a discovery (revelation) that redefines my intimations of irreality (acosmism): all creation is an epiphenomenon. YHWH is the explanation for, "why is reality not really real?" Because it is an intricate thought in a mind which is real (v. Plotinus). There really can't be pure, final acosmism is the sense of saying, "there is nothing rather than something"; what it says is, "what we see that we call 'something' is epiphenomenal vis-a-vis something else." In other words, his first function (in priority) is to cause what exists to exist - "the ultimate bulwark against non-being." The N.T. is a further revelation of his nature as living nature, but - imagine what would result if the function explained by his name were abandoned. This is so scary. If you can imagine it, as I did after the Altman film -comparing it with 3-74 + the acosmism of my writing- the vista that opened; the abyss! folder 48 - 045 folder 48 - 045 If I were to stipulate a "lost oral tradition" revealed to me I would have to point to the dialectic (with the divine horn foresighted -a priori knowledge- vs the evil horn which just has hindsight -a posteriori -knowledge), + this verifies Zoroastrianism via Qumran, the Sons of Light vs the Sons of Darkness: a kind of dualism; but the good God causes everything that is to be. Hence the O.T. God is not -as the Gnostics believed- the evil God; this is -i.e. my revelation is- Iranian + not the Syrian/Marcion dualism. In fact it isn't Gnostic at all; it is Essene, Neoplatonist, + Zoroastrian. Let me say: St Sophia is an O.T. designation. I must herewith abandon my trinitarianism; Christ is the wisdom of God (YHWH) but not God (who causes to be what is). Prov 8 (?) makes the distinction clear as does "Wisdom." Much of the N.T. is to be abandoned; but not John. I'm confused. Some of JN is correct; some isn't. God is God; he is not Christ or the Paraclete. Only he is YHWH. Christ is the tongue of the God - like Ptath. (Cf Spinoza.) I would have to say that the Essenes were the most correct, which is what Jim Pike learned - + he ceased to be a trinitarian. Christ is the high priest officiating, + God's wisdom, but not God; he is Michael, God's champion against Satan. But - folder 48 - 046 The JW's seem to be correct! Am I to assume that Xtianity as it has developed has led us away from true monotheism - just as the JWs say? That Christ is - the trinity is a false (even satanic?) doctrine? To worship Christ is blasphemy? The Gnostics had it totally backward? Jesus is a revelator of the nature of God, + high priest + holy wisdom. But there is God (YHWH) vs Satan (v. Zoroaster + Qumran!!). What if the fall of the temple + Massada was armageddon. + Satan {Note} won? + ruled ever since 70 AD ("Tears"), but now YHWH is returning? {Note:} I.e. the "Sons of Darkness"." So the 1st advent was a failure: "She was not acceptable before." But we're told that Christ (i.e. the Sons of Light) triumphed. But they didn't; the Essenes perished at Massada. + this is what "Tears" reveals; + this was my 2-74 vision of the BIP world + Xtians -the true Xtians- illegal. Satan won in 70 AD. + real creation stopped. But now YHWH counterattacks + re-enters this, the domain of darkness. For new battle. So that's what "Tears" is about, + that's the world revealed to me - i.e. which I remembered + saw when I was shown the Golden Fish sign: the BIP folder 48 - 047 folder 48 - 047 + illegal true Xtians. Satan's world. Christianity is a fraud (inasmuch as the Sons of Darkness -the empire- won in 70 AD). This explains how I could in 2-3-74 see a completely different world, but still our (modern) world, but related to Acts. What was revealed to me most of all was the true world we're living in - i.e. "Tears." The BIP. We are under a spell - occluded. This explains the occlusion: the loss of the battle of Har-Meggido + Satan's secret victory. This also explains why 2000 years have passed without the return of Christ (which otherwise is hard to explain, since it was anticipated imminently). In view of all this, Mani was basically right! But YHWH does have power to influence this world - e.g. vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. + I saw Valis, the invader. So I should take heart. Using a posteriori "backward looking" knowledge: YHWH lost. Using a priori absolute foresight, i.e. what the divine horn uses: God [will have] won. But "Tears" is the true ur-situation. Reality. Y (ostensible): God won. Null-Y: God lost. Null null Y: God will have eventually won but not yet. folder 48 - 048 folder 48 - 048 YHWH (Valis) is transubstantiating the ostensible (Y) into the real ({null null} Y); whereas now it is actually {null} Y: "Tears." Satan pretends YHWH won; YHWH will cause to exist what Satan pretends (i.e., occludes us into believing) exists. It is a sort of trick played on Satan, but in deadly earnest: to make Satan's "falsework" (pretense) real. A wise strategy. God turns the lie ("God won") into the truth, + Satan is surprised; he didn't foresee this. Thus those most duped are most right, paradoxically; YHWH takes advantage of the irony and ambiguity to cause to be what seems to be; this is his fundamental power/nature. Thus salvation -not just of the individual but of creation- depends on being a guileless fool. "Id non est; atque credo." I don't know if the supra is right. YHWH revealed the truth -the actual "Tears" world- to me, so obviously it is the divine strategy to reveal this, the real situation. I think that it's just so awful that I'm flinching. So forget the above. The fact is, this is a prison. Satan won in 70 AD + the Essenes are dead; but YHWH is instilling them in some of us in the present; this, too, is true, + revealed, + good. folder 48 - 049 folder 48 - 049 The battle is going on, but Satan is at the center - of government, of church. Still, YHWH has the crucial advantage of a priori foresight. It was revealed to me that ultimately he wins every hand. This was my primary vision: the dialectic + how it works. The O.T. is harsh, but it accords with the facts: we are in literal slavery, + must be taken out of it, as the Jews were delivered from Egypt. ___ Note. Here, for the first time, I begin to grasp what I saw that I call Valis. This is the summa of my exegesis, as I begin to comprehend God as creator ("He causes what exists to exist"). Hence Valis follows because the universe is seen as a mock plurality that is epiphenomenal. Only if God as Yahweh-asher-Yahweh is comprehended does Valis make sense, + I was always cut off from this before, since I could not grasp the "He brings into existence whatever exists" aspect as the most fundamental; i.e. this is what YHWH means. Thus I really could never make sense out of Valis, of what I saw. (I researched this + it isn't Plotinus; it's Philo. The ideas exist in the mind of God throughout eternity + then God makes them into real objects: creation. This mind Philo calls "Logos," not "Nous." Philo considered the ideas not a mere aggregate but {Note} an intelligible world, a concept not known before him. {Note:} integrated into folder 48 - 050 folder 48 - 050 1) The double worlds superimposition + two selves in me: like Altman's "3 Women." 2) + then (later) I see Valis. What is the relationship between (1) + (2)? It would seem as if (2) is actually what is there, + not what we see that is included in (1). I.e. (1) raises a question that is answered by (2). Conversely, the purpose of (2) is shown us by (1). Upon seeing (1) + not (2), we would be left in the frightening dream "world" of "3 Women" with the possibility that nothing could replace something, or, worse, that it is this way now - a dream, with no substance behind it. This was the fear that "3 Women" left me with. But I must remember that later on I saw Valis which is not a