can flee no farther and is forced to perceive this desolate vision it suffers what Heidegger calls Angst; this is when the bleak and desolate vision of self-alienation and loss of self, of das Nichts, breaks in on it, despite its efforts to flee. It is finally trapped, and must now face the truth about its splintered condition and its alienation -- in regard to its own nature and to the world. Its own lack of intactness is the primary source of this anxiety, because how, without being intact, can it defend itself against the alien world? It runs the imminent risk of annihilation by world, of totally vanishing, ceasing to be. And this is an accurate appraisal. Yet without this realization, without facing this, it has no chance of re-collecting itself; to re-collect itself it must face its own internal and external conditions. So the moment when it can no longer flee and evade the truth is, in fact, the moment when and where truth sets in; it is the Self's first recontact, reinvolvement, with reality. At the initial moment when the Self faces its peril it does not even know where its missing elements or sections are; it has totally lost touch with them, and even if it encounters them it encounters them as Other, Thing and as alien (Fremd). It must find something familiar in World or perish; and its sole salvation is to encounter this familiar thing and, by means of it, re-encounter and recognize its own missing elements: itself. That is precisely and exactly what the Christian fish sign was: something familiar in an alien world -- not only that, something familiar that recalled to me my own missing self. It was the key to what had been missing in me since birth; hence it led to anamnesis, which in the final analysis was re-collection of myself. The splintered Self fears --and with reason-- that the process of explosion and fragmentation will go even further, will resume, and will not end until nothing at all remains. The Self (Soul) fears that it will fall even further; and its fear can only be understood if one realizes that it knows how far and how terribly it has fallen already. {folder 01 - 081} 10-24-80 1 I have the ingredients for an original system, but based mainly on Pythagoreanism and Platonism and Neo-Platonism; what is original is that I introduce the Zoroastrian dialectic: I treat only the spatiotemporal realm as irreal, but, as in Gnosticism, I treat it as a deliberate trap by a Deluder; therefore I envision a Savior who reveals the truth to us and who breaks the power of this world (heimarmene) over us (these are two things; he must obliterate time and its power over us, its ostensible reality, to free us from heimarmene). Therefore I envision an antithetical combat --dialectic--between the Deluder, who has only a posteriori knowledge, and the Savior, who has a priori knowledge, concerning us and the hold this world has on us. This is clear Gnosticism; but I envision the real world as Plato's Form world, and I hold, with Plotinus, that it is near at hand, not a transcendent deity far removed from here; it is here and that deity is immediately here. I envision a hierarchy of realms, as with Plotinus. We fell; we were in a sense ensnared; we took this spatiotemporal realm to be real; we made an intellectual, not moral, error, and it was us, not our ancestors; each of us is a soul splintered through thousands of miles and thousands of years. Likewise the real, morphological realm is exploded through our realm; the way of return is through anamnesis: by this we re-collect (ourselves, each one his own Self; here Heidegger and his Dasein categories and concepts apply; they are based on Gnosticism). So my system is rooted in Platonism, but has Gnostic overtones. I believe in immanent deity along the lines of the Milesians: the controlling deity who regulates and motivates the world order; but with Parmenides I reject the testimony of my senses as to the reality of the empirical world; but I am willing, with Plato, to consign the term "semireal" to the spatiotemporal; it has some reality, but it is a derived reality, derived from the morphological realm which is changeless (although reticulated and arborizing) hence eternal. What strikes me as most irreal --totally irreal-- is time. Hence change is not real; instead of substantial (essential) change there is only "looking different" by the accidents. Basically I affirm the views that I think were held by the Orphics, Pythagoras, Plato, Buddha; but I conceive of a Salvator salvandus who acts to extricate us and finally to abolish this irreal realm and its powers of delusion, in a final enantiodromia. You know ...Valis could still be the immanent mind, the controlling deity, of the Milesians. And I may drop Gnosticism (there: I said it.) {folder 01 - 082} 10-24-80 What about Neo-Platonism, Platonism, Parmenides, and then the dialectic either Heraclitus or Empedocles (after all, Heraclitus used the term enantiodromia)? And the Mind or Nous or God of the Milesians, of Anaxagoras or Xenophanes. Everything in terms of Greek thought. It was Anaxagoras who substituted Nous for Psuche: "In Heraclitus it is difficult to tell how far the designs in God's mind are distinguished from the execution in the world, or indeed how far God's mind is distinguished from the world. The arguments of Parmenides seemed to show that all reality must indeed be a mind, or an object of thought in a mind. Anaxagoras, therefore, in making God a mind and the world, in effect, his thought... " etc. Hussey p 139. I am not acosmic: because I believe in the absolute reality of the unchanging Valis meta-soma-kosmos or eide (Form) world; why, this is not acosmism at all; it is Plato and Parmenides; I caught a glimpse of Parmenides' reality, and Plato's, in contrast to the irreal or semireal spatiotemporal realm. Gnosticism is acosmic but I am not. My original contribution is that I saw the flux realm feeding into the meta macro soma kosmos as reticulation and arborizing; so there is new thought in my system, but it is a revision of Athenian thought, not Gnosticism. But --in the dialectic there were the two sides that Zoroaster saw; yet they served the Absolute the way Yin and Yang do; so did I see a glimpse of something like Taoism? I seem to have an original system; but yes, I must retain something of Gnosticism; I feel it. We were trapped, besides just falling; trapped by a Deluder. However, I am making progress; my system is shaping up. If I use the elements I've elucidated so far I already have an original system... but it is basically Pre-Socratic, Platonism and Neo-Platonism. From Xenophanes to Plotinus with some Gnosticism and some Taoism. It is synchretistic, but this feeding by the flux world into the Absolute is (although somewhat Taoist!) truly original; and it was revealed to me by Nous or God, Valis, the Absolute, Christ, etc. What I am forced to conclude is that there is a Deluder, in antithetical combat with Christ-(Gnosticism), but through enantiodromia, Christ turns the evil and irreal "is" into parts that can be and are used to complete the metasoma-kosmos, which is not static but grows and yet does not change; it is only perfected (reticulated and arborized; is this, then, why I'm so sure time is irreal? Because of the metasoma-kosmos? Yes; that is {folder 01 - 083} 10-24-80 3 the realm (#3) where time and change are not. The perception that the spatiotemporal realm is not real is a perception that time and change are not real -- which is a perception that the metasoma-kosmos is real and does exist in contrast to realm #4. "He causes things to look different... " then points to the metasoma-kosmos, which is eternal morphological abstract nonspatial and nontemporal reality; and yet it completes itself. Rats. I'm rediscovering things that I already knew; that are, in fact, the basis of my system. I am too tired; I must quit for a time and rest. You cannot really fall into or fall victim to an irreal world. So part of the message by the Spirit of Truth is --I'll start over. The basis of restoration -- since we have "fallen" into an irreal world is: anamnesis. Simply to re-collect, to wake up; and then (as I did) we see the real world, the Form world (macrometasomakosmos). That is, quite simply, the real world (as I have it in my notes supra; vide). This spatiotemporal world is not real and it is not the real world; we have forgotten the real world, and each person's soul or Self is splintered over thousands of miles of space and thousands of years of time -- and time doesn't exist. We fell and yet in a sense we did not fall and need only remember (re-collect). This is strange; it may have to do with Plotinus' doctrine of the hidden life of the soul going on in us at an unconscious level, in which the soul has not fallen; the solution to how this can be is to say, In a sense we did not fall, because this spatiotemporal realm is irreal; we forgot. We literally --repeat: literally-- are asleep; hence I said in 3-74, "I am no longer blind." I had been wakened by a familiar object: the Christian fish sign. But has a "magician," like Palmer Eldritch, put us to sleep? I think so; I saw the dialectic and I heard the AI voice say, "He causes things to look different..." Back to the reality of Acts, I guess. "Stay awake," Jesus said. We did not; we fell victim to the world and to Satan behind it. The existence of a master magician would explain how we could fall victim --get entrapped in and by-- an irreal world. He causes us to take it as real by occluding us ... could the occlusion then come first? And then we fall victim? And the main element of the occlusion is: forgetfulness. Amnesia. And then blindness, perceptual occlusion whereupon the spatiotemporal world seems real. But I saw Valis, and in seeing Valis I saw what is really there, that the magician occludes us from/to. {folder 01 - 084} 10-24-80 4 So I am saying that Indian thought is wrong when it assigns to cause to maya; I say, with Zoroaster, "There is a magician." This is Zoroastrianism --and Mani and Gnosticism-- blended with Indian thought about maya and karma. With Christ viewed as the one who wakes us, who causes us to remember. Then it is not accident that it was the Christian fish sign that caused me to remember, to cease to forget. That is what it is supposed to do ... counteract the Lie (the delusion). So I combine Indian doctrines of maya with the Judo-Christian etc. idea of the Fall. I say, we fell into Satan's world which is irreal, a "spurious interpolation." Yet God is using Satan, through enantiodromia. Countering him. Reversing him. Here, within this very domain; the good that occurs in this domain (through enantiodromia) is placed into the macrometasomakosmos. Evil is concerted into good by enantiodromia and then inserted into the macrometasomakosmos. The theories about the Fall must be revised; an intellectual error, not moral error, must be presumed. One can almost --almost-- view Satan's activity as a high technology in which the simulation of a world order is achieved. This element of maya or dokos has interested thinkers in India and Greece, but with Christianity and Gnosticism comes a really penetrating analysis between the two elements of world and Satan, with the theme of epistemology running through Gnosticism -- which is why I can't abandon it. We fell asleep because we were induced into falling asleep; the spurious world had to be there