writing was verified: Jamesm: "... This nightmarish uncertainly; this reality fluctuation... in which the psychic world as it were goes outside, + reappears in the form of simulacry or of some photographically cunning reproduction of But in 2-3-74 reality was too the external. obliging. "Joint" points to intimations of failure be consistent on reality's part - just tiny bits to here + there. I expected the events of 2-3-74 but when they began to occur my unconscious remembered the writing + saw a fallacy; reality is not supposed to do that it read my expectations but they had been written down (an unusual situation). Even so, it took over 5 years to find the written matrix, at least consciously. of course - the expectations which preprogram reality must be outside consciousness (or everyone would catch on). But my unconscious ideas pass on to paper (right hemisphere). In 2-74 + growingly so my right hemisphere saw its own conceptual "script" materialize externally, +, understanding to what still lay ahead + (2) what that which already had happene - e.g. the Xerox missive - meant, seized motor control; + its psyche predominated, to utilize the opportunity So between 2-74 + the 20th of March my right hemisphere knew what was coming, knew what lay under the disguise (forgery), knew that it was a test-trap-forgery + highly dangerous - bere armed with this foreknowledge if it took contred t a uniques it into My night brain could convert opi to dissociated -heare yse t 18 but over + above the practical considerations it saw vast theoretical intimations verified; it was no longer a matter of testing reality; feed back (proof) had come. My total mind could now assume certain features previously speculated about in particular what I had called Ubik whether Valis is a simulation of a mimicking entity or the entity itself I can never know to actually the issue is regarded as moot by my type of epistemology. But I could assume mind there somewhere even if - as it may well be - a machine mind (a was computer or computer-like). âž€ It's my "impostor of a tamous impostor" joke. the problem was, how much was my mind + how much was a macro mind not me? It seems to be a field But I think I did pose a reciprocal problem to the problem-posing entity. As I stated supra, animate can mimic inanimate but not vice versa. my mind did leap to the conclusion that "Tears" was true, + unconsciously it knew of the Acts material. (Viz: "the writing is true. "Tears": 1) true. What I at firmed was true e.g. Ubik - + what I doubted I was right to doubt. But "Tears" is dystopic. Thus I was horrified, exactly like Mr Tagom: Yes, we do not rule there Xtians are illegal conspirators, there. But "there" is here, just as my Tagomi's world is, like a Palmer Eldrokh world, irreal. In the park, mr Tagomi did not switch from one alternate reality to another; rather, he saw reality as it was. Hence "grosshopper." These are zones of approximation, not alternatives I know that you go there without going anywhere to explain why in 4 novels + "Faith of" I wrote about a crisis situation which came at me later in 2-3-74 I provisionally adopt the theory of mimickry, + hold it to be normal (my recognizing it was ab normal, + my opportunity to exploit it based on this pattern recognition; thus I hold that this therwise inexplicabl correspondence down t t 16 precise detail between fictional writing + later events verifies a fundamental premise of that writing, that what we call "reality" is in fact a cunning simulation by a volitional mind or mind-like entity which is well aware of our unconscious scripts + willing + able to oblige in the fulfillment of these scripts. As to how The scripts themselves come to arise in our uncon scious minds I presently have no theory, but I offer two possibilities which interlink: Karma + metapsychosis. (i.e. the sum total of personality + Acts determined by + later determining personality along the axis of a transmigratory ultra life span). in addition I sense a cosmic war of the kind expounded by Zoroaster with final confrontations between mirror counterparts on the two contending sides. I suggest a vast mind + vast strategy on our side, but on the other side I see only brutal power + darkness. the advantages of the explanation of mimickry are: (1) it reinforces rather than cancels the over‐ view my work prior to 2-3-74; + (2) it agrees with my comprehension of, understanding of, perception of what I call Valis, around which I have formed i years of exegesis based on the experience itself. In all fo the systems stand on the one principle of mimickry: 1) 20 years of epistemology; 2) perception of Valis; 3) explanation + interpretation of VALIS; 4) explanation of the entire 2-3-74 experience! 5) the correspondence between the writing prior to 2-3-74 2-3-74 itself, herewith accounted for, + adduced as prime evidence of mimickry footnote: our unconscious scripts could explain why we a experience this version of world tather han the "Tears" dystopia which my i experience sug ests is the actual one, did I then break with my script. 17 what if that is precisely the "one vast Gestalt thought" - awareness of reality as script cor respondent? My brain noted that reality now agreed totally with a script in me dating back perhaps decades + at least back 12 years (to "MITHC")? No aspect of 2-3-74 so shocked My brain as this discovery? It was not the Xerox missive per se which shocked it but noting this precise event in the inner script + dating the inner script. It could not explain + it could not ignore; it could, however, pragmatically that the inner narrative ploit. But - 1) it knew a script; + 2) it saw reality grow into con‐ was formity with the script. Did this put it outside the script (the "burning up of Karma")? I hav no idea. But imagine the shock of the brain per‐ ceiving this congruity of what it now knows to be an inner script + outer (later) reality! It did not know it had a script! It did not know that the script + reality would finally meet + agree! It had thought it invented the contents of the script. But now it realizes the script was incised onto/into it + it now lives the events of the script! It sees determinism, although informed by the script (+ Thus assisted) it flashes on its powerlessness its absolute powerlessness to change events, control its own actions - it is a machine! It goes through a complex series of actions on which its physical ife depends like a robot or reflex arc insect! reality + script interact using it as mere inter i cace! It is a bystander to what it does, + all this was preprogrammed years or decades ago who has done this? How? Why? Is this a the realization unique? unique situation, or is only meanwhile it sees Valis + the plasmate, both normally camouflaged. Surely it guesses that is they are the author of this all. + yet VALIS I in the script as Ubik in "Ubik"! It sees the it, too, as in world of secret Xtians + recognizes cript" "Te un escript s" It is in its ou a 18 He cannot reason, "I created this reality by writing about it." That is psychotic. There is correspondence between script + reality but ob‐ viously the former did not create the latter - not unless the latter is a delusion of psychosis. sid reality create the script? This would require information to flow backward in time which he can't accept. He must conclude that the script was implanted in him by an entity of great knowledge + power which likewise controls the reality corresponding (eventually) with the script. The purpose of the script is to insure certain Acts on his part vis-a-vis the reality I pertains to. But - Harmonia. Between him + the rest of reality. le is part of what Pythagorast calls "kosmos." This is "an orderly fitting together," the joining which he has had a vision of: Valis construct itself out of the anterior universe + yet he senses that reality is agreeing with he script + not the script with reality. Why does he think this? Because the script came first. But God does not see time as man does. Yet he has written "the Electric Ant" on this theme: self programming reality (outside of consciousness). He ssigns priority to the inner script - in a burst of Berkeleyian idealism - + supposes it can cause him to experience anything, event, world, + do anything because he has watched himself act out script. orders like a machine or insect or fish. If his script can make him do anything (even withould even pretextual ideation) it can compel him to see anything it instructs (such as "Olive Holt") places a grid between him + reality enhancing t it can ome aspects + suppressing others. Thus fire information at him; + 2) cause him to act quickly flashes that the n the information. He is genuinely external "causes" are not the true causes to which he responds; it is the script, + connected with the script is a vast mind which has total power over him - just by virtue of determining his perceptions of reality - if such there be. There might as well not be; just him his script + this macromind are enough So his intuition of acosmism escalates into certitude. + frankly he's pretty scared. The combination of inner script (laid down long ago) + macromind with its augmentation-suppres sion + clutch grid - who + what is this + what is its overall purpose? It talks to him about adjudicating (punishing) a murder conspiracy, + he has memories of a past life as a secret Xtian revolutionary blowing up prisons + forts; + another mind is in his head thinking in Greek ") living in another century" - + he has all the cosmological/cosmogonical gnosis of the past, up to the 17th century + back to mindean Crete If I assemble "MITHC" "Faith of." "Ubik, "Joint," "Stigmata," "Tears," etc together I get. 1) This is a terrible place - a prison ("Tears"). 2) The authoritie [Note are a front for a monsterous CP su deity ("Faith of") who poses as a human. Not us G2 3) A wise mind has invaded to help us ("Ubik") I 4) Some of us, unknowingly, are agents of this nvading wise mind ("Faith of," "Electric Ant" "impost" 5) the monstrous deity uses its magic powers to ypnotize us with simulated reality ("Stigmata") 6) An alternate world s-f novel can show what the real world is like, compared to what the mon strous magician shows us ("MITHC") (re "TGLH" "Tears" does this. The establishment Xtian churc s, like all other authorities, a front for the monstre The monstrous true secret Xtians exist deity. But God. The wise mind the NT + Christ the deity 30 there are then two Gods. The O.T. God tries to convince us that he is the sole God. We are dying descending souls lost in intoxicating delusions by the O.T. God. The N.T. God wishes to restore us to life ("Ubik"). This is the "2nd birth from above" or "by the Spirit" which Christ spoke up; as to our dying state in the O.T. God's occluding enslaving power, Christ aptly said, "your estors ate manna in the wilderness + they are all dead. The key to salvation (return to life) is knowledge. Since ignorance is the basis of our enslaved + dying state. The O.T. deity deludes + occludes us; the N.T. God is Logos is informa about our