of the existence of God, because only God can do all this. Thus 2-3-74 amounts to (i.e is) a demonstration by God (vis-à-vis me) of his power hence of his existence the "irreality" of world + the "mechanism of impression" when revealed tell me a lot about world, but, more, I am told about God; thus paradoxically the fact that normally world seems to us totally real, + God does not seem to be, is proof of God's power, when the full picture is disclosed. + God could hardly have power of any sort if he did not exist. Thus, the imparting of knowledge of the true picture is an ultimate gift; you cannot discern these things (on your own); this too, is proof of God's sovereign power, that he must withdraw the utter compelling power of world it you are to see the true case. 8 This is a milestone in my thinking, + I owe it to Malebranche. 1) invincibly impinging stimuli 2) Which are absolutely convincing to us but not as stimule causes look like causes (this is a major aspect of the total situation) so that we will not be aware of the situation. 3) Is there an adversary situation here? "The secret stolen, through [hast] the angels, in one's hands." Does not the dialectic suggest an adversary situation? The wise horn would be Christ. Does our being unknowingly controlled by the situation relate to the Fall //or to the BIP? This is Gnosticism. Occlusion vs salvation Forgive me, Lord. I forgot. What you saved me from. The rescue was supernatural; the trap was mundane. Malebranche explains the wizardry; I don't have to presume/suspect Etis. to extricate me he was willing to allow me to see how the divine machinery operates; he cared that much about me. As regards the elements of Malebranche's theory: 1) We do not see objects. We see intelligible cerchetypal ideas in God's mind I This is precisely what 2-74 (i.e. t my "meta-abstraction") points to. The spatio‐ temporal world of particular corporeal bodies does not exist. In fact, I am not trying to prove Malebranche's views correct; I am looking for an 2-3-74. explanatio of wel 9 This part of his theory would explain 2-74 + my meta-abstraction, my "anamnesis"; It is (as I realized last night) a theory that can be identified as Plato's theory of the Forms. The "common essence" is in fact made up of intelligible archetypes. I see them -experience "world"- only due to God. This is literally, as Malebranche says, o "vision in God." 2) Occasionalism. I saw this, too; specifically. Object A does not really act on object B but only seems to: what I call pretextual cause in fact, there are not objects anyhow, but, rather, a continuum or field. 3) Our dependence on God. I was aware that God signals to us from the external world (if such there is) + an inner analog in our mind ineluctably reacts in perfect synchronization suggesting Leibnitz or Spinoza (contemporaries of Malebranche). The sole + ubiquitous volition is God's, in us + outside us in perfect synchronization forming one total field or structure. This is all in God (as expressed in "Ubik"). There is total, perfect mystical union with God. God acts on us, in us + for us. We do not react to reality; we react to God expressing himself through, in + as reality more‐ over, our reaction is him in us, or due to him - it is the same: inner-outer synch 10 Here is a major point: in my letters t Pat I speak of acquiring in 3-74 an a priori knowledge of world over + above my empirical knowledge, + it was perfect knowledge. How, in the face of conventional views as to how we apprehend world, is this possible? Nothing is in the mind that was not first in the senses," as locke (?) said. I speak of m apperception of the "mind attribute of substantia" as being a priori + inserted over to blend with my empirical percepon of the "spatial extension attribute" An instance (one of many) would be my Set/ground discrimination, as for instance when I saw the King Felix cypher. (All this originally attributed to the 3rd eye, what I ever the hell that is). I spoke in my i letters of a "higher conceptualization (+ less passive perception per se). Now, Male‐ branche's views would not only explain this; more, this would tend to ratify his views. This is why I kept exclaiming "I am (There were even no longer blind!" instances when I saw in my mind, like holograms, "visions" of external events, e.g. Mailman, bus + palm frees, etc.) What this ultimately amounted to was an apperception by mne of Valis which t at last identified as God or the Cosmic Christ, Which gave rise to my notion it that normally God is somehow camou‐ poent flaged in reality - Malebranche's exactly, That we are actually dealing with God when we suppose we are deal with world. Yet (+ this is very important!) God + world are not the same thing, Spinoza to the contrary. God is camouflaged in world, which is quite different from "Deus sive What is Natura," very different. "feature involved here is what I call extraction"; it has to do with mimesis mimicry, set/ground, Gestalting dis‐ (Consider John Varley's story, crimination. "overdrawn at the memory bank") (Esp. in relation to "Ubik" + "Maze"). Now, this distinction between what I saw (to put it roughly, "camouflage") + pantheism can readily be made in Malebranche's (Also, view but not in Spinoza's i my Spinoza couldn't account for iI meta-abstraction; I have had to dray in Plato, his form world + anamnesis.) Then the "perturbation" that 3-74 was, which cannot be accounted for by Spinoza makes perfect sense in Male‐ branche's system: it is simply a revelation of the true state of affairs but with this crucial addendum: God who is not the same as the reality field -i.e. pantheism is not the case, as with Spinoza‐ has perturbed the reality field in the ast knomica ba 12 sense. He exists (of in addition to it; + (2) is capable of exerting decisive "tug" on it. This decisive "tug" is the whole story - what used to be my "surd" that I could not overlook. (This is, I guess, acosmic Panentheism.) This is precisely what led to my formulation of my notion of invasion + camouflage + set/‐ ground + feature-extraction, +, most of all, cosmic transubstantiation: the divine can pose as ordinary objects+ their causal processes (a sort of two bit Malebrancheanism). The divine enters This the reality field from outside [it] cannot be corollated with Spinoza. It breaks his "sive" equation. What Malebranche is presuming (without his possessing the term) is a reality field of which we are parts rather than being outside it + this field is caused to interact internally so that it is coherent + not chaotic by virtue of there being only one, unified prime mover suffusing the field as its sole volition or power. This is not, strictly speaking, pantheism or panpsychism; the field is utilized by God as something like a transducer or medium through which he impinges on us, but this is misleadingly put because in impinging on us he is in effect impinging on himself in us: as if he dwells in us outside our field of internal awareness as the true driver in us not separate from the macro‐ driver; there is only one driver i 13 What is most remarkable is the total integration of the field, despite its palpable diversification into multiplicity + complexity. the argument that all reality is one integrated coherent field is the most powerful argument for Malebranche's For view that we live, see + act in God. s malabranche to be correct, multiplicity + the plural autonomy of discrete entities (such as we normally suppose) would have to be illusory, + indeed it is. Therefore the continuum or field argument is the most effective argument for Malebranche. Spinoza's error is to equate this reality field with God, whereas in fact God creates the field + then Acts through it, on it, by means of it; he is able to perturb it from outside it (but course this "outside" is not spatial!). of one of Malebranche's most incisive insights is that God sustains reality continually, rather than simply having brought it originally into being: "Set it spinning," as James stephens put it. My God - beginning in 2-74 I wat aware of the intelligible archetypal ideas as such, which means that my 11 syntonic two spatiotemporal set,". superimposition is how God experience. world. + this returned in 3-74 whereupon I was in both USA 1974 + Rome AD 45 14 at once, + was simultaneously Thomas + PKD. But as I realized last october. There is an explanation for this: my "meta-abstraction" to a "common essence," although this insight was just the beginning of a proper compre‐ hension on my part. Viz: the same intelligible archetypal idea can appear in many places at many times + still be unitary; i.e. there is only one of it, + Plato was herein lies the whole point! onto the metaphysics involved here but could not figure out just how it worked. He would have had (to solve it) come to the realization that we are (1) not here; (2) not now; + (3) self is equally illusory In fact you can serve up a single grand system by combining Plato, Male‐ branche, Pan-Indian thought + quantum mechanics. + as an essential ingredient, the cosmology-mysticism of St. Paul! this explains the specifically Xtian rather than just theistic, elements of 2-3-74 (were not Malebranche's main sources St. Paul, Augustine + Neoplatonism + of course occasionalism + Descartes?) Here is my chance to reintroduce Xtianity, by way of St. Paul The purpose of breaking the power of world exerted over you is a mean to a greater end. to render tael 15 into an interpretive medium by which + through which the Lord is appre‐ hended in a mysterious manner that cannot quite be explained but it involves the annihilation of space, time, causation + self so that i once again the place is jferusatem, the time is 35 cE., + you are one of the twelve at the last supper The way I conceive of this mechanism 15 is: If we actually experience intelligible archetypal ideas + not reality + (2) if at one given spatiotemporal set the divine "mapped itself ("the word made flesh") then through the the eide identified with that particular set divine could distribute itself at will anywhere + at any time by a sort of "wormhole" recon stitution of itself, viz: the Mens Dei contains an intelligible archetypal eidos (idea) of itself as a map of itself; this is Christ + the mens Dei could "more" that self-map to whenever + wherever it wanted by means of eide relating to the spatiotemporal locating of the map originally. "Whopever has seen me has seen the Father" among the intelligible archetypal ideas (eide) in the Mens Dei is one of itself. This is because God is self-aware - a phenomenon I considered sometime ago; it has to be thus: it must know itself. It would only have to introduce the self map once -at any one place-+-time whereupon it could be retrieved any place + any time by means of the proper eidos. The proper 16 eidos would trigger off retrieval through a mode locus of the mens Dei (e.g. a given human mind). The two spatiotemporal sets become blended/mingled through the "common + the micro-form ("map") of the divine totality is thereby present intact in both + can act in the other set (from the one it was introduced into). But (I realizes For this to work it would require the given human mode locus to suddenly