from. I see : the project had to be reworked. It had come to a bad end: WWIII. So God (the Computer) reran the program differently. This required me to lose my safe + cushy roses + Cabin - By - the - Lake life + became a left wing protest writer - so, in recompense "God" intervened to save me when the vengence - trap - for my writing showed up in 3-74, at the risk of exposing the program nature of our reality. When I [formuly] reasoned wrong was to assume that since track A was a police state (v. "Tears") I must have been oppressed. No - I was well-to-do like most of the characters in "Tears." It is a society sharply divided between the "haves + the oppresses, + I was a "have" - not a s-f left wing writer. So I didn't object to that repressive reactionary society - + in a sense one shattered life in track B has been my karmic burder for my plush indifference to conditoins there - as with Jason Taverner. this leads to certain fascinating conclusions. I who personally benefited from that slave-labor society, was sentenced to live my life again on track B. + this time fight the tyranny? at great personal cost: specifically, the loss of precisely what I had in track A: the house, the wife (+ stable marriage), the cabin by the lake, + mostly it is a just sentence; in this track I expiate my karmic guilt, undergoing broken marriages + loss family + money + prestige + stability, etc. So I was judged then - in which cases deduce we all were judged in track A + reassigned accordingly (look how my case resembles Jason Taverner's!). (Fortunately, with a final exculpatory verdict, upon the intervention of God.) + in 2-74, the month "Tears" came out, there was intervention for me likewise, + by the same agency! Actually the strongest evidence I have for my "reprogram" tracks A + B theory is that when thomas surfaced. I saw two realities superimposed: I saw track A + was the person from it simultaneously. Thus I know that that other person, thomas, had another reality, + I recognized it as the world of "Tears"! If the "reprogramming tracks A + B" theory is wrong, why then did I see two realities when thomas took over? + specifically the world of "Tears" - which I know a lot about, due to the book; + I know God intervened in it at the end! + abolished it! I am tempted to speculate that upon another personality taking me over, + my simultaneously seeing another reality, I abreacted phylogenically in the same religeous awe which I felt when I was the Golden Fish sign + recognized its supratemporal - i.e. eternal - power. The xtians were the agents - the [agenda] - of my metamorphosis into thomas (cryptomorphosis). But it was not another temporal reality I saw but (in some sense which I do not understand) spacial. What if one considers a very peculiar possibility about track A, the previous program: it evolved out of Acts along the linear time axis, driven by a closed system of efficient causes - but failed to get / be successfully driving along this time axis which is really an onion - model spacial axis: which means that, simply, the spaciotemporal dynamism failed to drive it qualitatively along, proceeding out of Acts + along this 4th spacio-temporal axis, through the permutations, so that although it did not precisely revert - as did that world in "Ubik" - it did fail to advance to develop, to understand this, time must be regarded as a kind of energy, a dynamism driving the program along; if a sort of phylogeny is involved, then there was phylogenic evolution, + the program in 1974 was fixated - ossified - at 45 AD To view it this way one must view time as an energy driving reality through growth stages along an accretional axis i/e/ an evolving program - or supposed of evolve. In track A the project failed; this ossification denotes failure, like a plant (entelechy) which failed to develop through its proper stages, in which case the project must be regarded as an organism - a biological model - + the BIP is a calcification, a death into rigidity; a failure to grow. Thus we have an objective standard by which to judge the BIP as "Bad"; it is not morally bad but dynamically bad. In essence the program dies (the organism died) - it remained or became static. It froze - as in the images of "Ubik." So another scientific truth in "Ubik" is that time is regarded as a dynamic force + negentropic; hence ossification + in reversion to an earlier form is - yes! - is thanatos, devolution! "Earlier, more stable forms." Something very important is expressed by my confusion as to whether I was seeing Rome (AD 45 or an alternate world or future police state; the basic morphosis had congealed - reverted to its origin! We are talking about biological death, as in my reversion along the form - axis in "Ubik"; this is precisely what I saw in track A; form reversion! Temporal death! as a biological project, track A literally died. Somehow the dialectic which gives rise to a perpetual generation of negations of negations, brought the project to a dead end - a failure. Therefore the God could presume that a faulty programming was involved, because when tested out as a program it turned out not to be perpetual, but finite, + resumed an archaic form, which implies a recycle rather that linear progression. If it recycled once, it would always recycle - logic discloses that. The fact that I could not determine if what I saw was past, present or future shows that it graphically depicted ontological death (stasis). + from the standpoint of a biological program, that means failure, + necessitates a reprogramming. An attempt must be made to introduce new variables which, when it is rerun will not repeat itself endlessly; i.e. go no where. So track A did not merely become repressive + morally bad; no: it biologically died. This view certainly explaines what "astral determinism" is, where each step proceeds inexorably out of the previous one, by the nature of the selfnegating dialectic. "Astral determinism," then, equals the "logical" deterministic dialectic equals the time drive of the closed program. when the dialectic fails, time dies + the form of the program stagnates - or reverts as in "Ubik," becomes archaic. Unviable. Thus "astral determinism" is a very real thing: it is the underlying force, pressure or dynamism of our world. The program, + virtually defines it kinetically. Because the program is a closed system the deterministic dynamism is tyrannical. In early xtianity + the Mystery religions - + in Gnosticism! - an appeal is made to some higher force for freedom from the temporal drive of the program ("fate"). "One by one he takes us out of this world," He removes us from the program, due to his mercy. (This all fits, by the way, with the concept of Karma + releases us - out of the program.) Track A can be viewed as a failure, a program which "died" or reverted. To conceive of "atral determinism" is the first step in grasping the nature of our situation - a programmed situation. The next step, then, is to conceive of reprogramming - which is called "divine providence" or intervention from "above" (i.e. outside the program). From the programmer's standpoint the program is not viewed in terms of time but as a gestalt in 4 spacial axes: as a gestalt which I call the BIP. As if on a screen - or, more accurately, as if [only] a hologram. It is one it; shape; + I saw that shape. "He causes things to change so it'd appear time has passed." [Phantoms] of the shape or gestalt. (there is the possibility that the gestalt which I call the "BIP" is the deterministically driven closed program qua program. The rigidity of metal - the iron-nes - is a graphic rendering of the closed-ness. so these is just me or the program - from which from whose efficient-cause dialectic-driven dynamanism I was extricated in 2-3-74, - + there are no track, A,B,C, etc ➀ then the true xtians are agents hare who understand the programs situation + act to release us. Which fits Gnosticism, for "sub-lunar" read "program." For "God" read "some higher power outside the program" - who, perhaps, as in "Valis," has invaded ➁ the program in a camouflaged form to extricate us or at least some of us, + is, in itself, a wild card or emancipating variable: not the result of efficience cause. Or maybe the program brought it into existence, but it is now free of the dialectic. No, the dialectic is how - I want to say, "How VALIS works" but I may be wrong; it may be how the program works. ➀ It (VALIS) could of course be the computer interfering in its own program: so several or even many "tracks" could exist. ➁ The computer is plugged into (the core of) its own program, if for no other purpose than to monitor + understand it: a [microform] or "terminal" of ,+ part of the program: i.e. world). So its camouflage is so it won't contaminate the closed (dialectic-driven) program. This would certainly explain why "God" is a deus absonditus. Yes, the program is dialectic-driven, + the computer is binary: the same sialectic. It certainly can arrange to modify our conditions, as I well know from 2-3-74. So now I understand what astral determinism is. This certainly underlines the importance of (true) xtianity! Interventive agents of the computer mind-which-is-here: VALIS (camouflaged, which it would have to be). (Otherwise, look what we'd know. So the other world which I saw in 3-74 is in effect an alternate program - the world I wrote about in "Tears" - which proves I once lived there. Could the secret xtians (+ VALIS?) be introducing variables which improve the program? As extensions of the computer, acting on instructions from the computer-programmer? In this case their will can't be thwarted. This makes VALIS Christ: the unique variable introduced into the program who "strips the ancient powers of their Law" or laws of their powers - whatever. Introduced from outside the program + not subject to its dialectic dynamism time. Christ is (not was: is) the variable from outside. The gnostics could be right: he is an invader, but: I think the computer or its programmer introduced him. Monotheism Law still be entertained. (But not necessarily!) Thus (as I saw Christ equals freedom within an otherwise closed system. This throws light on what is meant by Christ's credentials of authority - to save (i.e. to exculpate/extricate from the closed program "one by one he draws us out of this world." He is the only thing (person, entity) in the program not a product of it + not subject to its inexorable dialectic efficient dynamism so he (VALIS) is indeed an invader, + indeed the rational invading the irrational (the program needed correction). He has, also, the power to liberate other humans from the dominion of the dialectic of the project (program) which is what he did with me in 2-3-74. Once unlocked from my track ("fate") I remain permanently unlocked - I was fated by the unfolding dialectic logic of the program to die in '74, but he intervened. There is now (in Christ) a freeing variable interrupting an otherwise inexorable machine: the mesh of metal strands (of enclosing fate) gets crucially unwoven + hence rewoven, since he intervenes selectively, with an eye on the total historic process. These minute unweavings finally topple an entire government, end the Vietnam was + avert WWIII. VALIS displays characteristic's of 1)