not speak of this when he contrasts Judaism with Christianity. He misses the central point of Christianity, and hence the central weakness of Judaism, or, as Paul puts it, the Law and the Law's inability to save. Judaism accepts the condition of fallen man and makes the best of it (by relying on the divine Torah revealed to Moses by YH WH). Christianity does exactly the opposite; it preaches man restored, the Second Adam who undoes --more than undoes-- the work of the first Adam [Note]. Judaism does not present [Note]: Yet I have always rejected Paul's doctrine of original sin, hence the Fall. Judaism teaches that man is pure. Is this not my belief? Do I not share this? folder 82 - 007 folder 82 - 007 an alternative system by which this is accomplished. In fact it is only upon studying Judaism --the writings which include the Torah and many glosses-- that I understand what Christianity does, by virtue of the contrast visible between them. Thus for the first time I can understand why Paul taught the doctrine of original sin. It was absolutely essential to stigmatize man's present and past condition (state) as that of Adam's and in no way an improvement on Adam's -- if this was not put forth as a premise, then what was next put forth, the idea of salvation, which is to say the restoration of man to his pre-fallen state, makes no sense. Man must be seen as fallen if man is to be seen as necessarily requiring salvation; otherwise, "Salvation from what?" Paul has made a daring leap of insight from the story of Adam's Fall to all mankind's condition -- to mankind's present condition. Paul says, "No one since Adam ever got back up to the pre-fallen state; hence we say, Adam deprived us all of that original state of felicity." What else could Paul say if he is to preach the doctrine of salvation through Christ? That the Torah restored man to his pre-fallen state? [Note] But Judaism does not claim that the Torah does that; all Judaism claims for the Torah is that God has spoke to fallen man and told him what to do and what not to do. Man is still fallen. [Note] Only Jesus the Christ has the power to restore man; only Jesus the Christ even claims that power or, what is more, conceives of that restoration taking place! What is so disheartening about Judaism is that under it man accepts his fallen state as eternal. And this means, Judaism is tacitly saying that Yes, we have all inherited Adam's sin, which is to say, Adam's fall; we fell with him and are fallen still, and our descendents as [Note] This whole article is based on the false premise that Judaism believes, like Xtianity, in the Fall - it does not. folder 82 - 008 folder 82 - 008 -5- well. So the claim of Jesus the Christ is original and revolutionary, but it must depend on an admission of man's fallen state which is a way of saying that man is born sinful; i.e. he is born fallen and does not fall individually during his particular lifetime according to his own deeds. All that Paul wants to do is lay the conceptual groundwork for the notion of salvation; the last thing he wants to do is condemn man. Paul has a remedy but to convince us to make use of the remedy he must point to the disease. Judaism has forgotten about the Fall when they regard man as a wonderous thing made in the image of God. Paul says, Yes we were so designed, but fell. And if God ordained the Fall (in terms of punishment or curse) then it is logical that God and only God can reverse the condition and restore man. It is not likely that a system by a mortal human could accomplish this, because if it did, it would de facto place that mortal human at the level of Godhood. He would be as powerful as God. How, then, can Jesus not be God or anyhow the Logos or Holy Wisdom, i.e. God's Wisdom? For myself I can testify that through Christ, or so it would seem, I was in February 1974 restored to my pre-fallen state, thus giving me personal verification of the gospel of Christ, as well as the reality of his nature and power. It has taken me six years to come to understand that this is indeed what happened to me in the spring of 1974, but such was it, in fact. Thus I personally can reason back from my own salvation or restoration to the fall and to the ubiquity of the fall in terms of all men past and present, in terms, I mean, of course myself. folder 82 - 009 folder 82 - 009 Now, to compare Christianity with the mystery religions: it seems to me that the existence of the Greco-Roman mystery religions indicates that non-Christians had begun to figure out the fact that man fell, especially the Orphics; which gives further verification to the probability of this primal catastrophe. It was the intent of the mystery religions to reverse the damage of the fall. There can be no question of this; we know this to be so. How well they did we don't know. But I can personally speak for the efficacy of Christianity, which is to say of Jesus Christ. Perhaps Judaism was indeed kinder to oxen, but Christianity at Paul's time had bigger goals: the reversal of the then-fate of all creation, which involves man and animals both. When man fell all creation fell with him as a result. The Torah makes this clear. And the more the Torah is glorified and adulated the more severe the problem grows, because Judaism more and more forgets that man is fallen, i.e. debased and damaged, impaired and occluded. So it was necessary for Paul to go the whole way (at times) and to stigmatize the Law as either totally ineffective or downright evil -- which seems unnecessarily harsh until we realize what his purpose was. "The Law cannot save," Paul said, and he said it in every way and at every occasion possible. He went so far as to deny that it came from YHWH but said that "mere angels" handed it down, which (I believe) has no scriptural basis. He had to void the Jew's faith in the salvific power of the Law in order to save the Jew. The Law did not save; it did not claim it could save; it drew men's minds away from the notion of fall and salvation folder 82 - 010 folder 82 - 010 -7- intertwined. Now the utter nobility of the doctrine of Vicarious Atonement makes sense to me -- now that I have some small grasp of Judaism, the basis of Christianity, its substrate. What could be more heroic than the idea that God who himself threw mankind down as punishment for man's original transgression, so loved man that He gave His only begotten Son to redeem man? And under conditions of acute --supreme-- abasement and suffering? There is nothing in Judaism to equal this, and nothing in any of the other of the world's religions. Mani was martyred but he left no system of teachings as did Christ. Christ's teachings are his certification of Godhood, since they exceed in value the Mosaic Torah itself. Again, Judaism has no mechanism for salvation. Yet their own Torah depicts man's Fall. Judaism cannot therefore deny that man is fallen, unless there was a restoration not depicted, or, possibly, it is supposed that the revelation at Mt. Sinai restored man, but I don't see that claim made. Nor do I see it as implicit in the revelation to Moses that the Torah made man what he had originally been; it certainly did not return him to Eden (or as it is called Paradise). Yet when Christ restored me in 1974-5 saw Eden; I saw the palm tree garden around me, although I did not know what it was. Also, I saw the black iron prison in which we now live (cf the First book of Adam and Eve: the Cave of Treasures called "small and narrow" and a "prison," in contrast to the Garden from which they were expelled). There is a great significance in the Christian concept of restoration in terms of God's wisdom and foreknowledge, lacking in folder 82 - 011 Judaism, and when a salvific framework is understood it is hard to justify, then, a system that excludes it. Presumably God foreknew that man would fall, and with man, creation itself. Are we to assume that God had no remedy planned for the situation? Or did he not foreknow and had no remedy? Neither of these possibilities is likely. It is much more logical that God would foresee and have, from the beginning, a remedy -- which in fact in Christianity he has: what Christians call the "felix culpa" situation, wherein the remedy is greater than the malady, so that in final terms the restoration outdoes the Fall and there is a net gain to the resulting system. If the awesome majesty, power and wisdom attributed to God in the Torah are taken as given, the preparation of divine remedy seems not only logical but inevitable. Having studied the Torah I find it hard, in view of the presentation of God contained therein, to believe that the cosmos and man having fallen, God could or would do nothing -- unless the Torah is considered a solution, which it is certainly not. Thus there is an inner logic to Christianity in that its aspect of a new or second covenant with God seems to spring naturally from the Old Testament, in particular the Torah itself. It Seems almost an insult to God to suppose that he would not or could not fashion a countermove to Satan's strategy; in Judaism Satan would seem to have been successful -- whereas in Christianity he is undone. So the great theme of Christianity is the Fall and then Salvation through Christ, whereas in Judaism it is the Fall, and then the best made of it through divine theophany and revelation culminating folder 82 - 012 folder 82 - 012 -9- in the Mosaic Law, in the Torah itself. But as a law the Mosaic law is not that superior to known man-made systems of law, and could have arisen naturally; whereas the teachings of Jesus bear no real affinity to the teachings of any man, except, perhaps, the wisdom of the Buddha (and even there it is a dubious comparison). If one examines the Mosaic Law and the "law" of Christ, what he calls his "yoke," one finds the second superior to the first, and one must conclude that if divinity is anywhere it lies with the second. In fact the "law" of Christ seems to refute much of the decalogue, and certainly strikes Christians as higher, in which case it is impossible for a Christian to imagine that the latter is God-given and the former not. Finally, the Christian view of history is grand, in that it sees Fall and then the beginning of the salvific machinery of restoration culminating in the uniquely moving and beautiful First Advent, whereas for Judaism history begins wrong and never really gets much better; the Christian is dynamic, the Judaic somewhat, at least in comparison, static. There is nothing in Judaism but a vague notion that somehow "everything will end," whatever that may mean, and that there is a spirit or soul in men, but what becomes of it after death, if anything -- nowhere is the answer clear until Christianity enters, with its grounding in Zoroastrianism. The ultimate triumph of Judaism in terms of eschotology appears to be the establishment of a national ethnic state, which really does not merit the term "religious" except