a Christ (Christos). Item (2) bears a great resemblance to both what Ted Sturgeon told me in 1977 but also to that book "The Education of Oversoul 7" or whatever it was called. My master soul is perfecting + educating itself as the subsouls - incarnated lives - feed into it. Further, each [...] deliberate on its [...] {folder 01 - 033 folder 01 - 033} This is exactly what Ted Sturgeon told me is what happens. This makes me wonder what it was that caused him to want to tell me that. Something in me + my books? Even if the Xtian business is marginal (for example merely having to do with one subsoul - i.e. a particular incarnation -) this business of the master soul deliberately incarnating itself + causing -inducing- anamnesis each time (or perhaps only when the situation gets so dire it is necessary?) could still be the case. This would constitute deliberate multiple space-time tracking, so I am back to my original view that I - but now "I" refers to a master soul, not to PKD - am simultaneously tracking a number of space-time worlds. However, now I have a vast theoretical framework as to how it is done - a framework that is not occult but based on the most noble philosophical systems in human history: Platonism + Plotinus. Not to mention the additional element of the authentic secret Xtian - which in itself is certainly formidable. Xtian activity - the fight against the Black Iron Prison - would be the raison d'etre of the master soul. The Xtian element could turn essentially involuntary incarnations into voluntary, purposeful ones, all of them subsumed to an overall goal. Valis could even be a technological device by the oversoul to wake itself back up (at a time of dire crisis). No - isn't Valis the oversoul itself? {folder 01 - 034 folder 01 - 034} Yes; I think Valis is the unfallen oversoul itself, in the supra spatiotemporal realms. It would be judge, midwife, superior life form + parent officiating at its own birth - i.e. self causing. Good Lord - I have a tremendous argument for Thomas being the master unfallen soul + not a previously incarnated subsoul. He could see the "second signal" - the set/ground, the plasmate + Valis: The meta-structure: + there were the postmortem experiences. He was in a different world, the morphologically-arranged one. In fact there is no doubt of it: This is the whole point of 3-74 (not just anamnesis). Then the master soul is Xtian. (For some reason I'm suspicious of all this Xtian business as providing a false explanation; it just leads me back to where I was before the Neo-Platonist solution. However I did remember having been an early Xtian, at the time of Acts, which explains the Acts material in "Tears". But I must continually keep in mind that the solution I was looking for + found did not lie in Xtianity but in Neo-Platonism. Nonetheless it is possible that my master soul is Xtian: + will judge me from this standpoint. This is just speculation again, in contrast to what was a realization: that I meta-abstracted (from Acts + USA 1974) to a common essence of universals + did this because the fish sign triggered [anamnesis.] {folder 01 - 035 folder 01 - 035} That page quote about Plato + universals then confirmed it. + my realization about higher morphologically-arranged realms - that, too, is not speculation but insight. (I.e. Plato's Form World that is not in space or time + how it is exploded through statiotemporality. I realized, next, that Thomas is my unfallen soul + he/she/it is the AI voice speaking from outside space + time, unincarnated, acting as a tutelary spirit over me, + that it probably arranged the anamnesis long in advance - probably before I was even born. -- I just realized: for me to be there when- + wherever the BIP is, + the secret Xtians fight it, I must be a universal as part of this interacting interrelated cluster of universals. I am an essence part of the situational matrix. That of course is because wherever the accidents occur in spatiotemporality, the universal must be there for the accidents to exist (which was Plato's whole point: There was no way the accidents could exist at any place or any time without the underlying common universals). (+ this is precisely my meta-abstraction + anamnesis.) (Viz: Where- + whenever this confrontation between the BIP + the secret Xtians occurs, it is one common essence, so I am always there + then when + where it is.) No wonder my unfallen soul helped me! It is itself a universal committed to combat the BIP. This is what 2-3-74 was all about: understanding + experiencing [...] {folder 01 - 036} own eternal involvement. So I - as an unfallen soul - am morphologically arranged: exploded through space + time, in different spatiotemporal accidental persons over thousands of miles + 1000s of years [Note]. Yet also (as Plotinus points out) in a certain real sense I never fell (into space + time) + never lost my identity, nature, nor forgot. [Note] I sure realized that when the world of Acts swam into existence outside me, + Thomas inside me speaking Greek. These are, after all, not consecutive trackings but simultaneous (as I have realized from the start - + have therefore been unable to explain by reincarnation). Perhaps more important: what is disclosed (by my "meta-abstracting" + anamnesis) is my unfallen, unincarnated existence as a soul in the Form world. - If you experience two spatiotemporal continua as superimposed you have left the spatiotemporal realm already. The morphological arrangement does not actually fragment the soul except as it exists in the spatiotemporal realm; to repeat, in the morphological realm it is intact. I know this realm from experience; it is one vast unitary realm where everything appears as it really is, shorn of accidents. What I must realize is that the fragmenting is only seeming; the exploded Form is exploded only by our realm #4 ontological categories of space + time. It is the very nature of the morphologically arranged realm to be {folder 01 - 037 folder 01 - 037} unitary + yet it is exploded in space + time. What this points to is the semi-irreality of the spatiotemporal world; in it essence seems divided + yet it is not. I used the term "laminated" in "Valis" to depict the reunification of the archetype; this is a good term, although a little off. Laminate is the opposite of explode. This is how it is in the morphology world. + then there is realm #2, which is totally conceptual + reticulated. Prenatal memory: 1) of the world of Acts. 2) + it exists here now. abstraction to the universal (common essence) + the realization (recovery) of the understanding that the realm of reticulated universals exists + has ontological priority over our spatiotemporal world. Here, morphology is exploded; there it is laminated (collected). But it is important to realize that there is no mechanical repetition in the Form World, as proved by 3-74. However, here in the spatiotemporal realm there is such a thing as determinism. To rise to the form realm is to escape it: there is a progressive narrative in the form realm; we know this narrative as Torah. Just because our official canon is fixed doesn't mean that genuine, revealed scripture is fixed. "King Felix" is a meta-morpheme of the continually unfolding Torah (rearranging). This means that the form world can be + is expressed as pure information. Acts is not new; the dream in "Tears" is not new (it is Daniel-Revelation); King Felix is new - + there you have it. Of course the form world changes; it is being completed + perfected, reticulated + arborizing. There is a new Torah exploded through space + time, + with it the world it depicts - its analog. Nous links + relinks information in every possible combination out of which it generates the new Torah. {folder 01 - 038 folder 01 - 038} PLATONIST SEMIREALITY AS A SOLUTION TO INTIMATIONS OF ACOSMISM: THE CORRECT RESPONSE TO PARMENIDES. In 2-74 I looked at concrete empirical reality, (meta) abstracted from it, apprehended it (concrete reality) as less real than (another) a higher realm: this higher realm was a priori deducible from empirical reality. This is the greatest experience you can have. Next you apprehend Mind (Nous). But to abstract from what you had thought was the entire universe to a higher realm; to experience this perceptually and a priori combined -- the realization of a common essence (substratum) that makes the universe revealed to be mere appearance, the merely seeming (i.e. accidents) -- to deprive it of its ontological Substantia; I did this, and this is the basis of Platonism; it leads to awareness of the Form world. The most impressive moment in my life when my brain did this -- leaped to this awareness. And it was not a mere intellectual belief or theory. (1) I de-substantia-ized reality. And (2) simultaneously realized a higher realm of essence not in space-time. The Platonic leap. Took reality away from reality and rendered it only seeming; and saw reality in a higher, a non spatiotemporal world, all in one flash of insight, that it had to be so. If USA 1974 and Rome A.D. 45 (Acts) could _both_ be here and now comingled, then neither could really be Substantial, but were only seeming; and one real and substantial (einai, esse) substratum (other world) was indubitably pointed to out of which the two continua in space-time were derived. Then even the "ontological" categories of space and time, let alone world and causation, were only seeming; and only pure morphology (eidos, Form) as world remained -- totally abstracted. World, causation, time and space went; Forms replaced them, and, as I later experienced, these Forms ("reticulated phylogons," as I called them) are in a sentient Mind. Which thinks them into a kosmos-structure not in time or space. Words like "here, now, there, then, before, after," have no ontological meaning. Not if two spacetime continua thousands of miles and years apart can be one: can coincide. And this leap in abstracting came via (as Plato rightly says) from anamnesis; I was reminded (of my prenatal life and knowledge -- i.e. of another, real, higher reality). "He causes things to look different..." etc. We are enslaved to delusion. And in a leap I remembered. {folder 01 - 039 folder 01 - 039} {DUPE: [identical to the previous page]} PLATONIST SEMIREALITY AS A SOLUTION TO INTIMATIONS OF ACOSMISM: THE CORRECT RESPONSE TO PARMENIDES. In 2-74 I looked at concrete empirical reality, (meta) abstracted from it, apprehended it (concrete reality) as less real than (another) a higher realm: this higher realm was a priori deducible from empirical reality. This is the greatest experience you can have. Next you apprehend Mind (Nous). But to abstract from what you had thought was the entire universe to a higher realm; to experience this perceptually and a priori combined -- the realization of a common essence (substratum) that makes the universe revealed to be mere appearance, the merely seeming (i.e. accidents) -- to deprive it of its ontological Substantia; I did this, and this is the basis of Platonism; it leads to awareness of the Form world. The most impressive moment in my life when my brain did this -- leaped to this awareness. And it was not a mere intellectual belief or theory. (1) I de-substantia-ized reality. And (2) simultaneously realized a higher realm of essence not in space-time. The Platonic leap. Took reality away from reality and rendered it only seeming; and saw reality in a higher, a non spatiotemporal world, all in one flash of insight, that it had to be so. If USA 1974 and Rome A.D. 45 (Acts) could