shows what the universe is made up out of. No wonder I experienced a vast mind moving retrograde in time! I was seeing (experiencing) the reality process itself moving backward to its origins; and I did (which proves this analysis is correct) find myself at the origins, the illo tempore. But I think this reverse process began ahead in the future vis-a-vis 3-74 when I experienced it; I felt the future coming backward, unwinding and catching me up in its retrograde momentum. So some of the information yielded up was about the future, hence had been the future. Information was extracted that had not yet been fed in, and I utilized a lot of it. folder 82 - 054 folder 82 - 054 -3- 3-3-80 Then the animals spoke because everything spoke; everything turned into its basic constituent: information (which has to do with language). This, too, would explain the medical information. As to, specifically, the information about Chrissy's birth defect, why, that experience was with the ursatz or urgrund of reality which is a knowing entity, but which knows by absorption; I reversed that and it expressed knowledge rather than acquired. So Valis normally learns (absorbs) information rather than divulging it. It normally does not speak but listens (intellegere). For me at that time, instead of Valis being aware, it became articulate. This explains why I experienced a reversed relationship to the universe: instead of being in it, I was on the outside, on the skin of reality looking in. I had the universe inside me (this is Adam Kadmon for sure). So normally the universe receives information, and knows and remembers, but by moving backward in time I got it to divulge what it knew and remembered, divulge it to me. It yielded up secrets rather than acquired them. It did not play me, in the sense of causing me to track along a groove (heimarmene); I got it to play back --divulge-- what it knew; I played it as if it were an LP I wanted to listen to (i.e. extract from it the information it carried). Then I did disrupt time. I did cause it to run backward (for me, anyhow; in fact I got reality itself, causality, to run backward which had the result that it yielded up what it had formerly acquired; its accretions peeled off right there around me). So I handled the Xerox missive as if I had already handled it before, like a film of an explosion run backward. My knowledge of the situation did not precede it but followed it --in terms of normal time-functioning-- folder 82 - 055 folder 82 - 055 -4- 3-3-80 which is to say you normally know and then act on the basis of that knowledge (ideation precedes motor-center activity) but for me the motor-center activity came first and then "later" I knew -- years later; hence there was no ideation at 3-20-74. I acted on the basis of information I did not yet have. This is the core of it. Action on 3-20-74 and then, later on, the informational basis of the action. Of course, therefore, there was no ideation accompanying or preceding my action! It was yet to come. So this ability to cause time to run backward was utilized in the service of problem-solving -- dire problem, which explains why the talent on my part surfaced. So gradually, over the months and years following 3-74, the information that I acted on has leaked into my mind (via mostly the AI voice). This is not the same as precognition, although my writing of the Sixties show precognition (or something like it). No -- the writing of the Sixties show another time-reversal, another instance of time running backward for me! I wrote in the Sixties about a situation yet to occur, which would not occur until 1974. Whereas normally a situation (event) occurs and then AFTER THAT the author writes about it. I literally do write about events before they happen, which is again an instance, although more low-grade, of time running backward for me. It is true; what I call "precognition" on my part is an ability that I have (this is proved by what I did in 2-3-74) of being able to get time to run backward for me. I caused the faculty to dramatically peak to its ultimate form in 3-74; it broke through amped to itx maximum. And of course this ampted-up form of the ability would obliterate heimarmene because it would totally obliterate normal cause-and-effect. And that and folder 82 - 056 -5- 3-3-80 heimarmene are interchangeable. What 3-74 represents is a crossing over the threshold into conscious awareness of a psychological function that had operated subliminally for at least a decade -- in fact longer, if you include JOINT (where objects turn into information). I visibly saw the time-reversal process that I had been unconsciously drawing on for many years. This is a spectacular matter, and obviously the rising past the threshold into consciousness had to do with the gravity, the unique gravity, of the situation. It was as if my unconscious became conscious, and, in doing so, brought its unconscious paranormal function out into the open; I saw consciously what my unconscious probably had always seen: retrograde time which yielded up information as reality broke down into its constituents. Thus 3-74 does resemble or relate to a psychosis, if you define a psychosis as a condition in which the conscious self or ego is swamped by material from the unconscious and is temporarliy obliterated. The paranormal function itself was in control, conscious control. Apparently the way it works is that it tracks a linear-time interval, then runs time backward --i.e. sucks in future time with the information available in the future but not at the present-- and then erases solution A and remasters the situation with solution B which is based on the future information -- the "smart typewriter" effect. That multiple tracks are struck off by this (the bootstrap effect) is shown by the AI voice knowing what I could never know: that the Xerox missive was a U.S. G-2 forgery. Obviously I did employ faulty solution A and did live to find out precisely what the missive was, which is not the case in this track; so when I hear the folder 82 - 057 folder 82 - 057 -6- 3-3-80 AI voice I may not only be getting future information I may be getting information from a parallel alternate world track. This would fit in with the two-world superimposition in 2-74 and then more profoundly in 3-74; it was indeed a parallel world as I said in my Metz speech; I may have been right, although at the time (1977) I did not know how it could be that I could see alternate worlds. In effect, I saw it because through my time-reversal talent I was able to change an event in the past. It is as simple as that. As with Jason Taverner in TEARS I moved laterally between worlds. The story of 3-74 in terms of seeing the bip world is presented in TEARS. It may be that the bip world is the reality that "Thomas" is tracking. So all this time my intimations may have been correct. "There's somebody else in my head" etc. The "another century" means that "Thomas" is out of phase with me in linear time, as well as alternate worlds. He may be in the future but also he may be in the past, by reason of a progressive retrograde movement in time. This fits the model I depicted to Aldiss, where one brain hemisphere is moving forward in linear time and the other is moving retrograde. Since (not if) 3-74 represented an invasion of my conscious mind (left hemisphere) by my unconscious (right hemisphere) I can say Yes, it is moving retrograde in time, and it is in an alternate world -- which it depicted faithfully in TEARS! This is extraordinary, but it would seem to be the case. This is not a new theory of mine, here, but a revamping of a long-term chronic theory that was pointed to from the very start. Two personalities, two space-time worlds, and the not-me one moving retrograde in time -- and feeding crucial future information to me (future to me; past to folder 82 - 058 folder 82 - 058 -7- 3-3-30 him. What an unusual total psyche this would cre[ate.] So I am not saying simply, I am a precog; [I am say-] ing how I have come to be a precog, how this info [from the] future gets to me; 3-74 revealed the extraordinar[y ...] the unconscious precognition is based. Had there [not been a] crisis that mechanism might never have been reve[aled. In] 3-74 I suffered an analogy to a psychosis, and th[...] the surface where I could openly experience it, a[...] not only this world as "Thomas" sees it but "Thom[as" ...] So there is a prior tracking, and it is moving re[trograde in] time. And, I think, "Thomas" is me after my deat[h, v. the] article I wrote yesterday. I am reliving this [NFMD; no,] he is; when he took over in 3-74 the Xerox missive [had al-] ready occurred once before -- but not for me, no[...] It would seem to me that the mechanism in[volving] this retrograde motion in time explains why I say [that the] world is on tape. Apparently when I die (when an[...] matter) the soul enters the Bardo Thodol state an[d moves] retrograde through its life, divesting itself of [the karma] laid down in sequence during its lifetime; this [is clear.] But I, for some reason, am in syzygy with my pos[tmortem] future dead self rejoined my actual brain and be[...] in a fashion that put it in touch with me, its l[iving self.] The normal breakaway event did not occur; "Thoma[s" was on the] way into the postmortem world but rejoined this [one. In my] corpus colossum I pick up his knowledge and thou[ghts ...] have to be posited: (1) Your postmortem self u[nwinding] folder 82 - 059 folder 82 - 059 -8- 3-3-80 over its complete former lifetime (this is normal) but (2) in my case that unwinding retrograde postmortem psyche --my own future one-- is in contact with me, not telepathically but due to its somehow remaining in my brain; thus it does not just remember this universe but is in this universe, because of me, its earlier self. There may have been a failure of a normal breakaway. No wonder, then, I reasoned in yesterday's article that "We are dead and in a simulated world"; no wonder I (actually "Thomas") wrote the ten volume meta-novel with its two levels of reality and its acosmism. For "Thomas" this world is a simulation, a re-creation, a copy -- something on that order. Thus the AI voice which spoke to me originally in high school and may have informed and aided me subliminally earlier in my life, in fact during my infancy. So when I died -- sic! meant to write "die," not "Died"!-- when I die I will not (that was "Thomas" working the typewriter keys, obviously; he puts a lot into my writing; his writing; okay: our writing) when I die I will fail to separate from this world but will retrack retrograde, and be aware of my earlier, living self; "Thomas" is completely aware of the situation; were he not he could not have handled 3-74. It is possible that the desire to retrace in this world is connected with 3-74, it being a desire to tackle the Xerox missive situation once more, this time armed with later knowledge as to it being a forgery, hence what to do with it. Thus "Thomas," my postmortem self, alters his own actual life! Which is to say, solution B as an override to his original prior faulty solution A where he succumbed to the trap.