of the lower realm). Shiva's ajna eye of discernment: it discerned what the Xerox missive was + what to do with it. A very ancient sense organ that has fallen closed - into disuse, but is latent in us, me. Called forth in me. "Tears" is the lower realm component of our mixed world, + I had been living in it, + in 3-74 it released me so my memory of it was restored paradoxically as it released me; i.e. you get to the garden by way of [seeing] the prison. You don't see the prison until you're released; it's melded into the upper realm, here. Different reality, identity, memory and time (thrust forward: up). folder 48 - 021 So to be enlightened means to shoot forward in time: from Acts ("Tears") to the top level of purgatorio: USA 1974. An apostolic Xtian was saved (via the holy spirit) + so shot forward (upward) in time! To the entrance of heaven: the top level of purgatorio. + then entered heaven (the kingdom). No, it wasn't from apostolic times. It was from a level in purgatorio that partakes more of the lower realm than the one I was moved up to; it is described in "Tears." I.e. in the present. But at a lower level of purgatorio. + I was in it in 1970 when I wrote "Tears". + so remembered it after I was moved up - remembered when I saw the Golden Fish. "Tears" - Better - Paradiso >-----------/---------------/--------------> 2-74 - 3-74 Where everyone else is - this mixture of the two realms In other words, "Tears" has a higher component of signal II (inferno) than our world - so there must be a very large number of worlds. + there may be more people moving up or down the AB axis during their lifetime than I realized; what may have been exceptional in my case was entering the upper realm purely; losing the last contact with the lower realm. folder 48 - 022 folder 48 - 022 "Tears" may have been a previous lifetime + the only movement up the AB axis that I made was in 3-74 from the top level of purgatorio to the lowest of pure upper realm, upon remembering "Tears" - a low level of purgatorio. It's as if the rules change at each successive level - as more of the upper realm + less of the lower is involved. The key is increments of freedom. Which automatically involves increments of growth or homeostasis in the persons! Autonomy. Note p. 816: Ground is past, set (color) is future: set is "above" ground - there is a depth, a parallaxis. Then the phosphene graphics were the future coming at me, or I was rushing through time, along the orthogonal axis into the future. I was seeing the actual past + the actual future in the form of accretional layers. Initially (2-74) I saw the actual -vs remembered- past; I actually saw the past world, the original world. Which the Xtians had secretly penetrated. This world still exists as the foundation of our world - of world per se. I don't pretend to fully understand this. Then there is a middle realm in which the bad situation is mitigated. This is the realm we know, but it is not the realm depicted in "Tears" - in which the unmitigated dystopia is portrayed. It follows that Xtianity has not in fact triumphed here (but has in the upper realm); however, the divine powers of the upper realm have secretly penetrated the bottom realm with what they call a "transplant" - successfully, which affects our mixed realm. The attack is not on the middle mixed realm but on the lowest. Then this is a vital area + can't be forgotten. This is where the true secret Xtians attack. folder 48 - 023 folder 48 - 023 It is like Ubik showing up in the trash layer. The battle is taking place in the lowest realm; the divine power is on the offensive. It is evident from my anamnesis that I was active in this battle, but now I am out of that realm: gone to my reward, so to speak. If I won I won due to divine aid + not on my own. I think the idea was for me to win before being removed. After all, it is a battle going on; the object is to win, not to get the Xtian agents out. I know perfectly well that I dealt somebody a mortal blow when I turned the Xerox missive over to the Bureau. __ + the whole thing about purgatory is that you do get out of it finally + are taken up to paradise. So you could virtually describe my situation before 3-74 functionally as purgatory. __ There is no doubt in my mind: I was moved up through the realms, from one level where one set of rules (laws) applied to another higher one with a different set of laws: milder, easier, less restrictive laws. + my personality + memory altered to accomodate it. If I saw God while I was alive, then God is immanent (as Spinoza supposed) + not transcendent; but suppose I'm not in the real world, not alive, but in the afterlife, in which case God can be transcendent + otherworldly because I am on that side of the grave. Not this. + I've worked my way up from "Tears" or inferno to purgatorio and then to the folder 48 - 024 folder 48 - 024 first level of paradiso, + so could see the infinite One, God. What I'm more inclined to think, however, is based on Canto 33 of Paradiso of the "Commedia." Viz: "God is the book of the universe: "the same [volume of leaves] that the universe holds scattered through its maze." This relates God to the universe in a way that isn't contingent. What I did was move along an axis of some kind + encounter -one or perhaps several- of these pages of the book, as if they are very fine layers, resembling the phosphene graphics. I moved through them, along this axis, + the laws (rules) changed; I am speaking of plural coaxial worlds. Actually I am sure that I was moved as a primary condition of my level of ontology (authentic being, in Heidegger's sense, ushered in by Urangst), moved up crucially, + in fact rather suddenly - it is of extraordinary value to know that this can occur during a lifetime rather then between. It is as if the frequency of these pages become greater the closer (but not spacially!) that you get to the Source, the One - this is clearly Neo-Platonism. I seem to have passed orthogonally through a sort of realm, + I had done so once before to get here, as my anamnesis showed. At once the rules changed; I changed + world changed, + "always was [now] different," like retroactive changes. folder 48 - 025 folder 48 - 025 It is as if once you intersect one of these worlds you always were there; nonetheless there is an enormous subjective disruption. Two things occur to me. (1) My visualizing the Bible in 3-D: layers according to age (time as spacial axis), + relating this to the plasmate. (2) Jung's idea of ideas in the mind colliding + forming one mega-idea, through a random basis (process). Well, in 2-74, when I saw the Golden Fish sign, I flashed on the idea that (1) a secret Xtian underground existed now; + (2) therefore now was the time of Acts. As a result I saw another world ("Tears") briefly. But then it broke through for real the next month. Suppose our reality is visualized as ideas floating about in the mind of God + every now + then 2 of them colliding - as with me in 2-74. The result of this collision was that the universe became palpable to me as information (set) to carrier (ground); I may have been seeing reality as it really is: ideas so-to-speak floating, but in pages or leaves as if a book - like transparencies in a hologram + each successive "page" or world (we experience them as worlds) has its own laws or rules, + are hierarchically arranged, in terms of richness (which factors out, in our terms as freedom; i.e. greater complexity or diversity or sophistication). folder 48 - 026 So if you intersected the next "page" up (as I did due to the collision of the 2 ideas in my mind in 2-74, thus producing one mega-idea) what you'd experience would be a bombardment of your mind by information - which is exactly what I experienced. It's because this next level up is a quantum-leap forward in information-richness. Thus it would have the attributes of a wisdom machine or entity, a pure knowing. Actually it is a self-knowing on the part of the system (God) which contains all things. At each successive level it knows more of itself, + if you are located at that level you know what it, at that level ("page") knows; but whereas you know that page, it knows all the pages of the book. 1) An illegal secret Xtian underground existed. (2-74) 2) But such only existed before the time of emperor Constantine. 3) [therefore sign] it is really before 250 AD - probably the time of Acts. I rejected the testimony of my senses, + soon ceased to see world, but saw instead God, as information. In quick succession I saw 3 worlds occupying the same space + time. The only true reality was the information: "pages." folder 48 - 027 folder 48 - 027 Reading the "Commedia" - another parallel to 3-74: the top level of purgatorio where Dante hears Mathilde + sees Lethe + Eunoe is the Garden of Eden. So I heard, well - let' start with Eunoe or Mnemosyne: I "drank" from it, heard Mathilde singing, was led by the AI voice (Beatrice), dreamed of cyclopes + Sibyl + Blessed Fields (referring to Virgil, obviously), + found myself in the Garden of Eden, the Peaceful Kingdom. + saw Valis + the plasmate, i.e. the next level up which is paradiso, i.e. saw God (entered the postmortem realm - i.e. left this realm upon right choosing). Thus I count 8 elements pointing to my passing from purgatorio to paradiso (this is all very orphic + neoplatonist). Oh, 9: remembrance of "Tears" (inferno)! This is too many coincidences to be dismissed. Wait - I wasn't already at the top level - the Garden; I entered it. Ulna. From Virgil. + Beatrice represents heavenly wisdom - i.e. St. Sophia. The strange thing is, I've noted the elements from my own writing in 2-3-74, but even more dramatic + perplexing is the Virgil-Dante material. All I can assume is that, as Pythagoras said, we are in a kind of prison, + some sort of release + ascent back up + out is possible through metapsychosis. For me a quantum leap took place during a life time: an enlightenment like that of the Buddha. But it suggests that we are dead + in purgatory (for bad Karma acquired in one or several past lives). + what is most significant is that my 3-74 folder 48 - 028 folder 48 - 028 experience started out with anamnesis of a past life in another world, a hell-like world (lower level of purgatorio)? This is significant because (1) it shows I have lived before; (2) it was in a worse world, so there is ascent; (3) a triune division of worlds as in the "Commedia" seems to be the case; viz: accounts of the "afterlife" are really -esoterically- accounts of this -or rather these- worlds. However, there is another possibility: that my 3-74 experience points to a re-combining of the sundered cosmos; hence, in this lifetime, I could pass over to the next (postmortem) realm,