I fall asleep, the scrambler lifes. So I've just now proved that I cont prove anything. + I never will. + they were reluctant to let me know even this. (This fits my steiner insight that there's a scrambler working on me perhaps a defensive screen or by the enemy; it's neither but it's there, all right, due to a third it possibility.) The other side of this, perhaps, is that underneath the scramble - were it not for the inner scramble - I really know what happened. This may be why I keep trying; I know I know but can't figure out why I can't stabilize or formulate it. quite a bit of information is contained, here: that it was a trap; they used bait + hoped for a Nibble. This reinforces the idea that it was a us G2 forgery. +: a lie had been) was being told me. It (the bait) was made to look what they thought would entice me, so its appearance was not what My track B memory of "Tears" was that it was an imaginary world. But the Golden Fish restored my real memories that I'd actually lived there as well as temporarily reviving the me (Thomas) who had lived in that world. So "Tears" continued to exist in track but with the doctored memories that it was a world of fiction, + I had the PKD personality 1) who had not lived in that world; + 2) who had experienced the track B world I now "remembered," + which now existed, replacing track A the scramble let up for a nanosecond for me to realize this. "Tears" survives intact into track B, aved but with no memory on my part that I had there. I imagined to made it up. Yes, Thomas was passing out of existence; he went with track no temporar revived to when the true memories (of track A, "Tears") priefly were revived. I switched back to track A in 2-3-74. then it wasn't just an overthrow of the Nixon tyranny; it was an overthrow of the world of "Tears or rather not overthrow, but it was caused not to - created have been - + track B was (ex nihilo in its place + then Nixon was overthrown in track B. A further lifting of Rome or Babylon (which, as my "2nd coming Bible" says occurs just before Christ returns as King). obviously when "Tears" came out, one or more secret real Xtians recognized it, knew the truth about it as the track which had previously gic, been there, + set about to restore my memory - my true memory. Or they may have thought I did remember (I did not). At least not consciously. as one review of "Tears" pointed out (which I hadn't realized) was that an alternate - not ust future - world was pointed to: e.g. the civil ights movements of the sixtie s o [ failed, esp. regarding blacks. + then the dream, God intervenes, +, in the book. The genocide laws regarding blacks have never existed in the world of the book; after the dream it is our world apparently. The dream marks the switch, + the dream is of God inbreaking into history - not to mention the King Felix cypher. So the book + i don't point (just] to a future inter‐ the cyphe heract a track switch with synchronized vention but memory switch which has already taken place: "the new heavens + a new Earth" have already come into being, but we don't realize it. So the overthrow of Nixon in track B is small potatoes, a mere result easily achieved due to the track switch. + this we see + remember. The track switch must preceed the sixties. then the causal train melting in 3-74, to be understoore, must be viewed as further track switching inseperable from the major overall track switching, + can even be interpreted as prima facia evidence (a residual i bits of track switching: I actually saw it happening in 3-74 but most had already been done, + I had no memory of it Had some of track A phased back in in 3-74? Esp. the Xerox letter? Or got overlooked. i.e. the overall track switch wasn't complete; the Xerox letter was supposed to be annihilated, too. It like Thomas was part of track A. My responding to stimuli before they happened - my "2 tape pro‐ gramming" - was actually due to a confusion of 2 conflicting reality tracks, + dual responses. mingled tracks + mingled responses a transition fuck up. So 2-3-74 was not isolated from a greater picture + can only be understood in terms of it. a So 3-74 can only be understood is terms of a mutually exclusive tussle or oscillation between competing tracks with broad historical divergences affecting our whole society. Yes, I did get a double exposure superimposition, but it wasn't two times + places but two tracks (alternate worlds) (3-74) not understanding what I was undergoing + seeing my brain supposed two times - because one of the tracks was Rome, but it was modern Rome as depicted in "Tears" So my 2-74 memory restoration (anamnesis) + My whole 3-74 experience make sense only if a major prior shift from one track (A) to another (B) is taken into account one having taken place prior to the sixties (as depicted in "Tears"). The proof of this as all objectively real is the Acts material in "Tears"; obviously Thomas, myself in track A was/is a secret Xtian. He wrote "Tears" so despite my memory of me having written it (as a work of fiction] he in fact wrote it + knew it wasn't fiction; it was a projection into the future of his present world. This explains my weird obsession of getting the wording of the book exactly right. (eleven drafts.) Hence the acosmism in my writing, fake realitis lural realities competing realities, + fake memories + denties overlaying real memories + identities. perhaps 2-3-74 should be regarded as dividing into two parts: 1) dysfunction of tracks (track A swimming back in for me; + 2) repair of that dyi function. The Xerox missive could be viewed as an aspect of either (1) or (2); I can't be sure. I just realized: the Acts material in "Tears" proves I did not write it. Whatever I may re i the switch from track A to b If is regarded as having been done "surgi cally," skilful altering here + there. Then the Xerox missive can be regarded as 1) a con stituent from track A; + 2) intended for Thomas not me. So he knew what it was + signified (+ maybe it tells me some‐ thing about him); he is a secret violent revolutionary. Maybe in track A he is OCCP - in the fascist USA depicted in "Tears." God - could "track A" + the USA of "Tears" be not objective but his view of our world? that would make him OCCP; it's an OCCP view of the us. In writing "Tears" + in seeing it in 3-74 (+ remembering" it in 2-74) I saw our USA as a dedicated OCCP agent would see it: cf my 1010i kosmos theory: cf "Eye"). But For my brain to explain these 2 selves + hence 2 perceptions of the same reality; it generated an Xtian element (due to the Golden Fish). No - that doesn't explain the Acts material in "Tears" - ah: a code as I sometime ago realized: use of Biblical material (scripture) as a cypher system. By whom though? OCCP? possibly. In 3-74 even before the Xerox missive I felt I was fighting off the OCCP. As if OCCP was taking my mind over (I projected it outward, onto e.g. the radio). Actually it was a Thomas, my other self, who wrote "Tears" taking me over. I If you had two distinctly different (opposed) psychos in your brain, + the other one took over, wouldn't you see two worlds superimposed by my idios kosmos theory, as put forth in "Eye" - which, oddly, deals with a secret CP agent + his perception of the USA. This fits in with the Engels. dialectic the basis of Thomas' mental processing. + the "track A changed to track B" is a projection of Thomas' revolutionary plans, purpose, goals; his reason for existing? He is an agent with a purpose. The PTG is the USA he dreams of setting up; the BIP is how he conceives of it before he + his cihorts act to change it for the better - i.e. by overthrowing Nixon + the whole government - which is the classical CP agent goal : violent overthrow of The Capitalist USA government! + they were successful. Code in "Tears," too He recognized the Xerox missive not just as a us G2 forgery but a trap, in order to get out of which he had to act (re it as he did act). It couldn't just be ignored (by me just let go by as inexplicable; Thomas was needed). The US G2 must have decyphered "Tears" as a OCCP view of the us, + maybe the cypher - or that a cypher existed in it. What I have to realize is that "Tears" is a view of the us by a dedicated CP revol co 14 my writing - such as "Ubik" - reveal deep Hegelian dialectical anti - theist philosophy, which Lem etal noted. What I regard as Gnosticism is an anti estab‐ lishment-Xtianity anti-theist view (that of an irrational deity, or world, as in "Valis") in which rationality comes into existence - by a dialectical historic process of evolution This is Hegelian! The whole concept of Valis is rooted in dialectical materialistic mysticism The irrational gives rise to the rational. I am a major communist theoritician. (v. peter fitting, + Richard's as about Empedocles). what I've failed to take into account is theoretical the philosophical profundity of marxism, esp vis-a-vis marcuse. "Scanner" is an account of what it's like to have a self in each brain hemisphere ideologi cally on opposing sides of the barricades 3 The key to me (Thomas) is: millenialism. t Here Xtianity + marxism unite. (The PTG in place of the BIP.) Via track B (the overthrow of the us police state). In essence, the real secret] Xtians are communists, + the real (secret) communists are Xtians. The dangerous vision in "Faith A..." is correct, + only a few on each side knows Thomas is so deep cover that even a genuine contact from CP or KGB is threatening; there should be none - no link. So if CP a KGB contacted him he would have to tac t 15 any CP-KGB contact would be counterpro‐ ductive + equivisant to us G-2, so fake or real, the Xerox missive would have to be responded to the way he did. + quickly in fact the worst thing that KGB could do would be to make the mistake of contacting him; it would compromise him as much as any us ploy. + Thomas would know that directly upon "Tears being published something like this would likely happen - because he knew what was in "Tears" Thomas could reason the Xerox missive was a us G-2 fake because KGB was not supposed to ever. contact him or, if through stupidity or error. KGB did contact him (it was no fake) it was a tactical error since he was under suspicion, + he would have to quickly + vigorously repudiate it (which he did). Probably it was a us G2 fake. actically, there was no difference. Stupid KGB or smart us Army G-2 - pragmatically the same + calling for the same one response on his part. only a dedicated Xtian marxist would have the scorn for affluence (money) that he has + the suspicion of it (+ its source) as a tactic to buy