just before writing "Tears." ---------- Previous insight: secret Xtians + OCCP are one. But Diana doesn't want us to suffer; she wants us to be happy. But this will rob us of our Godhood. Which is to be preferred: the OCCP / Secret Xtian "Tears" or Diana's Joy? It's a hard Q. to answer. The OCCP has all the Xtian technology. Diana saved me in 3-74 from the Secret Xtian / OCCP. I deserve to be happy; my sister asked Diana to aid me. Pastoral, simple, natural ephemoral happiness or permanent transmutation into heroic Godhood - which is better? Diana felt I'd suffered too much. Xtianity is a cruel religion but profound. Siddhartha saw this cruel system + decided one was better off not existing. There are voices who say no to this Greek hero system - Buddha, Diana, better simple joy that the crushing force that moulds us into heroes. (The 2nd Comforter may be one of these.) (God himself relenting, having misgivings. Is it worth it?) Paradoxically, it is God himself who intervenes in this cruel system + secretly sets limits to certain suffering, in the form of Diana or the 2nd Comforter - sets limits + exceptions to his own Greek tragedy system. He mitigates it - sometimes: i.e. "short circuits karma" by his grace - as he did in my case. This is a great mystery: him in these dual roles. But it is God shining through the degraded (by suffering) - so he rescues himself. It is all a mystery. ---------- The set/ground discrimination (of 3-74): paradoxes in depth. Last night, suddenly, I realized what I had experienced, found myself in: it was a hologram! What I was experiencing was the world as it is: a 3-D halo "Cube"! I was picking up one of the two beam-sources in set + in color; the other in black + white + as ground. A projected world: Expressed another way, it only seems to be 3-D; its depth is illusion - which brings me back to my belief that we're stationary If my situation in 3-74 was that I died (in Christ) + was resurrected, + so had the faculties of the resurrected person then the world appearing to me the way it did - as a set / ground hologram - must by how the world normally appears to the resurrected person. The transformation in the world was due to the transfiguration in me; my inner "take" ran at high speed fast forwards to its end; my remaining life's karma was burned up or short circuited - by grace; then I entered the Bardo thödal state + came out the far side resurrected, + "no longer blind" - seeing the world as it actually was. This must be the hidden kingdom of God, which is right here but undisclosed until you die with/in Christ + are reborn in the Holy Spirit. But why is my experience so rare? Inasmuch as it is the real purpose of Xtianity, to create this resurrected person. Maybe it normally happens after physical death. Then how could it happen to me before death? Here is the answer: it was my fate to die in 3-74. But God intervened; at this time (1974) the day "in which I shall act" had come, + saving my life was part of this. So I must have actually died (of cardiovascular failure). This must be understood: I did die. Literally, in the sense that is normally meant, when everyone dies. But then God - when he substituted track B for track A - intervened on my behalf for historical purposes (letters to Wiggens, etc). So I was in two worlds simultaneously for a time; I really did have post mortem experiences; so my experience, can - must - be understood as regarding someone who in track A died + in track B did not. But it also has to do with my other personality Thomas. The key is there. At the moment Thomas took over, I must have died. Anyhow, one of the two of us us (is?) on the other side. Ach! Thomas who took over is on the other side, not me. He saw the hologram set / ground world. + he staved off my death: short-circuited it. Avoided it. But who is Thomas? Someone who was once alive but died + is alive again. But this is the description which the old man (the White Bearded King) makes in Revelation, + it is he who appears in the "Tears" dream + in the "King-Felix" cypher. He is the resurrected Christ. Is Thomas Christ? It would explain the memories of Acts. So I described Thomas in the "Tears" dream, + he appears in Daniel + Revelation. So that's what Thomas looks like. The Acts + dreams material in "Tears" how that the Xtian personality was [..aterity] in me as early as 1970; therefore [..olmes] could not have been rammed at me [..] Soviet microwave psychotronics in 1974. Probably that latent personality wrote Ubik. This is my counter evidence to the fear-based theory of microwave ramming in 3-74. What really took place was the anamnesis of 2-74. + that was early Xtian - which [..] That right hemisphere latent Xtain personality had to be disinhibited prior - just slightly prior - to 3-74. If he isn't Christ he is, at least, a resurrected apostolic Xtian - + this implies an active underground of them: the true church. Well, as a resurrected apostolic Xtian he is fused with Christ, + so for all intents + purposes is, through the "Spirit of Christ," the Holy Spirit, a part of Christ. I have generally made the mistake of just regarding Thomas as an early secret Xtian who is still alive or immortal, but, rather, he is resurrected, which is much more: he underwent apotheosis. (Obviously - I should know; he brought about apotheosis in me.) This apotheosis is the ultimate goal of the heroic thrust of the divinizing of creation: God as Christ entering creation It is forged out of pain, suffering, fear + dying. It is a sort of Hermetic alchemical transmutation. Is it possible that any human or creature could, under the right circumstances, experience anamnesis + recall its Christ-self? Tragedy: "the evil seen + the good guessed at." [..e] senses - but cannot clearly see - the hidden God (rational) invading the palpable evil (irrational) + sees, as the result of this antithetical clash, apotheosis. Valis: a mysterious hidden moral order (good + rational) behind the visible chaotic + evil + deterministic, which can be appealed to. --------- The slain God proliferates down through the cosmos to each rat + cockroach. ---------- A God short circuited my suffering (karma) early through grace + granted me apotheosis 3-74, + then provided me with reward, Diana, so that for me the Arcadian Joy is not an alternative to successful immortality as part of the graphic of the hologram, but that which follows the catalyst, the transfiguration: by way of the rule of Ma'at I deserve it. I deduce that I deserve it because it was given to me; I do not infer it in contemplating my life: I am not the judge. It was not my decision to cut the tribulation short. But the tribulation was no longer necessary; the permanent self "Thomas" has successfully come into existence. ---------- Coleridge on tragedy: "...the greatest effect is produced when the fate is represented as a higher + intelligent will" ("the human will was exhibited as struggling with fate"). So the essence of tragedy is the limited human knowledge, plans, hopes, desires (will) clashing with "a higher + intelligent will "which we understand (or encounter) as Fate - "Fate" defined as that power or those powers capable of arranging our outcome. The plans the protagonist has are not in harmony with a "higher + intelligent will" which has the power to decide the outcome; there is no way the man's plans can win out. So individual plan is forcibly harmonized even if this requires that it be pulverized - i.e can't be harmonized + still remain intact. The loss of that intactness is the essence of tragedy, the antithetical dialectic between his plan + Fate; plans, with the latter by definition prevailing. I do not see that his 1) learning by reason of this or, contrarily 2) failing to learn, adds or subtracts from the manifestation of the truly tragic, since to me the latter is more pitiful + the former more constructive; in fact I see the latter (2) as more tragic, of either is, which violates classic notions of tragic drama. I say, disproportionate suffering (pain, disappointment, loss) is the essence of tragedy because its disproportion renders the victim however evil or guilty juridically innocent: made spotless by the overbearing quality or quantity of suffering. Tragedy is when the punishment is not just + I say, every living creature is punished disproportionate suffering is the ubiquity of the condition of having lived. Yet a mystery is hinted at: a rectification of this disproportion - not through the vile lie that man (creatures) are sinful + deserve their suffering, but rather - but this precisely is the mystery: the invasion of this irrational system by the rational in which an invisible + elusive mitigation of tribulation is injected according to some hidden order of theodicy not directly seen. thus whereas the disproportionate tribulation is directly seen, + its reality not open to conjecture, dispute or denial, the mitigation or even transmutation of the tribulation into something proportionate, just or even beneficial must be guessed at. + this intuitive guess is the kingpin of religion + the religious solution to implacable tragedy as it exists uniquitously in the real world + not in art. " Tragedy as an interim reading of life between religion on the one hand, + Satanism, or pessimistic materialism, on the other. Basic to tragedy is the equilibrium of the evil that is observed + the good that is guessed at. What is central is the balance between an intense awareness of pain or evil, which is clearly revealed, + an intuitive apprehension of a transcendent realm of values. In each case evil is affirmed, but it is transcended by a higher good which induces exultation, not despair or faith. The balance is destroyed when evil is denied or seen as remedial or is affirmed as ultimate." I suppose in terms of what Coleridge says, the "higher intelligent will" which we call "Fate" is proved right in the end. i.e. it is proved to be just that, a "higher, intelligent will" + not fate in the sense of blind or malignant, evil or purposelessly cruel force or forces as such; it is the revelation that Fate is not Fate but a wiser ("higher") + more powerful will contending with - overruling - man's will out of its higher intelligence. It disagrees because it knows more. But this does not inspire faith + is not accepted (known) [in] or by faith. Exultation comes not from faith, which would provide only passive acceptance or resignation, but from an encounter with "fate" seen in the aspect of higher + (more) intelligent (i.e. sentient + planning) will; the exultation is derived from knowledge of, not faith concerning. That which masked itself as Fate in (mimesis) reveals this camouflage + in stepping forth acts in revelation of a deliberately hidden ➀ nature. It is not Fate at all. "Higher intelligent will" is not Fate, if the term is to retain its correct meaning. Something or someone has mimicked fate, perhaps supplanting it invisibly: replacing it perhaps by insidiously devouring it + substituting itself for it in perfect imitation, at its source. This is a staggering mystery, but mystery it is, since the stipulation of capacity for perfection of imitation when desired is attributed. ➀ different even opposing It will look like fate as long as it wants to look