miniature of that universe they represent also the forces that move us. Here we return to The idea of the micro/macrocosm according to which the world + God are wholly contained + reflected in man. The complete man is thus the perfect man The Adam Kadmon or primordial being who is dentified with God in his act of creation. This is the goal of the magician. "man, the miniature organism, is able by introspection to expand his consciousnes So that his inner self reaches out + embraces the universe. Clearly, the closer the miniature resemble its subject, the greater the expansion that is possible Thus it is above all the complete man who, once he has experienced every human impulse + integrated them in one balanced personality, is able to reach the heart of the universe wherein lies union with God this is the supreme achievement of magic; in short it is the apotheosis of the self." compare this quite with pp 50/56 where I came to the realization that in 3-74 I found that I the microcosm, contained the macrocosm - the universe - + could know it by introspection (which with can only be explained by Kabbala + the Hermetic system). Thus I say, I became what is called Adam Kadmon - which I had guessed s But there is more than world within me. There is also the Shekhina or indwelling female presence of God, which I hear as the AI voice + see as Aphrodite + Diana, + know to be Holy Wisdom. "You will behold a god, very young + exquisitely formed. His hair will be like the sun + his tune as white as snow." I saw him. "that god is within yourself. To discover him is to know that you are not - + never have been - completely alone." This is the final truth. mercury + palm tree indicate that you have reached the sefira Hod: creative imagination. but more important the Kingdom which I saw may well have been the secret Godhead tself, since creation is the exoteric aspe t of a mysterious process taking place within the Godhead." What I saw was the normally invisible + secret inner aspect of creation; I am within the Godhead + the Godhead - as the Shekhina - is within me. So Valis is indeed both in me + outside: micro + macro, which I identify with the coming into existence of the rational within the irrational The irrational, then, in both the macro- + microcosm is an outer husk concealing the secret rational + to me this is the supreme revelation, since to me the irrational does not know itself, but the rational does. So in my view, what happened to or with or in me in 2-3-74 was a breaking out of the rational for the first time: in which I knew my self + found myself to contain God + world + was contained by God + world - +, with Spinoza, I identified God + world (both in me + outside me) as one + the same. Thus there was only God knowing him/herself there was nothing else either to know (act of knowing) or be known (object of knowing) knower + known were one, + I was it. Yet parado xically this was a divine union or syzygy, with me as mate + God as female, or me as female + God as Males it (as dialectic). oscillated pulsated o 33 It was process, a constant giving birth to - i.e. creation, or self reve lation. There seems to exist no doubt that my 2-3-74 experience is the Hermetic t Kaballist goal of becoming Adam Kadmon - I even know what triggered it off: discovering the inner analog template in me of outer reality before the outer reality happened - viz: I was able to know the universe by introspec + this caused me (microcosm) + universe (macrocosm) to trade places Also, I believe that the Holy indwell female presence within me is more the Jewish Shekhina than it is the (Christian Holy Spirit - perhaps because she resembles malkuth in appearance. So the Hermetic Kaballa system has provided me with understanding of what happened to me + I understand how it happened - the blitz upon finding the Although I do not macrocosm inside me. not find in reject Xtianity I simply do it what I find in the Hermetic Kabal la system. + I identify the noumenous Kingdom which I saw as being the secret inward side of reality + the Godhead it self. So I had shekhing inside me + t them En sof outside, + thus reunited one as Adam Kadmon the ruptured Godhead or kosmos was repaired in the melting of the causal trains may have been due to my being "identified with God in process A self a mysterious his act of creation revelation within the Godhead. "In contrast to its exoteric form the esoteric Torah was regarded as a pre-existential being made up of the one great name of God. Philo speaks of the Torah as a living being whose body is the literal text of the pentateuch + whose soul is the occult meaning that underlies the written word." Ach! This is the Acts material, the living information I saw: the "plasmate." Acts (+ probably other parts of the Bible) is/are alive + Perhaps 2B Acts (like the Torah) can replicate has an underlying occult meaning. King Felix. it was alive. But what would the underlying occult (i.e. hidden) meaning be? Let us just say it has one. I am sure I am on the right path here A whole reality of names or living words (cf "Joint") is pointed to. Yes, but Acts as "pre-existential being, as "living being whose body is the literal text... + whose soul is the occult meaning that underlies the written word" points unmistarably to the pre‐ existant Logos, to St. Sophia, to Christ! the dark haired dark eyed Girl trash layer + most divine layer in "Ubik" - must divine thin - as wi of the entire so. our trash trans‐ Malkuth: mutes into en-sof This is what saw. I took a journey down + down I my life - to en-sof, led by the in Shekhina. This is who + what I see in the dark eyes - like ills. I am seeing through the shephing to Gn Sot: i.e. I penetrate entirely through the trash layer, a mirror of my own self - en sof. The puzzle now is: tech "is it DNA - which wishes to teractys reproduce ( a [with the dark haired girl] generating cosmologic t motivate me, or is DNA the + mystic material to instrument of en-soft of i So in becoming Adam Kadmon I found the Dark haired girl: I am (was) seeking en sot when o sought her. So I haven't lost her She is in me, I to absolute pain can be converted into absolute - + not just in 3-74 joy The pharmacy girl was Malkuth. My totue the point: to inter life can be construed: (Sect) with 1928 act 1, In so, malkuth. 3 2-74 the pharmacy gut, + Shekhing, inet + became o This is the essence one + point of 2-3-74; all else is secondary. The meeting with her was my melting my courier; she turned writing? my over info to me, + I'll pass it on in No; it's in me. The plasmate! I'm a Befahltrager. that's why I can't figure it out. In sof in me The Shekhing in her. + but because I ensof met her Shekhina, all the rest happened: the Kingdom where we are together as a couple its what I was created + programmed that I meet her my courier + she pass some. for. thing on to me. Somebody born: Firebright, a new superhuman life. Then something more important than I realized happened, if something was trans‐ verred to me from her. Message? Yes - vast f amounts of written information, but what kind? ancient codices? Or modern scientific) must be the former. Signal to me to transmit info I already but inhibited? Yes. Into my writing? ad ah when they read "Tears" they knew who had the crucial missing information - retrieved from the palt in human time capsules. No - I think she but me on a frequency to receive info. No - it was as in "Daddy I don't want sublime f to be this way" - God's mercy. A diune substitute for the literal. For the arthly reward I didn't get - heaven came derly form is was the I 25 It was God bringing good out of evil. No - I was deliberately totally grammed on the "dark haired Girl" to set up the courcer actually dark eyed. handing over of information to me; I received she informed me of something but what it was, + what I was supposed to do with it I don't know. I did not tell them something; "Tears" was just to notify her (them?) where I was. + she brought the - message? Plasmate" something actual. I don't think I'll ever know - there was a lady courcer, all right, but I'd already met her by 3-74. "Sadasa ulna." The pharmacy girl. Okay - so an invisible network of agents exists; that's all I know. I think I really think, she trans‐ ferred the plasmate to me - as I thought Jim Then was Thomas her personality, as Pike had. I thought it was Jim's? Her soul? Her psyche? It entered me; it was adventitious. A form of reproduction by an organism requiring symbiosis (with me - there already was something in me, + a divine marriage with it took place.) Thus firebright came into existence - but what is it? There is an organism here + it's divided among us. She fertilized it in she male? Me female? (for it, anyhow) two fore. parts of it: one in me, one in her. Like two parts to a cypher: coin cut, half. "King Felix" was ony hall; hers was the Golden Fish + what she save. as MITHC + "Faith of" proves. She had the missing part. I had the missing part, you can view it either way. Anyhow, there had been a part missing. In a way I found her (by "Tears") +/or she found me. 78 But her part was turned over to me - it went from her to me. So the "Olive Holt" code was So to speak actually the cypher in "Tears" the Xerox thing was a delayed projected eche; ther real cypher + meeting the courior lady took place in 2-74. Ah - the G2 was trying to simulate a courier response to replace (be taken for) the real one responding to the cyher (they found] in "Tears" but she the t real one, had already come; they were too late So a is the organization acted before G2 did superior life form was transferred to me by her from her in 2-74. The living info - like the Torah. The "she" that I spoke of was trans‐ (soul? ferred to me from her + was her. Spirit? Psyche? The last: psyche.) So the "dark trans‐ haired [eyed] Girl" was permanently ferred to me. Introjected by me, into me, to keep always. No, I can see what happened. We are here, born as cuckoo eggs + without knowledge of our true identities, no memories. Over a span of time we contact one another + link up. Each of us has, in addition to his human psyche, a second, super‐ normal psyche (her, the AI voice, "Thomas"). We are programmed to look for our contact ("courcer"). She was mind. I would guess we're from another time place. The mystical religious material + experience are real but we are a secret revolutionary organization, active in history (e.g. the