a sense it is an illusion. Ananke != Torah! The existence of the Torah is experienced by reality as God's will: teleology. (Cf Aristotle's concept of God as inspiring goal-seeking). Paul got the Torah confused with "astral determinism" probably due to the mystery religions. Xtianity offered what the mystery religions offered; it was the climate of the times. This is what the Greco-Roman world wanted, Xtianity is the mystery religions impacting on Judaism. folder 48 - 149 folder 48 - 149 But to account for what Christ saves you from, Paul drew on the Jewish concept of sin (known to the Greeks in terms of Orphism), with disastrous consequences, since he had to posit a deranged ontology in man - sin rather than fate (ananke or astral determinism). The Good man - Bad man bipolarities of Wisdom are abolished in favor of ubiquitous badness. But historically it is pronoia that extricates man, + not just in Judaism/Xtianity - v. Stoicism. Christ becomes the sole channel for charis: a monopoly. Still, Paul offers it to all men, Jew + Gentile alike; it is there for the asking, but Paul insists on absolute faith on the part of men, which leads to credal fanaticism + finally the totalitarian church. You wind up not given a choice; it is imposed on you as a Roman-Empire template: conformity. So Roman ideas as well as Greek ideas enter Jewish thought. God the law-giver becomes regarded as oppressive, the law is regarded as incapable of saving, + human institutional oppression replaces the "oppression" of God's law. From this standpoint Paulline Xtianity is blasphemy. The ritual killing of the God-King, whose body + blood the followers eat + drink - this is an abreaction. Eat + drink + become the God-King; i.e. immortal. Must have come in via Orphism from the Dionysian rites. "Kyrios." Compare (contrast) to the Qumran people's beliefs. Zeus-Zagreus! But Spinoza says Jesus was the voice that e.g. Elijah heard - i.e. Holy Wisdom, in which case for a person to be plugged into the AI voice is to be plugged into Christ. The AI voice itself identified Jesus as St Sophia. folder 48 - 150 folder 48 - 150 There must be an intimate connection between St Sophia + the Torah; Holy Wisdom is the Torah talking (created before creation, participated in creation - ach! "Told God what to do: Ws 8:4: "She is initiated into the knowledge that belongs to God, + she decides for him what he shall do." Obviously the Torah = St Sophia qua information-instructions, or: St Sophia is the spirit of the Torah. 1) Dogma identifies Christ as St Sophia 2) The AI voice so identified him. 3) I was disinhibited by the fish sign, + Thomas was an apostolic Xtian. I.e. true Xtian. 4) The dream I had said that early Xtians are being "instilled" in people here + there at the periphery of power. ___ I just now read over "The Dark Haired Girl" + it sheds amazing light on 2-3-74. It reveals 2-3-74 as a victory on the part of God over the temporal -i.e. flux- processes of creation. The eternal attacks the temporal chaos + subdues it + replaces it. It was not just salvation of + for me by God but victory over flux by the eternal, as if a stabilizing power attacked creation + subdued it, rescuing me as a byproduct; the war was between the eternal + the temporal, as if between Plato's world of forms + the phenomenal world. As if in me, or represented by me, flux had gotten out of control, had overstepped or overflowed its natural bounds. It was God folder 48 - 151 versus creation-as-chaos: "Place there is none." A halt to the flux had to be called by a more powerful entity entering from outside the situation. I envision St. Michael slaying the dragon of chaos with the Todtestackel: a vast vertical downreach. As if time accelerated itself around me + finally was subdued: stopped by the eternal: motion ceased - was made to cease by interventive invasion. The situation was a desperate one; I was consuming time faster + faster (which bears out my recent insight that I had been speeding up in relation to real time until finally I used up all time totally, + passed outside of time! The lithium was certainly a factor in the conversion from motion to rest. It stopped me suddenly, + reality stabilized into the realm of forms, the upper realm. There must have been profound catacholomine changes. It was as if I had been hyperventilating for years progressively faster + faster; my inner biological clock was speeding up, ahead of outer events, heading toward biological exhaustion + hence death. But just before death occurred, there was intervention - yet I actually passed on along the "tape" into my postmortem existence. Accidental yoga. Burning. Kundalini fire, ajna eye. I burned up my karma. In fact I evolved millions of years into the future, to man's future morphology. folder 48 - 152 folder 48 - 152 I entered the occult esoteric early Christian technique-process. Christ either entered me, or, more likely, I became him. Literally millions of years of biological-clock time shot by; I evolved far into the future: became my own remote descendent, + so saw the world as far in the past (in relation to me!). The world lagged 1000s of years behind me. Hence I saw it as ancient + a prison. At the same time a future -not past- self took over (Thomas). World was past; I was future. If I had abreacted, world would have seemed fremd in the sense of moving ahead of me. I had been moving faster + faster for decades due to the amphetamines. Without them my biological clock synthesized the missing noradrenaline + speeded up even faster. Finally only supratemporal constants were perceptible to me. (The phosphenes.) Brain metabolism was altering more + more - off balance, toward speeding up. I remembered 2000 years ago as if it was yesterday. I moved faster + faster through time, so in relation to me time slowed down + finally froze into the upper (Platonic) realm: a correct hypostatizing of reality on my part, with no change; time converted into space. I saw reality as it is + not the phenomenal world, which is one of flux. folder 48 - 153 folder 48 - 153 I had a 4000 year present: 2000 years back + 2000 years forward, whereupon God (Valis) was visible: the world-spinner (YHWH) who causes to exist; instead of seeing what exists I saw what causes [it] to exist. Semplice lumen. So it was YHWH that I saw (Valis). + it communicated with me. I should have died, having used up all my time, but it (as Christ) intervened to preserve me - the true Xtian secret; truly born again (with Christ as surrogate sacrifice in my place; without Christ I simply would have suffered cardiovascular collapse). Yoga (kundalini) + esoteric early Xtianity; perhaps I subliminally remembered the techniques, having learned them 2000 years ago. Personal immortality taught by Jesus: "a system of teachings" not a religion. The anamnesis was real, but Thomas was from the future, not the past. A meta-self extending over millenia: immortal. These are very old teachings that Jesus learned in Egypt or India (my memories of Egyptian Crete suggests Egypt, but I did have dreams of India - in connection with Elijah-Elisha. They go back to the bronze age. The huge book pages that I saw are DNA info encoded in me by me 1000s of years ago: instructions to be disinhibited later on - as they were! Like inner Dead Sea Scrolls - a DNA library! YHWH vs Belial. I am a servant of Yahweh. Qumran. folder 48 - 154 folder 48 - 154 The AI voice is that of the Master, our guru, Jesus. I had huge amounts of the old Gnosis (wisdom-knowledge of the origins + nature of the world) encoded + blocked in me for later release. These techniques + this knowledge may date back to before the Fall - whatever that was. We were the cyclopes. Superhumans bred into the autochthons. Or early man - Minoan man. A variant of early man superior to homo sapiens who interbred (+ otherwise as such died out). Neolithic age techniques. Knowledge dealing with a great war. We lost but will reassert ourselves, retrieve ourselves out of the DNA + later on win. Jesus was a throwback to the pure 3-eyed humanoid type, the first such to separate out of homo sapiens in 1000s of years. Ikhnaton was another: Moses' guru. Jesus was our leader. The Bible is our code. An underground exists; it's true - the plasmate, cooked media, linkings, the clutch-system, etc. Our world fell to homo sapiens, a rival humanoid species ("Sons of Darkness"). Zoroaster figured it out: 2 humanoid species contending. The main thing for me to realize is that 2-3-74 occurred because I had the techniques engrammed in me from the distant past, + the Pentathol disinhibited them once again. Elijah + I are one. There are immortals bred into the human race + I am one. 3-eyed. folder 48 - 155 folder 48 - 155 In searching for the dark-haired girl I was seeking my disinhibiting stimulus situation, knowing subconsciously that it was inevitably coming. My search for the dark-haired girl was my search for my own buried ancient racial identity. The bottom line is, it all has to do with Jesus Christ + what he taught, + what I knew + was then. Like Jesus, the early (true disciples) Xtians could be killed - but they would eventually be resurrected, like Jesus. I am one of them. We commune with God. The AI voice (Jesus') links us together; it is a female voice: St Sophia. The whole point of my life was the meeting with Jesus in 3-74! {illustration: the lines "Jesus" and "me1" cross at 3-74, ending up in "me2"} It was the reason I was born - brought into being in the first place. I am changed because of meeting him. "The Dark Haired Girl" was written by a different person than I am now. I have no other purpose in life. It has been successfully done. I was formerly in hell - "The Dark Haired Girl" shows this. He came into my life as a physician + healed me + now I am safe + happy. folder 48 - 156 I was born into this world for that purpose + it was accomplished. __ The main thing is these techniques is: speeding up the inner biological clock so that the karmic "tape" runs past the moment of death, with Christ accepting the death as surrogate, + you living on into the postmortem life, but here, so that you are in the upper realm (as well as the lower) + hence restored to contact with God - i.e. as in before the Fall, with faculties restored. A major time dysfunction (?) occurs as the phylogenic -immortal- personality emerges + remembers, so you have the 4000 year slot present. But all this can't be done unless Christ dies for you; otherwise you simply die, + enter the postmortem world after death, as is normal, only sooner. This is the second birth (salvation; triumph over time + death). Postmortem-self + -world occur here, joining the this-world self to the postmortem self to produce a "parallaxis" self + hence world - vast spaces + time. You are in both worlds at the same time with expanded self to match. This is resurrection after death. Apparently Christ selects you; this is not something you can do on your own. As your inner tape advances out of synch, you are no longer "of" the world - literally, although in it (the inner + outer tapes become dysynchronized.) What has to be realized is: you are on some kind