to not the explanation. Thomas didn't contact the Bureau. I that was the real genetic me did I burned Thomas for realining my life. I paid him back. Him + all his info, his written pages. 77 If I had told the Bureau about the "other person - Thomas taking me over at the time the Xerox letter came they might not have paid attention. But if I had added, "+ endless written pages + other info inc. in foreign languages - went through his head - he saw the written pages" - then the Bureau would have sat up + noticed D17 you see Phil? Despite the religious scramble? the info in "Tears" is that it shows that I've been in the OCCP. Both us army crypto + Soviet army intelligent noted it That's what's in "Tears." I just realized: Thomas thought, "it was from an intells officer in "For Thomas, he'd think of the army. Soviet Army as "the army"! 93 God - in reference to the info dump in my head - one of the clearest parts (sections) had to do with a radical new motor engineering principle (drive)! (v. the 6 items supra) again, espeonage is pointed to clearly. e the perception of Valis is a perception of The final cause entity. Much of what happers is it: teleology, as if the universe as temporally backward, dragged by future tugs. Therefore much of what we experience makes no sense (since the purpose is yet future), the reason I saw Valis was that I was moving backward in time; this is why I reacted to things before they happened: for me they had happened. This retro motion explains everything + it is the overlooked key. A future PKD took over: graft from the future phylogony, this explains the 1) cos mological noetic knowledge: it was my future exegesis; + 2) the 1974 "taco stand" trip: the Futue in mange counity breaking through. This retro - time sense is a normal buried function which I turn on under stress as a meta ability to problem-solve - e th 74 missive. This explains the Acts material (+ material about Kathy) in "Tears" -I am a precog by living backward. Hence The St Sophia prophecies. What "Tears" contains is OCCP (that space-time.) In 2-74 I remembered it, + in 3-74 (when Thomas took over) I saw it. i ergo, I saw OCCP. OCCP is Thomas' world. Apostolic Xtians don't drive cars. h Thomas' memory: violent revolutionary 3-74: starting with return of dissociated to memory in 2-74: 1) info dump in my head. Written pages - technical. 2) other personality with dissociated (from me) memories: very active + shrewd personality 3) memories of being a violent revolutionary against a repressive regeeme. Us seen that way. philosophic 4) Basic worldview of Hegel-Engels dialectic 5) letter from red army intelligence officer urgent importance 6) dreams of meeting a woman - shown photos of her: "She will contact you; very important" 9) spacial augmentation suspesting right brain dominance. The Bob-fred plot in "Scanner." 8) sup you see, item five overcomes the objection that It's all in my head all subjective: 1) a religious or 2/psychotic experience. 8) delusional post-hypnotic ational that I was undergoing a mystic religious theophany âž€ What I call "anamnesis" may have been restoration of dissociated memory - I do a ve 73 9) The AI voice. Foreign language - thinking in a language I don't know. Greek elements in it may just indicate scientific terms - which fits in with the scientific + technical pages. 10) Some kind of code in "Tears" + us army intelligence interested in it 11) Lem trying to get me to go behind the Iron curtain. This breaks down. 12) sodium pentathol the day my dissociated memory returned. If there were dissociated memories you could predict (as Hal did) that of they could be retrieved it would occur under pentathol for obvious reasons ("the truth drug"). Memories of "a long time ago" + "another place" yet, oddly, visually syntonic (a month later when the full memorie + the other personality broke through). So it was this place + this time viewed another way, viewed by someone who was not only a secret revolutionary but a violent one (they - it was a group - blew things up). they had codes + passwords. Thought of themselves as ushering in, by their revolution, the millenial Kingdom. 13) Hal's conviction that I had a dissociated personality with dissociated memories, none of which I was aware of. + that pentathol would bring it out. 14). The "taco stand" incident. Traffic, buildings, crowds. 15) dreams (memories?) of being interrogated 16) absolute conviction in 3-74 that the Soviets were "beaming micro-waves at me" + a + "controlling me telepathically - interfering with radio reception" before th n issive 76 I submit that my "anamnesis" of a former life was actually a reacquiring of dissociated memories of some years back - hence the sense of them being archaic They were archaic - probably a decade or more back. the dialectic was specifically marxist - Engelsist. violent secret revolutionary group in the country of the enemy. Codes. Stealth + concealment essential fear of "the Romans" - i.e. the official authorities. those in power whose police were everywhere. Odd term: "buttoned down mind," which to me suggests bourgeois capitalism: not open to radical revolutionary ideas specifically, we are an illegal group, subject to o arress in order for me to account for all these strange experiences - other personality taking motor control, many writter pages member of secret violent revolutions group masking identity + purposes, reacquired old memories, a religious explanation: "You are a true secret Xtian from apostolic times" + "Christ is about to return" - i.e. the revolution is near at hand +: 17) This specifically involves the overthrow of the us government "which consists of conspirators + murderers who have been seen + will be punished" My secret violent revolutionary group is dedicated to achieving this; hence I am to (or Thomas is to) write certain crucial political letters revealing certain concealed facts about the government to those investigating it My group (secret group here in the enemy camp, the us) is the vanguard + instrument of progressive history: its active, organized agent. But of course this is all religious stuff - done as the "will of God, to fulfill plan" + usher in a paradise o od's secret where t in dreams we who are secret agents here in the camp of the enemy are reached by motorized (tank) columns, men in uniforms soldiers fully armed, from "outsides who with punish "James James; the madman in charge here." This is not espionage. This is revolution. The writter pages are instructions. To me. As my real self emerges, to fight the us government as part of the revolutionary attack against it. I see as Cabbala on the far wall: Olive Holt My battle plans - my signal to act - have come. At last [Note after 40 years - this goes back to my childhood. Doesn't this alive Holt cypher - + the Xerox letter itself - conflict with a religious explanation? But even it assumes a mystic aspect: the cabbala, the Hebrew letters trans‐ form. Everything is seen by me under the aspect of religion - due to the Golden Fish sign. ➀ No - the plans are in my head, the signal is: all that written signal to remember + to act. stuff + photographs, entering my mind "from my outside" - i.e. from a dissociated part of brain. Right hemisphere, sensed as coming from the OCCP. Olive Holt - this tells it all. But this is a Holy revolution, against oppression, tyranny, slavement: the old "Roman" Empire. If it was religious why did I sense occp from the very start, + specifically taking control of me, assuming power over me to make he into a machine that did what it wantel? Reducing me to robot status against my will. answering that ad that + showed the hasetaly + sickle - that's when compe being programmed by OCCP. that I could be made to do anything, + it wasn't good - + so called the Fullerton PD, + told then I was a machine under OCCP control" + to lock me up for the good of the U.S. I was fighting it off as best I could. I got the Xerox missive to the Bureau; that was my shot fired off as I fell mortally wounded (by OCCP) - my return fire in defense. I didn't know what the Xerox missive was because God told me; I knew because I knew (re the AI voice late last year). (The AI voice saying what it did showed that on a subliminal level I knew it was "from an intelligence officer in the army." That was my dissociated self thinking, I finally managed to transliminate in 978 knowledge which was there in '74 + before. army" fits in with the Palm tree AFBIKA corps in the James-James dream. A military invasion is alluded to, that in the final analysis "the liberators" are military + uniformed + mechanized in nature: quite modern. A modern day army. fast moving: gliding swiftly + silently in the liberate "Prisoners" who are spell bound by sames the James who is insane. (demented monarch - like George its vs the American colonists! Only this time instead of breaking free of him we overthrow him, as cromwell did king James "Scanner," written mainly before 2-3-74 shows the degradation of a person with two "warring hemispheres" employed 1) by political forces he doesn't know about 2) for purposes he does not - cannot - understand. His reduc to a reflex machine. + I wrote that last part at new path, before 2-3-74 inc his final triumph: firing off that one lethal vengeful return shot before he succumbs h s te + 1 book as prima facie evidence that a spiritual religion was not involved in 2-3-74 but anstead bitter, cruel, practical, powerful mundane forces: "the Government," as I put it in "Scanner. A cynical ruthless government had so made use of him without his knowledge or consent - yet, despite the justice of it, it was necessary, because the task involved penetration of the enemy's domain territory - by a spy, a secret agent, who of necessity could himself not know 1) that he was a secret agent or 2) what his mission was. He acted on subcortical reflex. (+ this was written before 2-3-74. They had programmed him, fucked him over. How could I have known to write this? The answer is obvious. the missing pieces - the religious "explanation deliberate comingling appears in "Faith of..." of God + communism. + something to do with drugs Scanner" shows how bitterly (before 2-3-74!) I resented what had been done to me - this shows up in the last sections of the novel us tie tely is the attitude which caused me to burn Thomas by contacting the Bureau. Now, it seems impossible that that had been written before 2-3-74, but it was. Just before. e I figured it out. The sodium pentathol + golden Fish were unplanned (obviously, at least by mundane agencies). But the combination caused the dissociation to begin to break down - + added the religious aspect - quite by chance. I wasn't supposed to remember - until the Xerox missive came, + then I PKD) was supposed to as in 33 way, without ideation within conscious. ness. (As I did with the ad.) But the process begun the day in Feb, the pentathos + Golden Fish, changed things. Thomas + his memories broke into [my] consciousness - would have without the Xerox missive coming. This is because, partly, "Tears" had just been pub‐ lished + I knew subliminally there was code - political code - in "Tears" + so knew that the contact would come