isn't the right hemisphere functioning? Julian Jaynes says it once did, but massive social disruptions (megrations) acted to silence it about 3500 years ago. The fall. Only prophets (e.g. Elijah) could still hear it (600 BC), i.e. hear God. But I do - have ever since 3/74. Then proper human brain functioning involves a potentiality (boosting) of the right brain. This (technically speaking) is accomplished by some kind of irradiation following the optic nerve (i.e. by selective light - or colors? Or patterns of colors: yes, patterns, gestalts in flashcut velocity which triggers responses in the right brain which can read these high-velocity-permutating colored patterns - "subliminal" information. Then when I saw the prosphene activity I was being calculatedly + sophisticatedly irradiated. The "miracle" was a superior technology. Like the info-rich beam of pink light. Zebra is an advanced life form, a physician. It "talked" to my right brain - communicated with it. + the result is what is called the Dibba Cakkhu eye of Shiva, or ajna chokra. The left hemisphere is not only under a limitation, it is also fucked up. The faulty reasoning depicted in "Scanner" is left brain digital thinking, i.e. faulty logic (v. de Bono + his concept of multiplex thinking, not digital - + Phil Purser says I employ this not-digital thinking in my writing. Anti toxin. folder 20 - 048 folder 20 - 048 Then the conclusion I seem to have reached is that left brain ratiocination is not only inadequate, it is faulty. In the "bicycle" scene in "Scanner" they tell him his perceptions (not just his cognition, i.e. reason) are fucked up. Quote: "the cognitive system fails because it isn't receiving accurate data... What the black saw (sic) was different from what all of you saw... you didn't perceive (sic)...." etc. "when you go to reason about what you see you reason wrongly because you don't -" The point made is that correct reasoning depends on correct perception (Gestalting, {...}). All the left hemisphere logic in the world is futile if perception is faulty. This is a major point made in "Scanner" as to what is wrong with their brains. Faulty input. But "faulty perception" is another way of saying, "Each of us sees, + therefore lives in, a different world [from everyone else]." This returns me to plural idoi kosmoi - so it dovetails (my total system). I do not see + therefore do not experience, what you do - a major theme in my writing. This fits in with my early thinking as in "Eye", but even better in fits with my "push-pull inner-outer self-tape" concept! Each of us is rigidly limited to a certain way of experiencing world - his world, function of a folder 20 - 049 folder 20 - 049 sort of inner + outer lock structure. "Scanner" makes the point that thinking (reasoning) is dependent on perception, on data perceived + how perceived (arranged, patterned). What I call "negative hallucination" is more precisely the selective editing out of certain data, which immediately cripples cognition (reasoning). I believe some kind of pre-programmed tape does in fact edit out certain crucial data - whole categories of data. Whatever controls the tape controls the limiting of received data which in turn cripples reason. Thus I indict reason on epistemological grounds. We are getting very close to the brain fed a spurious reality paradigm which Lem sees in "Ubik." Falsification of world, then, + the {block?} occlusion (which extends to reasoning) may be fundamentally an editing out: not what is fed but what is not fed; hence I think of our state as one of blindness. What is spurious about world is this editing. It seems purposeful, why is it done? What is the purpose? Incomplete data is worthless as a basis for reasoning. The fault lies there. Thus we are made prisoners, but in such a way as to occlude us from knowing folder 20 - 050 folder 20 - 050 that we are occluded; this is the horrible irony put forth in "Scanner" - a major point; perhaps the major point, we can't monitor what we can't see (perceive). Thus Rome CAD 45 looks like USA 1974 by 1) spurious additions + 2) crucial editing outs. The whole contour of reality is deformed by this lethal 2-pronged manipulation; we improperly gestalt. But in 3-74 i properly gestalted, due to the 2-74 anamnesis. So the manipulation is inside us. The Worldwide Church of God believes Simon Magus (the "Sorcerer") has us. Could they (i.e. Armstrong) be right? The whole ediface of establishment Xtianity: has Armstrong pinpointed who the magician (that I refer to) is? Creator of spurious world? Oddly enough, Simon Magus lived at the time of Acts. I have an eerie feeling that my 2-3/74 experience was due to Simon Magus, who founded Gnosticism (elite Gnosis); he lived at the time of Acts, + appeared to pagans as the Holy Spirit. The Gnostics regarded him as God, or "the great power of God." + Simon underwrote my writing, esp. "Ubik" + "Tears" which is why my writing has a Gnostic tinge. + "Thomas" is Simon. He knew Philip. He was converted by Philip. Because Simon was in me during folder 21 - 001 Kerygma understood as of October 18, 1978: In STIGMATA, UBIK and MAZE they are in an irreal world (Lem's paradigm). It is stipulated in STIGMATA that no time passes, and this is implicit in MAZE (and could be true in UBIK). In TEARS the actual world is shown, the world of Acts, Rome C. A.D. 45. In SCANNER the cause of our being unable to reality-test is shown to be a percept-system toxicity or damage, anyhow an inner occlusion deliberately induced by a drug or drug-like substance (which collates with the master magician in STIGMATA administering a drug to people which puts them forever in his irreal world where no time passes -- a world they can't tell isn't real). (In MAZE two additional points are made: (1) false memories; and (2) negative hallucinations on a mass basis; rather than experiencing what is real, something which is actually there is not experienced.) Thus in those five novels virtually the complete story is shown, especially if one can determine from internal evidence that the world of actuality presented in TEARS is the time and place of Acts. The nature of the entity which seeks to rescue us is given in UBIK, and is called --by itself-- "the Word," i.e. Christ or the Logos. It is breaking through "from the other side," one way, uncannily manifesting itself in ways not syntonic to the false world they imagine they're living in. This very experience precisely happened to me in 2-3/74, indicating that all five novels are literally true (I experienced the world of TEARS or more accurately the world of Acts). I assumed that the purpose of my writing is to acquaint us with our situation, that my novels and stories function like the inbreaking messages in UBIK (such as the grafitti on the bathroom walls), but now I am given to understand that actually my writing is report on the situation here outgoing -- meant to leave our irreal world, to break out, not in, and acquaint the actual world (macrobrain) of our plight. They are then appeals for help, by a salvific entity which has invaded this our irreal world, an entity we can't percieve. It is the Paraclete, which has just now arrived for the first time, immediately following Christ's death and resurrection (it must be kept in mind that the real time is 45 A.D. and the real place is the Roman Empire). My writing is information traffic fed into the macrobrain, which continually processes such information. This information traffic between stations of the macrobrain is itself what we call "the Logos." Despite the testimony of our (occluded) senses, the Parousia is close at hand, and will occur as promised during the lifetime of some of those of the first century A.D. We will experience this when the Paraclete abolishes the irreal world imposed on us, strips the master magician of his power over us, and reveals to us the true state of things, most especially the macrobrain (or God), which is a macroform of us the plural microforms. There is some evidence that the master magician who has us lost in his irreal world where no actual time elapses (called Palmer Eldritch in STIGMATA is Simon Magus, who lived at the time of Acts which is to say now. Thus Simon is still alive, and the authentic original early Christian disciples are still alive. folder 21 - 002 folder 21 - 002 The creator can afford to descend into his own creation. He can afford to shed his memories (of his identity) and his supernatural powers. Then he can test his own creation. But he cannot afford to get stuck in it. The creator deliberately plants clues in his irreal creation -- clues which he cunningly knows in time (eventually) will restore his memory (anamnesis) of who he is, and his powers as well; he will then know that his creation is irreal and has imprisoned him in it, thus freeing himself and restoring himself to Godhood. So he has a fail-safe system built in. No chance he won't eventually remember. Makes himself subject to spurious space, time and world (and death, pain, loss, decay, etc.), but has these disinhibiting stimuli distributed deliberately strategically in time and space. So it is he himself who sends himself the letter which restores his memory (Legend of the Pearl). No fool he! This is perfectly epitomized in the Ubik commercials; he can exist at any trashy layer --sincerely-- he wants to be, in any trashy form. But in the end he remembers (as witness the ad over the final chapter of UBIK). Purpose? This way he can permeate this creation with the divine, at all levels, and sincerely (i.e. without even him knowing while he's doing it!) Zebra equals Christ. Christ equals God. Thomas equals Zebra. I equal Thomas. (For equals read is.) Thus I equal God. But I've forgotten again. Oh well -- I wrote it all down, heh-heh. Knowing I'd again forget. I was invaded (theolepsy) by Christ, all right. But as I say supra, it was I who remembered being Thomas or Christ and living back in Rome c. A.D. 45. So, like in "Impostor," I am -- I love it. It's delightful. It's a dance. Brahman dancing with joy. (Felix.) And so was Pinky; he knew and remembered, too. Christ (the Creator) is among us, disguised. Even He has forgotten. He could be any person, any animal. We do not know; He does not know. But eventually He will remember; he has set clues in his own path to trigger off his true memory and powers. Then we will find ourselves judged for the way we treated him, as told in the N.T. He who was our victim, our object, will be our judge. In 3-74 I sat down on the judgment seat, when I remembered. And what about those who set the trap for me in 3-74, the trap that went back to the raid on my house on 11/17/71? Beware when you set out a trap; you may trap Dionysos, the patron God of small trapped animals. folder 21 - page 1 folder 21 - page 1 My radical epistemological structure discloses the magnitude of the task the Holy Spirit performs for us; it is nothing less than the lifting of an irreal world imposed on us without our being aware of it; abolishing a severe + unrecognized occlusion which lies within us (as analog of the spurious world); he breaks the power of the master magician who imposes the delusional world on us, + the unrecognized occlusion in us; he reveals the actual world; he reveals the macrobrain (God) to us; he reveals our nature; that of microisomorphism