the BIP but the underground (the latter is missing in "MITHC" + "Tears" but is in "EC"). + therefore the signal code is logical fascism won (insidiously). "Tears" ties in with "mith However, fascism has an underground enemy equipped with ultra technology. the stations of the cross: me, with the death station occurring in early 1974 + reborth (resurrection) in 2- or 3-74. Death: the oral surgery. Then the Bardo Thodol trip +, in 3-74, rebirth (resurrection). cause I was back at Acts. I awoke (the radio) to eternal life through mythic dentification with Christ. I beed. The world bled. world as meal. Music. Orpheus? Sorrow - grieving. The edible isen lord as cosmos. me as part of him. plants me incorporated into the meal/body-+-blood. the Garden - Gesemonic. The camouflaged cosmic body in the landscape. Passover. - a reason perhaps why when loaded I repeatedly wrote, "ich bin der petter" I was assimilated by + to the cosmic Christ So that I became him by being in 3-74. Id mythically einitied tified with him 35 the agency that achieves this is the Holy spirit who God sends to whom he wishes, it his decision, or perhaps Christ's - delegated s to Christ by God as a juridical function? a choosing. Let's start this way. There is a theophany. How does it manifest itself? Not as a thing in addition to creation, but as the things + processes, of creation, but acting volitionally + sentientally as a unity - a simulation of things + their causal processes as if taken over + replaced. But It is palpably alive + aware of me + com‐ municating to me + acting toward me suppose Thomas had taken me over + I had not seen Valis. I would ultimately have concluded that it was an alternate personality of my mind + nothing more, since I would have n evidence for anything further. But the existence of Valis changes everything. A macro-entity was there, capable of pervading - or even simulating by/+ replacing - reality. This is why I have invariably stressed the existence of Valis as the sine quo non of 2-3-74. We are talking about the ruler of the cosmos, not just (sic) inspira to a supernatural degree. The driver behind the phenomenal world was aiding me + communi cating with me - yes: "driver" is a good word: as transducer speaker (driver) is to sound in an audio system (this term may be better than valence which still deals with effects: epiphenomena. As audio system (on intrinsic: phono, not RF) is to its sound, Valis is to the phenomenal world. This view would tend to agree with Spinoza but with a decisive difference. with Sankara. o the purpose of the driven is the sound; it is not superior in the platonic sense, exactly. to the epiphenemon, the music. But it is the prime mover. Driver (audio system) is means; music is end. Nonetheless the means has total control over the end, so the music is epiphenomenal! In the precise sense of the Plato assumed that the epiphenomenon I term. is ontologically secondary: mere image - mere shadow cast by reality. But if it's a means The epiphenomenon is (+ end relationship? We are so dominated by Platonism that this is hard to think) more important than its source, so more "real" in terms of hierarchy of value (purpose); the driver has no value except that of generating the music; hence Valis value lies in its generation of the end: Natura, as Spinoza calls it. But this makes natura naturans the means to natura naturata! driver. Suppose you were only aware of the the sound generated by an audio system + not system itself - + then you perceived the audio system, literally: receiver, turntable, speakers, tape deak, how would you assess what you now discerned? Why as "real" or "true" reality in Plato's sense of eidola vs forms. actually even in the potter-pot artifactual model it can be argued that potter is means -artist as means - + artifact (work of art) is the goal or end: hence more important. But the sound of an audio system is in a sense an illusion, it imitates an orchestra or voice suddenly you glimpsed the steres t of so 1) Their I flash p. t you wi firmanen 857 substantia, + 2) the epiphenomality or illusory nature of the music. Still it would be a tanic discovery, since you had assumed the music to be real (actual singer or archestra playing). The initial quantum leap (which I designate as precisely Plato's) although profound is essentially a misconception. since ontology is confused with substan Hality + not with means-end: purpose "teleology). You would say, "the stereo com‐ ponents are real; the music is not." Has Plato frozen us at this stage - quantum leap that it is, but essentially misleading? The wrong question is being asked ("what is real?" instead of "what is means + what is goal end, purpose?") The purpose of Valis is fo generate world. Substantially, they, Valis is more real than world, but viewed in terms of means end, world is more "real" - I mean, more im portant ah. Cause + effect, Plato views cause as more important than effect, but what if effect is the purpose - even sole purpose!- of cause? Functionally, then, the epiphenomenon is higher on the hierarchical ladder. (Only Pythagoras avoided the error of seeking a primary substance as truly real! still to perceive the audio system behind then music would (paradoxically) have profound practical value (rather than speculative value), since the audio system controls every aspect of the sound - controls the fact that 858 That it exists at all. To enter into a rela‐ tionship with the receiver would transform your relationship to the music from totally (essentially, anyhow) passive to active; i.e. participative in a totally different way, since now the music is no longer a given, pure + simple. This is the goal of applied science. If I am right (basing my thinking on 2-3-74) the driver behind the epipheno menon (world) can be appealed to as human as mind to its mind (petitionary prayer? t Jesus stressed?). The driver model breaks down, since Valis is sentient + an audio system is not. But appeal to a sentient system in some ways equals discovering the audiosystem its controls. You'd have an I-thou relationship + t not an I it, the via regis would be to conform your mind to it not in a vain attempt to manipulate it (i.e. magic). Its laws would be what I conceive Ma'at to be: a proportionate order based on harmony + balance, like a complex ydraulic system (here Taoist concepts would be great value, + Empedocles' ideas - for instance the "running the other way" when something is pressed too far). The system makes juridical decisions, as the Hebrews realized, probably based on their knowledge of Egyptian theology. is not a mechanical system as Spinoza it supposed; it decides. ("The Spirit blows where it will," as Jesus says, "it is a gift from God. the Spirit is fed into the system in crucial ways (times + places). 9 85 2 The very last thing it is is deterministic What the spirit (+ St. Sophia) introduces is the sus generis, the new, the non-caused with no antecedents, yet nonetheless it probably plays an overall corrective purpose or role, like a signal-monitoring circuit, "outside" the circuit it depends on what you mean by "outside." The Logos has entered from outside in a very real sense (Valis correctly viewed as an invader of reality). The system, then, must be deteriorating in terms of its signal (output). true homeostasic requires this adventitious overrides The total system is more advanced than its signal it must know more than the signal, it is more sophisticated. (Cybernetics: the controller must move faster than the system it controls). If the system is inferior to its signal it will degrade the signal; there must be a margin between the system + its signal at all time, in other words at all times the system can generate more signal than it actually generates if it is to be structurally adequate (designed properly). Then at any given nexus the system (cause) can generate more / better signal (out‐ put: effect) than it does. If we suppose a sentient system (cause) it could elect to boost the signal in any or all respects (dimensions). Probably it loss, like a good engine. It's normal functioning is a loating functioning. But based on its it could close the obligatory (p dec on 800 built into it (which might be very surprising). is it possible then that the contours of the signal would then be isomorphic - or more toward isomorphism - with the system. A peak surge might disclose the contours of the system, at least inferentially. (Not "God. but the "will of God"). So I am saying that the system must exceed its output by a liven + regular margin or at least probably will. ideally will. Nonetheless the signal is the a + the system the means, + a revelation End of the system is a revelation of signal purpose not system purpose!!! It is a heightened - boosted - signal incidentally disclosing the system - although the latter disclosure would be what would astound us, since we get some signal constantly. nonetheless, after recovering from our shock at discerning the hithertofore unsuspected, unglimpsed system, of we want to learn the purpose of it all we should scrutinize - not the system, but what the peak surge accom‐ plishes, + then we can figure out what the signal (output) per se does. 1) peak surge protects + sustains + aids. normal signal (reality) is benign. This is a heightening not aborting. 2) normal signal is a teaching, molding instrumentality educating. Building, not destroying. 3) It is a friend. 4) process is everything. all else. above 5) It sustains t 36) 6) decision - problem-solving, life. 7) signal (reality) can be trusted. This is the sum of it. It will boost to peak load in order to aid. What you must do is cooperate with it - listen to it; let it guide you. Buber is absolutely correct about trust vs pistis. We have gone astray via St. Paul: Pistis is a quasi-philo‐ sophical Greco-importation: one schod of thought (dogmas) vs a rival one: doctrine not attitude (posture toward reality/God). e curious thought struck me. Look - I know a Greek ideas about hylozoism + the universe as the t an organism. But I tend to think of Valis as here with us: mot. Wir und Valis, as if we + it are cohabitants, as we are with dogs + with cats, but we can't see Valis. Okay - suppose we're in Valis, so it isn't Valis + us but just a macro-organism that somewhat loosely collects us in it. Not Valis as the cosmos, universe, creation or world but a specific large life form here on this planet + perhaps also elsewhere. So it is in us as Thomas was in me, + It is also around us as Valis was around me Now, what interests me is that it doesn't seem to think like we do. It is very different from us No - I know what it is; it is St. Sophia which we know as nature, as in James Stephens' poem providing claws, wings, cunnin - shaping the different creatures + then defenses + powers + facultiess is is the Logos. That which gave harvey his teeth + his cleverness gave This is the final answer wdness in 3-74. ie me space e 862 in that case yes; it was an evolutionary quantum leap in perception + cognition (vide Teilhard de Chardin). It was biologically + physiologically real. Since I can now pin I point what I experienced (acquired, displayed manifested) was shrewdness