him (1-17I know Abba, to a real degue I know 80). his nature; I am little compared with hims t ate yes; the AI voice said, not+ t t have been adopted"; I forgot that totally it emed macrometal inite an i i t test realit t didn't it have to do with my giving to the night Platt was here; Covenant House? Yes: you have been adopted. (obviously as e n son + heix of God.) o a of little importance It is probably what I write now: "Valis" contains the major revelations + prophecies, upon my recovery of my identity looking back on my crushing depression of resterday I can see that it was "willows" that set it off - "the last gift is the best, the gift of forgetfulness." The book recalled to me what I have forgotten + why I must forget it. paradoxically, by describing it so well, grahame does it recall it to me bolishe. -149 reality field, as I say, this is not reincarnation; it is my own actual identity in the sense of esse. Thomas + PKD are parts of one integrated whole, which is why Acts + USA 1974 were: the integration was primarity of me, i.e. internal. This would account for my perception of the trans- or supra-temporal constants; my nature is in that "region." Also, this would explain memories of blowing up the BIP with explosives, which cannot have to do with AD70. Hence the ontological significance is primary; the epistemological a mere spinoff. I have been concentrating an the key, missing here is: world, not on self. term sence immortal soul, precisely in Plato's sact the (which he connects with (1) anamnesis + (1) recovery of comprehension of the eide. What is con is it firmed here is Platonism + Neo-Platonism quite evident that a fall into forgetfulness is 8 involved. Thus as I've believed since out into when saw my meta-abstraction correctly as as hence s the Platonist recovery of the universals I've sensed that Plato + Platonism is the key. + my "one mother 3 times not 3 mothers" is Plato's not recovery of the eide (a meta-abstraction understood even by Aristotle) now, as to the Xtian clements, I have always been involved in Xtian n activity, but it is Platonism that is the case (as realize here, his doctrine of the migiations of the immortal soul, incarnated here in bodies). Probably, then, my experience of God is that of Plotinus' again as I've long suspected. So Plato is right; particular have only a derived riality: true world is the side + their inter-retatedness. My true nature + dentity, then, is as an immortal soul living in I the world of the eide. So these elements of plan knism: anamnesis, recovery of the eide, realitation that one is an immortal soul faller into forget ulness the "mother times not mothers meta-abstraction; + the experience of reality a larry outside t it spauis time + causality, Plotinus' the one (God) D-150 This realization that my primary awareness was a my own nature - + that of world as eide only secondary - confirm, that this was all Platonist, eveminating in Plotinus flight back up (not in space + time) from plurality to unity + union with the ie ecstatic unions, my as mother times not s mother," analysis of my meta-abstractive is correct + is Plato's recovery of comprehension of the reality of the eide + mere derived semi‐ reality of the particulars. So there is a perfect symmetry between self (soul) + world (the eide outside space, causation + time). It is outside space, causation + time) + so is its world. I can therefore regard this my life within the eide as my as my real self, + saw the BIP + understood our fight real life. I against it. Thus I find the fulfillment of my role (hence existential identity) in balking contra the Empire; that is, we are revolutionaries + we rebel. an - my recent revelation of time as a procession of discrete static, slightly t differing frames that do not + can' affect each other: causation as out pro‐ jection of a modem by which this is in my opinion convertie into a flow m these discrete static frames are differing particulars cast off by the timeless eide, a given eidos is the totality of its partialars; eate particulars unique + imperfect + transitory. It lasts a trillionth of a second + is replaced by This is information another slightly different + storase. Each [frames] + info-processing frame stores info i t D-151 I guess these frames are sub-particulars; they are to particulars as particalms are ex. I saw both "ap to their eide. (to the eide) + "down" (to the setorate discrete frames of sub-particulars). I a s "up" + "down" refer to hierarchy, not to space + time; all 3 levels are right here. The phosphene graphics, then, were discrete information frames; when you can see reality as these fast-firing [progres sion of static frames, you can discern how the constants (eide) exist throughout all of them + are hence (i.e. the eide) outside of time, if outside change: + that "frames," particulars + eide are views of me + the same reality, we, however, just see the midrange, fide t particula We see only this. sub‐ particules) i Thes, they, there is somethin to the muscin levels: Gestalt (eidos), "time atoms" particulars (ortexotes, frame atonist, so to speak: in time, rather than in space, + above the eide is the one or mind in which the eide - + the process - exist. Occri the one or mind or God sees even the individual frames, + reads off (out) the info on each of them. This is the info th D-152 our world is built out of; viz: frames equal info, the frames in themselves not being substantial (like frames on a vider disc). Then all the frames - hence particulars hence change + events - that will ever be fired exist now, already, stored in the eide, like info on an up or tape. This is why the occasion lists suspected a presynchronization from the moment the universe is not only of creation. information; it is also a recording being played belf-initiating. Pre-synchronized. Based on bits to it - bits we don't see. Christ the curse fed remover. "Secret stolens." etc. due to ompipotent modem - Calvin entity opposed by Satan's power. Christ adversary situation. ineluctable compusion to see + believe lifted, like spell lifted through Christ's power to break the chaous 1) the soul feel (into forgetfulness + illusion) te Plato 2) Satan's power (Xtianity); not "illusion": are deluded deliberately. Satan the great magician BIP. why should correctly seeing subparticulars as Q discrete eventuate in a perception of the eide? because these are stages in a reality continuum + also in abstraction a particular is an abstraction of possibility: a sufficient number of subparticulars subparticulars "abstracts" into (laminates to become or disclose) the eidos itself; the particular is a hall there is some kind of way abstraction. Anyhow, D-183 perceptual/conceptual connection between seeing subparticulars correctly (as discrete) + discerning the eidos. in a sense the particular Acts as eidos to any one given subparticular: perhaps the brain sees, then, that as subparticular form a particular, the particilart form an eidos. the brain gets the right idea (that abstracting constants out of flux is involved; it understants because it perceives the case.) theory: it identifies the particular correctly but as an abstraction, not a concrete objects as a conception. (Which is what it is: a conception.) then the brain is now on to its own workings in terms of perception, that is, it (the brain) n has learned that perception + conception cannot be separated; viz: since the brain conceives of the par ficular (+ not plural subparticulars) this, then, is what it sees; so the brain has analytically opened up the box containing its own mechanism. If it conceives of a unity; it will perceive a unity. It didn't know that but in fact it is as if it now has voluntary control over its own perceptions, based on its con‐ ceptualizations. Ah, it has learned that it itself organizes world. A particular is not an adventitious given; it is a mental construct. The brain can now go either way: analytically (deconstruction of perception into what winds up as binary digits) or synthetically (eide). The main thing is, structuring of world is for the purpose of understanding it; the act is not disinterested or frivolous. What will yield up the most knowledge? deconstruction into bits only produces a tautology: the information is [made up of] information. It can best be read by meta t abstracting into constants, as Plato pointed out regarding flux + knowledge So deconstruction is self-defeating ultimately. the best s D-134 is abstracting. + this results ultimately in perception of a unitary field: How it all fits together (this goes even beyond the eide, which after all are plural). the opening up of the brain's own structuring. of perceptions machinery stemmed in my case from accidentally (unexpectedly) performing a meta-abstraction + discovering that it worked; it yielded up knowledge otherwise concealed. (Unavailable.) guess what it conveyed most of all is the I irreducable fact that "world" is primary a con‐ struct of the brain based on incoming signals that carry information. Upon discovering this the brain has in essence transferred consciousness into normally involuntary levels always viewed not as ways of structuring the given but (wrongly) the given itself. Consciousness now wants to know what It is actually receiving. But that route (as I say) yields up not knowledge but a tautology: it is receiving information. To resolve this information into coherent form requires synthesis, not analysis. the brain is not a philosopher or scientist but a transducer. (+ it now knows that! Due to its deconstruction of the incoming signals down to quantitative bits.) going the other way - into higher + higher synthesis) it obtaines a resolution of total image into Plato's eide So synthesis (meta-abstraction) tells the brain more than deconstruction; the brain reconstructs eide that form a dramatic narrative: this is the t story told by the information: it is the content whereas the information per se is the means by which This story reaches the brain. Thus by total synthesis the brain learns that a great timeless battle is being fought in which it itself is a participant - + always (This is has been. It discovers its identity + role. the Xtian apocalyptic history, the story of the coming Messiah + the millenial Kingdom). (This explains why my experience paradoxically yields up both stianity + Platonism!) D-155 the binary digits are the vehicle by which this news is transmitted. So the brain can if it wishes concentrate on the epistemological implications (the vehicle) or the message (the Parousia is here). The first yields this epistemological knowledge. World as we know it is a construct by our brain based on informat fed to it (by a source that can only be known inferrentially if at all). The second yields up the news that Christ has returned means (the bits) + end (news of the Parousia) must be compared, the former having theoretical importance; the latter has vast + immediate practical mportance hen what is the overview? The mechanism (Platonist "analytical" elements) is for the use + purpose of conveying the information - message (Xtian "synthesist elements): that God is here, the Parousia is here, Christ will soon be or already is, reborn. The Platonist elements are the means; the Xtian the ends. Hence the Platonist elements are utilized to convey the Xtian Kerygma + vision. What should be supposed is a Platonist Xtianity such as e.g. Augustine + Malebranche supposed. It could hardly be assumed that the Xtian element is the means to (or carrier of) the Platonist