reality + not separate from it. we're seeing time the wrong way - backward - from form to entropy (chaos). To see structure you have to see time retrograde, + this is what I did in 3-74. There must be a parity time flow going the other way. Everything that happened had to do with my reversing time. I saw structure/God. N But God has a daughter in our fallen (going wrong way in time) world. âž€ This too is treated in "Ubik" - time regressing - i.e. retrograde. I wrote "Ubik" ifter 3-74 I was moving - + am - re grade 8) 1s i.e. part of one is moving the correct way in time. "Fall" = temporal misement toward disordy (entropy). The original rift - part of the kosmos began to move backward downward) in time. This is why 2-3-74 can be found In "MITHC" + "Faith of" not because reality is created from my memory. It was that in the 60s I remembered the Earlier (sic!) event in 2-3-74 Peo. I've solved it - about 50 things are explained by this me hypothesis, ine. e why I got out + synch in 3-74 in fact the material about 2-3-74 MITHC" + "Faith" + "Ubik" too on proves that part of me is moving retrograde" in time - i.e. actually th ight way. Yes "Ubik" is based on 74 + seeing Valis. God. I reversed "Ubik" 9283 2-3-74 time polarities in 2-3-74. ( 1979 Xerox solution was based on knowledge om the future) that I don't even have yet 59 2-3-74 was a massive time dysfunction in my mind due to God breaking in - into my mind, not the external world. Pigspurt wants me back but God stopped A; I have priceless into in one all those transferred in written pages - a library from nearby the phosphene activity to me. for Pigspurt. The reverse time is how the Acts material God into "Tears" + all that about rathy to save me in 2-3-74 he reversed temporal polarities. (in me. Hence the post mortem experiences. basically, he gave me a chance to live my to know what to do - + life again, in order feit - in 3-74. It must have caused my deat post (originally) tmortem f 29) i I 979 by a careful scruting I deduce that I am experiencing a simulated reality fed to me by computer (Ubik Valis) based on my prior a emories + that I am dead + am moving trograde in time over my actual life, + so ther people aren't dead (that's absurd) - just he; it is a blessing - a gift; it gives me a hance to rectify my bad Karma + eradicate I this is the purpose. I got to edit (2nd uess) my own actual life. entropy "Ubik" correctly correlated + reverse tim we move toward entropy (i.e. we we are moving in reverse in time experience it backward - hence my sense in 3-74 of not being blind/seeing everything backward. I am An exception 180 the single hypothesis that in 2-3-74 I moved backward in time accounts for so many things (+ continued to move back. ward). Maybe this is the Xtian secret "grave, where is thy victory?" upon death of" your psyche starts moving backward + thus capes. 3-74 was my death. Now, since I am tracking reality for the first time, I am assigned a tutelary goddess guide, this is why how I can enduce the life I lead alone. I know what I escaped in 3-74 I have her - Diana, God's daughter. kosmos is conception, rather than perception. + Absolute mind at work comprehending It is (3-74) seeing time backward - reality: itself actually correctly. Ichaos kosmos (strife) mixture halt + half, which is e t cove I what we normally see (vide Krasis I "Timaeus"). Noos + ananke. in 3-74 I saw kosmos or pure noos. I moved so fast I caught up with fleed that reality stabilized. There must be two flows of time retrograde to each other + I momentarily stabilized in them so that motion forward was offset by the other, pro‐ "Ubik" could not have ducing a stasis. been written before the experiences of 2-3-74; ergo, it was written afterward. Likewise "MITHC," "Faith of" "Tears" + "Scanner" The same reality is order (kosmos) or disorder according to the conception of i t in Noos; ergo in 3-74 ttain Noos 6 Yes - the time-flow direction we see is one of explosion; but if we saw it the other way we'd see an implosion or a coming-together, like a film of an explosion run backward - which is exactly what I saw. So this is the explanation. This is the occult way by which you see kosmos - + see correctly; it's as if there has been a i time explosion, which must be reversed. i I must have been hurled backward by The calaclysm of my death + evidence in my writing back to "MITHC" proves that continued to track backward! There i I i - is evidence for this theory. Two psychoi i both me! Then is a later me the AI voice, the tutelary spirit? Evidentally. (this is why I referred to grager as Georgic + knew I'd meet tess.) I was ac tually ruled backward from the post mortem side. I had gone that far ("He was dead for perhaps as long as is minutes."). Obviously my psyche split in half : I had that super‐ imposed double exposure for awhile stereovision being hunted backward it got to deal with the Xerox missive twice, once by me + my by "Thomas" - the later me from the other side. This is why I thought it was Jim Pike, + all the cosmological + theological was knowledge what is acqui me late 85 specifically had the advantage of hindsight. I am able to create a time vortex, + draw the future - + the past? - into it. This is the nitty-gritty of it. Drawing The past self gave me anamnesis back thousands of years + the future self gave me knowledge I needed which I did not yet have. So two pulls were made: one back + one forward, both into the present one will not explain its No - I say, the crisis in 2-3-74 was so lethal that I temporarily obliterated the simulated reality + saw Valis (Ubik) which generates it. + I am leading my life over‐ by traveling backward in time, other people are now. This allows me to recitfy my errors. For them it is real, but for me it is simulated (of "Joint" + "Eye") inasmuch as I lived through it + died (+ returned back‐ ward-moving). I got power over time ("time can be conquered"), averted my own death, + saw kosmos (absolute reality, which is alive + divine) + regained my phylogenic memories, + self. + saw the next world (by dying but then reversing it). See, it all boils down to power over time. I did it from a biological adaptation/stress basis: a leap forward evolutionarily. This is another way of saying I passed out of time itself + into eternity. I think I have it, here, i 163 proof: I remembered (experienced) as far back as Acts + as far ahead as my post mortem experiences. (life.) 1) I experienced time the way God does in enthusiasmos 2) I 3) I saw God (kosmos) (Valis). conclusion: it was God thought: could my ability to perturb time (reality?) be a bona fide indication that brad Steiger is right: there are star-people descendents bred into our race, + I am one? This is, after all, a considerable power. But I'm not so sure it's a power on my part; I think God came to my rescue. do think, though, that I oblitered a simulation, + saw the computer which programs t ("creates" it). So I saw what is really there: one interqual entity + the info which it pricesses. It's too much of a coincidence that I saw 1) a computer-like entity; + 2) info - living info it's like "Maze" + "Ubik" + "Joint" + "Eye" + 3 Stigmats?" I saw it. + each of us has a synch onized inner tape which adds up to "pretextual" ause: apparent cause - + - effect relationship to reality but it's spurious, + reality is simulated; these two einforce one another!) I spurious reality, to which we have only a pre‐ extual cause-+-effect relationship, because atter all is spurious - simulated; so it can't truly act is cause! + our perceptions - senses + cognition - he impaired so that we does a a the one forgery 164 2 the integral macroentity which projects the spurious "reality." Info which is alive which subliminally controls us, further actual cause. So our inner tape is open to the plasmate (for changes?) No - the message traffic of the plasmate set (to ground) trips the tape; gives it instructions, such as disinhibition. Prints out instructions into the unwinding tape. The plasmate + the what inner take can't be distinguished. really enters us is the plasmate well in 3-74 the intergral macro entity trans‐ ferred huge amounts of pure info to me. This tape synch creates kosmos; it is a system of inter-regulation. There is kosmos because what really exists is this integral this before? Cer single macro-entity: kosmos So Ubik is kosmos. did I ever really realize tainly not clearly. So you are actually reacting to something within t yourself which comes at you from outside as ternal reality. But this is not solipsism because a simulated reality is maintained by Ubik/Valis: a macro-computer. You are under the single integrated domination of a time release tape. The external simulated reality is really just a sequence of signals which notify the inner tape when to fire; it is all laid down in advance. The signals synchronize the plurality of inner tapes with the external simulated reality + establish an inter-related system or harmony or coordination there are no accidents nor random ness, nor for that matter free will - except insofar as the person at some prior time programmed his In which case he is the macro-entity of it ta o 6 i is him (but with amnesia). Yes, I think this is how it works: that which programs the tape is that which receives the tape back later in the form of external reality. Each person, then, is a miniaturization - with amnesia - of the single macro-entity, having pre-programmed its own reality, + enlightenment comes when it realizes all this - the tat tvam asi, + the pre‐ programming of its own reality (karma). Thus I preprogrammed 3-74, + preprogrammed myself to be disinhibited + remember in order to material in "MITHC" + solve the problem. "Faith of" proves this. It preprograms its own reality (the initial creation stage: the given) + then, upon receiving back its own program as external reality it must under‐ o this exact same reality; viz: it is acted on by what it created (this certainly resembles the Bardo Thodol existence!) unless or until it can 1) spot the reality as simulated; + 2) gain - regain - creative mastery over it. t macrobooster, material is fed ubli tape ( into it by self to tape, + i I t tape to Valis, + Valis back to self where it originated (+ which now has amnesia) the self wills its own world but in a very intricate wsy, not directly. By the time reality comes back at t it no longer recognizes it. However, were it to recognize it as its own amplified creation, a titanic lash in the self would of course occur: a sudden total ecognition of the true situation; self would be macro nclosing the universe, the macro-universe/micro-self eversed (i.e. macro-self + micro-universe). This is what known as