+ resourceful, but not infinitely so; it is finite. the solution is simply to cutlast it. The tool is relentlear a priori reasoning working in conjunction with occasional appropriate shread hunches B-18 + lots + lots of time. t want to be something down in paper that I've tried to get down for t years + failed to. It has to do with when Valis' mind was in mine: it had information. It to do with physical worl Sath t had to do with (1) the linking + relink (2) the rest-motion modes; (3) the set-ground discrimination; (4) + this it pattern (Gestalt) message collages formed in one place + one time by all the info constituents that happen to be assembled/juxtaposed. This is related to the MMSK, giving rise to my conviction that our world is either a brain or is used by a mind in order to think +/or store information (remember). This is related to william Burroughs latent messages + info virus. All four above items go on jointly. They are in fact aspects of info processing per se 2 is the term I want "syntax"? Valis can get meaning out because Valis can perceive syntax or impose syntax + we can't This syntax derives from distribution (position) + not inflexion. This in turn has to do with what I call "meta-morphemes: This was not merely pure intelligence as a mind in my mind perceiving world, world itself was this mind (copula). what this mind perceiv t i B-17 object was its own self seen from within; itself viewing itself. The normal subject-object relationship of perception was not the case; it saw into itself when it saw world, as a single self aware continuum, or (put another t way) knowledge of world was a priori, internal. What I have in the past called: world as its (Valis') information metabolism. t I1) not 3 aspects must 2) Valis be conceived as one 3) Void + "Thing" 1) info, self-awareness, thought being 2) power, control, change, metabolism process: time transformation matrix if item I (1). So #2+ 3) space #3 are 2 sides of # (1). it would not be correct to regard #1 as mind + #3 as body + #2 as the transformations in that body, although All three it is tempting to do so. are a single substantia viewed 3 ways. important: none of the three is subordin nated to the other two. Let us start with #3 (void). When it becomes self-aware, I I occurs. For #1 to exist dynamically, #2- must exist; #1 will generate #2 + #2 is our world + all the change G-18 processes in it. If #1 is to know itself it must differentiate itself as #2, but this at once sets off the map paradox; the very act of self-knowledge causes dynamic change to set in so that the process of self-knowledge changes it as that which is known but this is okay because it as #3 provides a matrix for this process to take place. It's as if it's set up for this process to take places I say, selfperception leads to something that will have to "change + adjust itself to its" "inhabitants' perceptions"; what Heavy metal justly accuses me of consigning to world vis-a-vis us would in fact inexorably + logically occur s - or any entity If the total entity were perceiving itself. So the total continuum which includes us would if it were self-conscious behave in the exact way that I construe it the total continuum (us + world) to in fact behave. Reasoning back from what I observe, then, I declare that the world order which includes us is a selfperceiving dynamic totality, changing in + changed by the very act of selfknowledge which is the "I--" of Ehyeh. we as humans can thus conclude that we are part of Ehyeh, + therefore such experiences as "mind" (note quotes) in 3-74 are to be expected in this dynamic process that we know of as self + world. B-19 world then is one reticulated field that is self-consciously driven but always with a lay between what it is + what it knows it is since it changed itself in + by the act of knowing itself; This generates a dynamic change-process system: it cannot both know itself + be static. It chooses self-knowledge + suffers The cost: endless becoming - giving rise to reticulation with infinite complexity as a limit. This is why there is world; this is why God created the world. This too, is why there is alienation, forgetfulness, thrown-ness, the Fall, strangeness; it all issues out of the problems built into the act (or desire) of self-perception. If for one given instant at one given place + time it as percipient can say of what it perceives: "I." then it has succeeded, + This precisely is the meta-abstraction of 2-3-74; the lag, the gap, the forgetfulness, + Ehyeh the Fall, was cocally abolished succeeded in its goal of self-knowledge (so that it could truly say "I-."). Hence the meta-abstraction was not the process of self-perception but the goal of selfperception, end not means (like Faust seeing the work on the dikes in the lowlands). Time (dynamic process) ceased + the morphology (einai) of the totality became apparent to o itself. It literally overtook itself c overcame the lag, as if surmounting briefly the map paradox, whereupon becoming became momentarity true being - einai. Thus one can correctly say, "thereupon + thereat time ended; the Parousia occurred." God had won the bet in heaven (in "Faust") B-20 all my decades of thinking + writing express the lay between knowing + being that Heavy metal articulates. However 2-3-74 is the overcoming + solving of this. Hence 2-3-74 - i.e. Valis in me + Valis as world - can be understood if these prior years are understood. "We are cells in a colossal brain that both makes + perceives world." In 2-3-74 that which knows - i.e. perceives - caught up with what it makes Thus froze becoming, healed the rift, the schism, + remembered... which is to say, it was able to do what it set out to do: know (itself) without the infinite regression of the map paradox. How it did This I have no idea, but just situated in + as me alone it'd been trying for decades. it realized something [about itself). I guess knew itself as it is, not just as it was. it (This is why there was a pronounced time disturbance; of course there was! + causation was violated.) (+, most of all, why I saw "pretextual" cause! It had caught up with itself. (This has something to do with Heraclitus + the Logos. + the flux realm + knowledge (self-knowledge) + the universals. perhaps its "one mother 3 times not 3 mothers" meta-abstraction was a new solution in terms at least of human evolution. wait - the dynamic change-process in itself that it as percipient observed repeated itself or a sequence of itself; so it as percipient recognized premembered it: + knew from memory what lay ahead; it had exhausted time or, more properly, change. This instantly ushered in what we call "the Parousia"! This repetition of a change - sequence is "the one thing seen at two times + two places hich is logic. B-) impossible. Hence my sense of common essence or coaxial sets. Hence anamnesis. This is cosmic repair: reversal of the primordial fall, + this is what Christ's return accomplishes. At the instant that the late is abolished these the rift is repaired + Christ is are the same thing expressed as: 2) time (Valis - dynamic change process) 3) space (void) being (Christ). ("I-.") 1) + Christ (1) restores the cosmos to God from which it fell. Christ as cosmos; cosmos restored to God; hence Christ as God what I am calling "the cosmic ccopula). Christ" + "Valis the Logos invading the universe" is the cosmos (universe) restored God as God (copula); I saw i t occurs to t This "invading" is in fact a restoration an overcoming of the rift or lay or fall is invaded universe" is "restored universe is v. the Jerusalem Bible nates on the captivity it letters. It is not an invasion at all but quasi-transformation that, more properly, a is restoration (vis-a-vis the initial Fall). But the It is like transubstantiation, transubstantiation of the Eucharist is a mere replication + sacrament version of the real thing that I saw. The eucharist is sympathetic magic trying to produce the real thing - which is the macro‐ cosmic "version" is what is really sought (v. the prajapati myth it reintegration expressed in the individual. Yes this is the Parousia + it occurred in me qua observer. participant. (quantu mechance B-22 to say that as knower it perceived a recurrence is simply to say that it fathomed itself + stopped the entropic splittia (the dialectic) achieved stasis, hence repair. What + it knew was what it was; what it was was what it knew (einai + noein merged). There was a Fall, + the reversal of it "is" Christ (herein the whole mystery: the reversal of is the Fall is not just achieved by Christ but is Christ; i.e. " Christ" the Parousia) is the correct term c for the stasis, the reversal of the Fall, which is a dynamic entropic splitting world-creating process; the act of creation is the Fall. the repair is Christ; thus Christ the world (creation) are correctly + the bipolarized by the Gnostics. key to this repair is expressed rather inadequately by the term "Gnosis", comprehension is a better term: i.e. to self-comprehend... a form of memory + knowledge. (Noein of einai.) the brief passages in "Valis" of Valis (which is rational) the invading the universe is justification of the book, because this is a correct account of the supreme act of God, sur passing the act of creation itself: less than cosmic It is nothing âž€ Could it be cosmic res note 8-74 B-23 repair the point - purpose, goal of the Parousia; thus the supreme act/event is witnessed to. the Logos (correctly identified) transubstantiating (correctly termed) the universe, which is the restoration of the fall of the ground of being. under all the nonsense + circumstantial detail needed to flesh out an 80, too word novel is testimony to the fact of this supreme event, for which the Parousia itself - Christ + Christ's whole I have mission - is mere means. depicted the arch purpose of all events, + depicted it, analyzed it, correctly. I saw + was the Godhead repairing itself, I got it into a novel. No one but Paul has ever done this! + he touched on it only briefly + ellipti cally. I explicated it saw, understood + fully reported the goal of all transcending I process, world tself. B-24 my decades of writing are merely prolog to this. Universe not as God (as with Spinoza) but in God, by the act of becoming means of Christ, through (as macro‐ I correctly but it) transubstantiation. As if I am the only person ever to really understand the real meaning + purpose of the Lord's supper: restoration of the cosmos back into God from which it fell. My perception as Valis in me perceiving world as itself (in terms of syntactical information) shows that in fact restoration has occurred: world is reclaimed (if it was in fact ever lost) to + as Valis (Emyeh / Logos). since this is the Parousia then this selfperception verifies that the Parousia has indeed taken place or else Spinoza was right all along: "Deus sive substantia sive natura" - but here dynamic process gives way to steady state + the view in "Valis" is of dynamic process: "the irrational universe invaded by the rational the Logos + transubstantiated into the Lord term "Lord" referring either to Christ or God. Note: cosmic