this initial realization; and I remember having been part of it in the distant past (we possessed techniques for im¬ mortality, by means of anamnesis when we were born again — literally born again, later on). I have come across the expression in the EB "the imperial church," with prisons, with the secular authority to back it up. The accretions of dogma of the imperial church are as the Torah was to early Christianity: letter and not spirit, as Paul put it. The Holy Spirit has been undermining this imperial church for centuries; it revealed this to me (vis-a-vis the Dutch Wars). So the Holy Spirit has a long history of revolutionary activity against the imperial church. But what I must keep in mind is my insight of yesterday that the key to it all is Joachim’s three ages, and that the third is as revolutionary vis-a-vis the second as the second (the Christian Age) was to the first. New Scriptures are needed, new prophets and perhaps a new savior, Now I suddenly can see the necessity of the Spirit's revelation to me that a new savior is going to be here, is about to be here, is here; I for the first time realize, what avail is the Spirit unless it can bring about a new savior to usher in the Third Status just as Jesus ushered in the Second Status? So there is the logic of necessity that dictates the combination of the Spirit aiding me, revealing everything that it revealed to me —- and its prophecies starting with "St. Sophia is going to be born again; she was not acceptable before." The Second Age has come to a close; the Third Age (Status, to use Joachim's term) begins. Ah. "The final world is here.” The beginning of the Third Age I "Final world" refers to temporal succession, to the succession of Ages. "The time you've waited for has come. The final world is here. The work is completed. He has been transplanted and is alive.” And the next night when the AI voice (the Holy Spirit) repeated those words I saw the sacred Tetragrammaton — and I at once wrote VALIS REGAINED. Seeing the sacred tetragrammaton makes what I inferred (that "he" refers to the savior) explicit. That is the point of that, not that it is YHWH in contradistinction to -33- all else previously mentioned. Good grief; on the previous page I figured out that it would make no sense for the Spirit to speak to me at all —-to manifest itself to me and in me as it did, revealing all things to me— unless there was going to be a new savior to usher in the Third Age -— I was just thinking out loud as I typed. And my novel about this is already written, sold and scheduledl A return to Judaism, to montheism; that's the insight that drove me along as I wrote VALIS REGAINED. Totally non-Christian; in fact anti-Christian, a repudiation of Christianity (what I will now call the imperial church). So I could not expect an outpouring of the Spirit such as I experienced in 3-74 unless it was tied in with the appearance of a new savior who would begin a Third Age. Likewise, it is probable that I would not hear the prophecy if it were not linked to such an outpouring of the Spirit; viz: such an outpouring consist of signs and wonders and gifts validating that it is indeed the Holy Spirit. This is why there was so much else to 3-74 than the extricating me from the danger; as is often said, the purpose of a miracle —the real purpose—- is to demonstrate God's power, wisdom and love. First the outpourings and then, very soon, the first prophecy (stipulated in temporal terms most loosely, i.e. "is going to be born again"; this does not say when: a year or ten thousand years; so far merely the N.T. view of the Second Coming is reiterated. But later comes a change: "about to be," suggesting it will not be long. And then: "The time you've waited for has come." Has come. "He has been transplanted and is alive." Again the imperfect tense: has been. Not was (past tense) but has been; ongoing imperfect. And the great book divided into two parts; and we have come to the end of Part One, where these final words appear that end Part One: "Through all this (all these historical events) Siddhartha slept" but obviously when Part Two begins he will awaken. And Part Two was beginning. Could "The secret stolen, in one's hands" refer to what "he" has brought us? I am being told something to add to what I was told in the message that began "The time you've waited for has come." "The secret stolen" is the rest of the sequence "He has been transplanted and is alive"; viz: HE HAS BEEN TRANSPLANTED AND IS ALIVE. THE SECRET STOLEN IN ONE'S HANDS, THROUGH (i.e. past) THE ANGELS. He carries a secret with him which he places/will place in our hands, including mine. Viewed this way, what a message it is 1 He carries with him a new revelation (gnosis) never before known to us; this is quite well conveyed by "secret" and "stolen." And: it is for us, He doesn't just have it/know it; he brings it to us. And up to now it was denied to us by the ancient angelic powers. So he does bring with him a new self-disclosure by the divine: "secret" implies information, i.e. revelation, knowledge, etc. Usually a secret is conveyed in words. And it's a how to that changes man or man's life or condition; hence "stolen," as I figured out before. A teaching. A teaching of how to. -35- Teaching or technique. It's some technique forbidden to us by the ancient angelic powers down through the previous ages. Let's put the complete messages together: THE TIME YOU'VE WAITED FOR HAS COME. THE WORK IS COMPLETE. THE FINAL WORLD IS HERE. HE HAS BEEN TRANSPLANTED AND IS ALIVE. THE SECRET STOLEN, IN ONE'S HANDS, THROUGH (past) THE ANGELS. Now all the messages: SAINT SOPHIA IS GOING TO BE BORN AGAIN: SHE WAS NOT ACCEPTABLE BEFORE. THE BUDDHA IS IN THE PARK. THE HEAD APOLLO'S ABOUT TO RETURN. THROUGH ALL THIS SIDDHARTHA SLEPT (but now in part two will awaken). THE TIME YOU’VE WAITED FOR HAS COME. THE WORK IS COMPLETE. THE FINAL WORLD IS HERE. HE HAS BEEN TRANSPLANTED AND IS ALIVE. YHWH. THE SECRET STOLEN, IN ONE'S HANDS, THROUGH (past) THE ANGELS. I break it down into sequence this way: A NEW SAVIOR IS COMING. HE IS COMING SOON. HE IS HERE. HE CARRIES A SECRET STOLEN FOR US, PREVIOUSLY DENIED US. HE IS GOD (or equal to God) (or carries God's approval). (Or was sent by God.) (Or has the authority and power of and from God.) (Even though the new revelation carried here by the new savior is a "secret stolen" this is not a revolt against God; it carries God's sanction; it is a revolt against what I construe to be the ancient -36- angelic order against which Christ "revolted," but apparently failed to topple ("she was not acceptable before"). Had I just heard a voice inside my head saying these things I would have had to suppose I was hallucinating. But, for openers, there is the material in TEARS that I didn't put there, and it very clearly refers to this (the total revelation, which is the in-breaking of God). I have a detailed knowledge of the workings of Valis, and if Valis is Christ, then I have detailed knowledge of the nature and workings —and real presence-- of Christ. But this is exactly what the Holy Spirit is supposed to reveal to you: disclose the hidden mysteries of Christ’s nature. Such knowledge is essential for the individual Christian involved and for Christianity itself. Without it, all you have is an empty husk. Such revelations could have been included in Scripture, but the writing of scripture was officially ended early on in the Christian era. If the Apostles wrote anything or said anything it hasn’t survived. Anyhow we’re much more able to assess such functioning as a "binary rest-motion system" today what with our knowledge of computers. In a very real sense Valis can be said to exist in another world, which is to say level or realm. But it uses the objects of our world as the constituents for its macrometasoma. We, however, only see the plural constituents, not the unity created by Valis' structuring. The basis Of Valis is negentropy or uniting. It uses a simple method of continually bringing two constituents together to form one metaconstituent, and this is fitted into place in Valis' -37- macrometasoma to join the structure already there. So the basis or substantia of Valis is structure, and this is another way of defining kosmos, especially in the sense that Pythagoras used the term; an orderly, lawful arrangement of many subsections or parts that is purposeful and rational the whole of which functions as a single entity. Valis, then, is so-to-speak a kosmos within our universe, or a kosmos within another kosmos; it is what I would call a metakosmos. The "blood" of this macrometasoma is information; streams of information, and this information is shaped out of our own information systems and media, using a set/ground method for insertion and later extraction, and of course the creating of one metamorpheme from the joining of two of our morphemes. The basis on which parts are fitted in is the basis of (1) Most benign; (2) Most beautiful, since the aesthetic element in this metakosmos is central to Valis' planning. It is the task of Valis to see where a constituent that is evil in our universe can be inserted into the metakosmos where it will either no longer function as evil at all or at least is subsumed by a larger good; so beauty and goodness are the two criteria of the arranging and structuring of the metakosmos, the macrometasoma — Valis self-completing itself. Against Valis there contends a dark principle (like yin or like Form Two of Parmenides) and a dialectical battle goes on between Valis and this dark principle. Valis has absolute a priori knowledge, including knowledge of the future. Valis makes the initial move; then the dark counter-player is free to make any moves it wishes; then Valis adds final integers to what the dark counter-player has done, causing enantiodromia — a flip-flop from evil to good. And then the next "game" begins... but continually, out of this, valis builds its macrometasoma. -38- Note that the bulk, the whole body in fact, of moves is by the dark counter-player; Valis contends itself with an innocuous initial move that the dark counter-player can see...but he cannot fathom the strategy: the purpose or plan or pattern of the move. So he goes on, then, having free rein; he is the principle of entropy. Having finished —and created what seems to be a totally entropic null-pattern— he steps back; Valis then completes with a few or with one move, probably one move, that turns the chaos into a pattern, into negentropy through the principle of enantiodromia; Valis has won again, and meanwhile added to its own macrometasoma. So black, against its will, contributes to the growth of the macro¬ metasoma which is permanent, like Plato's world of Forms. The past is not past in this macrometasoma; it is like one vast memorysystem, built on form-axes or what I now call phylogons; new layers in accretlonal form are added from the flux world of the dialectic. Valis' macrometasoma lies outside the dialectic, therefore outside of flux and change, therefore outside of time. I never realized this before, that Valis' macrometasoma lies outside the dialectic, and since what we call "time" is in fact the constant changes due to the antithetical dialectic,