outranking there was not only no loss but in fact a net gain. The net gain, however, can only be measured outside the closed system of the new ambulance. Each victory by God as intelligence and will is obtained by this escalation of levels of subsumation, and in no other way. 4594 Here's how the grid works: it's a sequence analyzer. (Viz: a math sequence can be set up in which the next integer can be absolutely determined. In "Tears" the Acts material presents a sequence by which "secret under ground Xtian apostolic church" can absolutely be inferred to come next outside the text "Tears" on the basis of the integers of the sequence included in the text by using a topological analog conversion! i.e. Taverner belongs to no organization, group, movement, religion, party; he is an isolated individual (this is stipulated in the text). There is no hint of a conspiracy. This is without using the grid. But Acts is the grid + within the grid Taverner is the analog of Paul. The E.B. says "Poul was the spokesman for the entire Xtian church." Okay. the Acts grid is indubitable (i.e. it can be is the correct grid.) What Felix sus‐ relied on about Taverner ects is incorrect without the grid but correct with the grid. So the grid inverts one factor: -averner as isolate. Felix remains unchanged with or without the grid. The grid does not enable to predict anything more about him. what I am saying is that the grid has a rathematical precision re Taverner (+ re the society repicted; there is an enemy internal revolutionary rovement) in terms of prediction. It says, "Taver ver is the head of a secret illegal invisible evolutionary anti-state underground." Thus Felix's alice suspicions are totally correct, his worst aranoid suspicions - if you use the grid re prisoner, the innocent (sic!) Taverner the "grid inverts taverner to guilty of treason + conspiracy of 453 This is precisely the issue which Felix is trying to determine + which he is paid "he a to determine (as in Acts). In "Tears must frame Taverner, that is, without the grid. See how crucial the grid is? without the grid the state (5 police mar shals + a director) has no enemy; with the grid it has, + Taverner is its leader. conspiratorial group anc no conspiratorial group) A Felix) ove conspiratorial group tears o Felix) no conspiratorial group came interal groun e Felix or: s) t tconspiratorial group) i elin e So the grid converts the key sequence of the text into its opposite. It does not just add material; it converts material ostensibly There. Felix's suspicions of Taverner are correct. "Tears" narrates the This is quite another book. story of an innocent isolate man pursued + arrested + framed + tried by Paranoid + cynical authorities. but with the grid he is guilty; ergo he is not innocent, he is not framed; the authorities are not paranoid; they are only doing their job. It is Taverner who is guilty. oddly, this is what the Xerox missive was trying to determine (I think). But the grid is indubitable, once you have it. The message is not ambiguous or double, there is one ostensible message + then its steganographic opposite which due to 2-3-74 I know to be the true one. (i.e. I have empirical knowledge - experience that verifies the grid sequence: the next integer lying ts e th 45 So the next integer in the sequence, which ies outside the text, if predicted, inverts (or reverses) the text the apparent sequence. But you can't derive that integer without the grid So without the grid "Tears" tells us nothing but with the grid in place it discloses a great secret: that a secret church exists antithetically of opposed to the state, + all the state apparatus! suspicions are correct + only seemingly paranoid (just as Taverner is only seemingly innocent). + for me 2-3-74 confirms that this infor‐ mation is literally correct: "Secret Xtian revolu‐ tionary church" is not cypher or metaphor. The information decoded by the grid is not fiction without the grid you get fiction + then the government's - the police's - suspicions were correct. They were about to be overthrown by a secret conspiratorial group whose existence + intentions they suspected. So a novel about police paranoia + the harrasi ment + framing of an innocent man contains an opposite true narrative: the police are not paranoid t + the man is not innocent. In reading "Tears" G2 has verification of its suspicions, but can't be sure + must test further with the Xerox missive. whereupon the very undergroup whose existence they suspect uses its extraordinary powers to give a false reading in response to the test i.e. "We do not exist"; the group, the sus‐ pected group itself, answers, not me! Well, then This goes a long way to explain why I got supernatural help in 2-3-74 - it was due to The need to keep the steganographic true story in "Tears" safe from detection. What os being protected was that information, not me per se. 54 So whereas as I have the Acts material in "Tears" as confirming 2-3-74, actually 2-3-74 confirms the Acts material in "Tears" inasmuch as the Acts material is not in itself. information but a grid by which the latent information can be extracted. The Acts material does not [so much) prove that God exists or the Holy Spirit exists or that the Bible (N.T.) is true + Christ is the son of God, etc., but that a revolutionary anti-state underground church existed preparing to overthrow the Government of the united states - which is precisely what I flashed on when I saw the Golden Fish in 2-74. In no way now should I misinterpret or undervate the meaning of Thomas' intervention in 3-74: his dealing with one the Xerox missive, (regarding this act specifically, in contrast to the totality of 2-74 - 2-75). It had to do with protecting the steganographic content in "Tears" available via the Acts grid It wasn't my need nor my merit that caused Thomas' override + problemsolving: "Tears" + what was really in it was the issue. If "Tears" contained the information - in code - that a secret conspiratorial organization existed in the process of overthrowing the government, + This group had put the info there (as well as signal cypher or whatever) this group must respond to a probe of the ostensible author of the book - which 65 makes me even more convinced that the Xerox missive was a G2 forgery, now 2-3-74 makes more sense (i.e. why there is no other instance of such a thing happen to anyone before). It was essential that I test out to the innocent - not of myself per se - but the book, since I appeared to be its author, + pre‐ sumably knew what was in it This is quite different from there simply being Biblical material in it (due to mysterious + unexplained causes). in conclusion, if you cold bloodedly take the fact of the grid put in "Tears" without my control or know‐ ledge then Thomas (?) in 3-74, + the AI voice [Note you'd have to say I'm under the control of another mind or minds, + obviously it is the secret group referred to in "Tears." Seez! ➀ + the info extracted by the grid. about the secret group. i another "alternate" universe, much largeri in which a secret underground operates using codes + cyphers, sending secret messages via our media, blowing up buildings, working for freedom, +, very likely, equipped with vastly advanced technology, able to take control of human minds - what is all this. i 456 + not only do I seem to be a part of it. But all that funny shit in suggests that 1) some part of 1971 the Government knew about its exis tence + 2) suspected I was involved in it - as well as the Xerox missive as witness in 3-74. "I woke up" (the strident radis). what does that mean? Something like hypnosis + (i.e. Thomas) post hypnotic instructions? Mind control through super-human technology? Doesn't Valis fit in with the last statement the Golden Fish signal to wake up (+ remember? + do certain things? personality override - Thomas? Where was Thomas actually? + where is the AI voic? on the other hand. Suppose there's a second psyche in me that woke up that's a part of it? So unconsciously for years (decades?) I've been part of it? a I remember how early in 3-74 I felt as if someone (I supposed the Russians) were taking control of my mind through electronic technology. my mind was invaded + finally it was taken over completely. But in point of fact it had been taken over in 1970 when I wrote "Tears" + very likely before that But Thomas had just been somewhere else, in a ifferent climate + altitude. anyhow, this answers the question of, why would God rescue me + conversely not the six 45 million Jews the Nazis killed. We are dealing with a specific underground with vast powers + it was protecting itself vis-a-vis the info extractable from "Tears" via the grid. After all "Tears" contains at the very least the information that the underground exists + this is information on which the course of human history depends. I have thought in terms of the King-Felix cypher, but information that the underground exists? Suppose I had been interrogated? + I didn't know about the Acts material? This makes it a much more specific finite but more concrete matter than theology. if it isn't high technology it is the same as The communications media riding - the plas‐ mate - fits in well. So I didn't so much experience God as I did a secret true Xtian church underground which is the original church of Acts. The members of the church do not know one another; they are unified into a single composite entity by The mysterious Holy Spirit whose voice they hear in their brains + who controls them - + who is The true church + the Holy Spirit are temate. one; where one is, there is the other. It must be so, t when I saw Valis I saw the risen Christ who has replaced all of plural reality with him self through transubstantiation; I actually saw this. So I was in Christ's mind - the vast spaces + my ideas become objects in space. Hints of this are in "Stigmata" + "Frolix 8." (My reasoning was: I based "Stigmata" on the eucharist, + "Frolix 8" on "Stigmata" hence on the eucharist.) Apparently I under‐ stood the cosmic implications of transubstantiation ibreak a stick + there is Jesus." I have not usually stressed the human side enough. Aplatoni orld, but onto the phenomenal or impressed is e b (30 in this case the phenomenon, the man Jesus, has been pressed onto the cosmos at an ontological level; thus I experienced him (i.e. Thomas) as a man with human - individual traits + fears + habits. This reverses the normal order in which the archetype is eternal + the individual nothing - fleeting. But it is precisely this fleeting individual - vs e.g. the DNA genetic encoding - that Jesus saves + makes immortal. (As I have previously realized.) For him the individual is not pendable as it is in nature; to the contrary: So Jesus combats Schopenhauer's will which is irrational + which has no use for the individual creature except to subordinate it as an instru‐ ment for its (the wills) own perpetuation. This is what is meant by salvation: making the individual safe from the DNA will. This is the dialectic between the invading rational (Jesus) + the archaic irrational genetic will Thus I have been wrong to think only in terms of Christ;