happened to him, which is to say, his personal history. And with the short-circuiting or burning up of his karma his punishment is also obviated, as when the messenger inserts the blank white sheet of paper instead of the person's bill of particulars into the retribution machine. This is the second birth or birth from above or birth in the Spirit of Christianity; it is also known to the Taoist alchemists and to the Western alchemists (to them, the chemical wedding, the hierogamy, marriage of the opposites). What strikes me about this is that it is cosmogenesis in miniature, in the microcosm, because something has come into being ex nihilo. What the person did --the heroic act-- he could not do given who he is, given his history, his karma. It is an impossibility. Thus in a real and literal sense a new self has been born in him, since this act, this deed, could not issue out of the old self, the self splintered throughout time and space. This is as much a miracle as the original cosmogenesis; in a sense it is the original cosmogenesis, and perhaps the ruah is present at it as it was in the beginning. So I felt as if another self had taken me over; my actions were "dissociated," without ideation; and then Thomas came into being in me. Maybe he was new, not a lost part rejoining me but new ex nihilo, the permanent offspring of the heroic deed that broke the power of the world-rule existentially. What world lost, self acquired. There is a quantum transfer of essence from world to self, so that the balance between the two shifts critically. {folder 01 - 097} 11-2-80 2 Self is acting on world, rather than world on self; it is as if up until then the self was only a product of world, its thing; it was a thing among things, controlled and directed and shaped, as a potter shapes a clay vessel. And all its deeds and all its thoughts have only been world acting and speaking through it, within a closed system of which that self was only a component. For one thing, if you view it in science fiction terms, in terms of ideas s-f has developed vis-a-vis time travel and changing the past: has not this one new deed changed the entire future, the entire future history of the universe? Because the universe is one great field, and to introduce a truly new thing or event into it is to alter it in its entirety. Permanently. Since world is now no longer a closed system it is no longer in effect a prison. I am sure that this was the purpose of the Orphics, the mystery religions, genuine Christianity and absolutely the purpose of Gnosticism and if Gnosticism than Mani and of course the Catharists. It was Hagia Sophia who presided at the original cosmogenesis. Perhaps this is the AI voice {folder 01 - 098} I Following 11-2-80 p 2 case the pistis establishment Xtians by renouncing their intelligence renounce the possibility of this quantum leap into meta-abstracting + hence their chance at restoration + entering into communion once more with God! This is not precisely Gnosticism - but it is close to it; More, it is like Plato's insisting on using the intellect, the mind, to reason; this, however, as Plato sees, is more than just reasoning; hence I call it meta-abstracting. It is to normal reasoning as "one plus one equals two" is to "one apple plus one apple equals two apples", as I've said before. + the prerequisite is an a priori intimation of the irreality of the [spatiotemporal] world. I am thinking how my surd resembles a phenomenon pertaining to quantum mechanics. (As in "The Tao of Physics".) Am I to turn at last to Taoism as an explanation? The tug being evidence of the Tao. It is such phenomena that cause us to be aware that beyond the dialectic lies the Tao. Zoroastrianism as the dialectic I saw is ruled out because I saw an absolute (Valis) beyond + behind the dialectic. I saw the dialectic as strife in this flux world + feeding into an abstract reality beyond strife; this is not Iranian dualism; {folder 01 - 099} in fact it is not dualism at all since the dualism - the dialectic - is an instrument [Note] of an absolute above + beyond it. Would this not also rule out Gnosticism as being a dualism? Like Zoroastrianism it posits the dualism as ultimate. This leaves Taoism + the strife of Yin + Yang. One of my big breakthroughs was to identify an equilibrium above the strife, + this is expressed in the tractate: "One mind there is, but under it two principles contend" - light + dark, which would be Yin + Yang. [Note] "An instrument". Then the equilibrium above it is not just a "secret partnership"; it makes use of the dialectic to produce change by which to bring into being (existence) new things (elements) that can be fitted into the macrometasomakosmos which only grows more + more complex - i.e. completed through progressive reticulation + arborizing. This is not precisely Taoism, but it is close to it; but it is also close to Neo-Platonism (the Form World). Again: I seem to have an original system based on (1) my revelation + experience of 2-3-74; + (2) my successful exegesis, in particular my identifying a meta-abstraction based on anamnesis, by which a morphologically arranged world can be seen as the truly real one (which is overt Platonism + not Taoism). So I have a synchretism that {folder 01 - 100} can't be reduced to any known system in human history. For example, in Platonism there is no recognition that the flux world serves the Form World by supplying it with new parts; the flux world is merely seen as epiphenomenal: derived, semireal. A mere reflection of the real -i.e. Form- world. Many systems agree that the spatiotemporal realm is ontologically less real, further fallen, further from God, than e.g. the Form World, but that the spatiotemporal realm exists to serve a useful - if not in fact necessary purpose to/for the Form World - nowhere is this recognized because none identifies a macrometasomakosmos being completed + yet somehow unchanging (what I call the phylogons). It is unchanging in that it is above the dialectic; + yet it progressively becomes more + more reticulated + arborizing, as in an abstract memory system. + this is the end, goal, use + purpose of our ephemeral flux world. In no known system, theological or philosophical or scientific, do I find this expressed. + I posit the possibility of a meta-abstracting by which this morphologically arranged null-spatiotemporal realm can be apprehended by a mixture of a priori reasoning + observation: a whole quantum leap in cognition-perception. Moreover, this macrometasomakosmos is {folder 01 - 101} is exploded ubiquitously throughout our spatiotemporal realm; +: something exerts a tug on the entire reality field, but whether this is the macrometasomakosmos I don't know; it may be, if it is alive - + I have every reason to think it is; it is selfassembling therefore sentient + purposeful. It can't be God because how could God be using the sensible universe as a source of parts for his body (e.g. how come he has a body? This is more like a meta life form literally preying on the entire spatiotemporal universe! Have I apprehended a meta-universe arranged along different principles than our spatiotemporal one - that is alive, or like a life form, totally homeostatic + eternal + yet not God or the Tao or anything ever suspected in human history? Could it be Teilhard's Cosmic Christ? Vide Ephesians: "The main theme of this letter is how the whole body of creation, having been cut off from the creator by sin, is decomposing, + how its rebirth is effected by Christ reuniting all his parts into an organism with himself as the head, so as to reattach it to God. The human + the angelic worlds [Note] are brought together again..." etc. [Note] Upper + lower realms. Hence I saw two signals, set + ground, as a total reality of which we normally only see one half. {folder 01 - 102} Now, what at this point am I to say about the Acts material in "Tears", the Xtian Golden Fish sign, the AI voice (Holy Spirit?) speaking of Hagia Sophia? My memories of actually being a secret revolutionary Xtian? The eidos of the Black Iron Prison (Rome) with us, the secret underground Xtians, timelessly attacking it? The reason given by the AI voice as to why I was helped in 3-74? Esp. "You have been adopted"? + the vision of the messenger substituting his blank white piece of paper for by bill of particulars drawn up against me, thus exculpating me. + - "UBIK"! Then my surd is the irreducable presence of the Cosmic Christ transubstantiating reality. (Treating it as a field.) Then what I call "the morphological arrangement" is that of the macrometasomakosmos not in spatiotemporal terms, exploded right down to the trash layer in our spatiotemporal world. But does this still explain the meta-abstracting via anamnesis? Yes, because it is Acts + Christ that are re-collected; + by "Christ" read Cosmic Christ: the macrometasomakosmos. "Re-collection" equals literal perception of it (him) + it/he is not arranged in spatiotemporality. Hence Acts + USA 1974 are two aspects (or continua) of one essence; he is that essence as world. {folder 01 - 103} + he intervened in US history in 1974 re Nixon. So it is significant that Acts is the other "aspect" continuum - specifically Acts. Christ -the Cosmic Christ- is the common essence of (1) Acts; & (2) any other space-time continuum (rather than any two continua? Will Acts always be one of the two? The Acts material showing up in "Tears" suggests that this is the case... as if Acts is the key to everything - + if it is, then Vails is indeed the Cosmic Christ. Then is the dialectic the Cosmic Christ preying on the spatiotemporal (i.e. decomposing) universe? Outwitting it + achieving enantiodromia of its plans or drift? Pattern completion. And, as he outwits it, he takes piece after piece from it (as they come into existence due to the dialectic between him + it) + fits these pieces permanently into the (i.e. his) macrometasomakosmos. This is exactly what Ephesians describes. These are valuable pieces because of his enantiodromia pattern-completion. When it loses in the dialectic it loses a piece of itself. + he gains that piece that he has brought to fruition, right here in the spatiotemporal flux (i.e. dialectic) world. Its intelligence is dim compared with his. {folder 01 - 104} That is what is happening when the wise horn of the dialectic wins (as it always does); it dismantles its antagonist + incorporates the pieces into its own macrometasomakosmos. Now, for 6 1/2 years I have searched for a description of this in theology and philosophy, + all I can find that fits is the brief description of the activity of the cosmic Christ in the notes on Euphesians in the J. Bible. + this is Roman Catholic doctrine, not the opinion of a given man, even a given Catholic, such as Teilhard. That Xtianity presumes an antithetical dialectic in the world between Christ + Satan is beyond dispute. But what I saw seems to be a dialectic between the new cosmos (with Christ as its head) + the old decomposing creation, which is, simply, what I call the spatiotemporal realm; likewise the macrometasomakosmos is Christ, the cosmic Christ, who acts in the spatiotemporal realm as the a priori horn of the dialectic + is at the same time the macrometasomakosmos resulting from that dialectic and outside of {folder 01 - 105} it (in a sense; but in another sense