events- far too rapidly; i.e. time contraction. After all, I had a deadline that was a date with death: April 15th. Hence it was coming too soon: closing in on me faster + faster. But my thoughts seemed to race. I think this was due to time contraction + was really illusory. This is verified by their not seeming to be my thoughts; I had no control whatsoever over them; they happened to me - a scary experience, which required me finally to recite a mantra. So rapid thoughts occurred but they weren't mine. + I was rushing forward through space or what seemed like space. + then I saw vague floating colors + suddenly the phosphene activity. My guess as to the phosphene activity is that, yes, physiologically it was due to the drop in GABA fluid + disinhibition of neural circuits - due to an awareness on my part of imminent actual external physical mortal peril (i.e. death crisis). However, at that point my inner (biological) tape was moving so slowly that outer reality had turned into a movie - so high speed folder 48 - 186 that only constants were visible; reality was a veritable light show! Impinging at enormous velocity, as if faster than the retina could record it. Optic neurons were firing at ultimate excitement, thus stimulating the phosphenes. It was as if unbearable amounts -in the form of flashes- of lights were impinging on the retinas. + in fact the peril did arrive too soon: in March, not April, almost a month early. My intuitive apprehension was accurate. But I reacted to events before they occurred. In which case my inner tape had speeded up + carried me subjectively past the point of death into the post mortem world. Hence the sense of rushing down a tunnel. No, I did not react in advance: I reacted tardily. Specifically I reacted to the Xerox letter (which came on Wednesday) the following Saturday (the ad in "Psychology Today")! I did on Saturday what I was supposed to do on Wednesday. That was the reaction that scared me because of robot-like automism of it, the total lack of ideation. But it was a delayed reaction from the Xerox missive. That was why there was no ideation. I was belatedly answering the Xerox missive, + upon doing it, realized what I had just done, + phoned the police. There should have been a reflexive response to the Xerox missive on Wednesday, but "Thomas" intervened. Let me consider that I discovered that I had been engrammed on the pretty girl with fish teeth (i.e. fish) necklace over a period of folder 48 - 187 folder 48 - 187 decades, obviously in preparation for 2-74. In other words, the divine power (Christ or God) worked backward from the pharmacy girl teleologically. So my inner tape was cooked decades in advance - just as media info is cooked by set; yes, set cooked it, so Christ cooked it - tape as ground. The total deterministic system ("elemental powers") is that which Spinoza equates with God; obviously, as a Jew, deriving his conception of it from the Torah (which fits my analysis perfectly). This is why he says even God must act as he does + in no other way; God is as determined as a falling stone -which I think is a mechanistic-oriented absurdity of the Newtonian period in human thought- the "pool balls" universe; efficient cause is all, even in regard to God. The problem with this view is the fact of entropy, which Spinoza knew nothing about. Such a system -even if fed Torah to program it- would run down/ossify, since nothing new could come into it. The cosmic Christ adds what specifically would be needed - i.e. to renew the system at carefully selected times + places in wise ways (hence rebirth is the key word). Flexibility + ad hoc newness, instilled into the system, + as a result it doesn't run down. {illustration: An arrow from "Torah" to "Universe" is affected by an arrow from "Cosmic Christ"} My God - of course I'd see living information (the "plasmate"). Since we are normally programmed by information, by folder 48 - 188 folder 48 - 188 verbal + graphic messages, even if info (Torah) were not the source of reality, if the cosmic Christ were to alter our programming he would naturally cook + modulate + ride our media. This, what I saw (the set plasmate) almost in itself verifies the big picture of what is going on: a rectified, reprogramming or even deprogramming over a ground programming. This is where it -i.e. he- would show up. DNA, z.B., in info that programs. + this set ("plasmate") + the linking + clutch, etc., are all laid on top. Thus the multi-layers of info in "Tears" with the King Felix cypher the uppermost set layer. This fits in with (1) the written info (pages, etc) dreams (Torah?) + the AI voice. Probably the written info is Torah + the AI voice is St Sophia (Christ). But - am I - did I misunderstand the dialectic? Could it have been a dual check-+-balance system (as in Taoism), not antithetical but //\\//\\// like Torah as efficient cause basis with homeostasis achieved by a regulatory system always compensating - always acting to correct, like flip, then flop; viz 0-1. Binary! Justification? The Greek "backward running [turning]"? Then set is brought on by an overstepping; set at folder 48 - 189 folder 48 - 189 once cuts in. "The secret partnership"! "The evil purifies the good + the good the evil." Hegel: Negation of the negation; each step gives rise to its antithesis, etc. Then what we have here that I saw in 3-74 is a system which is ultra sophisticated; it has elaborate (or rather highly intelligent) "circuits" for maintaining "trajectory" or balance or thrust, etc. Yet I sense sequences of puzzle posed + solution: antithetical dialectic. As in dualism (bitheism). Still, the sum of the 2 is a totally coherent self regulating binary system, in which extremes bring into operation complex rectifications (stabilization). Set seems to have a veto power, as if it is guardian, with the final word (i.e. superior). Ground is mechanical. Set is intelligent + flexible, + makes decisions. (Hence: Judge.) If it is a circuit it is a superior, monitoring circuit. I think the artificer (?) has slipped into his own artifact (?) to renew it; in any case he has the final say - so where-ever he chooses to act; he always triumphs or trumps. So it must be the creator. As in "VR" as the boy remembers. He would spread out like a growing vine. Yes - + camouflaged as he spreads. folder 48 - 190 folder 48 - 190 This might antagonize the system (exactly as in "VR"). __ The way it determines you requires that it get into your mind. You see, in the normal course of your life, a particular sign. Valis causes some aspect of the sign to register in your memory as a template. Subsequently this template is elaborated + reinforced by later exposures to its components + related material. Finally the completed template causes you to respond to a crucial situation in a particular way. Valis utilizes the principles of linking, the clutch mechanism, repetition + elaboration, + working backward from the later crucial situation. It causes permanent printing to occur on your mind that later acts as cueing. The reason I know this is that I was plugged into Valis' mind for a time on a -for me- conscious basis, + experienced my own engramming as described above. Is Valis, then, a revisionist agency, amending prior programming that, if left alone, will lead to the person's eventual destruction? Or is Valis the prime programmer? __ The Torah reads: "a writer in Marin County will have troubles." I am shown the entry - it was like a Jeane Dixon prophecy: written before I even was born. It was this entry that Christ acted to amend. Thus he loosed the binding power of the law over me; i.e. the prophecy which formed the essential matrix of my life. Thus by intervening in the way he did he changed the sacred Torah that existed before creation that even God studies. folder 48 - 191 Reality was amended by amending the instructions fed it. So it was not amended directly; its received signal was overridden. This is what I saw that I called Valis: the resetting of reality. This is why I came to the conclusion that I had not seen God but the will of God. Interestingly, what came into being (therefore) did not follow from what had come before; i.e. causality was overruled, + there was what I called "pretextual" causality. Things + processes seemed alive because sentient purpose rather than efficient mechanical law was modulating them. I was seeing the results: of something coming between the law + reality, a softness, a melting, a flexibility so that reality was responsive to me as a "you" not an "it." The modulations had to do with me - they were designed with me in mind, like a sympathetic response. Like a watchful organism or field embracing a number of objects + processes. Here is where Spinoza's view causes him of necessity to deny miracle, since he only conceives of efficient creation + cannot fathom how an override could be the will of God since the original efficient process is in itself the will of God. But a reading of Paul (+ an understanding of the mystery religions + of pronoia) clears this up. Also -especially- an understanding of karma. In the amending, the future does not arise from the past but only seems to. This is something like teleology + I have long mistaken it for teleology. Actually, it is a substitution folder 48 - 192 folder 48 - 192 of something else for cause + effect, the past determining the future. What there is here is something on the order of new creation, a renewing ex nihilo. There is a mind lodged in the system now, rather than at the start. The creator has entered his own epiphenomenon + vivifies it on the spot. But he vivifies it in a specific, not capricious, way: he cuts the karmic cord. He sets the causal (i.e. karmic) counters at zero. The karmic past has no longer any power. It is annulled. This is (1) the death of sin; + (2) the death of the "old Adam." It is as if these pasts events did not happen, + everything becomes as it would be, would have been, if they had not happened. From the standpoint (state) of the present, they never existed. So the past is altered retroactively. {Note} This simply must explain my sense of just having been in a cool, high, moist climate, as well as my personality change + verbal mannerisms (dog he, cat she, the car air vent). The present was now as if certain events in the past had not occurred; thus the present changed (released from the causal karma of these past events). + even though I could watch it (reality) melt, I could not remember how it had just now been (different). But I knew it had. {Note:} No, it is not. The present is altered as if those past events had not occurred. The past events occurred, all right, but their causal trains to the present were modulated so the result in the present was as if they -the events- had not been. The present is disjunctive from the past: folder 48 - 193 folder 48 - 193 this is the revivification of creation. The "new heavens + new Earth" - cut off from the past. "+ the memory of the former things..." etc. __ Here's a really bizarre idea. Thomas is me as I'd have been if the tragedies of 1970-1974 hadn't happened to me.