once (2) -the occlusion- went. So these are four aspects of a primary debasement distributed over all needed crucial areas; they stand or fall together. This just cannot be an accidental structure. What it consists of is a totally consistent self-perpetuating deception the upshot of which is that the person is a mere object that (1) sees what he is programmed to see; (2) does what he is programmed to do; (3) believes what he is programmed to believe; + (4) is what he is programmed to be. But there is every reason to believe that (1) it was not always so; + (2) it is unnatural. folder 21 - 010 folder 21 - 010 Who gains by this? What is the pay off, + to whom? I see at once. Growth is absolutely halted. Time itself is stopped. "Nothing new ever again came into his mind after that" - Jung's definition of psychosis. It is like a world or cosmic psychosis. + that which specifically is blocked is the return of the rightful king + the establishment of the Just Kingdom. At the critical moment in history, just after the resurrected Christ departs this world + the Holy Spirit comes + begins its work, the 4-pronged inauthenticity takes over. Destruction of Rome ends, + Rome perpetuates itself into an infinitude of fake time. It is as if a spurious ontological matrix or receptacle for Rome is obligingly spun out, + Rome unrolls forever into it in a plethora of disguises. The cycle of the ages congeals; the Iron Age does not pass normally (or at all) into the Golden Age. This is a form of entropy, as "Ubik" disclosed. The organism has locally died, or at least become sick. (It is stuck in its cycle, in cybernetics terms; it won't kick over - which fits with my idea that we are memory coils which won't kick over + discharge their contents). The age of power (Mekkis) refuses to yield to the age of love (agape). It will not resign, but since the procession of the ages is automatic, the maintenance of the age of power is counterfeit; that is, it is illusory. A priori, it must be illusory, as K.W. folder 21 - 011 figured out one time. The Empire is only a phantasm, lingering because we have gone to sleep. So who benefits? The powerful = the Empire, as is disclosed in "Tears". But its continual presence is only seeming, + depends on the 4-pronged forgery for its seeming survival. Real time must have gone on + abolished it; ergo, we are caught in Fake Time, which leads right back to my 2/74 anamnesis: the spell over me was in the blink of an eye shattered - + a month later the real world faded into view. We are dead! There is hysteresis or perseverance of image - something has deliberately been made to go wrong. A spell - wizardry. A spiritual part of us, necessary to our mental life, has been removed from us; + in the homoplasmate it is restored. That's how it was done; for the inauthenticities to come into being, spiritual death, on our parts, had to occur. (Mors ontologica!). Spiritually, we are literally dead, + so real time for us ceases. Once the Holy Spirit restores that missing part (firebright!) real time picks up, resumes, + the PTG is here. It's like "Eye" - congealed into unconsciousness, or - like half-life in "Ubik". We are as they are in "Ubik," + being fed a simulated reality. Only a master technology (old word: magic or sorcery) could effect this. Good Lord; I've deduced the presence of a superior technology deforming us; + I've seen a superior technology restoring us. It's not God + Satan; it's competing technologies! folder 21 - 012 folder 21 - 012 If (as I know from first hand experience! a superior technology, which healed me in 2-3/74, isn't it logical that it is a competing superior technology which toxified us initially? Then we belong to some enslaving race - + another is coming to our aid. It's not a virus; it's a technology, deliberately employed by a species we never see. Or is the restoring technology just a promotion of one of us now + then? Not two competing species-+-technologies, but a hierarchy, as if some of us, now + then, earn a lift to the next higher level? No - there are two, + they are in competition. I'm positive of it, or - Some of us are selected out; what we call "the saved". Like certain fruits from an orchard. Maybe so. Picked. Elevated. A few out of many. __ 4:30 AM quasi-voice: "one by one he is drawing us out of this world". (+ then is it destroyed?) The time has come. (NB this "drawing us out" seems to ratify the one-technology "picking". See page 12). __ Next day. Have read the above. Boy, was I fucked up - I couldn't tell if it was the AI voice or me thinking it. But I got up again to write my absolute conviction as to what the quoted sentence meant: I wrote "the time has come". But this is what the AI said within the last few weeks: "the time you've waited for has come". So? So: "one by one he is drawing us out of this world" - like under nitrous oxide I thought it, but I'd melded with Zebra, the other half of my homoplasmate syzygy. This goes with, "I did call you, Philip". The picking of the [little?] flock - it is the Good Shepherd calling to us. folder 21 - 013 folder 21 - 013 "Drawing" is an interesting verb, here, very economical but explicit. It suggests to me a lowered line, such as a fisherman might use; viz: drawing up. I sense (as I did last night) although it isn't implied or stated, that what isn't drawn [up] out of this world is doomed to destruction. It is as if he is saving those whom he will or can, now, at the end, before the Ira. The burning down of the fake place. "The time has come". So it is the final flock, if my intimation of last night is correct. What I regard as an illusory world will end, as it must for us to be freed. But - suppose a lot of us are bonded hopelessly to the illusion, + hence must perish with it? We will wake up, + this world, as it did for me briefly in 2-3/74, will be gone; it has to: it is our thrall. {illustration of a globe with outstretched wings} Horus __ Back to the 4-pronged deformation: the weak link is (4): memory. If anamnesis can be induced the other three prongs will fall. (+ did, in my case). So memory is the key: impaired memory permits the total deformation, + restored memory restores in all areas. Because what we remember is Acts since we were (+ actually still are) inhabitants of that world; we did not actually come into existence in the irreal, but came into life at the time + place of Acts (in my case Thomas) + then the irreality took over, to remember is to be an inhabitant of the world of Acts, + to be in that world again, since in truth we never left it (it's still going on). My restored memory spanned thousands of years, so it bound the vast period implied, but there was a complete ellipsis between Acts AD 74 + USA 1974, as if those centuries never happened. folder 21 - 014 folder 21 - 014 The technology involved must be capable of splitting the original psyche into fractions. __ Note from p 10 supra. "Some of us are selected out; what we call 'the saved,' like certain fruits from an orchard. Maybe so. Picked. Elevated. A few out of many." "'one by one he is drawing us out of this world.'" The voice (?) seems to be saying that the one - technology - not the two competing, but hierarchical levels - is involved. The text flows together. Orthodoxy says that our fallen state is a punishment by God. Well, okay - then now he who tossed us down saves some of us, or at least in sequence: "one by one": extrication has begun. "One by one" does not imply that only some will be saved, just some before others (on the other hand it also doesn't imply that all of us will be saved either). Maybe the image of the ripening crop (e.g. grapes) is a good one: some reach maturation before others do. But the Gospels clearly speak of different fates for different grains of wheat, + it speaks of tares, + goats vs. sheep, etc. + I have my visionary dreams to go on, of the stagnant pond with few "tadpoles" wiggling up; + the heap of sterile "pranes," to which I contrast homoplasmates. "One by one he is drawing us out of this world" absolutely fits my stagnant pond vision. + the stagnation toxifies us (cf "Scanner"). This fits with Thomas' abhorrence toward lead + aerosol sprays. + "he draws us out of this world" equals draws us up out of. Then the world itself can't be folder 21 - 015 folder 21 - 015 saved. This fits in with Gnosticism. We are rescued off this dying (toxic, stagnant) world. But we're not literally lifted up: the voice said "drawing us out of," not "up out of," which is important. Levels of ontological being or functioning may be involved. "This world" would be the lower realm, with its subsentient, mechanical laws - vide neoplatonism. But the stagnant pond dream, + Thomas' attitude toward lead + aerosol sprays, point to a literal toxicity of a literal planet (i.e. world = planet). "Out of" suggests situation, involvement or embroilment. "Drawing us out of" could refer to an inner-outer bifurcation. We are in an irreal world based on unmoving fake time; "out" means outside; i.e. the real world. Suppose our irreal world is like a sort of bubble within an actual world, a condition of reduction or entrapment - could we be like the personoids which Lem writes about, within an artificial system? In a closed environment governed by mere causal law? I saw the vast macrobrain, + its info-traffic flowing through our world in such a way as to covertly signal (program, control, disinhibit, etc.) us. We are in the macrobrain, + its info traffic is part of the determinism which drives us where it wishes us to go; or is it all of the determinism, the "Law"? (I should recall, too, the clutch system built into us, but not under our control; rather, it is under the macrobrain's control, along with the external info traffic itself.) This all points to one technology: the info traffic folder 21 - 016 resembles the Runciter - Ubik messages. But - it is a total environment, not an inbreaking from outside. Still, I came very close in "Ubik"; basically I had it right. Mind impinges on the substantiality of our world + makes it plastic; this into traffic is the ratiocination of the macrobrain's mind. This absolutely fits the "some are doomed to be saved + some aren't" revelation. My salvation from determinism was determined by determinism - i.e. by this info (message) traffic. There is no override (v. Spinoza re Miracles; he is right!); 3-74 was not an override but a culmination of a long [deterministic] process with extriculpation (?) in mind as the goal. So there is one technology, that of the macrobrain's. The very info traffic which always had controlled me signalled (moved) me along the path to 3-74 deliberately; what it was not was a malfunction, or an override - my whole history of writing (e.g. "Ubik") points to that: I had figured out the system, or rather the system