(the spatiotemporal realm is only semireal). I did not just remember my past; I returned: "The yogi witnesses the inverse of the process of Creation, he 'goes back' until he reaches the 'origin'." I.e. regressus ad uterum; "we have also seen that the regressus ad uterum can be homologized with a regression to the state of Chaos before the Creation." This is far different from just remembering a past life, and this is what I did; I regressed phylogenically, back through millions of years. And saw explosion into multiplicity turn into implosion from multiplicity to unity. None of this meant anything to me until I read Plato and realized how it could be done. An experience such as mine is not normally found in the West, but rather with yogis, in India, also China; this is Why I could find no account of it historically. The phosphene graphics were indeed the Bardo Thodol trip, literally; this is Tibetian Buddhism, and very esoteric; this is the most esoteric wisdom on Earth. I actually --literally actually-- traveled backward in time, to before the Creation. Incredible; I'd say it was impossible, that it only seemed that I did, except that Plato explains how it can be. I always thought this backward travel, this cosmic resorption, was only metaphoric ... but Plato shows that it literally is possible. Then the pieces being fitted into the metasomakosmos are the metasomakosmos' explosion run backward, the unity restored. The entry in my Tractate is accurate; time is headed toward unity and negentropy. The metasomakosmos is the primordial unitary entelechy shattered in the moment of cosmogensis, by the beginning of time; it is carried {folder 01 - 152} 11-7-80 5 into fragmentation by time; but time is irreal (cf Plato and Kant). So it only appears to be fragmented; it's possible for the percipient to see the primordial unity restored, as restored; it has not actually been shattered. It's a matter of seeming. In the morphologically-arranged realm outside of time and space it is intact. No wonder I saw the world of Acts; I actually regressed in time to that world -- literally. This is simply so incredible that even though I (finally) understand that it could be and now it could be I simply cannot really react. We are dealing here with perhaps the ultimate mystery, wisdom, gnostis, the inner sanctum of spiritual actions and knowledge and technique and experience, this regressus ad uterum that takes you back to the primordial Chaos before the moment that time burst into reality and the Creation occurred. The point I am trying to make is that Platonist metaphysics, as I have analyzed them, shows that this is not a mere impression that one is traveling backward (retrograde) in time; it is actually so. But it is not an easy process to induce; it is difficult and quite rare, virtually unknown in the West, if not essentially totally unknown. Only a very unusual set of circumstances could start it into motion. To see Brahman there is one route and one route only: this cosmic resorption, this regression ad originem. I must understand what I am saying, here: this is the only way --THE ONLY WAY-- that multiplicity can turn into the primordial unity of Brahman, is if you regress along what I have called (mistakenly) the phylogenic axis of time: seeing "the inverse process of Creation." That primordial unity has been shattered by time, by the work of time, but time is not real (in a certain sense). This is the reason one can regress ad originem; if time were real one could not. This is why Platonist metaphysics must be understood if one is to understand how this regression ad originem could literally actually be accomplished... "until all is reabsorbed into the Great Brahman," which is what I called Valis. This "lifting of the occlusion" that I have spoken of for six years and eight months, in which Valis became no longer camouflaged -- it was no longer camouflaged because I had regressed ad originem, "witnessed the inverse of the process of Creation." So the lifting of the occlusion did not come for any reason that I could figure out EXCEPT THAT I FELT RESTORED TO MY PREFALLEN STATE, and in that I was absolutely correct. Well, was it worth my not giving up on this exegesis, this attempt to understand what happened in 2-3-7 and how and why? Certainly. Absolutely. Beyond any doubt. Even if {folder 01 - 153} 11-7-80 6 I did take the wrong path thousands --literally thousands-- of times. I had to find my way to Platonist metaphysics before I could make any progress at all, and that came only recently. Christianity was a factor (I finally realized) that was always throwing me off. I knew the answer had to do with time. I read and reread Eliade's MYTH AND REALITY, but until I had digested the difficult philosophical matter of Plato's metaphysics --and related it to Pythagoras and the Orphics, to the greater mysteries-- only then could I return to MYTH AND REALITY and understand that I had done what Eliade describes in his chapter "Time Can Be Overcome." I really did have all the pieces, in a way; but they had to go in the right sequence. Platonist metaphysics, a hard topic, was the key, the first real key; then I could make use of Eliade; then I could fit in cosmic resorption and see it vis-a-vis anamnesis, because I finally understood what anamnesis really consisted of (I'm not sure that Eliade himself does!). "The flux world feeds into the metasomakosmos" -- it never once occurred to me that when I saw this I was seeing time moving backward, that the metasomakosmos was the original primordial unitary reality before "existence first 'burst' into the world and unleashed Time." I might have gone on forever without grasping this, but for the fact that I was haunted by the realization that somehow 2-3-74 resembled my own prior thought-formations, which suggested THE TIBETIAN BOOK OF THE DEAD which then pointed to India hence Buddhism and Brahmanism, hence yoga. And always, always, I had sensed that Valis might well be Brahman. He reckons ill who leaves me out; When me he flies I am the wings. It was always there intuitively in my mind, but I could not verify it because I could not explain why --how-- I had seen Brahman, if indeed I had. It was not enough for me to say, "I saw Brahman." I had to explain why and how. And why we normally do not. Now I have all that. "I define God as world under the threat of (imminent) death." This is not transcendent deity, Western man's deity. As in UBIK this is, well, world under the threat of imminent death; I can say no more. {folder 01 - 154} 11-7-80 addendum 1 Eliade: But knowledge of one's own former lives --that is, of one's personal history--bestows even more: a soteriological knowledge and mastery over one's own destiny. He who remembers his "births" (origin) and his former lives (equals periods made up of a considerable series of events undergone) succeeds in freeing himself from karmic conditionings; in other words, he becomes the master of his destiny. This is why "abso1ute memory" --such as the Buddha's, for example-- is equivalent to omniscience and gives its possessor the powers of Cosmocrator. We have seen that there are several ways of "going back," but the most important are: (1) rapid and direct re-establishment of the first situation (whether Chaos or the precosmogonic state or the moment of Creation) and (2) progressive return to the "origin" by proceeding backward through Time from the present moment to the "absolute beginning." In the first case there is a vertiginously swift or even instantaneous abolition of the Cosmos (or of the human being as the result of a certain temporal duration) and restoration of the original situation ("Chaos" or --on the anthropological plane-- the "seed," the "embryo"). ... In the second case --that of gradual return to the origin-- we have a meticulous and exhausive recollecting of personal and historical events. To be sure, in these cases too the final goal is to "burn up" these memories, to abolish them as it were by reliving them and freeing oneself from them. But in order to return to the original moment as quickly as possibl-- fuck. But there is no longer an effort to blot them out instantaneously in order to return to the original moment as quickly as possible ... The difference from the first method, whose model is instantaneously abolishing the World and re-creating it, is obvious. Here memory plays the leading role. One frees oneself from the work of Time by recollection, by anamnesis. The essential thing is to remember all the events one has witnessed in time. (I seem to have experienced a fusion of the two. There was a vertiginously swift journey, but there was also anamnesis.) {folder 01 - 155} addendum 2 I add the following, not found in Eliade, but certainly a part of the sort of world mythology that Joseph Campbell describes: What is required is (1) the recognition of world as your own prior thought-formations, i.e. the karmic nature of world. (2) An awakening (well, this is perhaps involved in the above). Okay. (3) The heroic deed performed while awake that introduces an element of newness so that the prior thought-formations are sundered, broken, abolished, ruined; their power over you is gone; this is how you free yourself from karma and take control of your own destiny. It is not just by anamnesis and by recognizing world as your own prior thoughtformations (perhaps from a former life); it is by awakening enough to perform the heroic deed and thus introduce newness. I say this because I did it. That is what destroyed the power of the spatiotemporal world (karma) over me. I am the authority I need not find it in a reference book. This was essential; not just to know but to do (die Tat). perhaps this is a western notion. In any case, I believe the deed is essential, because upon it happening, the prior thought-formations are no longer true. They no longer pertain. Thus Time --or a certain kind of cyclic dead Time-- is destroyed, and real Time (the future? The free future?) rushes in; whereupon Time runs retrograde and you are carried back to the beginning before cosmogenesis; and you see Brahman. {folder 01 - 156} XV 11-17-80 1 God manifested himself to me as the infinite void; but it was not the abyss; it was the vault of heaven, with blue sky and wisps of white clouds. He was not some foreign God but the God of my fathers. He was loving and kind and he had personality. He said, "You suffer a little now in life; it is little compared with the great joys, the bliss that awaits you. Do you think I in my theodicy would allow you to suffer greatly in proportion to your reward?" He made me aware then, of the bliss that would come; it was infinite and sweet. He said, "I am the infinite. I will show you. Where I am, infinity is; where infinity is, there I am. Construct lines of reasoning by which to understand your experience in 1974. I will enter the field against their shifting nature. You think they are logical but they are not; they are infinitely creative." I thought a thought and then an infinite regression of theses and countertheses came into being. God said, "Here I am; here is infinity." I thought another explanation; again an infinite series of thoughts split off in dialectical antithetical interaction. God said, "Here is infinity; here I am." I thought, then, an infinite number of explanations, in succession, that explained 2-3-74; each single one of them yielded up an infinite progression of flipflops, of thesis and antithesis, forever.