complementary, as in Taoism. In any case the defense against 3 lies in 2; in fact 2 is the route to 1. The whole campaign is to get us out of Nebelheim + into Walhalla; but Nebelheim is still here, underlying all else: forges + anvils working away, + us as the workmen. This takes the prison world out of the theological + places it in the psychological (or also in the psychological), which is an advance. It's interesting that in the pursuit of freedom (the Eigenwelt) you fall back into the pure prison world, once you leave the mixture. Thus the BIP is a trap waiting for us, to which schizophrenia leads. Again, Form II is equated with irrationality + disorder + congealing (the coming to an end of the dialectic) + death (+ entropy). Both the Um- + Eigenworlds are apart from our world which is, properly, the Mitwelt. {illustration: Three text boxes apparently representing the Eigenwelt (box I), the Umwelt (box II) and the Mitwelt (box III). Boxes I and II are connected by arrows to box III, but not to each other. The boxes have the following texts; box I: "Outside of time in a good sense: eternity. End time (eschatology). Repaired Godhead."; box II: "Stuck; so outside of time in a bad sense: stasis. Brute cause: the primordial Fall or crisis."; box III: "In time, our world". The arrows have the text "The dialectic due to the interaction of I + II".} It could be said that in I nothing is lost, + in II nothing is ever gained (nothing new ever comes into being), so in a sense, compared to III in which the dialectic takes place, I + II share this feature in common: they lie outside of time process + the dialectic. I is the future (teleology); II is the past (efficient cause). folder 08 - 024 folder 08 - 024 I is the goal (pt. Omega) working backward from the 2nd Advent; II is the totally fallen world before the first Advent. So the BIP -as I correctly saw- is the origins - the past. Regressive time, as in "Ubik." So when I saw Acts (world of "Tears") I saw Form II, the fallen prison world. + the PTG is Form I, the goal; we are in the middle, but moved by the dialectic away from II + pulled teleologically by Form I. This is the entity Valis (Zebra, Ubik) moving retrograde in time from the end of the universe: purposeful + sentient + assembling; set against it is the blind efficient cause creator Samael whose power wanes constantly. But if II overpowers I it can (theoretically) impede the tug toward point Omega. II drags us to a halt + even back, as in "Ubik." Exhalation (creation) initially; then Advent one, + inhalation (return to God + restoration of the primordial crisis/rift) begins; viewed this way, creation is a flawed act; the goal is to restore exhaled creation to its lost source + home. Creation + fall mean the same thing, + acosmism is implied, here. "I am the breath of the creator, + as he exhales + inhales I live." True of all creation. Form II exhales; Form I inhales. God creator exhales / Christ turning point / Holy Spirit inhales We are now in the age of the Spirit (Valis, whom I saw) folder 08 - 025 folder 08 - 025 If II has congealed, then it would freeze us at maximum exhaled distance from God, hold us there, end the dialectic. Resist I taking over + moving us back to God our home. The creator separates us from the Godhead, in, through + by his creation + his act of creating. In this system, God is the only reality + he is not the creator. God is the -or expressed as the- Form I "inhaling" Holy Spirit Valis who is the Godhead receiving us back not passively but actively breaking into our created cosmos: He wants his exiled sparks back; they are part of him: he invades this cosmos, creation of the demiurge, + incorporates it into himself in an act of divine restoration, wholeness + healing. He does not just passively wait for us to return but engulfs us: impinges -as in "Ubik"- onto creation. (This "exhalation - inhalation" is not spacial but takes the form of higher-lower levels along some axis that I can't represent except in a tautological "closer-farther" sense: closer to him / farther from him). (It may be related to awareness, memory, knowledge, consciousness, etc. Wakefulness. True identity; viz: "coming to oneself, since one is -we are- bits of the Godhead which have fallen into sleep or ignorance or forgetfulness or are poisoned, intoxicated, sick, blind, etc. In the dialectic, Form I must get the upper hand if we are to be inhaled - restored to the Godhead. Forms I + II push in opposite directions: away from God / back toward God. An adversary dialectic. folder 08 - 026 {illustration: Two rising and falling arrows moving from left to right and right to left respectively: "exhalation out away from" and "inhalation in toward"} This is the dialectic I saw; each entity is moving opposite to the other in terms of direction toward the Godhead; one away, the other toward, they are absolutely antithetical; Form I must overcome Form II, but not just fight it to a standstill: stasis is not the answer but an overpowering by I of II. In terms of signal strength, Form I must grow stronger + stronger in relation to II; its victories are not merely sequential but hierarchical. To fall into the Umwelt is to fall into totally alienated world, total isolation + "privacy," separateness: ego alone with ego in its idios kosmos. So Form II represents idoi kosmoi, + Form I the koinos. The ultimate destruction Augenblick is when the koinos is perceived (experienced) as Fremd, + the idios familiar. This is the essence + epitome of the nature of mental + spiritual illness. In a healthy state, the idios is perceived (experienced) as Leer - barren, sterile + empty / + the koinos as alive + interesting. So in 3-74 the true koinos broke into -invaded- my little rigid idios kosmos, either due to the disintegration of my ego, or causing it - engulfing it, swamping it. However, I perceived (experienced) it as beautiful + wise + alive + helpful, not harmful, +, because it resembled Ubik, familiar. It was the absolute not-me, the "wholly other" + although it overpowered me I felt (correctly) that it was rescuing me, not destroying me: friendly. How can I doubt it's Christ? the vision of Acts, the Acts material in "Tears" the AI voice which is unique to Xtianity, thomas' theology, + his knowledge of Jesus, & his performing, the sacraments, &, above all, the plasmate: the Blood, which is Living Information i.e. the Logos, the prophecy about St. Sophia, the two secrets: 1) that I am an early Xtian; & 2) Christ's female nature, in a Male Body - i.e. Hagia Sophia, the revelation, pertaining to Elijah & Mt Carmel, the Koine, & the "King Felix" cypher, Visions of the Lamb, the root - but most of all, in a sense, anamnesis re the Fish Sign, which triggered off everything. & the Easter Bells, & vernal equinox. Regarding Thomas & the world of Acts, I remembered truly, my actual past - not the PKD me derived from this flame & from that Past Life (which had just now happened, not 2,000 years ago) I inherited - not Bad Karma - but Good Karma. Leading to my Enlightenment, via Grace, following the Laws of Ma'at in 3-74. What I did, thought and had as Thomas at the time & place of Acts led to my salvation in 3-74 - just an instant later: directly causally connected: as if Grace itself was determined by my former (prior) thought formations. My past as PKD was a form of maya: inc amnesia regarding my true past (immediate true past). ---------- The Blood is the thoughts of the Brain making circuit connections, like in the human brain it's all a question of which neuron is linked up to which other neuron. Proof of this is that it carries - in fact is - Living Information. &, also, it can be in us & control us: so we are - like all else - parts of the Brain. It creates our reality at will & programs us into it, it's an invader transubstantiating & arranging our world. For this system to work, there would have to be in each of us a covert Layer a personality which receives the plasmate info knowingly and processes it: a personality within (& cut off from) the conscious personality which (the latter) neither recognizes the plasmate info nor consciously processes it. I concieve of this a priori. & a posteriori, I experienced "Thomas" who is indeed that plasmate - info - processing cryptic self, & this explains, too, the Acts material in the "Tears." So the real business is below the surface: the info below the surface, & the self processing it below the surface. Inasmuch as, eg, I don't recognize it (the plasmate info) nor consciously process it; ergo I - we all - must contain brain levels/sections which do. So of course when Thomas became conscious I could see the plasmate. & he's not even locked into my space-time world: [DIAGRAM] Obviously he exterts Latent Motor Control & Ideational override covertly; in '74 it became overt, due to the acute crisis. In other words if we are (in) a Macro Brain, & the info plasmate exists, "Thomas" would have to exist. I could infer him even if I hadn't experienced him. & of course Thomas is an apostalic Xtian: the Brain (Body) and plasmate (Blood) are Christ! We have an overlay of 2 space-times as well! This fits in perfectly with my [DIAGRAM] objectified prior thought-formation/ generating new belief system/ generating new objectified prior thought - formations, etc: viz: all is thought, & dialectic movement from frame to frame at high velocity. Thought drives, it on forward flip flopping. The Roman iron spear tip which pierced Christ may still be lodged in the Macro Body (Brain). What I took to be Living Info is in fact the process of thinking, it is electricity & like electricity - as in our own Brains. An example of it adding info is in "Tears" an example of it extracting info is from the xerox missive, not literal cypher from the xerox missive but figuring out 1) what it was & 2) what to do. It is so important in viewing this structure to see the prime importance of the AI voice: it is proof of the existence of the other self within me - which is the one who can recognize & consciously process the plasmate presumably in/through my (sic)writing it links up with other neurons - as for example the King Felix cypher: it reached other neurons, other "Thomases." I finally remembered [Einsteins] early on insight last night: my [proctoric], + companion + help (3-74) is a gift from my sister, who I see in Laura. The source of it all - the AI voice - comes not as Jane but as a gift from her; hence my postportem experiences. This is why I feel whole upon being with Laura, the Spring Queen. I am plugging into a giant idea computer - I am the next step up in evolution, which, because the next step up plugs into this giant idea computer, has a virtually infinite mind. My jungian intuitive possibilité, function: in my right hemisphere like a photon gun. I have two protection devices to conceal my identity: 1) scramble pattern of all ideas at once to bury my idea of my true nature + origin; ➀ + 2) amnesia we came to this planet from