- "most fallen" - [Angels] level of creation by passing [Man] all which is inbetween & higher thus the sundered cosmos is [neural?]. This is an act of macrocosmic repair. 2 Then the miracle in my case is nothing less than a timeless re-enactment of the proto‐ narrative event (drama) which is the core mystery of our religion (when propertly understood). Then it The man is not true that Christ left our world. Jesus died. Then the second comforter came. He is the Christ (or she is). The ostensible account of the N.T. does not tell this. + yet it does, if you use your understanding. The real work, Jesus says, will be done by the second comforter; the real work begins when Jesus leaves - not when Christ the death of Jesus "sporifies" leaves but Jesus the Christ. The powers of darkness have been tricked; divinity is now (upon his murder) ubique on this world. He will bond with the disciples + be plural. Not A disciple is defined as this two psychoi entity: man in one hemis‐ phere, Christ in the other, with Christ ruling ("the head," as Paul says). Not plural + yet one mind; in a plurality of humans: distributed. There are a number of disciples but one Christ (who is in fact Holy Wisdom). note that Palmer Eldritch is a satanic mirror image of this! (Or: it is a view of the Xtian God as if he is evil, more precisely: but the M.O. is given correctly) (there is one meta-entity who proliferates - replicates - through humans. Via a sacrament in which something is ingested. The eucharist. in I thought it was evil until it happened to me in 2-3-74, ten years after I wrote "Stigmata." What is sought here in the second com forter's work is not teaching doctrines or even knowledge (information) but to achieve the very pluralization proliferation which in "I Stigmata" I wrongly view as evil. This is not done by elevating the person but by a pene‐ ration of him, a becoming him, by Christ, almost 216 as is described in "the Father thing." the human organism is taken over by a higher organism of which there is really only one. (cf "the mold of yancy.") But if this place here is a prison - which it is - then the prison is thusly penetrated by a 5th column from outside - + certain prisoners are stealthily replaced via "the Father-thing," but every. thing is turned around; our natural human state is thrall, + this replacement does not enslave us but frees us. (Cf the dream of the Afrika corps entering James-James; theater.) The 2 psychoi entity speaks with divine authority; he is the vox dei which Elijah heard. If, in Xtianity. There is apotheosis - man becoming God - it is due to the core miracle of God becoming man. Everything derives from this. true, the two realms are combined but they are combined in this way + not in the Gnostic way vor in the mystery religion (e.g. Orphic) way. It is as if Xtianity says, "this way will fail. This way will psychotically inflate the ego. God rust bend down; man is not God + cannot without God bending down) be God. Only God is This is a rescue operation, a penetrating od. the divine into the mundane, not the mundane y scending. The divine annexes the mundane + anquishes it actually this analysis of 3-74 gives me more eason than ever to suppose that my experience was the Xtian one, since it conforms to the very ore model of that religion. This is what is into nicture about Xtianity: God made man. Not man hrade God. (Except as a result: God made into operation man is the basic 2 This is how man is restored ("saved" or born from above/again): God becomes man, not posing as man, as in an indian avatar; no, it is a real flesh + blood man into which God injects himself, somehow (the method is not clear). (+ he can leave, as he did Jesus on the cross.) "Jesus" is to be read as a prototype, not an historical figure, although there may have been such a person. It is possible he (Jesus) was the first. The gate, the narrow door (1:.618034), God first entering this world. (I may have seen the other world - upper realm - when he left me + went back.) But I remain linked to him (or to her); I still hear the AI voice. The circuitry ince installed is permanent, I'm glad to say. So I am permanently changed - in eternal symbiosis: 2-brained, now. (Consider firebright.) (+ my sense being a female host impregnated - this certainly of fits the "Christ became me" view: God made [into) man). The recruiting. Could it be that he's returned? clothering a new band? A new group of disciples? is he did before? But this would mean that the great assize is secretly taking place. I know - due to what the AI voice has told the books he - that in my case, at least, have been closed: I have been "adopted" I even know why. Could judgment have seen passed at the same time on everyone? 541-6756 218 macro, which contains the micro, which (to its surprise) t contains the -macro; + since it - the micro- contains i The macro, it - the micro- can subject it - the macro, the inner macro to perturbation A:B:: B.C. A impinges on B + perturbs it. But b contains C which is (?) A, so what a can do to B, B can do to C + hence to A. Thus instead of A - B, you get B-3 C (Or A). But it's even more complex. B recognizes C as part of it (of B); hence A is like B. If C is like B, + B is like C, A is like B. B knows itself to be alive, sentient, volitional, to possess plans + seek to com plete them - i.e. bis actions are purposeful. In itself it finds C, recognizes (1) that C is like it - i.e. B - + (2) c is like A. A dialog between B + C is identical to dialog between A + B; B flashes on this by discerning the nature of its dialog with C. (Since B also knows that C + a are the same.) B generates everything that happens to it - a acting on it - by acting on C although there seems to be a time lay. A could be regarded as a macro, exteriorized projection of C but it is not an image of C: No, it is as real as C, + neither really derives from the other; they are identical: the same unitary thing viewed two ways. It would be bias to regard C as more real than A, or A than C. in being in [side] A, B is inside + smaller than (micro to macro) its own interior. This is very much like the world of "Ubik" carrived at through the anterior novels, e.g. "Eye" + esp "Joint") in which changes in Joe Chip's brain - or Runciter o an brain - alter the landscape, are cosmologized. example: Joe loses thermal energy, + water in a wash baisen turns to ice. His - their joint - time-binding diminishes, + so objects regress along their form This is how axes. How come? A: they are dead. the de in 2169 since the only reality they have is their own [antecedent] thought formations (v. Lem's analysis of this: viz: memories as world, simulated world fed to a brain, tricking it). He would have the impression that he was living through an event (a major event, perhaps) again - as if it were on take; including his responses. A synchronization with no actual cause-+-effect relationship between the outer (macro) tape + inner (micro) tape these Q: What is the purpose of feeding memories to him (as simulated reality) for a second time? At a (or several) crucial point can he choose differently? What, at that point, would he subjectively experience? Something very eerie: why, it would be - to him - as if an ad how entirely new personality - B - had replaced him + taken over + was choosing (acting). This is be‐ cause the old personality which is as much on tape as a the macro reality continues not. It has no further life beyond this sharply defined point; so within him, death + post mortem experiences occur although he is alive! Alive but not himself! Now, viewing this not from B's standpoint, AIC the overall structure has clearly reviewed section of itself (here regarded as kosmos) + n mproved that section. All this - to + for it is a elf-repair/improvement stratagem, since B is not outside of the kosmos in this rerun, there being othing outside the kosmos. at precisely this sharply defined point B would temporarily experience a as "melting" + alive, since + is "resetting." It's fixedness is briefly abolished to him). If it were not, nothing would have been gained for a the system. It must melt since the value (purpose) of all this accrues to it + to [just o i 1220 look - no more antecedent memories can be fed to B as simulated reality after the sharply defined point; except for Bardo Thodol post mortem memories there aren't any. B is now locked into genuine reality (the "melting" is the "track" switch over. This flux + volition aspect of reality is how B experiences the transition as if a superimposition briefly occurs of two different worlds - cf Tagoms in the park. Yet B, now in a real world which is no longer a [simulated] rerun, simultaneously is in the post mortem world - whatever that may be like; probably he is returned to God as source, so he isn't alone but is always with a benign wise presence with whom he is in dialog. So the Xtian tactic is to die (this is necessary) but to still live; B's situation is a boon striven for. Hence the protomodel Jesus is degraded, dies + is resurrected, + his disciples are promised a mysterious inner "second comforter" who can do much + who knows everything then relived simulated world + life - such as I have described - is a ubiquitous condition known under various nadequate names: veil of Maya. Sublunar power influence, karma, destiny. Planetary powers, ancient powers, the old law, etc. Fate. preprogramming - i.e. astral determinism - is at the core of it. I now anow that it is determinism because it is on tape, inner + on tape because it is repeated outer, + it is t + irreal The only persons who B 121) out of this are those whom Christ becomes: This is the new ad hoc self living beyond The sharply defined death point on the tape. Christ is authentic - i.e. living - self injected into a simulation, a program being run. (Newness ex nihilo.) I gather that the program (s?) is/are being run again + again with the introduction of the newness we call "Christ. upon the newness past the sharplly defined death point the ABC model comes t to an end. But C is replaced by some two thing - someone - better: the Paraclete. psychoi are involved, + one is beyond the grave in the next world or upper realm which means outside of time + hence knows all, + so world c is like some vast information center. in its matrix state as recorded information.) B, having lived + died + being returned for a rerun - when anamnesis occurs he views This world from the vantage point of the next, so it (this world) assumes the aspect of an ancient black Iron prison (to which