there is a dual use of the word; the cypher is multi-layered because it also means happy, prosperous, etc, as I saw in 3-74 when it was phosphene-illuminated. More than one idea is conveyed, but the plural ideas dovetail (+ agree with the "St. Sophia" prophecy). It is both a name (of a particular person) + an adjective. The Acts material shows that the King referred to is a -or the- King of the N.T. + the dream in "Tears" is out of the two apocalyptic books of the Bible + indubitably refers to Christ: "I was dead but now I am alive for ever + ever" - the Ancient of Days: Christ. Now Christ judges rather than is judged, slays rather than is slain. The Roles of Christ + Rome are reversed. Second Advent. 1) Christ actually returned at the time of Acts but we don't know it. 2) We are living at the time of Acts but we don't know it. 3) Therefore Christ returns now (as confirmed by the St. Sophia, Buddha, Apollo + Siddhartha prophecies) folder 08 - 017 folder 08 - 017 Is Valis' presence here -as invader- Christ's presence - i.e. the Parousia? + I have encountered him myself. If it can be shown that "Felix" refers to Felix the procurator, + it can be based on the general Acts material in "Tears," then it is likely, probable or even certain that "King" refers to Christ + hence the second coming. That is why the general Acts material is necessary - to limit the reference "Felix" to "Felix Procurator." "King" cannot strictly refer to Christ unless "Felix" refers strictly to Felix Procurator - which via the indubitable Acts material it does. So the general, indubitable Acts material forces one interpretation onto the cypher: Christ the King - i.e. the second Advent (Christ is my King at the second Advent). Now I see the absolute necessity of the general Acts material. Without it the two-word cypher can't be intrinsically interpreted. I am led to the inescapable conclusion that the overthrow of the Nixon tyranny in 1974 (+ the other events which followed as a consequence; viz: end of the war, Greece, Portugal, Spain, etc) herald the Return of Christ (i.e. the fall of the Empire), + that if he is not yet here in an incarnated form yet, he is already here discorporate (as Valis) + personally led the attack on the tyranny, as disclosed in cypher in "Tears." folder 08 - 018 folder 08 - 018 I am certain that Valis is Christ the King, the mystical body of the resurrected + ubiquitous Christ Pantocrator. ___ Is God reweaving Acts so that the second Advent occurred at the time of Acts? + to do this he takes us or some of us back to Acts - or thrusts Acts here? Remember: on the Platonic form axis we are [evidently] tangent -i.e. very close; next to- Acts. Or were in 3-74. ___ "He causes things to look different so it's appear time has passed." Simon Magus? Acts has references to Simon. The "roses + lake" dream speaks of "one or two wizards born." Simon Magus means "Simon the Wizard." Did the true God get past Simon + speak the truth -reveal the true situation- in "Tears"? Valis is the true God, + Christ the King returned at the time + place of Acts (which is now) but Simon occludes us, like Klingsor does. Only the true, secret, apostolic Xtians know the truth, + I am one of them, but Simon causes even [some of] us to forget + to see the simulated world. Simon is Palmer Eldritch, generating counterfeit worlds; I saw Simon in the sky in '63 (or '64, whichever: the evil god of this world, a spurious reality. Fed to us by him). Then Christ did return or will return, + the Logos made its way to me + told me. Simon is the irrational god of this irrational -+spurious- world, which Valis, camouflaged + rational + divine, has invisibly invaded. Simon stopped real time c. 45 AD. Now he effects us percipients so that we see things continually looking different + so wrongly deduce that time passes. folder 08 - 019 folder 08 - 019 So in 2-74 I briefly remembered, + a month later saw the world as it really is (Acts), which I had put forth as the world in "Tears." Hence "There's someone else in my head + he's not living in this century." Thomas is real. In a sense I am not (PKD). PKD could be said to be Thomas asleep. Thomas deluded, Thomas under a spell. The tyranny which was deposed in 1974 was an ediface of Simon's. Valis is the real + rational world breaking into (invading, as in e.g. "Ubik") our simulated + irrational world. I'm saying, Valis is a world. A (the) real world. Ubik is to the cold-pac world as Valis is to our world. If Ubik + Valis are one in the same, our world is both irreal ("Ubik") + irrational ("Valis"). We're missing half our stereo signal - what I call the upper realm (one). This notion that in 2-3-74 the real broke into the irreal (as in "Ubik") is acosmic + Gnostic - + it agrees with another Gnostic idea (put forth in "Valis") that the creator of this world is irrational. A superimposition of "Ubik" + "Valis" is a superimposition of two basic Gnostic ideas, one cosmological, the other cosmogonical. It's very interesting, what you get if you superimpose "Valis" over "Ubik" - + I had previously seen that "Valis" is an electronic circuit-like feedback of "Ubik" + mixing, enriching, etc. (v. p 11). The rational is real; the irrational is not real. Our ordinary world is the latter into which the former has broken, invading it (as in "Ubik," but folder 08 - 020 folder 08 - 020 now Ubik is seen not just as real but as rational + as world, an information world; put another way, information experienced as world). Different space-time worlds are different coherencies -systems- of information, the info content of each arranged within a 4 dimensional system. I believe that my 2-3-74 experience with Valis confirms the acosmism of "Ubik" + consisted of the breaking into this irreal world of the real, of whose nature I now have some idea. It is my belief that 2-3-74 verifies the acosmism of my 27 years of writing. This invasion by the real/rational into the irreal/irrational is a third Gnostic ur-concept. (The salvitor salvandus.) So in what way -if in any way- is my view + experience not Gnostic? In no way that I know of. We have the counterfeit creation of the blind demiurge, + the true God taking pity on us + invading this domain by outwitting the - Oh yes. 4th idea: that this world is a prison with prison wardens (the archons), i.e. those who impose "astral determinism," which the savior breaks (5th Gnostic idea!). I seem to have - Oh. 6th Gnostic idea. Anamnesis. Restored memory of our divine spark nature + celestial origin. Our real nature. 7th Gnostic idea: the saving Gnosis itself. Which recalls to us our real nature. folder 08 - 021 Then the 1974 overthrowing of the tyranny by Valis is the savior freeing us from our prison. This is his prime role; he frees us, restores our memory + true nature, + gets us out of here. Meanwhile the true God transmutes this irrational irreal world into the real + rational. These are Gonstic ideas #8 + #9. I now have assembled the complete Gnostic system with its two realms only one of which -the upper- is real (form I of Parmenides). (As stated in "Valis.") It all stems from the insight that our world is not real. Then we ask, not real in relation to what? (Something must be real, or else the concept "irreal" means nothing.) Then we ask, "what is the real like? And how do we find it?" + we ask, "How did this irreal world come into being? + how did we get imprisoned here?" + then we ask, "What is our real nature?" If reality, rationality + goodness are not here, where are they? + how do we get from here to there? If this is a prison, how do we escape? We learn of a mysterious savior who camouflages himself to outwit our jailers + makes himself + his saving Gnosis known to us. He is our friend + he opposes this world + its powers in our behalf as our champion, + "one by one he takes us out of this world." folder 08 - 022 folder 08 - 022 The Valentinean ontological assment of knowledge is not that it (the Gnosis) leads to salvation or is knowledge about salvation, but that in the act (event, revelation, experience) of knowing in itself lies salvation. Because in knowing, there is a restoration of man's lost state, + a reversal of his present state of ignorance. Upon knowing, man is again what he originally was. This view accords with 2-3-74. Upon knowing I became again what I originally was. + this involved me as a now-restored piece of the ground of being itself, from which I, as a piece of it, had fallen + forgotten + lost my nature. My 10th Gnostic belief (v. supra) is that time is a mere counterfeit, of eternity. ___ When hyperuniverses I + II interact (to form our reality) three realms are created: 1 Eigenwelt - totally I (free) 2 Mitwelt - mixture I + II (partially free) 3 Umwelt - totally II (enslaving) Or: 1 Heaven, the world of the Gods. 2 The world of men. 3 The subhuman world of blind deterministic nature. We can rise to 1 or sink to 3, but normally are in 2, the mixture. The purpose of art is to free us; i.e. lift us toward 1, the Eigenwelt by sharing it via the art with others. However, Parmenides' criticism of the reality of Form II must be taken into account, the possibility that it is congealed - i.e. dynamically dead, + so is a deranged mind (in itself) - the BIP. There is a relationship in it to the schizophrenic who, in treating the Mitwelt covanents as oppressive, tried to soar into the Eigenwelt + fell down to the Umwelt. folder 08 - 023 folder 08 - 023 The Mitwelt is a mixture of Yang + Yin (as in this hex: {illustration: Hexagrams 12 and 11 of the I Ching, with the comment that the middle two lines being Yang and Yin or vice versa represents Mitwelt} I myself conceive of the bipolarities as antithetical, not complementary, as in Taoism. In any case the defense against 3 lies in 2; in fact 2 is the route to 1. The whole campaign is to get us out of Nebelheim + into Walhalla; but Nebelheim is still here, underlying all else: forges + anvils working away, + us as the workmen. This takes the prison world out of the theological + places it in the psychological (or also in the psychological), which is an advance. It's interesting that in the pursuit of freedom (the Eigenwelt) you fall back into the pure prison world, once you leave the mixture. Thus the BIP is a trap waiting for us, to which schizophrenia leads. Again, Form II is equated with irrationality + disorder + congealing (the coming to an end of the dialectic) + death (+ entropy). Both the Um- + Eigenworlds are apart from our world which is, properly, the Mitwelt. {illustration: Three text boxes apparently representing the Eigenwelt (box I), the Umwelt (box II) and the Mitwelt (box III). Boxes I and II are connected by arrows to box III, but not to each other. The boxes have the following texts; box I: "Outside of time in a good