the human for its coming into existence at that time & place; this is why it took the form of contents of my own mind(e.g. "Ubik," "Tears," etc.) as well as of a brain per se. (1) a mechanical system based on the Torah overruled new information fed to the system? It didn't invade from outer space but from me. folder 49 - 061 How could I ever have been so foolish as to suppose Valis had invaded from "outer space". This is the same error antiquity made about the descent & reascent of the Soul; viz: that it took place in space. If Valis had invaded normal causality & objects around me isn't it likely (or at any rate possible) that I was the locus of the origin & the invasion? A field around me? Like a magnet? & it was _my_ brain projected out or onto the world: the field in which the warping took place. This fits in with the anamnesis, & the experience of vast spaces. My mind was taken over by the Shekhina whose memories go back thousands of years, to Palestine. (because of the Jewish people having been located there.) The Shekhina is immanent * deity. But the Holy Spirit is not. *in contrast to transcendent deity. Suppose the "transform" way of experiencing the inner-outer is correct, as I felt at the time ("I am no longer blind!"), & the normal way is actually backward? that would mean we are macro brains enclosing world! But part of the outer world is retained as outer, so you get a fusion between inner & outer. So that the outer cannot be understood unless the missing "signal" (part) from inside the person is projected outward. * Then there has been a collapse of perception by the severance from the outer world of the needed inner part; likewise the outer world is no longer introjected. This points to a primordial rupture in the proper relationship between the person & the outer world. * in terms of information & message; part is in the person & part is outside. folder 49 - 062 folder 49 - 062 "Part of the message is in the person & part outside." Then we are dealing with one field embracing both. Like, "Olive Holt" was in me & in the Xerox Missive; it could not be extracted from the missive without my inner Grid. & alone, my inner Grid ("Olive Holt" ) was worthless. This points again to Pigspurt. The projection of the inner Grid onto the entire world, but actually for the specific purpose of applying it to the Xerox Missive; functionally, it was ubiquitously externalized, in order to work at all. Like the two halves of the Jell-o box. I had one half & the other was in the Missive. Hence the dream of the monopoly paper money with the slots cut, like on a rolex watch for day & date. Code (cypher) Grid. But in the dream I returned it to the "poor Mexicans in Placentia" who sent it. (i.e. I mean "who had lost it.") I, then, had to figure out two things : 1) The Cypher. 2) & upon finding it, knowing what to do. But what I did was a dissociated act - programmed. So the cypher set it off automatically. _I knew I was being set-up._ Be this as it may, the broader fact still remains : that an internal Grid or signal must be added to the outer for the outer to become intact, complete & coherent. This is the greatest mystery I have ever come across. Each human brain is half of an informational system - This is an example of the linking. Then the golden fish sign was a retrieval key that worked me the way a key works a computer - I mean first of all the anamnesis. We are dealing here with stored information & one folder 49 - 063 folder 49 - 063 specific code that retrieved it. & also we are talking about information divided between the external world & the internal world of a human mind - as well as the linking, clutch, engramming, etc. It all has to do with information. & what about "Tears" & the information in it? & what about the Torah, which is information & which is also a "mechanical" system, a mechanism? It almost sounds as if we & reality are components in a thinking system - & the A I voice fits perfectly with this theory : it corrects me, specifically, e.g. the "Messenger" dream. It's as if all of 3-74 can be viewed in terms of a retrieval of information in me, which then meshed with _external_ information - or rather _partial_ information - to form vastly intricate palpable messages. Now, consider "Ubik" & "Joint." _This is not Pigspurt._ What it is is this : (1) we & our world are a vastly sophisticated informationprocessing single entity which we are unaware of, doing our jobs on an outside-of-awareness basis. The Xerox Missive problem caused me to bring this functioning _into awareness_ so that I could apply it to solving the Xerox Missive problem. This means that part of my mind is aware of (1) the information; & (2) my role in processing it. Thus it can be said that our real purpose (in life) & our real (i.e. higher) functioning lie normally outside our awareness.Only in a life & death situation will the meta-self come forward to deal with a problem, & it is possible folder 49 - 064 folder 49 - 064 this is limited to problems involving information, in particular stegarographic information. The meta-self would be of no use in other more general problem situations, & this is why it rarely if ever enters awareness even if the crisis is lethal. The application to the Xerox Missive crisis reveals our metafunctioning; we probably take in, process & fire metainformation all the time without knowing it. Valis is simply the unitary total entity which includes us as it really is. If the information is divided up between (one/each of) us & outer reality then we are one integrated info-processing entity : we humans are not observers but _parts_. Hence : crucial pieces of info are a priori in me, & (in the form of hypnagogic visions, dreams, & esp. the A I voice). I am correctly plugged into the total system. Viewed this way, the existence of the A I voice makes perfect sense. But as to whether it is in me or external to me - this can't be determined, since we are integrated. "Tears" proves that there was information stored in me & which I was programmed to put in the novel. If everything is an integrated information-processing system then this is not so strange; if not it is very strange. So the bottom line is : I had information in me, stored, to be fired at a certain time, which did happen. ("Tears.") As a subsidiary matter this info-processing meta system in me folder 49 - 065 folder 49 - 065 took on the Xerox Missive problem & solved it, which brought the meta-system in me into conscious awareness. To reflect, the metasystem which solved the Xerox Missive problem was responsible for putting the information in "Tears." Beyond doubt, this information linked up with other information elsewhere. We are subordinate to one overall meta mind that deals with information, & controls reality in such a way as to use it to develop & process information. The dialectic was the initial & primary nature of the system's mind revealed to me. Because _it_ is the dynamism, the very _life_ of the system : a binary processing that is ceaseless. In experiencing it I experienced the system at work : operational. It does not think inductively or deductively but in a sequence of thesis, anti thesis, leading to new synthesis, & then its negation. This does not point to an evil deity vs a benign deity but to a binary thinking brain - which I saw Qua brain. If I am right about the dialectic (1) then everything revealed to me about the macro-mind had to do with information : linking/relinking, the clutch, engramming in accretional time, the plasmate, the twin synchronized tapes, anamnesis, medical information, decoding the cypher in the Xerox Missive, seeing the cypher in "Tears," the A I voice, written pages of info, the Greek, knowledge of early Xtian sacraments, knowledge of the existence of secret Xtians, Thomas knowing ???. (1) the dialectic is not contents of the mind but _how_ it works : the mind itself. after all, my first model was an old info satellite. folder 49 - 066 The next question is : is our reality a thinking brain or is it (& we) being _used_ as a thinking brain? i.e. has it been invaded? I did have the impression that Valis had invaded our reality & is camouflaged. A sudden insight : unlike all other creatures (e.g. humans) _Valis does not move along any of the 3 spacial axes_; its only motion is along the temporal axis which, for it, is totally accretional : a laying down of layers in terms of developing forms (the only one it disclosed to me is the pretty girl wearing the fish necklace, but that is enough to give me the idea). A layer is laid down; then years pass, which is for Valis a pause. Then the next layer, perhaps years later, is laid down directly on top with nothing intervening during the "pause" years, like when I have my tape recorder on pause. It is Valis' spacial ubiquity which permits it to deal with form-development (to completion) because if the form in question moves in space this is for Valis no motion since the form is still "here," there being no "there." What must be envisioned is an entity (Valis) who is omnidistributed. This suggest very clearly Xenophane's concept of God : "He does not move about." Also this is true of Judaism's monotheism, its YHWH. Time is the dimension (axis) of change which is to say movement (like a baking pie in time lapse photography). So the form involved can in its many developmental levels exist at many different spacial coordinates, but Valis does not see it at "different places!" In fact, the forms are in Valis, & since Valis is a mind they folder 49 - 067 folder 49 - 067 are effectively in Valis' mind which occupies space - vast space, as I discovered! Perhaps this explains those vast spaces : the extent of Valis' mind which is ubique. So things are located spacially in terms of their developing forms, which may mean that they are distributed _logically_, not on a happenstance basis. Well, the form axis I depict in "Ubik" goes with the ubique of Ubik! Also, time-wise our world is a high speed system to (within?) Valis. I get the impression that Valis can scan "up" & "down" the temporal form-completion axis, so that Valis can literally see (not foresee but see) what is coming. Valis can place its locus of perception anywhere along any form axis. But Valis is the _cause_ of all changes along the (temporal) form-completion axis : Valis is _in_ everything because in point of fact everything _is in Valis_. I get the impression that Xenophanes is correct; all change in reality is due to Valis' thoughts, or rather, to the active process of its (Valis') thinking. In no wise Valis contracted itself _out_ of the universe (as the Cabbalists think.) Things & events unfold according to the back-&-forth activity of the dialectic which is eternal due to its built-in imbalance (there is always an overbearing side with each flip-flop). Since the layers of a form occur as events in different spacial loci, only Valis can experience the process of completion of a form because only Valis can connect conceptually the layers because Valis