mysteries; the greater mysteries of Elysius. pre-Xtian. I have been in the power of Dionysos, + when I was slipped the StP in '74 I knew it. "This too, is sooth." Yeats. It is magic. Pagan magic. This explains Diana, the AI voice. Pagan magic come to our rescue. amazing; Dionysos caused me to see Xtian messages in "Tears" + blinded me to the obvious: that "Tears" Then Dionysis retells "the Bacchae" caused me to see the world of Acts + believe all those things. 530 actually this fits in with my Platonis Neo-Platonist analysis of 2-74: Dionysos-Elysian mysteries-Orphism Pythagoras - to Plato. + with Hoffman + his colleaguess analysis of the Elysian mysteries as based on LSD; + John is sacred cross + the mushroomm allegro's aly old a earr Xt 36 it probably all began for me with took in mo. the mascoline I So 2-3-74 was a "mescaline" trip the "other reality" of C tanedyDonJuan. Hence the phosphene graphics: colors. Hence carol Hillard suggested drugs. It was psychedelic, all right Entry #12 in the tractate: "the immortal one was known to the Greeks as Dionysos; to the Jews as Elijah; to the Xtians as Jesus. He moves on when each human host dies, + Thus is never killed or laught. Hence on the cross Jesus said... etc. Elijah had left him + he died alone" I rest my case. M-W II: "Taverner in (of Tavernier er L Tabernarius) one who keeps or frequents a Tavern. Archaic." M-W II: "Tavern. A house where wine or other liquers are sold to be drunk on the premises." ah Dionysos - how you have occluded me all these years! Jason Taverner: Dionysos. the joyous (Happy - Felix) Xtians blowing up the BIP + running away - this is Dionysos' perception of the grim King of Tears, his rule + the bursting of his prison by Dian 37 to r Dionysos, this is the basic perception of the dialectic of history: Dionysus (the running, joyous "secret Xtians blowing up the Black Iron + of prison) vs the King of Tears. course I never flashed in this: BIP vs joyous Xtians = Prison vidlonysus. Dionysos = freedom. BIP + king of Tears = slavery. This is the underlying struggle. "Tears" is a Greek tragedy, but more than that it is the birth of Xtianity out of tragedy: out of the loss + grief at ther end agapÄ“ is born. So not only is Dionysos There (tragedy) but Christ (Xtianity); it is as if Christ is born (at the end). This is truly an extraordinary noved! It is the passing of one age cantiquity The birth of the next (Xtianity!!). + so as a protohistory it goes from BC to AD The madness induced in "Pentheus" by Dionysos (Taverner) is converted (by the dream, which is of Christ) into agapÄ“ which is sane - the solution to dromsis + madness + grief + loss is found in Xtian agapÄ“, which appeard as the solution to the ancient world itself. 80 It is as ifDinysos has evolved into Christ. dowland - because of his lite i music - is obviously orpheus, the link between dinysos + Christ historically Christ (as expressed in the dream) intervenes + turns Buckman's [Note madness into love. It is as if Xtianity - Christ. is the solution, the resolution, on the highest possible level to Greek tragedy ( this also suggests an evolution of Dionysos into the eschatological Christ - an extraordinary idea, but one I've long entertained. ➀ + by extension, to human + ragedy the tragedy of loss, grief death, + the relentless inexplicable trans‐ formation of one's fortunes into total destruction. Then this means that I did correctly see Xtian themes, elements, material + cypher in "Tears," +, once again, 2-3-74 is ratified as Xtian + supernatural - + this is a very good time for me to have this ratified, what with ursula saying I'm crazy. I can consider myself a "fool in Christ" + I (harisinh ford must not back down but must attest to what I have witnessed. i.e. the savior, the Lord, Kyrios. + his nemesis! His nemesis is overcome by agapē - he transcends personal fate. So more his individual than Greek tragedy is involved in "Tears" a new idea historically: Xtian agapÄ“ as the solution to Greek nemesis. The relationship between Chist fate nemesis/ananke) may be, of the in fact, the crucial issue ancient world, since, as the Gnostics put it the principal role of Christ is to abolish fate's power over the person. The BIP then, may be a graphic, visual symbol of fate (ananke/astral determinism) + the secret Xtians blowing it up the joy of Xtian agate. (i.e. "Felix" vs "Pentheus"). (joy over Tears.) Hence I may have been let in on a mystery of transformation far greater than a political historical power struggle + all this is dealt the inner meaning with in "Tears" of Xtianity - its true meaning - may be represented by "Felix," + its enemy - that which it overcomes - by Tears, i.e. the BIP. The ultimate struggle, then, is spiritual, not physical or literal. Xtianity converts doom into joy by means of agapÄ“ this (agapÄ“) being the einai of God (as previously figured out. Doom, I identified with death, hence loss, defeat, grief, transmuted through agapÄ“ to the infinite bliss (joy) of ature ods 40 This then, is the real victory of Xtianity. doom, loss, grief, love, joy. A kind of ultimate Catharsis unknown before Xtianity because it was not known that agapÄ“ is God's nature. Hence through agapÄ“, because it is identical with God's nature so-to-speak melts the inexorable force of doom + converts (transmutes) it into its opposite: triumph; the joy that the secret Xtians feel upon blowing up the BIP is triumphant say the joy of victory, not defeat Then the meltiny of the power of inexorable doom over me in 3-74 (vis-Ã -vis the Xerox missive) was Xtian in origin + represents an instance of the blowing up of the BIP. A strange thought: in this equation, does not Dionysos represent fate itself - he certainly does in "The Bacchae - + Christ extrication from that very fate? Could Dionysus, then, represent the inflexible will of "ancient powers" that Paul the speaks of? The power Christ breaks? Dionysos drives you to ruin, but is he not driving the BIP to ruin? (Buckman represented the BIP pitted against Taverner who is secretly Then who is the true victor? In the Dionysos. e 41 struggle expressed in "The Bacchae. Dionysos is the victor against king Pentheus (the prison.) But in "Tears" Christ is the true victor. This is a totally new element in the drama of Greek tragedy; it did not exist before Jesus take the Prajapati myth. Creation is entropic, a diversification + plurali zation, a splitting by the dialectic again + again: entropic. (As I realized before.) But under certain unusual circumstances two elements collide, rather than split. This is what was performed in attic Greek times that we know as tragedy. out of this col‐ lision comes a destruction of the two elements, the opposite of creation but, paradoxically, there is some kind of integration of a higher synthesis out of what were thesis + antithesis. At the two lowest points of my life this occurred: 1970 when nancy left + I had that dream that shows op in "Tears"; + in 1974 - in February. I think that bich time. higher some kind of reintegrative A-67 II This is why Valis had no personality + did not think; it's a circuit of a mechani aware only that it must repeatedly resolve rebellious variables: outsmarting them That makes this more than a simple feed‐ back circuit; "Governer" stands for "Lord of creation," the ruling mind of the mechanism itself. Camouflaged, it invades its own creatio in order to restore equilibrium to it. Then perhaps the God of 11-17-80 is the other, the transcendent God: Abba, the loving Father far "above" world + wholly other to it; his einai is agapē. This is why I could not collate him with Valis; Valis is in world, does not have personality or think, nor is agapē. In a sense Valis is world (in Spinoza's sense). Then Bitheism is the case, as Gnosticism teaches: it is man + God against world (Valis). The universe (reality) is each of these I think different models in turn as of them. It does not know what it is; it only [now] knows "1-." But the what ["am] it does not yet know. My thoughts, conceptions, models, Ideas, are its flashes of self-awareness, As I think, it of self-consciousness. thinks. thinks (not, as it thinks I rus cross Dream: the Parousia is here. R.C. to controlled by the Roman Catholic church, subliminal messages so that the true Xtians will identify themselves. {Note] The Holy Mother Church knows Christ is here. Hence "Valis." We are totally under the control of God (Valis) now. The separation of the Qup. 69 shee efor A-68 the purpose of the Xerox missive was super‐ natural, if I answered I was a goat, not one of Christ's sheep; hence Christ kehit me from answering, but, instered, sent it to the Bureau; that was Christ reparating me out as a sheep. This is it; all the gonts answered their "terox letters" + thus revealed their damned + evil natures; Christ held back only hy own. Not the Holy Mother Chrarch knows all this. No v. note p 70 so the whole situation - esp. the covert info traffic which is subliminal programming, not info - was explained in instructions (as covert the dream. Parousia, info traffic: instructions - Chist is here. the re the Holy Mother church knows it; has been their "technological brotherhood is + instrument all these centuries; + this He is here involved "Tears" + now "Valis." + + they know it. "He has been transplanted the is alive." It is the time of St Paul. final tests are being run on us, to separate the saved from the damned the eschatological judge (Christ). am not I This is real. by any means the only one who knows it. Rome knows it. We nalonger are free to make the wrong or right choices: we - as with the Xerox missive are now programmed, so as to fulfill the prophecies + divial us up. We have already been judged. + are programmed to all in accordance with that judgment G-69 The eschatological judge having judged us, we are de facto in the "afterlife"; last part of my dream: "You are in the (i.e. your] reward cycle." Judgment went favorably for me. the judgment is fixed now + cannot be changed, we are now compelled to do either good or bad Acts according to that judgement, which in turn was based on our natures. the "sheep" - "goats" binary division is the side Zoroastrian "light" - "Dark" one: which we are. Commingling is over; we will not go either way; we have gone. The "molecules" of light + of darkness are separating. In my dream the "goats" felt absolutely no constraint about answering their "terox letters - which is proof positive; the again bate of inwit did not advise them not to (but did constrain me). Only the spirit can discriminate) if it is present in you it will unerringly tell + direct you; if it is not present you are blind There is an enormous info traffic of covert instructions, as if (like] on D-day. these instructions have the absolute power to bind (or loosen). they act as imperifives subliminal cueing. "So that the true Xtians will identify them selves." By Acts triggered off by the covert subliminal instructions. Until now the true natures of everyone were obscured veiled. 970 You could not tell "Dorek" from "light." but now the division occurs: the "light" natures will reveal themselves as such,