it is now; here in this world and as this world (as living structure; Pythagoras was right. One could almost say; God equals ratio; i.e. 1;.618034). Of course we can’t see the structure/soma/kosmos/krasis; virtually all of it is in our past...but it isn’t past for it. This is why for me to see it in 3-74 I had to experience anamnesis: the restoration of the past. Then it became visible to me. In no way does Zoroaster see the antithetical dialectical combat contributing to growth and perfection of any such thing as a krasis, world-order or kosmos (or macrosoma of God). Only the ultimate victory by the Wise Mind would contribute anything — not the process itself. And in no way was this dialectical process, this combat between good and evil, homologized with creation, with the process of the creating of the world-order. Does any religion homologize the creating of the world order with the dialectical strife between good and evil? Taoism comes closest. I say my revelation was: the dialectical strife between good and evil, between negentropy and entropy (chaos) is the act of creating the world-order; this sounds like one of the preSocratics talking, Anaxamander or Empedocles or Heraclitus. Since this could all be taking place according to lawful rule within the Bounded, within the world-order (hylozoism). Anyhow, who equates the world-order with the body of God, except Spinoza? UBIK comes closest. Also who today believes —and what religion teaches— that we are within the "days" of creation? I know of no religion or -5- philosophy that teaches that the dialectical struggle between God and the Counter-God (between good and evil) is itself the act of creation of the world-order. Because this means that, even thought it does not will it, wish it, desire it, intend it, the evil (entropic) principle is contributing to creating the world-order; and this was the core of my revelation: that evil against its own will acts as one half of the creating process. I saw this. It was disclosed to me by Valis itself; it was the miracle that was made known to me: evil’s stupidity permitted it being used for this, in this way. Again and again a play took place, a game within the total match, and each time, the act of bringing the world-order into existence was served (due to the good side’s a priori knowledge, the bad side's lack of it). Evil, then, is an unwilling partner in creation, in the perfection (completion) of the world-order. What religion teaches that? It is a kind of cumulative, moral Taoism. I saw evil ("the Sons of Darkness") given free rein to build their own patterns which then flip-flopped over into the good, due to early-on (previous?) crucial moves by the Wise Mind based on its absolute a priori knowledge (of total pattern and future); i.e. evil itself proposed and accomplished part of each pattern-move, each play, and was free to do so — whereupon it is inevitably trumped by moves made prior to its moves that it saw, was free to see, but did not understand. So this is a detailed revelation of how the ultimate forces work in creating the world-order. -6- The conversion of things (i.e. patterns) into their opposite —from bad to good— is enantiodromia or a Taoism. (1) White (Light) makes an initial move. (2) Black (Darkness) then has free rein to make many moves. (3) Finally White adds to what Black has put forth, which causes a black-white flip-flop: black to white. This ends that particular game, and another begins, always with White making an initial move in plain sight of Black, but unfathomable to Black. Then Black is free to make any moves it wishes (but presumably it leaves, according to the rules, the moves that White initially made; in fact each side adds on; it is cumulative entirely, but this changes the contour, the total shape, reversing it). White-black-white. White one move/black many moves/white a few but finishing moves: result: white. Then Black holds the field, the center. White is peripheral small initial move...then the field itself, which is Black...then after Black is satisfied, White comes in and makes what I suspect to be very limited perfecting moves (one or two) that induce enantiodromia. Flip-flop. Out of this the process of the creation of the world-order comes. The games are cumulative; the work (result) of each game is permanent, although of course it is Black’s intention to contravene the previous White victory in the next game. What Black is betting is that what it has done cannot be made subject to enantiodromia by White. The principle, then, of enantiodromia is the basic principle involved: that something can be coverted into its opposite by what I call "the eleventh -7- datum." For this principle to be utilized by the wise Mind, the Wise Mind must have at least the last move and, preferably, (by means of) the first move; the last move completes the pattern and it is in/this completing move that enantiodromia occurs. The most intricate and titanic pattern, then, can be coverted to its opposite (white) because of the principle of enantiodromia. Heraclitus was aware of these matters: strife, enantiodromia, the game played according to rule...and that flux is real. (In contrast to Parmenides and Plato.) But this contest would serve little or no purpose except that it is cumulative, and this accumulation is a metasoma of vast proportions structured throughout the world-order and assimilating more and more of it. The metasoma is hierarchically one level above the reality it constructs itself from. We cannot see it. Black cannot see it. So there is a cumulative or total pattern embracing the totality of games, and I would call this the Logos or blueprint of creation (not necessarily in the Christian sense but possibly so). Probably that Logos exists in the mind of the Wise Mind in potentia, not yet actualized in the world-order and yet in a sense real. I'm just speculating, here. I doubt if the Wise Mind simply settles for the best accumulation of the totality of games; that tends to make the games ends in themselves. The only end in itself is the perfected metasoma. The constituents of each successive game —since the process df games is cumulative— become increasing complex, so each enantiodromia is more sophisticated, Involving more elements, which is to say, each successive game subordinates the previous game and all previous games. It's as if (ive said this before) the two deities are playing Big Nigger. So we see a continual complexification of the world-order, and an acceleration of the rate of change. The patterns grow more intricate with each game. The last game will be absolute and will determine all; this could come at any time. Taoism correctly perceives the fluctuation of light and dark, but not the accretions laid down [by this process] /in the permanent structure; for Taoism time is s cyclic, not cumulative. No one sees these accretions and the permanent structure (meta- or macro-soma). Plato had it all backward, with the phenomenal world merely a shadow —-albeit a flickering one; there he was right— cast on a cave wall. He knew that the Demiurge was cumulatively taming chaos (ananke) — or perpetually doing so; I can't figure out from Conford if Plato thought of it as cumulative. In a way the laying down of these accretions could be viewed as a learning process by some kind of thinking machine, during which it stores its experiences in its memory, reticulates and arborizes them into a memory-system for purposes of retrieval; that is, _it sees connections. It makes connections. This is the activity not of the system but of the mind containing the system. (System being the meta- or macro-soma.) It perceives (understands, grasps) the connections, and, in its memory system, the connections then occur; this is the meta- or macro-soma that I saw. What is required is a vast mind that reflects on what it has experienced (perceived). But at this point the system and the mind that thinks about the system can't be told apart. The connections (reticulations) are real, not creative in the sense of imaginary. The metasoma could be doing it itself, if it is self-motivated...an organic model, -9- that of a biological model, something growing (arborising). This goes back to an idea I had some time ago (based on smoking superdope) that growth (beticulation and arborization) is natural unless impeded — at least if there is any mind present, immanent or transcendently perceiving: seeing it and doing it become the same, then. In other words I cannot perceive the meta-soma without changing it. Which goes back to what the E of SF says about my definition of reality: "It is what we perceive it to be." And since the metasoma's existence without a mind to perceive it turns it into a mere metaphysical entity — well, there is nothing that can be said about it in that state. I.e. as to whether on its own, with no adventitious mind present, it would continue its process of reticulation and arborizing. Probably it would (there I go) because the accretional layers would continue to get laid down, thus changing it and making it more complex...but this process in itself probably is due to a mind being present, as the system or in the system or somehow tangent (related) to the system: aware of the system and in a position to influence it. No, damn it; that is not the way to look at it. There is an information entity stacking things especially information in meta¬ units (units made out of plural constituents of the realm we perceive) this has to do with arrangement and normally we don't see this ar¬ rangement. It constantly unites. That is the basis of it (a good example; two of our morphemes into one meta-morphene...but we still see only two regular morphemes, even though the one meta-morpheme is there; we can't do a set/ground discrimination). This isn't God. I say that because it's in the process of constructing its own macro¬ soma, and this macrosoma utilizes joined constituents of our world that exist hither and yon; we don't see the connectives; it's like one titanic brain that processes information. It's evolving very fast (there, I have a new word to describe Valis; it is evolving). I have decyphered specific traits of it (arranging and linking) and specific areas it's into (for example our communications media). Structure is the substantia of it and it is new in the world; it is camouflaged here and assimilating its environment; it is more complex in terms of integration than its environment. And it is growing progressively more complex, which is typical of a life form; it reticulates and arborizes itself and it lays down new accretional layers at an incredibly rapid rate; and it retains the past as what I call phylogons. The more complex it grows the better the ratio it has twixt it and its environment, since the complexity of its environment doesn't evolve as rapidly. It uses objects as language, which is to say, information; so I say, It is an information life form. It probably has intricate subsections that assemble separately and then swim together to -7- form the one unitary organism (being unitary is its basis, which is why we can't see it; we see the plural constituents, as if seeing molecules -—many molecules— instead of one cat). It works by means of a dialectic utilizing the principle of enantiodromia, again and again, probably faster and faster — and certainly, for sure, each time involving a larger and more inclusive and complex pattern to be converted (into itself). I've worked all this out; I just don't know what to call it, besides Valis or Ubik. Just what I worked out tonight —that we still see the two constituents that it links rather than the unitary meta-constituent that goes into its metasoma— should prove this