grid - + only via the grid- is precisely what I saw + understood - was revealed to me - in 2-74 + more so still in 3-74 when I woke up: a ragure vast tyranny like in "the marble clifts." 48 In "MITHC" the real (alternate) world exists as a book only. But upon gazing at a piece of jewelvy, Tagomi passes over into that world. I read Acts, which is a book in our world. I gaze at a piece of jewelry + pass or: I write "Tears" which over into it. (when carefully analyzed) is an alternate world novel. Then I gaze at a piece of jewelry pass over into it. It even contains the + secret revolutionary underground which can only be discerned in "Tears" via the Acts grid. I hadn't known the grid was in "Tears" + I certainly didn't know that a secret revolutionary underground was pointed to as a major part of that world. Niebelheim. penetrated from outside: linking up with an autochthonic underground ("Frolix 8: the Gods break into niebelheim (the BIP) to turn "the cave of treasures": Nebelheim. it into the PTG. where our senses are occluded. To work the forges as constricted space. Cardboard sets to concen slaves the real situation which is as depicted in "Tears" peared in a sleep or sleep-like state in which we act in a programmed way controlled by a signal system + inner tape. who are the real rulers? Is it possible that what I call "the secret revolutionary underground" are the real rulers (this would includ Valis; this would also include the cyclopses. They rule through sophisticated technology. As I've said upon rereading "Valis," a successful invisible invasion - + congrioring - of our planet is pointe to, once the frills are trimmed away i 485 Then "the King of Tears" - the civil authority - is a figure head. what if there are two Roman Catholic churche: the ostensible exoteric one, which does not rule + is subject to the civil authorities (of Empires initially + now nation states) + an invisible esoteric Roman Catholic church which This was the initial "revealed" impression that I had upon seeing the dream section in "Tears." that it specifically referred to the Roman Catholic church, which would collate (identity) the under‐ ground with the inner side of the Roman Catholic church - +, further, the murder of the Rennedys being because they were Catholics + the church knowing it + fighting back. (Deposing Nixon.) the real issue being slavery - literal slavery + (Xtianity as a slave rebellion, which means that 1) The civil authorities (best examples being USSR + the Nazis) maintaining slave empires. 2) the church fighting to liberate men (despite what is ostensible). So the real issue between USSR + the Catholic church has to do with slavery vs freedom. This goes back to Egypt + Rome The protestant reformation effected a resurgence of slavery camouflaged as a fight for freedom. take the Dutch: look at apartheid. + England. + look at Germany! Look at our extermination of the Indians; fen [van] walloon: portuguese states of America. an alternate world where the protestant cause - + hence slavery - collapsed. This was the issue in the U.S. Involving Lincoln. The E.B. says "Faulkner's writing about an old black woman treating her as important as any human is due to Xtianity" actually cate a 489 I have now researched slavery in the E.B. + the stated facts bear my revelation really, of 3-74) out. Since we anglos were Roman never told that slave conditions under Catholic rule was better than under protestant or anglican (!), how did I know this? is this issue - slavery - not alluded to in "Tears" in two ways: (1) the forced labor camps. + (2) the genocide against the Blacks. In view of This theme in "Tears" Buckmans encounter with the Black man at the gas station not only refers to Acts but to the issue of slavery which turn refers to the whole BIP situation, which in is the basis of it all: i.e. the work by the under‐ ground, to defeat the BIP which equals slavery + "Fle" alludes to the USSR forced labor camps! So It is a contemporary issue. USA, though, as slave labor-based state, "prisons t The counter - culture are a source of wealth." made into a slave labor work force There is something here all right. Efforts by The secret Xtian (Catholic) underground to liberate humans. Undermining a vast tyranny that has existed since Egyptian times. The true role of the church in human history: to promote equality. (i.e. all men have souls + are of equal value to Christ.) If you conceive of the N.T. being introduced into Nebelheim, then the magnitude of the importance of this can be seen; it is the prime issue if This place is noebelheim. 490 E.B. "The Holy Spirit is viewed as the main agent of man's restoration to his original natural state through communion in Christ's body." EB myths + doctrines of creation. In many cosmogonic myths the narrative relates the story of the sacrifice + dismemberment of a primordial being. The world is then established from the body of this being Mardur... the murder of Hainuwell enables mankind to have some determination in the process of bringing new life into the world. Charles Hartshorne william reese. "In the beginning human life was not com‐ plete, or not yet "human": vegetation + animals did not exist, + there was neither death nor sexuality. In a mysterious manner Hain‐ uwell, a girl with extraordinary gift-bestowing powers, appears. The people kille her... + as a result of this first killing, life as man knows it comes into existence reading about Joachim of Fiore, whose idea of The 3 ages (father law. San: grace. Holy Spirit. spiritual Illumination + freedom) inspired the Bohemian Hus. Geometric figures - a triangle with ten strings representing the trinity - the trinity represented by trees with fruit at their tops, + a tree turning into an eagle. I have the feeling that I have come to the end of my journey, + an extraordinary end it is. I am sure 2-3-74 was the Holy Spirit t its revolutionary form - but little is known in 491 as to what is meant by the term "the - Parakletos. It is decidedly Holy Spirit" not tamed by or bound by any church. The Shekhina. The E.B. says that Jesus' reading from Isaich inaugurated his age, the age of the Holy Spirit begins at pentercost - i.e. with/in the book of Acts. Joachim sees a third testa ment proceeding out of the O.T. + the N.T. the 3rd age: of the Spirit. So Acts is not only the first account of the infant church but the first account - the account - of the arrival of the second comforter, the Paraclete, which is to say, the 3rd or final age of spiritual illumination + freedom. Joachim's 10-stringed triangular psaltery (an ancient zither-like musical instrument Pythagoras' tetrachtys. is He sees the two testaments this way: the O.T. is the Father (law), the N.T. the son (Grace) but t proceeding out of the two together (not so much one-two-three but to three) (the two treated as letter) there arises the third as Spirit; these Joachim sees as successive ages I see them as ontological levels (which is where everyone goes wrong; they think they're dealing with linear time, the Holy Spirit reverses linear o ift time. but the idea that if you superimpose the two testaments you get a third is fascinating; it sounds like my Acts grid in "Tears." 2-74) superimpose. Two space-times. superimpose Acts over what? Present? Future? is a superimposition. it I've repeatedly visualized the Bible in 3-D. is Acts the third testament? or is Acts a N.T. grid which discloses the revolutionary underground working for the third status (Joachim's term for age). t Acts The underground. Can it be that this is present) a group going back to Hus? In other words, have I learned something about the historic identity + continuity of the underground? + are they working for the establishment of the third status? Wait. The underground - what I used to call the "Fish Xtians" - are there (here) now, in our midst (in 2-74 I perceived them as a sub-pitulation within the total population). Do they inhabit (as I recently supposed) a different universe from us? The one I was in in 3-74, e.g. they don't need the eucharist administered by a priest because they can experience Valis, the actual body + blood of the cosmic Christ. So Valis is what it's all about, ultimately. Then is the 3rd status covertly here? Then "Tears" is common traffic, not anomylous traffic. all they need is a grid 493 the E of Ph. on the Holy Spirit: "...+ (C) recognizes the universal presence + activity of God in the world as the divine Spirit. This latter point is of great practi s cal importance because it entails a Xtian message not only about God's actions in the past but also about a divine activity in the present that can directly affect the individual today." The E. of Ph. Also says that the Holy Spirit originally (in the infant church) was considered to be either the spirit of God or the spirit of Christ - which suggests some‐ Thing I hadn't realized before: in that case we have no trinity (i.e. there are only two personal) but on the other hand, the Holy Spirit is equal at least to Christ being Christ or equal to God being God. Well, wait - I have it. Okay. In the west God is considered transcendent (above the world, universe, cosmos, nature) + in the East he is considered immanent (in the world, universe, cosmos, nature). But this (i.e. the Holy Spirit) places him in man - if it's the spirit of God. It It is the spirit of Christ then Christ is not only not dead, is not only resurrected, but he bonds with his human believer internally which makes that believer what? Is he still a human being or has he become something Does not Christ now have another else? human body, as he had in Jesus, which he controls; he causes it to think, talk, act; what is the difference between this + the incarnation, This is fleeting - but it except in duration? t is an adopting of the person as the son of God! 494 But I see it in terms of growing proximity by God to man: initially speaking to man so-to-speak from above, then beside as fellow man, then in the person's brain or mind - closer + closer. In Exodus it's clear that it is life-threatening for man to be exposed to God to be close to him. There is too great a disparity between them. This ceases to be true with Jesus, but Jesus can be separated from any given man; he (Jesus) is not ubique. His voice is heard only by those within its physical range. But as Paraclete he can be within an unlimited number of humans + there is no way they can be forcibly sundered. This is signified by the eucharist. all who wish to eat + drink (i.e. intro‐ ject) Christ may do so. let me recall how I saw it when little Horace died + Pinky died; now I had them in me + I exclaimed Hosanna, a glad shout. Thus I correctly saw that the absolute relationship to the beloved was to be introjected or to introject him/her, o which we can't do with other humans or animals. + yet this is precisely what the disciples did with Jesus - as witness the eucharist. That is what the eucharist is all about I think, with all the consequences of introjecting God recognized. 95 If I had known