points to the church not as the under‐ hound but as the establishment state? or: like the west "really won" in "Faith" - the Catholics really won in "Tears." "Tears" is the true state of affairs : repressive Catholic state inc. the USSR. Nixon anti-Catholic. The two Kennedys Catholic. Why, the secret Fish Xtians I saw in 2-74 is the Catholic church which really rules; hence "portugese states of America." They have the Holy Spirit which holds a dual role: both establishment + revolution: in dialectic interaction itself! It is the 11211. 3 levels of ontology: with protestant victory Catholic victory Holy in 2 at freedom underground] Spirit. Roles I Y, Y, Y; does 3 (freedom underground) equal Y (protestants?) not exactly. No, this is too complex. The truth is that the chunch really rules, by virtue of the Holy Spirit simultaneously which I + 525 i authoritarian + revolutionary? Is sort of a binary-mind life form presenting y + y as simultaneously true. It makes + breaks conventions dogmas + customs + institutions; but most of all it (the Holy Spirit) rules this world. This is the real secret. We rumans cannot fathom its pattern, plan or logic, why it does what it does, why it selects those whom it selects. It is the dialectic; it is both sides! When I saw the dialectic I saw the Holy Spirit itself! In perpetual activity (change). Hegel understood this. Hence God says, "I bring weal + woe." one side of it is James-James: it The other side breaks whatever it makes. of it saves (rescues) whatever it breaks (destroys). This reminds me of Shiva? It must constantly change - but it does not abandon what it discards. This is a mystery + paradox, who understands this (the destroyer + advocate) understands all But what the Holy Spirit carries in all cases is authority - whether making or breaking t it knows nothing of itself, only what it finds in God. Then in a very real sense it is an "unmoved mover." Okay: I figured out the existence of the natura aturans realm, (2) that it is the will of God + since hat I call Valis is in that realm + not the natura naturata realm (3) the natura naturans realm is sentient, volitional + foresighted (teleology) of the natura naturata realm has total control 526 e i like Spinoza, identify it with natural law (not operating against or despite natural law) but I redefine natural law - well, so does Spinoza. it knows what it is doing, + it knows the exact results of the pressure (valence) it exerts. It is a system of coordinated valences, like a warping web. It works by creating shortest distances. Not somehow it converts time + space back + forth. An increase in space should relax valent pressure + allow greater freedom. Time is space converted into direct pressure. In time, things happen: the natura naturata things are generated. They come about in time as the matrix or receptacle - no; time is pressure that extrudes the naturata, molding them. Then something important regarding this pressure happened to me in 2-74. Time ebbed as in "Ubik." That must mean there was (or I perienced) a massive conversion into space at the expense of time. The organism is elevated out of its falling stone status in which there is only one way it can go + at one specific velocity in which case space has closed around it. (Space has been converted into time, + the object is inder inexorable pressure.) urning space into time: time is the pressure to move through what space is left to it. The law of conservation of motion is involved. (Inertia.) time introduces change. Our consciousness of time's flow is our consciousness of things changing. time tells naturata (things) what to do, so that we do not have a static universe. Time equals God's will, by which everything that is comes into existence 527 when it wishes to exert will, it converts an objects space into time. The result of which is change. This will (pressure) is alive, time it. self is not alive; time is the expression of The will of that which is alive but how much We can learn about God from God's will I don't know, except that his will expressed his intentions; it is God existentially. His will can be read of the changes as process i in the naturata can be read, but this requires memory; here anamnesis is necessary. anamnesis equal's the ability to follow the sequence of changes in terms of pattern (normally we do not remember.) pattern of change to will to God. It's inferential knowledge only, but valid. So - I know what I saw that I call Valis. It is the will of God operating in the naturans realm on the naturata by means of space converted into time as direct pressure to produce change. Every change occurs along the lines of least resistance + the shortest route based on laws of conservation of energy + motion; the divine will determines what is the shortest route + the line of least resistence in terms of pressure or valence. Thus "warpage away from plumb" is a change in what is the shortest distance + the line of least resistance nothing can thwart this pressure. The deity is immanent + ubique. There are no miracles, no suspension of natural law, + all is God; but God forms a dialectic of making + breaking So that there is ceaseless change. Process is real. 828 4:20 am the natura naturata realm doesn't exist; hence my acosmism. because of my decades of acosmism t I saw past (beyond bemind, into etc) the naturate realm to the will of God which is the real realm of reality. Thus Valis is real, + the objects which comprise it - of which it is composed - are illusory. As Valis: objects: Ubik: their devolving regressing world. Yes, Valis is a (the) reality support: substantia! So there is a direct connection between my decades of acosmism + my seeing Valis. So in a sense Valis is the objects it imitates, insofar as those objects exist at all. But Valis is not God, but rather the will of There is t God exerted on the naturata. some kind of dialectic perhaps you can only see Valis by disavowing the naturata. Then Spinoza's theology is the key + perhaps the sole correct key. (His distinguishing the 2 realms + defining them.) But I go farther call the naturata irreal. Spinoza did + If I am right my episte‐ not do this mology accomplishes something important, when it links up with Spinoza now we can describe the real. 529 Then 3-74 becomes more amazing when seen as an outgrowth of my radical epistemology - the payoff, + unexpected. I am not sure we can ascertain very much about God, since we see only the effects he exerts due to his will. But Christ + the Holy Spirit are the naturata realm, but they in are not of it; they are the God behind the naturans Natura natura incarnation + Good naturan Aniturata enthusiasmos Christ e t - Holy Spirit This (Christ, Holy Spirit) was not Valis. because Valis was naturans affecting the naturate [Note] But Thomas may have been Christ Holy Spirit. Not I.e. God. So, born in/by the spirit (the purpose of Christ's incarnation) I saw God (Valis). but - as e.g. when Valis (God) fired the information about Chrissy at me, He had broken through to me; this was a true in breaking of God himself. This was a theophany He was tangent to me: not separated by anything. This is important! + if the naturata doesn't exist, then when one is in contact with Valis one is actually then in contact with what does exist, perhap 530 for the first time. This is true too, about Christ + the Holy Spirit; they (or it) are real. but if God can break through directly as he did with me, + communicate information + perform "miracles." What need have we of such ideas as Christ + the Holy Spirit? Won't the Shekhina do? my relationship with God seems to consist of what Buber calls emuna + not the Paulline pistis ("religious anarchism" + an I-thou relation ship of mutual trust.) + esp. the sense of God's unfolding plan in history - history as the arena for that plan. Anyhow, my theology in e.g. "Ubik" "Faith" + "Stigmata" call for no mediating + figure but God apprehended direct. With Christ viewed as the wisdom of God (O.T.!) This Spinoza material, agreeing as it does with my own analysis (a realm beyond/behind the visible realm composed of natural laws + constituting real reality + the will of God) is really the first hard evidence I've had that I'm on the right track. Look What I've done independently of Spinoza: but based on observation as well as reasoning. Immanent deity, the two realms, the will of God, not God himself - unitary + sentient God with the universe (naturator) as his body, although in a sense he has no body; his will organizes The naturata. This solves the camouflage aspect. The will exerts the pressure of space turned into time - Yes; thereby space is dimished, + this diminution Acts a a warp that affects objects. Then at the time (sic) of the phosphene graphics it I was under the duress of a massive + unusual conversion from space into time that finally warped me down to my motor centers. I warpage were strongly o time. e nter acce es such a massive conversion of space into time would narrow my choices down to null choice; I'd be made into a "machine," as I put it. Not only would I have no choice but I'd do a lot of things very rapidly. Like a film speeded up. This explains my sense of having been programmed. Kozyrev is correct to view time as energy (poured into a material system. The universe). trick the magician by suddenly amping the percept-cognitive system of the up percipient (audience). Valis: wakes you. God. You can see the conjurer's tricks. Not a snake but a piece of rope. The dialectic. Stratesy; building on, turning evil (deception) into Wisdom (Good). Sankara - Eckehart. God. Valis. Wakes you. woke me up in 2-3-74. Saw conjurer's tricks. Fakes. Delusions not hallucinations. (Maja. Wake up: you are atman Valis = Brahman = God, the thous Delusion - intoxication - bichlorides. Not awakes dialectic: Zoroastrianism, revealed to me. Spinoza's monism is wrong - leaves out the conjurer. Fake - conjurer - asleep - Palmer Eldritch. lies drugged. Mask. + naturata realm one of delusion; only is rea (Valist Naturans 32 s Naturans (Valis): the dreamer, naturata: the The dreamer is real (Valis); the dream dream. is not. Valis doesn't think it; he dreams it Brahman asleep? I woke up; Brahman wake up (atman)! All living creatures are the Brahman; there is no other possibility. The cares + sorrows of creatures is my proof; God would only subject himself to this. Christ is the paradigm for all living creatures; all are God in disguise. When Jesus said it shall return" he meant, "I shall wake o up again." This is true; e.g. myself. Spinoza shows deus sive natura. Monism. could the world be Valis' memories as it sleeps? Memories expressed in a dream? Hence The out-of-place-in-time material in my writing? man awake with his full "Christ" is waking faculties restored - percept + cognitive. The Acts material is in "Tears" because the actual outside world is one of Acts. It is a larger universe (more space) than our dream one. We are disciples who have fallen asleep. The conjurer causes things to looke different so it'd appear time has passed Valis + the AI voice are uncanny intrusions from outside the dream. Thomas is