course is a conscious + deliberate attempt to analyze + understand this entity, based on an actual encounter with it. A conscious encounter basically, it is conceived of as having invaded Our reality at all levels (this would include inner as well as outer). So in "Ubik" I am no longer just aware of the information but the entity (mind) behind - + generating. ot the information. This links up with my sense in 3-74 that I was in telepathic contact with another, greater mind - which I now view as an externalization - objectification I my real self, reality, forced to the wall, lurn't into inf t 6 + if pushed even further, reveals the informa (creating] entity Ubik/Valis" first world as script in us + around us + then script programmer, s listening to the Platt tape I construe by the logic presented that Valis (the other mind) which came at me from outside + which overpowered me from inside was indeed the contents of my collec‐ ive unconscious, + so technically a psychosis, since This is how you define psychosis (it certainly would explain the animism outside, + the interior dissociated activity) but - well, okay; it would account for the AI voice, the 3 eyed Sibyl + the extreme archaicism of the contents. + seeing Rome CAD 45 would simply be psychotic delusion - I did not know where or when I really was Q: What about the resemblance to my writing? the content was originally in my unconscious, A: "Tears" + "Ubik." -9 Q: What about external events? The girl? The letters? coincidence A: + the written material? Huge books held open? D A: verbal memory. Q: Why would I believe that my senses were enhanced I could see for the first time? : Psychotomimetic drugs indicate this happens in ychosis. + kosmos? Everything fitting together? it "spread of meaning," typical of psychosis Foreign words + terms I don't know? long term memory banks open. Disgorging contents into consciousness. problem solving - i.e. the Xerox missive? There was no problem; it was harmless 60 t Q: Why the sense of time dysfunction? 9: disorientation s Q: Why the sense that the mind which had taken me over was wiser than me + more capable; A: release of psychic energy. D: Why was that mind + the whole experience syntonic to me? If it was syntonic to my ego, why had it been repressed. A: My ego was destroyed, so "syntonic" has no meaning here. Syntonic to what Q: From a practical standpoint I functioned better. How could this be. A: it only subjectively fell better. No anxiety Q: Why would I seek the experience again if it was repressed contents breaking through? Could I not let them through again, or never have cluded them following 3-74? The contents + the other mind leaked away; I tried to hold onto them but in vain. Q: I was occluded to my own best interests. I iked being high. ah? "high"? Does psychosis equal high? i am manic depressive mania. I s + schizophrenic? One is extraverted + one is utroverted. Please clarify mixed or "borderline" psychosis. No, it was florid schizophrenia with religiou loration. Not satisfactory. catatonic excitement, then So the OCMH diagnosis was incorrect? Not nic depressive? that is so. Incorrect. why, then, was the onset one in which thought faster + faster? That is mania. tme the lithium would have blocked mania. I was lithium toxics ( Q: Then it wasn't schizophrenia; it was chemical toxicity. A: perhaps. A combination. Plus the ortho molecular ws vitamins Q: But the orthomolecular ws vitamins are anti-schizophrenic A: that is only speculation Q: If 2-3-74 was psychosis then what was the ego state which it obliterated? A: neurotic. Or mildly schizophrenia. Under stres. the weak ego disintegrated. " then how could the phobias associated with i my anxiety neurosis remain? E.g. agorophobia? A: it does not compute. Something is wrong They should have gone away or become totally overwhelming. The impaired ego must have still been intact. Q: was my "dissociated" behavior bizarre? No, they were problem-solving. It does not : compute perhaps there were no real problems. D not so. It was tax time t: Q: What we are talking about then is inhibi bypass behavior oriented toward crisis prob i solving. Yes. : this is 180° opposed to any meaningful lefinition of psychosis. We can reason over‐ There is helming by unconscious material but vo way to account for it being more capable in erms of problem solving. Skills were involved. daptation to reality + not fugue from. Fugue adaptation are mutually opposed. One cannot these are un from + solve simultaneously, movements, diametrically contrary 66 we have to attribute the mutually exclusive postures of retreat from pressing crisis problems + motion toward problems + the expert solving there of. Blease explain how an organism can simultaneously flee + stand + fight A: the organism is compound, not simple. one part fled + another part replaced it + problem-solved. 2 : Did the part that problem-solved do so successfully? A: Yes. 3: Could the part which fled have done a better job if it had stayed in control? No. A: then a part which had never had to deal : with reality proved more adaptive + effective. It was adequate on what basis did it act? Experience? That error? + on instinct. It knew what to do then it was ideally suited to the problem th solving required. Yes, it matched it perfectly i This is not psychosis. This is reserve psyche apt in readiness for a unique crisis problem. yes. QE.D. You are talking about meta- or aranormal functioning, not psychosis, which definition is incapable of adapting, problem dving, reality-testing. Did it test reality? did it withdraw? i It tested This is null-psychosis: you have contin This is a latent s dicted yourself. higher brain center‐ to ep 69 creates problems; it does not solve them. It is a problem, as well as the collapse of rational efforts at problem-solving. Were its decisions + actions rational? A: Although religious in coloration - that is not the issue. Were the problems 8 i solved? A: Yes. But by a psychotic self. that is an oxymoron. A "psychotic self Q: took over + problem solved." This is where the inquiry has led. The ego could not face or solve the crisis problem because of its severity, fled, + in its place another self solved the problem successfully, this leads us to a new frontier which is not mapped. A: then the enigma remains. Q: We have learned nothing A: nothing. Q: After finishing listening to the tape do you have any intuition or guess as to who + what the Valis mind is? (laten] A: yet. It is female. It is on the other side the post mortem world. It has been with me This all my life. It is my twin sister Jane. was referred to in one dream, + that is enough. "specifically, fairies are the dead." Two clues this would explain why no one else has had my is xperience. The other psyche I carry inside me that of my dead sister - v. "Dr blood money" when the situation is reversed, v. "Scanner." 1) it's another psyche in me ( 2) it's female. ) its on the other side (after death). 4) It's what does this point to? y tutulary spirit. âž€ In my right hemisphere. to my sister t 68 Hypnagogic 5:30 am: voice: "We have adopted you because you adopted others - e.g. the children at covanent House." + I realized: adopted. The adoptionist theory about Jesus: adopted by God at the time of Jesus' baptism, as God's son. + I understood: this meant - was saying - God had adopted me the way he did Jesus, + so the other mind is God's; I was sure the voice meant to convey this to me, in answer to my Q + A dialog supra, that my conclusion about my sister was wrong + was being corrected. then that night I had one of the most intense dreams - maybe the most interse - I have ever has. I can only remember a little of it. had come to a place where people were, but they were different from me: another race. Oriental. not white. Unbearable grief filled me as I looked for a place, a literal place where I could dwell among them - even at the bottom of the ladder, but not even a humble place existed for me, I would have taken it if it existed, no mater how meager. But place there was none. So I wandered on, aimlessly, + then I found another place und ectedly where people of my own race existed, al though I didn't know them, + they took me in in other words they adopted me, + I had a place at last + was okay. I corrolate this dream with the Hypnagogic information; it is the same idea. I am at last adopted, but look by my own kind + this following upon the most intense grief + alienation + not belonging or having any place at which to tarry. what the voice said + conveyed this time is more important than its brevity suggests first; it tells why I had the 2-3-74 perience. It tells that it was indeed a mind 69 or minds other than my own which entered me + my world. It cells me that it was in order to shield, help + protect me. + it alludes to God + his adoption of Jesus + so stamps the imprint of the divine on the experience + the other mind (Valis), the highest level of the divine in fact, + the highest order of relationship which man can have to God. The dream expresses a suffering which I had been experiencing more deep + profound than I ever had consciously realized. + identifies it in term. of alienation specifically - the Gnostic sense of being a stranger here: "ruth amid the alien corn." + finally, they who adopted me + with whom I could belong were my own kind; the fremdheit the alienness, had come to an end "one can become Adam Kadmon + realize The macrocosm within himself." (Kaballa. "the sefiroth represents different aspects of the cosmic mind. (The world in which we live can be regarded as a world of divine being where the secret + the visible are wonderfully reconciled, just as creation itself was but the exoteric aspect of a mysterious process taking place within the Godhead. They are manifested also in the forces that move the universe, + as we ourselves are a miniature of that universe they represent also the forces that move us. Here we return to The idea of the micro/macrocosm according to which the world + God are wholly contained + reflected in man. The complete man is thus the perfect man The Adam Kadmon or primordial being who is dentified with God in his act of creation. This is the goal of the magician. "man, the miniature organism, is able by introspection to expand his consciousnes So that his inner self reaches out + embraces the universe. Clearly, the closer the miniature resemble its subject, the greater the expansion that is possible Thus it is above all the complete man who, once he has experienced every human impulse + integrated them in one balanced personality, is able to reach the heart of the universe wherein lies union with God this is the supreme achievement of magic; in short it is the apotheosis of the self." compare this quite with pp 50/56 where I came to the realization that in 3-74 I found that I the microcosm, contained the macrocosm - the universe - + could know it by introspection (which with can only be explained by Kabbala +