that is already long inhabited and well-utilized. This is momentous. Since the verbal integer (morpheme) sets its own depth independent of the particular knowledge of the percipient, the encyphering-decyphering (encoding and then extraction) is spontaneous. ASHER can be used (for example) to show where a message begins. It can be linked and relinked with morphemes of other ages greater than that of the inferior bulk-text. What it is linked to need not be the same age as it but only a different age from the inferior bulk-text. The fact that I was used as an unwitting medium to generate and hence transmit such material shows 1-3-81 an instance of how this is done; the older, deeper material in TEARS came to me in the form of a dream with the urgent sense that I had to enter it into the text of TEARS exactly as I had seen it; only years later did I see it lying farther down —i.e. at a greater depth— and then I realized that it was older —hence lower— than the rest of the text of the novel. This material linked itself with the Latin word FELIX which I had thought of as being only a name. I believe I counted four different depths in the total text of TEARS. A single morpheme will do it. ASHER will be perfect since it is of enormous antiquity/depth. And it's on every Ronstadt album starting with "Heart Like a Wheel." We are talking about literally millions of instances (print-outs), and many linkings. This message traffic uses a system that springs normally almost automatically into existence, given the nature of the fourth axis perception (time as space). So the method is not ingenious. But the real question remains: Who is sending, and to whom, and what are they saying? I can revert to theological explanations and say that God or the Logos is talking... whom to, then? To itself/himself? Hardly. Even if theological explanations are resorted to, some kind of group as receivers is implied. What I did briefly in 2-3-74 they must do all the time. All my paranoia is back regarding ultra sophisticated historical agencies. Or is this the (what I call) internal information metabolism of a vast entity? In either case the message traffic is literal, physical and real. Should I go the way of THE MORNING OF THE MAGICIANS and postulate a superior "mutant" race acting within the ordinary human race? Or something like that? If there is any truth to this line of thought, VALIS may be more accurate than I suppose earlier in these notes. They are able to operate in a realm made up of a fusion of the past with the present, what I call the two spatiotemporal sets superimposition... since for them, time is a spatial axis. Of more importance to me is, what is VALIS? What was present in the room that day? I said at the opening of these notes, "What happened that day with the info about Chrissy differed from the normal only in that this time I was conscious of it." Then by my own reasoning they or it controls/control us subliminally — and the message traffic fits into this, their use of our communications media. They engrain us regularly, is that it? Outside our awareness? Or it does? "It" being a UTI (as I say supra in these notes)? Okay; it is a UTI and there are people working in conjunction with it, people who utilize [Handwritten note:] See p 81 following 58 I am saying, reality properly seen exhibits pure intelligence, so pure that it has no personality or even thoughts; it is intellegerd (noein). This, however, is a lesser principle than God whose essence (einai) is not noein but agapēs. This (Valis) is noein. It pervades reality. I am describing Ho Logos. This is the rational self-governing interrelated system that Spinoza took to be God. We're it not for 11-17-80 I would have had to agree; now I say it is world as the Greeks perceived world, a rational self-regulating system functioning by an inner dialectic (as Empedocles observed - Pythagoras' kosmos t + ompedocles' dialectic). It utilizes s antiodromia basically + perpetually. but - i above this + other, wholly other to it, is God. We have fallen into this rational world-order (cf Plato + Plotinus + the Orphics + the fall of the soul). Enantiodromia suggests Taoism world is penultimate - Spinoza to the contrary, Spinoza notwithstanding. Logos is a secondary divine principle at the heart of reality - at its It is the perpetual governing agent of core. But this is creation, internal to it (immanent). not God. It is the invisible structure of reality through it, God exerts force on reality. (Hence it is to physical reality as a magnetic field is to iron particles - then it does not create] valence away from plumb but is the "plumb"! The correcting template, as the eikos "circle" is to all + any geven t actual curcle: the universal of universals. am re‐ versing my opinion 180°: I did not 59 see valence away from plumb when I saw Valis but saw the invisible blueprint of creation exerting force on physical reality to follow "the line of least resistance or, put) another way "the shortest Line"; why, this is Logos. What I saw when I saw Valis as the blueprint -which itself is not physic al- exerting force on imperfect physical reality to adhere to the "rule" of the eidos (or eide) governing it (magnetic field to iron filings)). This is what Heraclitus speaks about when He refers to overstepping + "justice finding him [the sun] out." Why, it was indeed reality as a field acted on ("perturbed"). This bears directly on me being overruled vis-a-vis the Xerox missive; what I have to conceive of (difficult as it is to do) is a template -which is Logos- that 1 (like causal processes of inani‐ mate objects) was brought into conformity/accord with + it has to do with a justice system related to karmic balance; it is causal in nature not capricious. Erinys. It is a total, a self-re‐ gulating, mutually-interrelating system rational balances that constantly adjusts of for internal harmony, + this is Heraclitus' itself Logos. to perceive it is to make the great per‐ about reality (the world-order) that ception Heracli Xtus' whole philosophy calls for as the way men our ght to live + to apprehend reality: in formity with Logos. con (I say, on my own Au thority, that this is exactly what the Taoists mean by the Tao + conforming to the tao I say this because I understand both Heraclptus + Taoism.) This is the way rational 60 man perceives himself in relation to world: he is part of this vast rational self-regulating system: Heraclitus, the Taoists, Spinoza -all of them; this is not mystical but a totally rational perception of oneself + the world order, Yes; it acted vis-à-vis the Xerox missive to correct an imbalance in itself, + this who an enantiodromia related to what in India is called karma. So in 3-74 I was suffised by the rational principle, as if it had broken in from outside (hence my sense of Valis as a rational principle invading irrational I reality, so well expressed in "Valis"). saw it as a cosmic principle, + so it is it is Logos. It is Spinoza's Natura naturens. God's gift (primary gift due to his agapē) is [this] Logos: the principle of pure reason in the world. It is now easy to do what Philo did: equate this Greek concept with) the Hebrew Hagic Sophia. An equation between reason + wisdom is herewith made; the whrld-order exhibits rationality + hence can be understood by Logos in man. This is the female figure that I see (envision as the source of the AI voice who is the voice of that principle of reason - all this in I contradistinction to Schopenhauer's will) was right: the dialetic is between a priori knowing (wisdom, rationality, sanity, intellect, Lorgos, reason) + irrational will; so the basic) theme of "Valis" is correct, + reason (rationality) has invaded the domain of irrationality, whereupon the dialectical combat 61 en sues. This is of course Christ as Logos. "Valis," Then, is philosophically + theologically very profound + accurate. It sees the basic dynamic issue. The coaflict + what the conflict is about + between what + what It is ia wise book, "Valis" is. The issue is properly stated! The rational has broken into the irrational + successfully combats it + this/rational principle is identified with the Logos + Christ. The universe is not rational, but: the rational has invaded it; +) is smarter than it: hence the rational is winning. I can how see the role of "Scanner" in all this; "Scanner" is my perception of the irrationality that is the urfalls of "Valis"; it is my study of it. +, in "Scanner," in the last few sentences of the last xhapter, pationality asserts itself + triumphs. Only when the final total system It seen can this be discerned; up to then, rirrationality (presented as anocclusion men's minds) prevails, starting with the of sentence of chapter one. So "Valis" picks first up where "scanner" leaves off: it deals the situation more accurately: as an with antithetical dialectical strife, cosmic in nature + scope, involving not just men but all crreation! The areng widens. it is the in‐ breaking if the rational. In 2-3-74 I encountered -not a ratianal principle in me: my own Logos but a cosmic rational principle in the world-order that broke in on me + 62 overcame me from outside. No one will believe this, but it is true. I was an irrational person (microcosm) in a rational universe (macrocosm), + the universe adjusted me to conform to its rational ways. It brought me into harmony compliance- with it. This is remark‐ I succumbed to a suspra‐ able indeed! personal rational principle that moves the sun + the other stars; its ultimate source is God's love. insight one: USA 1974 + Acts are based on a common essence: USA 1974 (Acts AD 70) common essence Iinsight two: where is this "common essence" which is a morphological archetype outside of space + time? this question leads to a new insight A: It is in a mind. Hence it is nowhere It shows up in space + time wherever it is the basis of reality. (This problem perplexed Aristotle.) That is, it is not abstracted from particulars. The par‐ ticularsarise out of it. Thus reality is thought (vers, not nodn). There is a mind conceiving of e.g. Acts; Acts is an idea that has nothing to do with one particular time or place. The Bible must contain many of these archetypes- hence the typological use of the Bible. It is always biblical space time (like the timeless aplicability of the 6: hexa grams). What is this mind? God? The Logos? what we call reality is some kind of stuff that shapes itself as an image of a particular archetype 65 that governs what spatiotemporal reality will There must be a finite number of archetypes be just There is a finite number of hexagrams, it is as the triumph of Taoism to reduce all flux to these hex 64 agrams. This is an ordering system of vast value we don't appreciate the achievement or even the ther ry underlying the achievement. Do you suppose I was able to apprehend the Acts archetype because of my experience with s the Ohing"? That I had learned to look for constants in the flux world? But this defeats the view of cumulative linear time which lies at the heart of Western views of change, reality + time. Now, it has often occurred to me that many elements in 2-3-74 resembled the t tak -as the absolute, i.e. Valis - + the dialectic the interaction of Yin +