to it; I grasped the true situation. We're in irreal worlds + possess false memories but: YHWH is reaching to us with authentic reality. We are in the sort of "half-life" Irwelt depicted in "Ubik." Reality support = "He causes to exist whatever exists" - i.e. he -Ubik/Valis- is YHWH who has been excluded from our Irwelt: "the final bulwark against nonbeing." Then in 2-74 under the pentathol when I saw the Golden Fish sign + the girl I remembered [having been alive + having died] + woke up - + saw Valis/Ubik (YHWH). We must track + retrack. YHWH is rescuing us by 1) reminding us (awakening us) + 2) transmuting our Irwelt into reality {Note} ; 3) entering our Irwelt with battle plans to depose Belial. {Note:} Hence the acosmism in my writing: I know the truth: this is not YHWH's world. Viz: A) YHWH causes to exist what ever exists B) Our world(s) is/are irreal. C) Therefore they are not YHWH's creation. They are, on the contrary, like the dream worlds in "3 Women" + are not consistent! We are perceptually occluded, + our memories falsified to make the Irwelt seem convincing. This is the real "Fall." folder 48 - 065 folder 48 - 065 It could be said that just as I remembered "Tears," having actually lived then, I also remembered "Ubik" only not as clearly. "Remember" as a term has an unusual application, here. It is a previous present, not a previous past. This present replaces it, not follows it (in time). It is the role of Ubik/Valis to abolish all this plurality + stabilize into one real world what now shifts + arbitrarily alters. There is no good reason why I am both Thomas + PKD; these are signs of irreality, of "half-life" - i.e. spurious, inauthentic being (+ world). The world of "Ubik": it is a mind, + obeys the volitional will of that mind. I had solved the basis of reality. Then in 3-74 I saw the entity whose mind it is: Valis (as I called it). I was seeing the unitary + the volitional. The one stable constant is YHWH; there is no other. Their experiences (inc. world) in "Ubik" can't be explained except by their being dead + not knowing it; through these phenomena they deduce the truth: their true -vs apparent or imagined- state). My experiences in 2-3-74 were like those in "Ubik". (+ this was before I read the "Commedia.") Therefore I am dead. YHWH is rescueing us by breaking into our Irwelt. What I must keep in mind is that I wrote "Ubik" upon reading "The Tibetan Book of the Dead" in which our true situation is laid out: the Great Secret. folder 48 - 066 Being dead, we can rise or sink. If we rise we can reach the One (Valis, Ubik, YHWH, the semplice lume). (Cf. Plotinus). What happens in "Ubik" is that Ubik at last throws off its multiple (multiplicity) disguises + reveals itself as the one which is everywhere in countless disguises. It can be found anywhere but in profane ("trash") disguises; i.e., camouflaged. It pervades the reality that it has "created" (or is). It is not separate from that reality, like artificer + artifact. But it is absconditus: hidden by means of taking countless disguises. Only if it chooses to reveal itself (theophany) can it as sentient, volitional unity be detected. This is certainly very much like Brahman. __ I have found a fundamental error in ancient mystical theory, not corrected until Plotinus: the Orphics + Plato believed that the descent + ascent of the soul was a spacial trajectory, past the planets to the stars - to + from. Aristotle believed in the sublunar + supralunar realms. Plotinus realized that the realms are not spacially different, but are levels of being outside time + space. This basic error shows up later on in imagining heaven as being in the sky: even with Schiller: "Muss ein lieber Vatter wohnen ubrem Sternanzelt." So transcendent deity is supposed to be remote either spacially or as if spacially, + immanent deity is near. Deity is considered outside the universe as if spacially far off + beyond the universe, the way an artisan is outside his artifact. This despite Plotinus + his concentric folder 48 - 067 folder 48 - 067 levels or rings of being. In "The Commedia", they travel upward physically: i.e. spacially. God is not here; he is there (in the sky). This is corrected in "Ubik." It all has to do with a confusion between the pleroma and the cylum, the latter being the vault of heaven. If this error is made, then there exists no conceptual framework to account for the sort of non-spacial rising to a superior -i.e. "higher"- level of being in this lifetime (a la Plotinus) while being spacially unmoved (i.e. not ascending to the cylum). If the spacial idea is abandoned, transcendent deity is as close as immanent deity. This error is as great as the other one I discovered; viz: Parmenides' two "water tight compartments" -i.e. modes of perception, a priori + empirical- being confused with two realms perceived, rather than two ways of perceiving one realm: reality. The error goes: Transcendent deity is not in the universe but outside it. The universe is very large, stretching billions of miles from Earth in every direction. Therefore God is billions of miles away. Therefore the only way to reach him is after death, at which time the soul rises to "heaven," i.e. the level known in the ancient realm as that of the vault of the fixed stars above the planets. The 8th level spacially. Farthest from the mundane realm - i.e. Earth. If this error of spaciality is removed, how do immanent + transcendent differ - if at all? God would seem to be coaxial in either case: with Earth, but ontologically superior. folder 48 - 068 folder 48 - 068 The "upper" realm simply is superior to the "lower" realm in that it has power over it but not vice versa ("matter is plastic in the face of mind"). This is my "2nd signal" view, or two-source cosmology, creating 3 realms in all: pure one (BIP or hell), the second or mixed realm (Purgatorio) + then three, which is the Garden unmixed (Paradiso). They are not spacially arranged; i.e.: several worlds occupy the same space - they are what I call coaxial. This line of thought has been fundamental with me ever since I saw the "Tears" world here, superimposed to/with ours, + later the Garden - as well as Valis + the plasmate. Combining the two errors + correcting them gives us this: The visible (phenomenal) world is the real world only partially seen, not a different, inferior unreal or quasi-real world. When the missing part of it is seen, the upper - i.e. superior, not spacially-higher realm of deity is perceived: it is unitary, volitional + sentient. The fault lies in our lensed percept system + not in reality. By viewing it as a non-spacial journey, Plotinus made it available to this lifetime. (I mean, if you're alive + in your body, how are you going to travel up past the planets one by one?) I see: Ubik stipulated that they are dead + so -so-to-speak inadvertently- has the divine -Ubik- available in the trash level: close at hand. So I'm not dead (v. supra). It's just that Plotinus is right. folder 48 - 069 folder 48 - 069 I.e. the soul doesn't have to leave the body in death. Since the other levels are spacially co-axial; which fits with my seeing the double superimposition with "Tears." I wasn't seeing that world for the first time (2-74) since it is described in "Tears." Is it this world "really"? Is it a parallel world? Is it the past? Is it a cancelled alternate track? The answer lies in Thomas. If it was this world really, Thomas wouldn't have taken me over, along with his memories. It therefore probably is a cancelled alternate track fading briefly in. I didn't remember it (from the past); no - I became someone with appropriate memories of it: experience + familiarity with it. But in a sense it is for me in the past because I lived through it, + now track the same time-segment again; this is why it shows up in my writing (e.g. "Ubik," "Tears," "Faith") + why I remembered it: but "Tears" is in the present. + this explains the acosmism + why "3 Women" affected me so; I experienced something exactly like "3 Women"! In "Ubik" due to Pat Conley there is a fading out of one present world + a fading in of another. Because the past was changed - which is how I account for the alternate present tracks. folder 48 - 070 folder 48 - 070 + it seems an odd coincidence that someone who should write about multiple worlds (e.g. "Eye" "Joint" "MITHC" "MT-S" "Stigmata" "Ubik" "Maze" "Tears") should experience it after writing about them obsessively. Is not the explanation to 2-3-74 in the writing itself? For example, I seem to have already encountered Valis! The evidence in "Ubik" + "Tears" is very strong for co-axiality. Ubik is presented as a "reality support" in exactly the way that Yahweh guarantees reality. The strange thing about my anamnesis as a successful recollection based on deja vu is, "I lived through this all before, + in some ways it was different!" But it is certainly the key to my reflexive handling of the Xerox missive crisis that I'd lived through it before much as it was. Then I did see Valis (YHWH) because -somehow due to- my switching tracks; I saw the divine agency instead of the world(s) that agency generates. Valis is the cause of the worlds. Had I not seen Valis I would be in the position of having seen alternate worlds but lacking any idea of who or what is responsible for their coming into existence. It is the rest of the situation. __ Not spacially otherwise than our world (supra). Available in this lifetime since you don't have to become a disembodied soul + ascend past the planets. Then places that we are told lie ahead folder 48 - 071 of us in an afterlife are really available to us now. Dante gives the best description in the "Commedia." A hierarchy of worlds, not just multiple worlds but worlds arranged along an axis of bad-good. The story we get is that there is a karmic payoff ranging from punishment to reward, the ultimate level being a vision of the cause of all existence. Did I not have such a vision? + did I not remember a worse world than this + pass over etc etc. It was not only a dystopia that I remembered but, specifically, Xtianity had been defeated + was illegal. Suppose there are alternate coaxial worlds in which Xtianity has had different degrees of success ranging from total defeat at the hands of the Empire ("Tears") to moderate success (e.g. legality but subversion by the Empire: i.e. our world) to the very best in which the Kingdom has been realized - why, this would explain what is meant by "the final world is here." This would be -obviously- the alternate world in which "he has been transplanted + is alive"! The dystopia of "Tears" was eradicated to bring in an alternate track in which he (YHWH) would be transplanted to successfully - yes, with this the work would be completed! Then I have been right; there has been tinkering + with the specific idea of actualizing the folder 48 - 072 folder 48 - 072 one -out of many- in which he is successfully transplanted! I did remember a former, worse world, specifically one in which Xtianity couldn't even get itself legalized. + we (sic) were underground revolutionaries. In this one we could overthrow governments;