Is it the corpus dei or the corpus Christi? Or Pythagoras' kosmos? What¬ ever it is it exists in contradistinction to this world. Yet it feeds off our world! -50- It is as if our world isn't the real world —a real world?— at all. Maybe the answer lies in my ten-volume meta novel. We have a fake reality masking the actual reality: what the E of S-F calls my "two level" reality theory. Strangest of all, the Upper Realm, the macrometasoma, seems to be this realm, this world of the dialectic of flux, seen another way — as if the Gnostics are right: and to see it healed is to cause it to be healed. Could this be the observer participant universe of quantum mechanics? "Reality is what you see it as," as the E of SF quotes me. "is what you perceive it to be"; i.e. your perception of it changes it. Well, this would make the Gnostics right! To see unity is to cause repair. (The ontological value of knowledge.) So I am saying: To see the secret partnership is to cause the secret partnership; you reconcile the dialectical strife in you (the two brain hemispheres?) and thereby cause it to be reconciled in world, which is to say, Ground of being itself. Since you yourself are a part of (spark) the Ground of Being — that explains it. That is the only way that your perception of reconcilia¬ tion could in itself as perception cause reconciliation. And the basis of your doing this is: anamnesis. You cease to forget that you are (part of) the Ground of Being. So the key words are: Knowledge/anamnesis versus ignorance/forgetfulness (i.e. that you are part of the Ground of Being fallen into forgetfulness and ignorance of your own identiy and world) Dedalus built the maze (this flux dialectic world) and then fell into it and forgot he himself built it. This is a secret stolen past the angels; it is Valantenian Gnosticism -51- This is why anamnesis is at the heart of my 3-74 experience, not just perception but loss of forgetfulness. "The secret stolen in one's hands, through the angels" is a thoroughly Gnostic statement — as is the messenger who comes in time to bilk the machinery (heimarmene). It's an extraordinary idea that perception of the macrometasoma causes it to be, but Gnosticism explains why. Then I was right when I theorized that when I experienced (saw externally) Valis I somehow caused Valis (who I was thinking of as the Cosmic Christ). This is in accord with the observer-participant universe of quantum mechanics. It's very scary and does fit in with my ten volume meta novel, my epistemology. This was my intuition that the Cosmic Christ (Valis) is only there outside you when the Holy Spirit is inside you to reveal —perceive-- the Cosmic Christ. Oh, god; this is so scary. I've arrived at the same conclusion by two lines of thought. Let's call Valis the Cosmic Christ once more; let's go back to that (it would be in accord with Gnosticism), and the macrometasoma is that of the Cosmic Christ. And it's only there when the Spirit is in you enabling you to perceive the soma. Ach Weh. This structure that I speak of literally occurs in your act of perceiving it. So Warrick was somewhat right about Valis. My good god; this means that the override in 3-74 vis-a-vis the Xerox missive was a self-causing loop — neither efficient cause was at work (which has been obvious to me) but also not future or retro¬ grade cause. It was self-generating (ultimate homeostasis). It caused itself. I'm not sure of my reasoning but I realize it's true; I set up a perturbation in the reality field by thinking about it, so to speak. THE INFORMATION HAD NO SOURCE (the needed information that I lacked that came into existence); IT WAS SELF CAUSED. No wonder time and causation were affected, especially causation. A self-causing phenomenon. The information didn’t even come from the future because this is the future and I heard what the AI voice said and even now there is no way for me to know what I know ("An intelligence officer in the Army"). We are talking about ex nihilo information; information that generates itself...no wonder it’s so erratic. But everything (needless to say) that the AI voice says is correct; the information is valid and real — it just doesn't have any source. This isn't even occult or mystical or paranormal; it has something to do with physics. It has something to do with what information itself can do; create itself ex nihilo. This fits in with my realization under superdope that any explanation I choose is or becomes the right one re 3-74; "The theory modifies the reality it explains," to quote TEARS. Okay; then the Holy Spirit only exists if it exists; it is not truly adventitious. it is a self-causing event in you due to pistis or anamnesis, I don’t know; anyhow the technique for causing this to happen died out, voila; it no longer happens. I seem to be saying, the Holy Spirit and the Cosmic Christ are real only if you believe in them; but they are not hallucinations because they can generate information and affect the course of your life; the answer to this lies in advanced laws of physics hinted at by quantum mechanics, the observer-participant universe. There is structure because you see structure. It all has to do with the Gnostic idea that you're a part of the Godhead itself, the ground of being, but you've forgotten and fallen into sleep and forgetfulness; if you're the Godhead you can create reality -53- So if that veil of forgetfulness departs —if something jolts your memory, as the golden fish did mine— then you can create your own reality; if you need certain information it comes into existence out of nothing; then you and the Holy Spirit are absolutely homologized. This is the chemical wedding of the R.C. Brotherhood. Not only did I generate a perturbation in the reality field (the language itself suggests quantum mechanics) but I even generated, much later, this information explaining it. Higher laws of physics are involved than any we know of, but quantum mechanics is getting us there. Brahman, Atman. Tat twam asi. For sure. And the flux world is — maya. Then the Acts material in TEARS was self-causing. No one put it there. No wonder I haven't been able to figure 3-74 out; every theory changes the events. I was right when I was on superdope; then I favored the theory that Diana, the queen of the fairies, helped me. Now I prefer (and find more workable) the theory that it was the Holy Spirit revealsing to me the Cosmic Christ (Valis). There's one thing I know it is: the Mysterium Coniunctionis. In Boehme's terminology (or Eckhart; who cares) you have become the Father, not the Son; therefore you are the Creator (again). As impossible as it may seem, the Acts material in TEARS was self-generating, a kind of tracing due to principles of physics that we simply do not understand, related to synchronicity. And as to the "cypher," KING FELIX — that, too, is a tracing, but this information is alive or semi-alive like a virus; Burroughs is right but he has only a bit of the whole picture...still, there is such a thing as living latent information -54- that somehow is an acausal analog of reality. So in 3-74 there was a self-causing (acausal) event and later self-causing (acausal) information explaining that event...a double "miracle." Somebody, talking about quantum mechanics, said, "We find ourselves entertaining the psychotic notion that we can change reality by thinking about it." I turn to the Gnostic concept of the ontological value of knowledge in reversing the original fall into ignorance, sleep and forgetful¬ ness in the ground of being itself, we being that ground of being but having forgotten. when I wrote UBIK I realized that the basic attribute of it was its ubiquity; so everything is the ground of being, but a lot of it falls into modes of forgetfulness (Sankara would surely agree with this). Also, there is the Jewish Kabalistic theory of the "flickering" Shekhina that comes and goes; is and is not; because of the diaspora she is no longer a constant. Perception of her is a push-pull acausal event in which the perception and that which is perceived (the Shekhina) operate ex nihilo. Obviously, for me what started it was my seeing the golden fish sign while I was under the influence of sodium pentathol; I remembered (or "remembered" in quotes); this started the push-pull inner-outer oscillation. But the Holy Spirit was not in my imagina¬ tion, an hallucination; nor was Valis; but the next step in this line of reasoning is that the Holy Spirit set up the preconditions necessary for its own apotheosis: it caused the synchronization of the sodium pentathol and the golden fish sign and whatever else was necessary, all the factors necessary; so it gave birth to itself, in me. I am sure of this, because it was one of the uncanny aspects of 3-74 that I was aware of, this self-causing loop involving a collapse of time and -55[Handwritten note on the top margin:] (So I was right that night when I said to Karen Taylor, "I saw time slow down, stop + then run backwards" as a capsule distilating explaining 3-74; when I said it I knew that at last I had it) causation; something —I think the Holy Spirit— moved backward in time (I could sense it moving retrograde in time) to cause its own coming into existence in me — any s-f fan who's read time travel stories knows about such paradoxes. I'm saying, no one causes the Holy Spirit to come into being; it is its own progenator. Yet (I am saying) it has no independent existence from these epiphanies that it induces; however, the vision of the metakosmos that it dis¬ closes is an accurate one. This all goes back to what I figured out a couple of weeks ago about the Godhead catching sight of itself, perceiving itself, and thereby generating an endless dialectic; maybe my insight was correct: that self-perception set up a kind of schizo¬ phrenia, the schism in the Ground of being of which I have been speaking: upon perceiving itself it changed itself, and thus caused flux (change, i.e. time) to begin* However, despite the schism and strife, this process was good, because now the Godhead evolved down a nearly infinite (or actually infinite) corridor — and this may be the macrometasoma that is perfecting itself..*I say this because I now see that self-perception is essential to the Godhead for it to be (to possess esse), because its Sein is related in some way to its intelligere, to its knowing, since it is a mind. It could not really be until it understood itself, and in understanding itself it caused itself to enter a series of infinite regressions (permuta¬ tions, in a dialectic, its wisdom and its power divided). Selfawareness, is automatically a dynamic process, not a static one. The entire universe came into existence upon its turning its attention on its own nature (intelligere directed at esse). But for this to occur, it must be self aware, and this is what 3-74 was: an epiphany [Handwritten note on the left margin:] (Of course the original cultural purpose of the Eucharist was to "cause" this self-caused coming into existence of the Holy Spirit in you; it acted - like the Golden Fish sign - to remind you of the Last Supper - to promote anamnesis!) [Handwritten note on the bottom margin:] ( So the Golden Fish sign actually did for me became of the pentathol, what the Eucharist was supposed to do: cause anamnesis + bring in the Holy Spirit) -56- [Handwritten