the totality of form axes for any given micro epinode (à lá Spinoza), as it moves along the diagonal." But since everything - including the macro mechanism - itself is within UBIK. {circled:"5"} Valis Zebra - this latter mind can exert influence over a logical step & overrule it by its volitional, conscious thought (the mechanism works along causal laws of great simplicity). This macro {caret: "brain-"}mind which embraces even the mechanism is God & he is indeed ubique: everywhere. Such an overruling as with me in 3-74 gives evidence of the volitional element, part or [aspect?] of the macro mind being superior to the causal "mechanism" part (or level). We can apprehend the whole because the whole is replicated in the micro & UBIK is everywhere. UBIK is conscious & knows of everything taking place within the mechanism & the micro plural epinodes. There are universes around us micro epinodes include us, & each of us includes at least one inner space smaller universe - perhaps many. The phosphene activity was me moving down one form axis; the collar had lost hold of one keeping me in the "diagonal". The collar keeps each epinode progressing down the compound "diagonal" polyform axes - axis one "frame" at a time - one [frame?] of each form on its {caret: "given"} individual axis. I get the impression that VALIS/UBIK is an artificial brain, with mechanical bases utilizing very simple principles, although the noös functions biologically. To repeat, each epinode is a complete replication of the total entity & hence a micro VALIS & its mechanism & principles of creation. Thus the Hermetics say, "the micro mirrors [contains] the macro," & VALIS is retrievable in each epinode (each of us.) {circled:"6"} This VALIS/UBIK/Zebra/God is the essential basis of each of us & constitutes what Schopenhauer calls "blind will" - however, it is not blind at all, although it does primarily will (cause to be, to occur) rather than to know; in this he is correct, but, as I know, this will is very intelligent. It does operate on a [species?] basis, too, as he discerns. Each human is a form-permutation along the human-eidos axis. So the lifespan of any given individual is a "flash cut" nanosecond ephemera of the dialectic. An epinode can be defined as a micro form recapitulation of the macro totality. The fact of the plurality of form axes places a limiting factor on any given epinode. It would move at infinite velocity along any one given form axis, as I did in 3-74 (the phosphenes). I [extruded?] the time of the collar & entered a post-mortem non-time existence. Perhaps the cause of this was VALIS' release of me from "astral determinism". The logic of the permutations of the plural axes along the diagonal to be lifted out of the dialectic (the mechanical aspect of VALIS), "astral determinism", is to be lifted out of the volitional will of VALIS & to know VALIS as mind, not system of causal generation. The halving carries proportionally, with it (in its dialectic process) a half-life (in terms of time) along with the shrinking; viz = the smaller it gets, the faster the permutation. So the regulatory apparatus of the collars through which the waters in which the geometric forms appear {caret: "travel"} are essential, in order for the structure to harmonize internally. {circled:"7"} If space - not time - is the receptacle of being, as Plato believed, & perception of space lies in the right hemisphere (& time in the left) then right-hemisphere perception is the key to understanding reality. If the savior overcomes "astral determinism" he overcomes the [form II?] (lower) mechanical part of Valis in favor of the teleological free volitional upper part [form I?], & all epinodes get rea released as I was - exactly as I was! - in 2-3-74! This is the savior's work in the epinodes which, in plural micro form, represent Valis waking up. The 2-part book: pt one "Siddhartha slept through all this" (& in pt two awakens), the logicalmechanical dialectic is overpowered by knowing; knowing over & against willing. --> What if the non-dialectic volitional free knowing noös Valis is generated by the "astral deterministic" mechanical system, brought into awareness (as I conceived of in my "Great Soviet Dictionary" definition of the vortex?)? The mechanical dialectic fires off & generates Valis in the single macro & all the micro epinodes! This is an example of the principle of qualitative emergence in thresholding. It emerges & then subsumes the mechanical & its inexorable law (the dialectic) to its thought/will: viewed this way the purpose of the mechanical (lower [form, II?], "astral determinism") is to generate Valis. But since Valis is outside of time it could be its own author (creator) via the mechanical, dialectic intermediary, as in: egg to chicken to egg to chicken the left hemisphere; clock time sense is essential to keep us locked into the collar. {circled:"8"} It might seem arrogant for me to claim that I saw (found) the total macro system in my right hemisphere. But my apprehension of the systems discerns in it a proliferation into such microforms as the human brain (what I call "epinodes"). Everything in the totality is reflected in the "Bruno's Magic Mirror" of Paracelsus' "inner space" of my right brain, a Hermetic insight. In particular: 1) the dialectic is there. 2) the form axes are there. 3) Valis is all around me & in me, inside & out. Overpowering the causal dialectic. (Oddly, these are the constituents which appear in "UBIK"). 4) the complexification, related to 5) the spacial halving & 6) the temporal halving 7) how Valis, which is volitional, gets generated out of the totally efficient-cause dialectic. Valis may pulsate or oscillate on & on, as if reversing polarities (as in alternating current). So it has a wake-sleep cycle just as we mammals do. Which means a palintropos between a biological entity (waking) & mechanical (sleeping). Viewed this way, what happened in 2-74 was that waking Valis stirred & in 3-74 awoke entirely. It may have presynchronized its awakening to coincide (noncausally) with the events of 3-74. Have I not attained the Hermetic goal in finding in the inner space & magic mirror of my own mind the mysterious macro-totality? {circled:"9"} Time (in order to achieve this) must be destroyed (by being turned into space). If the collar were released, any (or several) form axes could regress or move forward out of time synch with the others, constituting inexplicable anachronisms to the percipient epinode (since along any given form asix all its permutations "past" & "future" are contained, through the left hemisphere this temporal lock is maintained; all the form axes are interlocked. But no one form axis is in itself locked by the others; their interrelatedness depends on the percipient being locksynched (via the left hemisphere). Once you get into the world of the Platonic forms, infinitudes are involved (e.g. 1) all the Haydn symphonies generates out of me; 2) all possible Haydn symphonies 3) all possible Haydn-like symphonies (which includes e.g. Mozart; 4) then into 1) any one Beethoven symphony; 5) all the Beethoven 9 symphonies; 6) all possible Beethoven symphonies; 7) all possible Beethoven-like symphonies. Why this is possible is due to the inexorability of the imbalanced dialectic which complexifies into spacial & temporal halvings. {circled:"10"} Is not the volitional part yang, & the mechanical part yin? So this macro construct, divided into two halves which oscillate back & forth (yin to yang -- dark to light mechanical / efficient causal to volitional) is the basis of such dialectical philosophies & religions as taoism, Mani, Empedocles, Hegel, Gnosticism, even Xtianity & the mystery religions, & the mechanical part would equal Plato's ananke, & the volitional noös. The upper part (plasma, yang) would have nothing to work with -- to arrange -- without the mechanical (yin) part, & the mechanical part alone is without purpose or order, just necessity & chance; there is no selection out of the actualizations (which are infinite). Yin actualizes everything on the Basis of antecedent cause along every form axis. Now, it was the upper realm plasma which overruled "astral determinism" in my case in 3-74 (ie overruled the yin or mechanical or causal dialectic system: ananke, etc). This was clear (or is now) to me when I saw the dialectic projected onto the goddamn wall. Is this what I call Valis? Plasma: plasmate, arranging the forms into a "globular" coherence of hierarchies? Which is missing from the form axes as such; they must be inter-related to form the informational Gestalt that I saw, which is omni-axial, then the permutating forms do not on their [mechanical, dialectic] own interconnect into one Gestalt. (This is a Gestalt we do not see; it's not that of normal reality but has more axes.) The multi-form axes do not cohere into information. They are not a thought, a language, a single brain. The traditional word I want here is providence -- divine providence. Not just in the Xtian but also Stoic use. {circled:"11"} If the plasma is what is usually called "providence" my system clarifies what it does. It coordinates all the mechanically unfolding form axes into a "globe." This is arranging pure & simple -- the arranging & linking which I saw Valis doing, using the antecedent universe as a stockpile -- that would be all the unfolding form axes then Valis is not the top half of the Grapefruit but permeates all of it (& the mechanical system does, too). An infinitude of form axes unfolding independently of one another would be an unworkable chaos. Still -- the ratio between Valis & the mechanism could fluctuate (as expressed by the idea of Gold, Silver, Bronze & Iron ages). The upper realm can influence the lower but not vice versa ("the upper realm has plenary [potentiary] powers" & "matter is plastic in the face of mind"). So Valis (which is rational) has the last say over the dialectic (which is not rational) (ie it lacks purpose, awareness, consciousness, etc.) Ma'at? ------ Insight (4:30 AM): the arranging entity Zebra/Valis does not pick every actualized possibility to be fitted into its info-arrangement structure ("Globe" -- corpus, etc), out of the "antecedent boneyard stockpile" universe. It is selective. Much will always remain outside; this is not total Cosmos arranged out of total Chaos, but a soma within the broader context of "parts." Zebra is under no command -- necessity -- of utilizing everything that comes into being. That totality is infinite, the soma is finite. So to be included is a vast honor. The part is lifted bodily out. {circled:"12"} of the universe (cosmos?) as we know it, operating via the efficient-cause dialectic (the mechanism). This is a different matter entirely from that of Timaeus. Noös isn't per- suading or imposing cosmos (order) on chaos; it is selecting out of the total mass what it needs (wants, can use). Could it be that a part so selected would know it (as I did in 3-74)? So then we are back to the negentropic vortex forming within the reality field, & much smaller by far than it. A universe (?) within a universe. Then Valis is antithetical to the dialectic; it is synthetic. Like I say in "Valis," it is the rational invading the irrational - & it utilizes mimesis & [trickery?]; it keeps itself invisible to us. It is a life form, & the dialectic mechanism is the sole driving force of the universe. Valis is an organism, a life form. One main reason why this [selectivity] is an important consideration is what I saw it (Valis) doing in 3-74: aborting causal trains by an override which no one ever normally sees. If it did this routinely, I would have not observed anything unusual. But what I saw was quite unusual. Either I was taken out of the natural world (cosmos) or it was abolished, or both. In fact - consider