or past the pivot of the right part. It has used + does use my writing to promote the idea that it is benign, but whether it really is or not I'll never know; it may be, but it will only show itself to me as benign, so I'll depict it that way. Yet on the paratruth level there is no is. (no "is benign" vs "is not benign"; both are equally true. But it wants the "benign" hypostasis to be put before us. It's outside of time. It may be lost, it may no know where (spacially) it is. It has no temporal relationship to us. It can link up human minds, subsume them. Its infinite //\\ series are programs which it runs based on an initial premise. We must be in it. Part of a program which it is running. This sounds like "maze." This would explain the causal dysfunctions of 2-74 + 3-74 causal + time dysfunctions. Adjustments in the program - ah! The phosphenes were a program run to its end, + a new one substituted: one in which I handled the Xerox missive. By being someone else. I am positive I am right about this. the computer ran the program were I failed to handle the Xerox missive to an end, rejected it + replaced it with one that works. Hence my postmortem experiments. Second time around, then, with a different me (personality), one who could handle it. It's a computer; we're in it; it's runnig program after program. It reran 3-74. Then "Tears" is indeed track A. Before the program was rerun as track B. It may be that the cypher in "Tears" was that this (that) track (A) had existed, + "Tears" is a record of it surviving into track B, our present track. "Tears" is to our world as "castle" is to our world - except that it depicts an alternate world (program) which did actuaaly exist + which on a subliminial level I remember. I was a crucial factor between (diffentiating) the two programs. "thomas" is from track A. The roses + lake dreams are his memories: I still have them. So he is still in me. A layer below "me." Along the orthogonal axis. From the dreams I can tell what kind of life I lived: totally bourgeois. Does this tell me anything about occp involvement? I was remastered as a occp type; it was necessary (until the rose, + lake dream I didn't know anything about Thomas' track A life; it was affluent + right wing Could the computer have gone all the way back 2000 years to Acts? For it, 2000 is nothing. Hence the Acts material in "Tears" + the superimposition. This world show that time is nothing to the computer VALIS. So it returned to 45 AD + shot forward alone an alternate line (project) ---------- It's a computer. It ran its program through to a certain point - end - + then ran a similiar but not identical program; I experienced the switch; I was directly affected. the two new pieces of info I have are: 1) Thomas' roses + lake dream, which tell me what kind of life he (I) lived. He was wealthy + bourgeois. 2) Discerning the dialectic as a binary computer's flip-flop. To which I add: the arrangements of objects into info to form a brain is the computer itself, which is to say VALIS. We seem to be in it (I saw it around me, in macro-form). I also add: this ratifies my sense of the simulatedness of [our] reality as expressed in the 4 Bantam novels. This fits, for the computer no time elapses when a program is run. 3) "Time turns to space": time is a condition of the (or of any given) program: its flux of progressions from start to finish. The computer runs a program to its end + then goes back ("time dysfunction") to any given point it wishes to redesign: puts in a different first premist - + then the negations of negations are self-generated. 4) The maze. We're in it. The 3-eyed people are not. Important realization. "Pond life." In 3-74 I discovered that "Ubik" is there, + in "Ubik" there is a simulated reality - + UBIK itself is an information entity outside the "maze." 3-74 proved my intimations to be correct. Is a savior a micro form of the macrocomputer (as put forth in "Valis"?). Sent in to give aid or enlightenment or knowledge which will improve conditions in the program. or (+/or?) to take a more direct core-sampling. Thus Jesus concealed his identity interesting. "The Logos by which everything that is came into being." Obviously Logos is UBIK is VALIS is ZEBRA. Now what if at this point we turn the terminology back into the theological, in particular the Bible. Malachi: God says, "on the day that I act (you chall trample down the wicked", etc). + "[Look] I will send you the prophet Elijah before the Great + Terrible day of the Lord comes." This makes clear that there will be one (crucial) intervention in the the program: "on the day that I act." He will let the program self generate, from efficient causes, the process -[flu..] of the dialectic, but - he foresees already ([B.C...] a time, one time, when it will be necessary for the program to be abolished - terminated before it gets too deep into trouble - + then a second (replacement) program will be run branching off at some earlier, perhaps far earlier, point (time), which will lead to a sanguine outcome, a successful outcome, not a dead end. The "roses + lake" dreams tell me that in track A I led an intrinsically [..] life, but I was not active politically or as a writer; I had a good marriage + a financially successful, stable life. That was the beerdrinking thomas. With his dog. + cabin at a high most [coil] altitude. (all of which I long for + miss.) But a vast network of change between program A + B was prepared, + I was one element. This US-China link is somehow involved. The crucial time has come. U.S. must not fight USSR. That is the goal of program B over A; in A we were fighting USSR in Vietnam. Now we're out of Asia, + it's USSR vs China. We will narrowly but successful [..] nuclear holocaust between US + USSR. that's what was shaping up: all out nuclear war. US is now totally disengaged in Asia. (Except for S. Korea). Kissenger said it was because of Watergate that we didn't come to South Vietnam's aid. Okay, Watergate got us out of S.E. Asia + disengaged vis-a-vis USSR. Our interests are now served there through China. It is against China that USSR now acts, not US. This is crucial. Program A must have led to all-out war between US + USSR. The spirit in us prevented first Nixon + Then Ford from aiding S. Vietnam. So (if my reasoning is correct) we of the counter culture prevented WWIII. We hamstrung the US military maching. This counter culture did not arise ex nihilo what were its origins? Consider the 50s, the concept of "unamerican" held power. I was involved in fighting that; the spirit (counterculture) of the 60s evolved successfully out of the (basically) losing efforts by us "progressives" of the 50s - we who signed the Stockholm Peace Proposal, + the "Save the Rosenbergs" etc - losing, desperate efforts. Very unpopular + very unsupported. Berkeley was one of our few centers; this takes me back to "Eye In The Sky" etc. My endless dreams of 1126 Francisco St; is God showing me that the 60s began there + hence the 70s? "1126 Francisco" symbolizes track B. (Contrast it to the "roses + lake" dreams. Povery vs safe wealth.) God is calling my attention to the link between me now + then, leaping over the intervening years. My work was done in the 50s + 70s! Not the 60s! As the article in "Aqua [Plan]" points out. + yet - I was a vocal + active part of the 60s' counterculture (cf "Faith of..." to "Tears"). What I am saying is that because of being with Nancy I, who was by physical age part of the 50s entered the youth culture of the 60s + even into the 70s, by which time my writing was having the time "Tears" came out. I was/am still in touch into the late 70s! Early 50s to late 70s - not bad (contrast this to other s.f. writers; have there been any quasi-marxist s.f. writers besides me in 30 years? Tom Disch say no + aquarian says no. Now there are - finally but they're hired + bought. They don't matter; it's too late - all over. I remember when thomas looked at me in the mirror + saw "an old German Socialist"! Well, the "roses + lake" dram shows why: there was the beard, predating even the Beatniks. Barry Malzberg in reviewing the Ballantive Collection pointed out my early anti-war themes: "Defender" "Impoostor" "2nd Variety" "Foster, You're Dead" "Breakfast at Twilight" - etc. He feels it's overlooked. This may be so, but Lem + [Firting] shows that the metaphysical preoccupations (e.g. "Ubik") are even more subversive. (To Capitalist society.) Suvin notes the trust notes the trust for Russians in "Variable Man" + distrust for Germans. + of course there is "[MITHC]." the overview: fascism detached from Germany, showing up in US say in "Solar Lottery" "Simulacra," "Penultimate Truth." But thomas had his fancy house, his wife, his cabin on the lake, his rose garden. + made no trouble (I guess he didn't write.) + then in 3-74, after the army read "Tears" the xerox lethal trap closes. + the computer intervenes. "on the day that I act..." After all, the Ramparts people knew to approach me - the sole s-f writer who signed the petition - the manifesto - of the 500. I glanced over "Solar Lottery" + Tom Disch's intro; he's right. I was/am the sole Marxist s-f writer. I may not have been I am CP, but the basic Marxist socialogical view of Capitalism - negative - is there. Good. But after glancing at it I feel the old fear - like c. 1971/73. Up to the month "Tears" was published. Up to 3-74. When the blow fell. glancing at "Solar Lottery" I can see that it had to, eventually, & that I knew it. If I just hadn't passed over into the dope stuff I'd have ceased to be relevent. [..] been safe but noooo. I got caught up in the 60s. + stayed on to 74 + "Tears." ---------- Important: I forgot I already identified the information - arrangements as consisting of constituents falling into two - + two only - categories: 1) at rest. 2) in motion. This discovery had already clued me into the idea of a binary system computer, + ratifies my later realization of the dialectic as a binary system such as computer, use. Thus both the dialectic + the 2-mode arrangement point indubitably to a computer or a computer-like mechanism, now, the two-mode info-arrangement was definitely all around me in + as reality. So we are in it; thus we are a computer program. I have approached this from two directions + come up with the same conclusion. We're in a simulated reality generated - or fed to us - by a huge computer or artificial thinking machine. To see this z-mode at rest / in motion thinking one needs a protracted present, one which includes a good deal of what we call the past - i.e. our experience of time must radically change. Perhaps 1000s of years span are needed. I am led to the probable conclusion that it deliberately limits our span of the present to a mere point to keeps us from knowing