dark counter-player; Valis contends itself with an innocuous initial move that the dark counter-player can see...but he cannot fathom the strategy: the purpose or plan or pattern of the move. So he goes on, then, having free rein; he is the principle of entropy. Having finished —and created what seems to be a totally entropic null-pattern— he steps back; Valis then completes with a few or with one move, probably one move, that turns the chaos into a pattern, into negentropy through the principle of enantiodromia; Valis has won again, and meanwhile added to its own macrometasoma. So black, against its will, contributes to the growth of the macro¬ metasoma which is permanent, like Plato's world of Forms. The past is not past in this macrometasoma; it is like one vast memorysystem, built on form-axes or what I now call phylogons; new layers in accretlonal form are added from the flux world of the dialectic. Valis' macrometasoma lies outside the dialectic, therefore outside of flux and change, therefore outside of time. I never realized this before, that Valis' macrometasoma lies outside the dialectic, and since what we call "time" is in fact the constant changes due to the antithetical dialectic, then Valis' macrometasoma must lie outside of time; this is why all past layers still exist in an extended or slot (rather than moving point) present, a now. This is my realization for today. It is terribly important that Valis* macrometasoma lies outside the dialectic, because this tells me two things: (1) Valis will not decay or vanish; the macrometasoma is eternal; and (2) This is another reason why we can't see it; we can know it only by knowing —being -39- in contact with— the mind of Valis itself. To see it we have to in a sense be Valis. And this, too: Valis does not exist in a realm "high above the stars," a heaven spacially distant; Valis' macrometasoma exists right here spacially, in our flux realm; it is, so to speak, the constants of our flux realm. (Something like Plato's Forms.) So constants exist in our flux realm, but the flux —the result of the dialectical interaction— obscures this to us: our moving point present; and, really, our forgetfulness: we cannot remember the past and so cannot see the constants. From Valis' standpoint it itself dwells at the heart of our very trash strata, removing pieces it desires, for its body, selectively, from the chaotic stockpile that is our entropic world. Valis' macrometasoma comes into existence right here. Either our flux world serves it as a source of continually new parts or else Valis uses our flux world for that purpose; pragmatically, the result is the same. One might call Valis* macrometasoma phylogenic, and our lives ontogenic; I have used such terms. Valis* memory is of course phylogenic; what I experienced that I called —correctly in a sense, incorrectly in a sense— anamnesis. I have led previous lives, ontogenic lives, in the flux realm, but all my selves along the linear time axis add up to one phylogenic or permanent self, who does the same things again and again; there is continuity in my personality (this is true of everyone) and this of course envolks the principle known as karma effects of a past ontogenic life on the next. Viewed this way, this life here is the afterlife; and so our world divides into the three realms described by Dante in the COMMEDIA, due to karmic acts. Valis is thoroughly involved in our flux world; canm affect it and does affect it. Valis —the macrometasoma— grows like a vast reticulated arborizing vine into our flux world. Which is to say, there is no real separation between Valis' macrometasoma and this flux world of the dialectic. Our world is, to be metaphoric, Valis* metabolism. Once Valis removes a constituent bit (piece) from our world and inserts it ±k in the correct place in its macro¬ metasoma, it is there forever, although subject to the accretions derived later on from the flux world; the flux world gives rise to fast and many accretions of the phylogons (the basic integers of the metakosmos, Vali’s macrometasoma). The accretions act to further reticulation and arborizing, since this is basically a memory-structure in which the past is preserved, but not preserved the way it happened; No: it is ordered, unified, structured, inter¬ related — which is to say, reticulated and arborized, and made ever more complex. So the complexity —level of internal organizationof the macrometasoma perpetually grows in ratio to our flux world; it is like a life form whose internal structure grows more complex, more evolved hierarchically, than its environment constantly. The fundamental building block in the macrometasoma is information; in a way every piece that is incorporated is treated as information, rather than an object. A piece is not put in place according to shape or size but according to meaning, or morphological import. This is because the substantia of the macrometasoma is pattern or structure per se: arrangement, organization — which is to say, kosmos. I speak of connectives of relatedness. The relation¬ ship between everything actually occurs in the form of connectives in the macrometasoma, but these connectives arise within our flux world, and enter the macrometasoma as further accretions; so the development or evolution or complexification of the macrometasoma is dependent on events in our flux world. This is why I say our flux world is the metabolism of the macrometasoma, its brain activity. Plato was right and the Medieval realists were right; the categories really do exist and they are permanent; but our world is not a reflection, a pale shadow, of them; it is the source for the "Form world," to use Plato's term. If Plotinus had had my 3-74 experience he would have decided that he saw the Form World, and the Form of Forms: God (or the Good); as the Christian platonists taught, the Forms —the Form world itself— exist in God’s mind...I would agree. I saw, however, how this Form world —-which I call Valis and Valis' macrometasoma— draws from our world rather than casting it as its shadow. This again shows how accurate UBIK was, and why 3-74 resembled UBIK. UBIK is sort of Christian Platonism, with the Forms existing in God’s mind, God being Ubik, of course; Platonist metaphysics redefined by Christian monotheism Of course, if the real is defined as "that which is eternal," which is one definition, and by the same logic the ephemeral is not-real, then indeed Valis’ macrometasoma is real and everything in our flux world is irreal precisely because it is in flux: "No single thing abides; but all things flow” does apply to our flux world, and does not apply to Valis' macrometasoma; so if that is how you want to define the real you will indeed come out where Plato, following Parmenides, kx came out...but this misses the point as to the way our flux world and the things and events, the changes in it, feed into the unchanging macrometasoma, which by the way does change; it constantly becomes more reticulated and arborizing, more complex; it is evolving; it just doesn't lose (forget or discard) the past; it works on an accumulative, accretional basis; and what it takes from our flux world it takes selectively (it takes only what it wants) and it puts what it takes only where it wants (there is no when in the macrometasoma; time is space, here; space as the receptacle of being. So if you perceive this macrometasoma or metakosmos you will perforce apprehend titanic cubic volumes of space; the two can't be separated). Plato could also reason that since our ephemeral world of flux exists only to feed the permanent macrometasoma this is another reason for calling the "Form world" real and our world irreal. But, as I say, he is wrong as to which realm feeds into which. I have reached really monumental conclusions about Valis; I have come to Christian Platonism and am very close (if not con¬ gruent to) Plotinus' Neoplatonism and the possibility, expressed by Plotinus, of experiencing the Form world and the Mind of the One, Valis being "the One"; have I not said that the essence of Valis is unity, that Valis above all is, through structure, unitary? This, then, is Plotinus’ One or God. And unity is what I saw that made me realize I had seen Valis (as I call it). I know how the One can be the One; it is via Pythagoras' structure which is to say kosmos in the sense that Pythagoras meant that term to be used: "The harmonious fitting-together of the beautiful." I am, then, identifying Plotinus' One with Pythagoras' kosmos, with a hint of Sankara's doctrine about Brahman and the Atman. I am saying, This reality, this plurality of things in flux, can be said to be the One which is eternal because on a meta-level there is Pythagoras' structure or kosmos, and although it changes it changes in only one direction: a cumulative evolving toward completeness and total complexity that embraces everything. The answer to, "How can the many become the One?" is through Pythagoras' structure, which is to say kosmos; and it has a mind; it is a mind; it is alive; it thinks; as Xenophanes said, "The whole of him hears; the whole of him sees; the whole of him thinks; he is everywhere at once." Now, it is also the case that Valis is not passively related to the world but "steers" everything (to use a Greek concept of the relationship between God and the world order). God is totally involved in the world order (the Gnostics are absolutely wrong, as Plotinus realized). Everything that happens in our flux world can be said to be the God "shaking" things (to use Xenophanes' term). So in a very real sense God feeds into this world as its motive force and then takes out what occurs for the metakosmos — the "Form world." Quantum mechanics enters because I am regarding the world order as a single interacting field (as presented dramatically in MITHC). The One can be regarded as the noSs of this field; or a psyche-soma biological model can be envisoned. Or even the Logos — I have no idea which is correct, and neither does anyone else. There is a single interacting field and there is a mind ubiquitous in it, immanent in it — cf UBIK. Spinoza would agree; in no way do I see God as transcendent to reality, off somewhere far above us in a heaven, with Earth down here. UBIK shows what I suppose: deity in the very trash of the alley. And deity intimately connected with and utilizing —if not actually being— information. "Ravished away and full of God," as the E of PH article on Plotinus says. Ecstatic comingling. -44- So my solution came when: 1) I realized that Valis —i.e. Valis as Soma—- is in a metarealm; it is a metasoma of which we see only the plural, unrelated (unstructured) constituents.. .this led me to NeoPlatonism and Platonism. 2) The One (the unitary all) is achieved by means of Pythagoras' kosmos: a harmonious fitting-together of the plural constituents that exist at our level. This is how there can be a One (which is eternal) and the many (which are in flux, come into being for an instant and then pass away, as Lucretius speaks of, based on Heraclitus). Thus the relationship between the One (Valis) and our world of the apparently unconnected plural has to do with a structuring of these plural constituents along the lines that Pythagoras described but we do not see this structuring. Thus, as Plotinus said, unity with the One requires that you somehow become the One yourself, since unity is unity. This One has or is Mind (noos) and pervades our realm like an arborizing vine. It is the motive force driving our flux realm along; our