to God. The last tage of the total journey which began nitially with creation (exhalation). So am - was in 3-74 - home, when I saw Valis. Hence the dreams of the post mortem world! The loving void! th 944 explains the postmortem experiences, + my name entered in the book; my million year journey was over, safely, with a return, i In Acts, Christ appears to Paul on + hence the road to Damascus. Paul's conversion. in "Tears" the wise old king (who is Christ - vide revelation -) appears hence to Buckman. aconversion. both having to do with the man (who is innocent) who the percipient of the theophany is persecuting. on the real to Paul Christ appears. to Budman on the road; Christ appears. th undergo conversion [to Xtianity). bo + of course in "Tears" fusion with scene of Philip + the black man, agai on the kind: blat man in vehicle. So the dream in "Tears" is part of the Acts material, since it is the epiphany (disclosure) of Christ to the persecutor. (Paul was then still saul + a persecutor of Xtians, not a Xtian - which I forgot! In Acts. Paul occupies both roles! I forgot So the dream, to complete the Acts material, had to be included; it is acts not revelation. Acts specifically depicts, for the first 443 tre in the Bible the (illegal) infant Church. So without the dream the core of The Acts material would be missing from "Tears 1) Philip + the Black man - meeting. him on the road + converting him 2) Saul's epiphany of Christ on The Damascus road - saul/Paul as persecutor of Xtians/Christ. Saul's conversion. (fused with the black man's conversion in "Tears" without all this what would be left? An official named Felix arresting someone + talking no to him, an innocent someone. not enough. So I actually really do know where I got most of the acts came mostly The grid material: from the dream, from the dream. {N game heir instructions; instructions to write "Tears" (with the Acts material + the 2 word cypher; like an insect acting out instinctively) So due to the Acts material, "Tears" pictures the Empire + a secret illegal Xtian underground fighting it out in a (they modern would - which is what I saw that day (saw + understod) in 2-74 Buckman's vision of Christ is Christ-as-judge, not Christ persecuted. Perhaps the times predicted Christ's role at the end times have come. âž€ It interlocks with the material of the police general prisoner - but this with his o Felix Buckman conversing if the dream material is added why 990 I believe I have verified that as I flashed on in 2-74, the Xtian underground exists: my satore vis-a-vis the Fish sign is literally correct (Empire vs hidden church not at the time of Acts but as it was at the time of Acts; Acts, then, is interpretive lens). in "Tears" roles shift; viz: in Acts Paul has two antithetical roles: (1) Saul, persecutor of church 12) Paul, spiritual head (epitome) of church. So + when Felix Buckman has the dream, at that time he is saul(Paul) the persecutor, who periences the epiphany (vision) of Christ (on the road) + is converted. But earlier in the book, Taverner is Paul, + Felix Buckman is Felix for procurator. So Buckman is always persect of i s but the church sometimes as Felix procurator + sometimes as saul. (+ then, too, the dream marked my own con‐ version, when I had it in 1970; I no longer hated my enemy but felt love (the piece of paper showing the heart pierced by an arrow). So for me the miracle on the road to Damasurs was repeated. Also, in my dream, ajudication by Christ was promised. in Acts, the conversion on the road comes early; in "Tears" it comes at the end. Not just Saul is converted but felid procurator (Empire it self) is. The attack is now mounted on the procurator rimself. Now that I have collated 2-74 + the grid in "Tears" I can probably assume the rest of it to be correct; I have the basis: the dialectic 947 o I guess my argument is as follows: There is Acts material in "Tears" + I did not 1) put it there. I had never read Acts 2) The Acts material points to an Xtian under‐ ground vs the Empire. (Written in 1970.) 3) In 2-74 I saw (without knowing of the Acts material (grid) in "Tears") the hidden Xtian underground vs the Empire: precisely what the Acts grid discloses. analysis: the Acts grid info-extraction expresses (in 1970) what I flashed on in 2-74. To dismiss one I have to dismiss the other; i.e. both. But then I have to ask: How come the Acts grid + the info pointed to? + how come the flash in 2-74? + how come the total experience of 3-74? No one part can be dismissed without dismissing it all, + how can it all be dismissed, starting with the Acts I did not put the Acts grid + the info extracted? material in "Tears" + further, at that time I did not know the info which it extracted. (You must find the grid first, then extract the info; in 2-74 I had done neither.) Acts grid in "Tears" 2-74 + info extracted Therewith, written in is agrees a 3-74 with 11970 not by me. It was not that in 2-3-74 I experienced world as it appears in Acts; no: what I experienced in 2-3-74 was covert material in "Tears" available only via the grid. I did not know of the grid + I did not but the grid in "Tears" + I certainly did not know the information it pointed to (disclosed). Also, 2-74 was the month "Tears" was published, but not the month I read it. I knew that as soon as "Tears" was published a get some kind of responses. 448 Okay. If you read "Tears" + don't see the [Acts] info-extractor grid there is to you no mention of Empire vs the hidden church, but The Empire is there without the antithetical dialectic - which is how I wrote it; viz. A.) Without grid. Empire general Felix Buckman, modern state police with grid. B e secret rea Empire revolutionary Felix s Buckman underground procurator church com 2 modern state batting it in Acts Rome dialectic So without grid you find element is with the grid, 2 is added, + I is enhanced in terms of is contours. (i.e. I is available in A, but it is altered in B. 2 is not available in a at all.) in B it is clear why Buckman suffered the catastrophe. In a it is not. The meaning of the catastrophe is not given in A. or at whose hands he suffers it. analysis of the Acts grid is indubitable, then 2 is indubitable. + the grid is. I did not put it there, could not have, + did not know it was there until after 2-74. 444 - the grid reveals the following. (3 items) 1) who persecuted + fell. 2) who caused it to fall 3) What the fall signifies. another point. Without the grid, "Tears" seems to be an analog of "the Bacchae" - i.e. Jason is Dionysos + Buckman king Penthus, this would be the deconstruction + be a correct one. But with the (Acts) grid, Dionysos turns to Christ, + Buckman turns to Felix procurator. Perhaps "the Bacchae" theme is a red hening, or perhaps we are to unden stand Dionysos + Christ as one - pentus + procurator as one. thought: An interesting king it pers i.e. Taverner Dionysos Felix Buckman frocurator i initially holds the Paul role, but Jason Taverner fact to auf Paul Stranger at the end it is e Buckman who is Paul Acts material: p on the road. Epiphany of Christ to the persecutor. dream conversion of the persecutor. A meeting with the Black man. i o Felix as top official. not base on the Felix converses with his innocent prisoner. dream the name Jason. the cruel Empire. ib ight elements, four of which derive from the dream. nly when A + B are combined do you get the Acts fix either one alone will do it, for the first time it 50 clear to me that much - a vital part - of the Acts material came from the dream; i.e. this is how much of it got into "Tears." Also, it is a stunning, major discovery that the dream itself is not from revelation itself but is from Acts: is the vision of Christ which Paul experienced on the road toda mascus. Revelation is just a reference point in the Bible which assures us that the old bearded King in the dream is the resurrected Christ (Pantocrator). This ends my search to know if God + Christ were involved in 2-3-74 or if their was some other explanation. Valis has to be God or the cosmic Christ. Well, so then not only is there Biblical material in "Tears" but all of it is from one book (Acts). So There is the miraculous fact of Biblical material but the miracle- within-a-miracle: it being that one book with inter‐ locking insertion of the Acts sections. Okay, why Acts + not say the Gospels? Because it is the infant (illegal) Church + not Christ per se that is being referred to in encoded form. Also, nobody would name a character "Pontius" + if he did the encoded material would be obvious. one interesting obfustication is the transfer of the Paul role from Taverner to Buckman (which points to code not retold story; viz: the Acts material trickles about like real mercury, elusively: you can't say, "Taver ner is Paul" etc). but the real payoff: the Xtian universe, lived in by people here: the mind in which thoughts exist in space. So you + the objects are within a mind as if floating. + there is some kind of relationship between being + infor‐ mation + time. as if the present is like the trotod of tape Passo co Here is an example of hierarchical ranking. A new ambulance is filled with gas and parked. Then next day it is examined. The finding is that its fuel is virtually gone and its moving parts are slightly worn. This appears to be an instance of entropy, of loss of energy and form. However, if one understands that the ambulance was used to take a dying person to a hospital where his life was saved (thus consuming fuele and somewhat wearing the moving parts of the ambulance) then one can see that through hierarchical outranking there was not only no loss but in fact a net gain. The net gain, however, can only be measured outside the closed system of the new ambulance. Each victory by God as intelligence and will is obtained by this escalation of levels of subsumation, and in no other way. 4594 Here's how the grid works: it's a sequence analyzer. (Viz: a math sequence can be set up in which the next integer can be absolutely determined. In "Tears" the Acts material presents a sequence by which "secret under ground Xtian apostolic church" can absolutely be inferred to come next outside the text "Tears" on the basis of the integers of the sequence included in the text by using a topological analog conversion! i.e. Taverner belongs to no organization, group, movement, religion, party; he is an isolated individual (this is stipulated in the text). There is no hint of a conspiracy. This is without using the grid. But Acts is the grid + within the grid Taverner is the analog of Paul. The E.B. says "Poul was the spokesman for the entire Xtian church." Okay. the Acts grid is indubitable (i.e. it can be is the correct grid.) What