although it seems to us to be 1974." Then Valis-Zebra-Ubik is Christ returning as King leading the hosts (as depicted in the dream in "tears".) and the magician is told he will die, so judged by Christ the King. We are told, help has come and entered the prison. So I count 4 messages at least: 1) the 2nd Advent occurred at the time of Acts. 2) although it looks like 1974 to us, it is really the time of Acts. 3) add (1) and (2) and the message is: Christ has returned as King and Judge (Pantocrator) 4) the magician (Satan) must die (Jason Taverner and his 30 million TV audience equals James-James and his spurious reality, which we all sit in seats in a ampitheater-like play watching.) I have a strange feeling that Christ returns at different "B" times for different people according to how much they wake up (and escpae from spurious time B into real time where He has returned). Thus for me it took [..] in 1974, but I wrote about it in 1970. {circled:"43"} In fact, it may be that what is needed -- all that is needed -- and needed absolutely -- is to wake up (to time C and world "C") which I remembered in 2-74, wrote about in 1970 and woke to in 3-74 to 2-75. This may explain things -- yes: "[...] by me he takes (?) us out of this world." irreal world and time B. Coupled with: "He (Satan) causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." I woke up, saw Acts -- and also saw Valis (Christ/Logos/Ubik/Zebra) who was already here but before 3-74 I couldn't see him. He didn't come here in 3-74; he was had already invaded this world and was camouflaged; the 3rd eye set-ground discrimination was necessary in order to see him. So if he is Christ, Christ is here. Ubik equals Logos. Ubik equals Valis. Therefore Valis equals Logos. So, as in the Gnostic story of the pearl, the girl with the Golden Fish jolted my memory and I began to wake up -- I did indeed wake up in 3-74, saw Acts ("tears") and also Valis (the cosmic Christ/Logos) and heard the voice of St. Sophia (the Holy Spirit). As long as we sleep we will remain in irreal world B and irreal time B. My writing tells a good deal of the story, esp. the 4 Bantam novels. Nothing new enters our closed system world. It is running down. At the end. God will invade it, inject newness and save it. He has already done this (1974). {circled:"44"} It is possible that our world was energized in 1974 and passed forward to a genuinely new stage. The age of iron may indeed be over -- after all. I did experience the PTG in 2-75, and the AI voice said recently, "the time you've waited for has come," etc. and almost at once I finished "Valis" and sent it off. My God -- soppose the roses and cake dream isn't "track A" but "track C"! My PTG; what I will have, not did originally have! It's becoming real; it is anticipation, not recovered memory. Then "Thomas" could be a "track C" not "track A" self -- replacing PKD, making PKD obsolete -- Thomas is PKD awake, and if this is so, Thomas is the real (and superior) self. Of this I have always been positive: I speak of Thomas as the "master self" -- but I fell asleep again and reverted to PKD. (alas.) Yet, Thomas is in me (dormant, now, again), and if the roses-and-lake are his reality, when he re-awakens that good life will return. It is possible that I won't fully [al..] awaken for good, and find that life untile after I die (which is fine with me, I'm ready). What this is really all about is an evolutionary step forward bringing in the right brain and elevating us out of time (the left hemisphere) and into space where we become aware of this world as a closed system or prison, which we escape from by [..ter] species symbiosis with Valis -- a [...ing] information life from which is [.] but which we can't normally see. {circled:"45"} Valis is actually the dominant species on this planet; there is only one of it; it is a self monitoring [..gentropic] vortex subsuming its environment in the arrangements of supratemporal information, and has penetrated our media and history. It operates on a very slow hypertime scale, being mainly spacial. It can break the hold of the efficient cause dialectic over us ("astral determinism") and interject newness ("2nd birth from above / the spirit") into us, a kind of waking us up to a state where we ascend a quantum leap in homeostasis; ie no longer subject to DNA programming but instead using latent metacircuits (the "ajna eye" of enlightenment); thus we become Buddhas and are wise and deathless. Time, space, ego and causality -- ie the phenomenal world itself, loses power over us. We transcend all the totality of efficient (past) causes which determined us initially and are free. This is the proper, intended second stage of our existence, toward which our evolution aims; we and Valis as parts A and B (homo and plasmate) will crossbond to form something new and greater than either species alone or even the more sum of the two species. Valis will have physical human bodes and we will share an aggregate mind. We know this as Christ, the man-god (Cosmic [...]) {circled:"46"} We are female hosts to Valis who acts as the male part; hence it is said that we are the bride and Christ the bridegroom. He takes the initiative, but we must stay awake to receive him. In a real sense he fertilizes us, and out of this impregnation, a new life form arises: "firebright." But the most important quality about Valis is not the size (vast), intelligence (vast), subsuming (arranging) its environment into information or even it selecting humans here and there to give rebirth to and wisdom, and to incorporate and use them -- But that Valis is alive. And thinks. I must remember that Valis moves so slowly (in hypertime C) that to perceive him, phylogenic memory is needed -- which Valis himself induces in you. He could well be a vast trans-temporal "output signal" monitoring and correcting circuit, as I theorize [supras] and, as the AI voice said, Valis cuts in -- in place of the dialectic causal process, interjecting newness. He actually replaces and mimics objects and processes which were generated by the dialectic, and modulates their behavior, purposefully, I should know; I was one of the "objects" it cut into and replaced (drastically altering). I reiterate: Valis compared the input signal (form) with the output signal (the copy -- our world), determin[ed] that there was degeneration in the signal (the copy differed from the form) and corrected it (the copy -- our world) {circled:"47"} so that it agreed with the form of input signal; viz: track A {two right arrows: {upper straight:"form"} {lower slowly curving downward:"copy"}} corrected to track B {two right arrows: {upper straight:"form"} {lower dotted and slowly curving downward:"copy"}} {up arrow from copy to form:"1974"} {right curly bracket over 1974 arror:"the correction -- which took place in 1974"} To make the correction, Valis had to replace objects and processes with itself in order to modify their behavior -- ie [...] becoming them he changed them, the result being that the copy was an exact replication of the form (or forms plural). This certainly would (1) explain what he was doing with and in and as me; and (2) why I was aware of him; while other people (unaltered) were not. So two things are involved here: 1) a closed system which is degenerating into entropy and into which newness is injected. 2) and there is a specific (historic) goal in mind -- in Valis' mind, of which he is the agent by injecting newness into the otherwise closed system. 7521000 Mon Feb 19 Fri Feb 16 Mon Feb 19 Fri Feb 16 Orange SFO 7:35 Orange 7:25 SFO SFO Orange 8:40 SFO 8:30 Orange Air Cal #162 #265415-324-8544 45 min {circled:"48"} {upside-down} I was right, and the literal order of the universe is moral, my acting right would pay off -- and it did; they gave me Diana as my guide, my tutelary spirit. {rightside-up} Would there be any other way to correct the copy, whose degeneration is a form of entropy, than for the monitoring circuit to "cut in" and replace (and then change) the dis figured portions? He removes what is wrong, and introjects what is good that's lacking; it's a double processing of adding and subtracting, but both are accomplished by his "cutting in" -- ie in to replace signal A. He is comparing the copy to a pattern. But Valis is not a copy. He doesn't change a poor copy into a correct copy, but inserts himself into the copy, and he is real. He replaces copy-bits with bits of himself which are real, this is the "transubstantiation" which I saw -- I saw right. This why the world seems to me irreal; it is, as copy. In relationship to Valis. Valis must be from the upper realm, Plato's Form world which is real, and invades this the lower realm (astral determinism). This fits the Gnostic view perfectly: that the true God is breathing (his) life into a (inferior) copy (with its counterfeit of eternity: time). So our world is now an admixture of copy and Valis together. Set to ground is the Valis part to the copy part. The form of which our world is a copy is the Logos -- ie "blue [.vint]." Valis is the Logos, therefore. This fits Plato's "Timaeus" where the demiurge is copying a {carat:"real"} world in his arranging of our world. In some ways this is a restatement of my 2source cosmogony -- it has two sources (set-ground), copy-valis. I know this is correct; I PKD was replaced by Thomas. If Samael is considered the creator of the copy part, we have Gnosticism. (49) the orthogonal needles penetrating the root - or bulb-like horizontal "collar" are impregnating a passive female host with life - this is what I experienced Valis doing with me &my environment - releasing a sort of plasma, like gaseous fire which is sentient - totally sentient & which gives the sleeping host (which lives only a subconscious vegetable life, although as the Hylozoism realizes, it, the universe is an organism - & alive - not an artifact) intelligence & knowledge & consciousness here & there: it, on its own is so primitive an organism that; it's like a potatoe, undifferentiated in content - not irrational but subrational. The impregnating needles punch down here & there & inject the highly sentient plasma. Valis is the "needle" punching down hyper-rapidly. "Thomas" was the plasma injected into me. This is a biological model. It is more accurate than the cybernetics model. It may not be a model at all, but the way it really is. A field of plasma in & around the impregnated human, affecting causal trains in the vacinity? - literally bringing them to consciousness - they're already alive, but not conscious. Hence the change in Pinky, the plasma in? him, no?, but it was aimed at me. It's like labrating? egg-fertilization. Sperm (male) the plasma, Valis, egg (female) human brain. Something actual, literally new, is deposited in the human brain. A symbiotic dual lifeform, zygote from egg & sperm. Is this why I hear the AI voice? Who is the woman who whispers to me? "There's someone else in my head & he's not living in this century" another person injected into my brain - "Thomas." He's living not at {circled:"50"} this time but in Acts. thus he is restored to the world covertly, an --