realm is a - complex thought, a total thought (ultimate complex or Kosmos), in the MIND, which is the order to which this species appeals. (ie the mind.) Okay - the normal flow of the order (complex) (physics) is ethical but we can't see it & don't know how to appeal to it. (Make use of its laws at that - ie. ethical level) The 2-Brain species utilizes its laws - how? By knowing them? Is Karma involved, the feeding in of prior thought-forms, which only come back as reality on a delay basis? {Diagram: Prior thought, self, reality generator} This feedback loop? Does the other hemisphere act to feed into the past, ie the prior thought-formations which make up present reality? and in the 2-Brain person that hemisphere is syncronized with the dominant? is it drawn into the reality analysts customary to the left - the right custom-arily generates it and the left analyzes (receives) it, then if Both hemispheres are syncronized, Both generate and Both analyze. It is generated out of the // \\ // ceaseless antithetical dialectic. It is the dialectic which underlies everything - so the 2-Brain species plugs into it and exerts control over it by understanding it. Out of this dialectic the hypotheses which we call reality come into Being. the 2-Brain person actually invades reality By locking into the underlying dialectic, in which the present controls the past or the future the present - you can look at it either way. in 3-74 it as present - was invaded by (Knowledge from) the future. So the past can be changed (By selecting one of the forms and acting on it? Which makes it true now, and if that now, always true (ie true back into the past - retroactively ratified. it doesn’t just become true at the moment it acts on. the act determines (controls) which flip-flop is true (actualized). thus the 2-Brained people are not confronted by reality as if it comes from outside of them; But they impinge on it. they possess a decisive metapower over it. it can be made subservient to their will. If you can change the past, your present will "reset" (Be perturbed: alter). So both past & that which is future to it will change: {Diagram: Past, 2, Present, 1; or: Present, 2, future, 1} In 3-74 the material in "Faith of" & in "MITHC" were past. The material must have come out of what was future, lodged in the past - in the uniting - which then affected the future (3-74). {Diagram: A. Prior, 2, 3-74, 1; or B. 3-74, 2, Future, 1} I have evidence for A. Then reality consists of a very large number of dialectic axes in which the "observer" participates determining not only which horn of each dialectic is true but has been by his participation (action on the basis of which horn). He locks into the oscillation according to his choice. However, the unibrain person mistakenly regards the sole horn which he sees (he sees only the one) ^as real & since can't see the mirror opposite must lock into it without choice. Only if the two horns are seen is there choice. Then the 2-Brained person can switch brain-side in terms of [motor?] centers. (action, acting on). Either brain (hemisphere) can overule the other to make one of the two horns true, whichever is to his advantage. This is participation at the very matrix (workshop level) of reality. It is more than a way, a better way, of viewing reality; it becomes a deliberately active participation: a co-creatorship. Truth follows die Tat; Mussolini was right. I have United: 1) the 2 Brain psychoi person. 2) the 2-proposition (mutually exclusive) dialectic as Basis of reality. Limited to (1). 3) ability to perturb the past (By participating in reality [&?] the causal train melting). Hence time is overcome. 4) Xtians at the 2 Brain pyschoi species in our midst. Using a higher logic. 5) This as evolutionary [step?] - superior to linear (me Brain) thinking. 6) Ability to interfere & take control of (from?) the "Karmic" [v?] "Planetary Powers." Relates to (2) (3). Via these 6 interlinked factors, 2-3-74 begins to make sense. Mere miracle departs, & the basis for it all is clarified. I am (4). Gh yes. 7) Anamnesis, which means remembering [v?] discovering this (1) nature - [&?] all the rest listed - in myself & there is a mysterious entity who links all of us: 8) the second [Contrite?] [v?] St. Sophia as if the other psyche in all of us is the same psyche: he. So through he we are, as Paul said, Once "Body" with Christ can transmit & read info as set to Round which the other (Me - Brain) species can't see. 4: 30 A.M. the AI Voice: "Christ is recruiting." (He recruited me.) AI Voice: "the (Christ) becomes me (PKD)" [in?] this recruiting. This is what happens. 3-74. If I don't become him; he becomes me. It is him, now (2-74) When you think about it, how (logically) could I become him! But it's obvious that he has the ability to become me. He can be anything & anyone. So this "2 Brain" superior species is those who he becomes - hence the St. Sophia voice: his voice. If I became him I'd just hear my own voice; not so if he becomes me: I hear his/her voice. LIke - Pinky didn't become Christ; Christ became (replaced) Pinky. & he replaced me in 3-74. The surrogate. Hence I say - I felt at the time - something entered me. Somebody else, not me, was in my head replacing me. Then the memories - & vision - of Acts were his memories (of his own original time) & his vision. Not mine. A 2000 year old psyche took me over who, before Acts, came from Crete, & before that the stars. This is what explains - accounts for - (1) The 2 psychoi - He enters & is para- the person. This is at odds with generally accurate Xtlan mysticism when the person reaches "Christ conscious" on the point omega. The goal on the path of enlightenment, like becoming a Buddha. A level me reaches. But in fact he entered me & took over, & I then had two psychoi in me: my own & his. Hence I heard the AI Voice, & ["thumal"?] was in control. & the surrogate factor is here, & all which it implies. Come to think of it, I have never read anywhere of this as something which can happen. But [if?] you study the doctrine [of?] the vicarious [atonement?], it is there ("he died for us, in our place" etc). This certainly would explain the [miracles?] of Acts. (The 2nd Comforter is the discorporate resurrected Christ.) & I've always said I experienced entheusiasmos. This certainly explains my "Dissociates" [?] activity. But this does not fit with the Gnostic idea of rising through level after level of enlightment (spiritual growth) until you become a Christos! On the contrary - I was spiritually degraded - at the point he became me. This is almost right. The phosphene activity was him entering me. I have always had it that I "turned out to be" Christ, which is not correct. I was suppressed in favor of an adventitious entity. Paul says, "the secret is, Christ in you." We always assume birth. But I see it as an entering. (as with or as the 2nd Comforter. I wonder how common this is. Has anyone in history reported it? But now he is recruiting - building up a New Flock. That meaans the Parousia is here. (This is why I initially supposed Elijah had taken me over. I was almost right.) (I knew I had been taken over.) There is certainly hubris, even psychotic ego inflation, for me to believe "I became Christ," but not in "Christ became me." Up to now I have constreued my becoming Christ (as in the Sufi manner) & him becoming me as the same, but they are apotheosis but entheusiasmos. I was & am most meager. If I had made this distinction from the start I would have saved myself 5 years of exegete. No wonder I feel that I died. I died & Christ took my place. It's hard to see now how I could here make this confusion. I clearly recognized Thomas as not me; I did not become Thomas. No - I remember thinking that Thomas was my real self, eq in track A. What I did was become a sort of vacuum into which Christ flowed like energy (plasma). Wait. Suppose Christ was dominant in my right hemisphere all that time & was awakened by the Golden Fish sign? "He became me." Dominance passed over to the other hemisphere with him as/in it, a lateral shift. On the model of "The Book of Ptath" but that isn't me. Time capsule set to 70 ħ when presented with the proper stimulus. I've reasoned this before. But last night I realized: he became me. Replaced me. Just as he replaced [Pirky?]. When the Xerox missile came it was Christ who was there to receive it & deal with it the vast vista of freedom (Egmont & the wild [?]) - that is his vision, his mind, [&?] it mind. Like the film "Z" our dead (murdered) leader lives, & moves about mysteriously, taking us over & replacing us, & then going elsewhere once the situation has been take care of. This makes the Gnostic view [?]: one attains the state of Christos (a cupola: one is Christ). But I can see how this error in analysis could easily occur. Man does not become God; God (Christ) becomes man. But due to that the man is temporarily in syzygy with God so: "God became man so that man could become God." (as a result.) Then what happened to me in 2-3-74 is an out-of-time mythic ritual etc re-enactment of the incarnation! ① Once again, at another time & place God (Christos) has become man. It is a penetration of the trash layer by the divine (cf "Ubik"). A downward penetration, not a Buddha-like or Gnostic-like apotheosis/enlightenment. Man does not rise; God descends & penetrates. ① This is why I became judge & priest; & 7 course the Great Books are the Lamb's Books in which all that is is inscribed. The central mystery of Xtlianity is how God becomes man & in so doing exacts man (as in my case). What happened to/with me in 2-3-74 is the essential core of our religion, when all else is stripped away (Here Christ is not regarded as the historical Jesus). [God] God manifests himself at _ the lowest - "most fallen" - [Angels] level of creation by passing [Man] all which is inbetween & higher thus the sundered cosmos is [neural?]. This is an act of macrocosmic repair. 2 Then the miracle in my case is nothing less than a timeless re-enactment of the proto‐ narrative event (drama) which is the core mystery of our religion (when propertly understood). Then it The man is not true that Christ left our world. Jesus died. Then the second comforter came. He is the Christ (or she is). The ostensible account of the N.T. does not tell this. + yet it does, if you use your understanding. The real work, Jesus says, will be done by the second comforter; the real work begins when Jesus leaves - not when Christ the death of Jesus "sporifies" leaves but Jesus the Christ. The powers of darkness have been tricked; divinity is now (upon his murder) ubique on this world. He will bond with the disciples + be plural. Not A disciple is defined as this two psychoi entity: man in one hemis‐ phere, Christ in the other, with Christ ruling ("the head," as Paul says). Not plural + yet one mind; in a