allowed my control Thomas to see the info he needed to see. From the future? Yes maybe. The hit on my house - all the things Hal said. How do they fit in? He wanted to put cypher in my new book, + cypher in it there is. Who is fighting whom? I'm a pawn in this. An alternate Earth? (As in my Metz speech?) Main clue: something to do with retrograde time; this suggests the future. Here's the jackpot question: 1) Did an ultra-advanced technology secret group help me because the CP + G2 USA get on my ass (e.g. the hit on my house + Hal)? Or (2) did the CP + USA G2 + Hal get after me because this ultra-sophisticated technological underground group was making use of me, of my writing? Well, "Tears" was written before the hit on my house, before Hal. So (2) is pointed to. Something showed up in my writing prior to "Tears," + it wasn't anything I knowingly put in my writing. I suspect "Ubik," because that is the book Lem showed interest + + because "Ubik" bears an uncanny resemblance to Valis + 2-3-74. + the timing of its publication fits in. The question is, "What is Ubik?" An occult information-processing machine or entity or construct, cooking + riding our media, as is clear in the book. This points to the Soviets, to Soviet technology - subliminal messages; we're back to the psychotronic stuff, which is where I began in 3-74! Some kind of living information (Burrough's information virus) got away from the Soviets + is replicating as a life form? This is (1) Ubik; (2) Valis; (3) the macrometasomakosmos; (4) the "second signal" - as I recently figured out, (2) + (3) + (4) are the same thing. It is a saprophytic brain -human brain- bending ultra life form; I saw it completing itself - the macrometasomakosmos. It is totally homeostatic + evolved, + there is only one of it, + it is all over our community trans media; it is information, + utilizing a human brain it can project a spatiotemporal "reality" hologram. It esp. uses the Bible as a carrier. This has nothing to do with theology! But time is involved. The theology is - camouflage! Which it depends on anyhow. That wasn't the space-time world of Acts; that was Acts as an information decyphering carrier-hologram. (I already figured that out; v. supra notes on Prajāpati (sic). The pentathol released it in me - as Hal knew it would. Hal was my friend, but he knew I was under "their" control. Whose? He had an idea, but probably the wrong idea. He thought it was Pigspurt. What I experienced today was truly religious, + it bears no resemblance to 2-3-74. I was jammed in 3-74; the phosphene graphics point to it. That was disinhibiting due to the pentathol. The pentathol brought it all into consciousness, what Hal + his employers knew was there. He was Army G-2. But they were outwitted by Valis / Ubik / ? [what ever], due to its manipulation of time (physics) + of me + my book "Tears." This is not God; this is an ultra life form, which primarily is info or processes info (the linking, the engramming, the clutch, the rest-motion 0-1 binary system, maybe - well, the dialectic, it's a binary computer. In a way this is yet not nearly as mysterious as it might seem -- has seemed. Edit out the religious disinformation and you get computer, parapsychology, computer and technology -- all known to exist now. ESP (telepathy), microwave boosting. Tesla coils, the Riga transmitter. Ira Einhorn being set up on the murder charge. Not so very occult. My initial impression; Pigspurt satellite. My religions experience today1 --the void-- it was totally different from the arcane connivings connected with 2-3-742. 1My God; these notes were written on 11-17, the day I had the theophany; they are an immediate reaction based on comparing 11-17-80 with 2-3-74. 2Charles Platt noticed this, that my two theophanies (sic) are in complete disagreement. 2-3-74 is politically revolutionary; it had to do finally with overthrowing Nixon, which is to say the United States Government. But 11-17-80 is what he called "conservative"; it is: it is the traditional Judeo-Christian view of God in every respect... and I consider it genuine. Platt said, "I liked the former one better." He did note what I note here in these pages, the very clear distinction between the two. I had discarded these notes as being paranoid, and having to do with my coming down. But I wasn't down; I was still high, still in touch with my theophany of 11-17-80. And this theophany (which I judged genuine then and so judge it now) made me retrospectively and retroactively suspicious of 2-3-74, for the reasons given. Since then, however, I've reconciled the two, or supposed I have. Maybe not. It may be that these pages are essentially correct; inasmuch as my research today points to a political revolutionary secret organization involved in the 2-3-74 "theophany" but not the 11-17-80 one. I do say in these notes that I consider it benign, a benign agency or entity; but I say, "God and religion aren't involved; that is camouflage." Well, hadn't I figured out that it (whatever "it" is) is using Christian religious material --i.e. biblical material-- as an informa¬ tion carrier or decoding grid? You project the Acts hologram onto world and then you can do the set-ground discrimination and read out the message traffic. Very technologically advanced. 835a (My notes, taken later in the day on 11-17-80, continue; viz:) Suddenly a smashing idea: (1) Acts is a hologram as to how reality looks in the past. Did look in the past. (2) "The second signal" is a hologram as to how reality will look to people in the future. So I experienced (1) the past breaking through; and (2) the future breaking through -- etc. etc. (see exegesis extract package in manila envelope.) (Here I end the notes made on 11-17-80.) Comment. This suggests some kind of time-travel, some ability to manipulate time, due to knowledge of advanced physics and especially advanced technology; and it points to the source of all this as lying in the future. My control (see 11-17-80 notes supra) utilizes a sort of non-physical time-travel system where some sort of projected hologram is involved, based on physics that we know nothing of. As if it can think itself into the past and the present (our present) and the future (our future, probably its present). It's a machine. 3-74 has to do with an information-processing machine. I need only compare it with 11-17-80 to see the difference between it and a true theophany. There is no in-breaking of God and no Kingdom or Kingship of God, and this doesn’t really have to do with Christianity, this 2-3-74 business, what I experienced and saw. I just became aware, at that point, of my control. It had been operating on me for some time, and Hal knew it; something must have shown up in my published writing. Prior to TEARS. (You know, it reminds me that when I saw the dialectic originally I thought, "This resembles Hegel's dialectic, and that suggests Pigspurt." It still does. My control is Pigspurt and I was picking up this Worldview from his mind.) I wrote earlier today: (something like) in 2-3-74 I didn't remember a former life as Thomas; no: I got in touch with PKD2 for the first time, due to the pentathol. Just as Hal predicted. Acts is now; Thomas is now and has been now all along. Time isn't involved. My own actual nature now is involved. And it's revolutionary, and has to do with a secret underground using advanced technology. 12/3/80 Midday nap. Hypnopompic 1) Valis. Vast information entity/construct 2) Thomas. Control in me. PKD². 3) Secret revolutionary underground equipped with high (superior) technology. Political. I picked up the thought, "we're taking over" + it was ETI, not e.g. R.C. "Once the impossible is eliminated the unlikely remains." Premise: Valis is not God + is in no way related to God - hence religion. 4) The AI voive. Control-related. I lay there comparing Valis with ABBA. + realized, "Valis is logically what you'd expect in a superior life form, + it can seem to be God - up until -+only until- you do experience God, + then you can see the difference; viz: "if (i.e. since) ABBA is God, then what is Valis?" Valis is here, arranges physical information, rides + cooks our media, is camouflaged, has invaded our world.¹ I saw Valis because Thomas came to the surface in me - due to the pentathol, primarily. Cf my paranoid notes the night of 11-17-80 immediately following the real theophany (XIX) 5) Acts as decoding hologram projected onto reality in order to read the cryptic information as set to ground ("the plasmate"). Acts as carrier for covert information. ¹ + programs us with subliminal information. I was thinking during my nap, "I should have myself hypnotized + ask "Thomas" who he is." Well, this is exactly what happened in 2-74 due to the pentathol + my seeing the shiny Golden Fish sign; I got in touch with PKD² my control + briefly knew + saw what/as he does. So I have been inadvertantly hypnotized already. Valis isn't dismantling + assimilating the universe; it's dismantling + assimilating our planet's civilization, esp. our media, + that is not God. It's gaining control over us progressively, us + our media - us via our cooked + ridden media (i.e. subliminal information; it uses a clutch + synchronicity + linking system). We're occluded + engrammed. + by a very real, phisical entity busily arranging information. Of course it's immanent. It's an invader. To it, our world is chaotic, less well organized than it. None of this [realization] is new - except the acute insight "we're taking over" - that it's ETI. We've been invaded, + our planet, esp. our communications-information media, are being taken over. This didn't come to me as a theory or idea but as a realization; there's a difference + (as I've said before) Bible material makes a perfect encoding-decoding grid + carrier for its message traffic. 12/10/80 Notes to page 858. I did not start out seeing God -i.e. 2-3-74- + "this theophany led to my 6½ years of exegesis" - futile exegesis of 2-3-74 based on the delusion that I had seen God. What actually happened was that I saw world in a highly superior way, but still world; it had something to do with entropic time + my exhausting entropic time through/in/by the dialectic until a massive enantiodromia occurred; I "pulled world through infinity" i.e. into negentropic time / morphological arrangement (Plato's eidē). But I took this ultimate view of reality as a vision of God + so fell into a terrible trap both epistemologically (philosophically, metaphysically) + also theologically (spiritually); for example I supposed a pantheism ala Spinoza. But my main point (made on p. 858, which I intended to be the last page of the exegesis, is: I thought the sequence went: 1) theophany (2-3-74), followed by: 2) exegesis of that theophany. 3-74 to 11-80 But in fact this is correct: 1) exegesis 3-74 to 11-80, followed by: 2) theophany, 11-17-80 (!) In other words the -this- exegesis came before the theophany. The exegesis finally reached the conclusion that everything I had seen in 2-3-74 had to do with world ("a perturbation in the reality field") except a glint of color in the weeds of the alley + a ripple of wind" - which was -even this was- not God but just the tracings/glyphs/footprint of God on reality. Thereupon, i.e. as a result of this realization (11-80) I then experienced a true theophany - + I construe what happened this way: 1) the world is delusional (Maya). 2) In my 10 volume meta