dualistic religion here. Just a hierarchy of levels. We were reduced by the same power that extricates us. folder 20 - 013 folder 20 - 013 This could be so; I did see an integrated mechanism, a vast machine which effectively functions. (I saw us being signalled instructions - [...] of lights, + of course verbal + graphic linked messages that control (engram) us.) But I did see a Black Iron Prison under attack like a heavy metal speck in an organism - like a phagicytosis process. There was certainly a dialectic interchange involved. This makes our stint here a sort of probation outside the Gardenland. Our trial, our ordeal, what we have to learn. I suppose I could think of it in terms of initiation into the higher mysteries, as in "The Magic Flute", after the trials. There is something secret about it, e.g. I am told by the voice not to tell that I am an early Xtian (resurrected, + with the bright original unfallen nature intact: what I call a Homoplasmate). + I generally feel a reluctance to make my discoveries + theories + revelations public. This is distinctly not pistis Xtianity but, I guess, Gnostic (or even Hermetic). Christ as high priest who performs the exculpatory + salvific act (rite?), although most of my system is orthodox. Still, the whole disclosure that we are in prison (the Cave of Treasures) - it is orthodox + yet it is not, for I conceive of an evil deity imprisoning us, the master magician (i.e. Palmer Eldritch). I see us as unjustly imprisoned; we may have made a primordial error, but it was intellectual, not moral: we mistook this spurious world for reality. Thus we labor under a delusion, + it is one thrust on us calculatedly. This counterfeit world was deliberately designed to fool us. Through an adventitious agency (the savior) we must be made to see it as folder 20 - 014 folder 20 - 014 irreal; as in "Scanner" we are unaware of our occlusion + hence where we are. That is very basic + very important: we made a primordial error, all right, +, as in the Book of Adam + Eve it led to our expulsion from our primordial original home, the Garden, + imprisonment in this prison. But the error was intellectual, taking the irreal to be real. The road to salvation is an epistemological one, not ethical - but it is useless for us to try on our own, since the specific nature of our occlusion defeats us. Only Christ can save us, like Runciter or Ubik, from "outside". We did + are born here again + again, no more enlightened each time, unless he intervenes. At a single bold stroke the delusive power of this world, this prison, must be broken over us, as it was with me in 2-3/74. But my 25 years of writing + world-view had to preceed 2-3/74, had to lead up to it. Thus I say, my writing is an antidote to the delusion, to the occlusion (intoxication). Since the original error ("sin") is intellectual, not moral, then the antidote is knowledge; + the instrument of that salvific gnosis is Pansophiaism. The secret agents of that gnosis are the invisible Hermetic Paracelsusian adepts, + the goal of it is the creation of what I call Homoplasmates, through the mystical conjunction (wedding). Because of the self-world push-pull system which I believe exists there is no way to demonstrate the intellectual error (the spuriousness of world or rather worlds plural). Thus the savior, who enters the situation from outside, is necessary. Once my faculties were restored + I could see him (Zebra) folder 20 - 015 folder 20 - 015 "melting" causal sequences, I could with my own eyes establish that indeed our reality is nothing more than a self-reinforcing "hologram" with which our inner tape is synchronized. This synchronization must be induced to get out of phase, for us to see the true situation (like, in 3-74, when I reacted in advance to stimuli, + also realized I was programmed in advance to respond in a specific way to each external signal, without free will). Until this control structure is interfered with, the irreality simply cannot be apprehended by our percept system. Lem is wrong; it will not fuck up on its own. Someone (the savior) must abort it. Put another way, we are drugged + not truly awake; we do not see what actually is the case. (Shades of E.T.A. Hoffmann!) + our occlusion is such that we can't perceive it either (v. "Scanner"). Were it not for the adventitious savior, this would be an airtight, foolproof system of occlusion + enslavement. However, an intelligent plasma has secretly invaded this prison to rescue us. It camouflages itself. It arranges reality to teach us lessons, which when understood will serve to extricate us. Thus it is interfering with the push-pull inner-outer tape system: it is interfering with the very structure of thralldom. This is the "melting" which I saw, which I now will call: Creating vorteces in the hologram. Thus the entire Pauline doctrine of original sin -of fallen man = sinful (depraved) man- is a calculated forgery by the master magician. Man fell, all right, but he fell into a trap, a web, a prison, an illusion which he took for real - folder 20 - 016 + he took the master magician, Lord of this realm, to be God. Thus, upon perceiving the dreadful enslavement under which he labors, he is [indeed] to commit the further intellectual error of assuming guilt. This is why I say in the author's afterword in "Scanner", "they made an error in judgment" - not a moral error. + they have been punished far too much, + should be allowed to be what they want to be: happy (Felix). So for men to think they somehow made a moral error (a long time ago) + not an intellectual error is simply one more intellectual error on top of the first one, and as calculated (by the master magician) as the first one. It is called "the Cave of Treasures" because something about it allured us + enticed us to enter it. There is a covert message here in this orthodox text. This intellectual error - of taking the phenomenal (plural) world for real fits in Plato's view (+ Parmenides'). It is an intellectual error to reason backward from the fact that you are punished -made to suffer - are in a prison- that you must have done something wrong (the opposite error is that if you are innocent "you have nothing to fear"). Even if you can establish the existence of an accusation of guilt, this proves nothing, even if you can prove that this accusation comes from God or a god, because you have no proof that God can't err. You would need both the proof that he can't err + that he can't or does not lie. (It could be a test.) The proof of an accusation does not necessarily lie in the accusation. + anyhow the N.T. God -the true one- has established himself (as Christ) as our advocate, not our accusor; + if you do not posit two Gods, + you are a trinitarian folder 20 - 017 folder 20 - 017 you wind up with one member of the trinity (one form of God) accusing us, + another defending us, which intellectually makes no sense at all. Obviously we are not enslaved by that power which seeks to extricate us. The [only] out is the notion of probation, which I guess [is] possible. But then couldn't the creator simply withdraw the delusion + prison + occlusion? Why need the secret Xtians actively attack the prison, if the prison is the work of God? I see no sense in this. How can God delude us + also seek to make us lucid [Note], to see properly? Unless there is a schism in the Godhead: my Yang-Yin dual God. God with a bright (benign, Yang) side, + a dark, deluding, destroying Yin deterministic side. What we must do is split -separate- the antithetical aspects somehow, or else He wars against himself, which is possible. But - That is an interesting doctrine: God at war with himself. I did see a dialectic. Then the question might be, will one side win, + if so, which side? + - how does this pragmatically differ from dualism? Maybe there is an exhalation-inhalation, a palantropos harmonie: respiration, like I wrote down under LSD. Sounds like James-James. But the savior has a consistent, benign nature, so we should turn to him, by definition. [Note] Well, a very sophisticated theology might be erected on this "I am the doubter + the doubt, + I the hymn the Brahmin sings" single underlying Brahman. I can't totally dismiss it; I like paradoxes. He deludes us, + he brings lucidity to us - maybe the two are one + the same: the "secret partnership" = the great mystery above space + time. folder 20 - 018 folder 20 - 018 17 I think in this page I have solved it - the mono- dualism problem. He occludes us + he brings us lucidity. Very sophisticated. Also very old, historically. The master magician is a form the benign creator takes; the benign creator, then, is a form which the master magician takes. Which is real? (Or is that q. meaningful?) Which is the mask + which the real face? Maybe it's a recurrent cycle of occlusion + de-occlusion, a pulsation (respiration). He creates the universe (or is the universe) + then he tests it (by corrupting it, to see if it + its creatures can withstand the corruption.) He tests the reality of what he has created, + finds it delusional. It is delusional, to him. + to know this is to be him - again only the creator of the universe can determine that it is irreal - i.e. be above it. This is him as creature in the universe becoming -remembering- himself once more. First he creates a universe, enters it as creature, finds it real; i.e. is ensnared by it, his own irreal creation; stays deluded + ensnared a long time, through many lifetimes + life forms, + then at last sees -i.e. remembers- that it's a fiction which he spun out of himself, + so remembers / recovers his God-self once more, + returns to where he started from (cf. "Maze"). Maybe he even stuck clues in the universe (cf. "Stigmata") to restore his own memory! So as to be sure he would eventually be restored intact! As he originally was - + then inhales the universe back into him. folder 20 - 019 folder 20 - 019 This is a pretty good theology, although not original (it comes from India). But I've added one point: the creator spins out an irreal universe + then enters it as all the creatures in it, is deluded + forgets - this is early Indian theology. My addition is: The creator deliberately plants clues in his irreal creation (which he enters, + then suffers deliberate amnesia) - clues which he cunningly knows in time (eventually) will restore his memory (anamnesis) of who he is + that his creation is irreal + has imprisoned him in it, thus freeing himself + restoring himself to Godhood. Wow! So he has a fail-safe system built in. No chance he won't eventually remember. Makes himself subject to [spurious] space, time + world (death, pain, loss, decay, etc.), but has these disinhibiting clues or stimuli distributed deliberately [strategically in time + space]. So it is he himself who sends himself the letter which restores his memory (Legend of the Pearl). Not bad! Salvador Salvandus! Boy, what this says about my 2-74/2-75 experience! When I saw the clue in 2-74! Look what this theory says I remembered - + who placed the