vast than I had previously realized. & it recalls Xenophanes' statement, "One God there is, who by the thought of his mind wields all things.” It gives me a deeper conception of him, if VALIS was just an effect. & it was this that came to my rescue! A mere expression of his will. -- The whole thrust - basis - of my 3-74 experiences of VALIS has to do with what Aristotle called final cases or teleology. What does it mean if you see teleology operating in intimate nature? It obviously points to purpose which points to a mind which has both intention, implying plan & knolwedge, & the power to "stimulate": (2) He (Aristotle) did hold that change & order needed explanation. God is the transcendent unmoved mover who causes change & also stimulates the world & all its parts to achieve proper goals. This unmoved mover causes change & inspires goal seeking without himself undergoing any changes. "(1)" Aristotle held that the existence of the world did not require any reference to a transcendent or ultimate power.”* EB This fits exactly what I experienced. Aristotle held that god, the prime mover, was/is immaterial & did not occupy space. * This is contrasted to the JewishChristian view of God the creator of the universe. I always ^thought that Aristotle’s "prime mover" was primary in time before the universe created it. But I see what he experienced as god as prime mover is exactly what I experienced in 3-74. When I saw Valis I saw Aristotle’s God (prime mover; v. supra)! No - I saw its effects. This is why Valis has no body except the object & process possesses processes which he structures: as Aristotle says, he occupies no space. Aristotle also believes that certain causes lay within nature. (Immanent.) This was an important part of his physics. Aristotle’s view, in contrast to the Jewish-xtian view, does not hold God to any other role in the world except stimulating “the world & all its parts to achieve proper gods… causes change & inspires goal seeking.” He is not the author of the world or the basis of the world; his actions & role are limited to this “prime moving” force exerted, this “stimulation” of what to him is a given. It could exist - ie the world could exist - without him. But there would be no stimulation of it & all its parts “to achieve proper godals"; so it would just become a purposeless thing or place, without goals. This is a much more precisely defined role of God vis-a-vis the world than the Jewish-xtian view holds. The key term is as stated: mover. My view of an entelechy assembling itself out of a sort of stockpile of parts (the antecedent universe apparently) is a perfect view of Aristotle’s notion: perfect & precise. It is moving from disorder to order. More, there is a kosmos or structure within the totality of reality, since at any given moment some disorder remains "unincorporated" or not yet used. It occurs to me that final cause & the "stimulation" by the prime mover is normally buried in three other causes working, more or less in harmony With them & hence not noticeable, but that in certain unusual circumstances it might reveal itself were it to work contrarily to - in opposition to and overruling - efficient etc causes. It would then be in antithetical dialectica with the other 3 causes & possibly visible as such. They would be going in one direction; it would overpower then; now, a human so affected would experience something very odd: an interventive agency “resetting" and "remastering" or "melting” him & his reality. It would be evident to him that a sentient & benign force with no body of its own had intervened on his behalf, with an irresistible tug. It would prompt him (my word) to act along certain lines in a certain goal-oriented way! But he would not know the goal or purpose. This would account for the dialectic that I perceived. For Aristotle, this particular cause, out of the four, is the divine component, is God. It's eternal, changeless, immaterial & pure mind (thought). This would explain how there could be a conflict between Valis & natural causality, which is impossible, really. In say Spinoza or Brahmanism or really any monotheism: we'd have the creator at war with his own creation. This is how I could view it as pronoia. Then my structure in "Valis" is accurate: rationality invading the irrational, the later being creation. I sever & bipoloarize creation (& its creator, if any) with the rational, ie the prime mover. The prime mover is perpetually working with a given (& not his own given, but that of creation as a brute raw fact). It (or he) doesn’t punish; he doesn't reward: he “inspires goal seeking" & that is that. 2 yet, if you experienced it at all you would experience it as pronoia. No monotheism in volving a creator deity, will account for disorder + evil; but aristotles prime mover So precisely defined, will allow. If creation (sic) on its own were not essentially disordered + irrational, the prime mover would not have to stimulate + inspire goal-seeking. This is a sort of compromise between the Buddha's position (the omnipresence of evil suggests no creator + hence no God) + the mono‐ theisms of a benign creator the latter being unable to account for disorder + evil. The overrule by Thomas was by a totally goal-oriented being; this was its specific nature, drive + activity: it was pure purpose, without even "deation there would be nothing had it not acted. E of Ph on Aristotle: "Normally the essence of a thing will be its final cause, which in turn will tend to be the same as its formal cause. We may say Then that essence consists in form. But here an impor tant distinction must be made. The essence of athing consists in the form which it has achieved, not in any form which it does not have but might acquire. Achieved form is form actually realized in a concrete thing" etc. This gives me something important to think about regarding Valis. It seeks to complete entelechies, + arrange hierarchies of entelechies in orders of ascend complexity + subsumation (assimilation, inter e action + integration), which is to say kosmos in Pythagoras' sense (structure). To miss this point is to miss everything. I know, I saw what "thing" is just a building unit Valis was doing. i 26 + the real issue is one of intricacy (which is to gay complexity). This overall coordina is so to speak the goal of goals. from reading aristotle + criticisms of him I can see that. 1) teleology (final cause in world, not in a given biological organism) cannot be in any way separated from God or some sentient prime mover, power, entelechy or mind which governs world, + its parts, which functionally is God. 2) Final cause is now denied by all philosophers + scientists 3-74, including Valis but not limited 2) is to Valis, consisted of teleology: preperation in advance for forthcoming events which I myself could not anticipate. (elements included material in my writing neural circuit disinhi‐ bition. {Note] + Valis itself: pure teleology structuring inanimate reality + me). 4). I am led to the conclusion that since all modern philosophers + scientists rate final cause as tatamount to deity + not within the province of philosophy or science that by their logic since I possess indubitable evidence of teleology in world that (since they are certainly right) I must regard 3-74 as indubitable evidence of deity, although not necessarily in the Judo-Christian sense but certainly in aristotles sense: as stimulat things to goal seeking ➀ Purposeful actions on my part with on, without knowledge of why no idea 268 5) put another way, X (teleology) could not have occurred without Y (God as defined by Aristotle); X is given - y. (i.e. Anything capable of producing X is pragmatically defined as y-deity - so functionally, we have y (deity) without needing to define collateral qualities such as creator, omniscient, omnipotent, benign, eternal, omnipresent, etc.). 6) This teleology (goal-seeking) did not emanate from me. It was imprinted onto me by an external agency. As near as I could tell this agency did not occupy space + yet seemed everywhere + able to structure things + processes into goal-seeking, including but not limited to me. It blaced me in a goal. seeking mode in a situation where I lacked understanding - in fact could in no way obtain or derive understanding (as a basis for action). Thus I acted out complex acts with no internal motivation or comprehension. I have proof that the agency responsible prepared itself + one years in advance + knew exactly what I should do + then stimulated me into doing it 7) functionally, this precisely fits aristotle's description of God. Nor is there any other known agency capable of so doing, nothing bit God in aristotle's sense (the unmoved mover) can be so defined 8) Note that aristotle's defines this stimulation to goal seeking as the primary attrib te (function) of God. This is God experienced at his basic essence. 9) This view has a profound implication for life, growth (formal cause) + evolution - in fact essence in the revolutionary sense of process - becoming: overcoming + triumphing. This aligns the thrust of the organism to excell + God's stimulation of it; viz: goal seeking becomes equated with the will to live + overcome obstacles or problem-solve). This aligns God with bio‐ logical striving, + the conquest of the obstacle that striving in an all or nothing confron‐ bytation with death in which the positive stakes is life (dasein) itself. ("God is the final bastion against non-being.") God galvanizes all the power, skill + resources + vitality of organism against its obstacle, inner + outer of t God is the organizing principle of the mounting This attack by the organism in which it lot only defends itself but makes a quantum eap ahead in biological time, organization coherence. The opposite of this is the supine organism which succumbs. Valis: the entelechy of entelechies, com‐ pleting itself as form - this is what saw. I i.e. its (God's) own goal seeking, this - as seen by me - was almost a schematic of its operations per se: what it does: like a schematic of a schematic, beyon ad which ther t 270) further abstraction, activity, entity or goal. I saw into its workings (when I saw it using the parts heap of the universe to complete itself.) In view of what Aristotle says, what I saw it doing is its primary task or possibly even its sole task, the task which defines it. This certainly tells me who/what it is. Here is a perfect example where final cause + formal cause come together, the the formal cause in this case is kosmos - no, wait; I don't know that! It is a coherency; that's all I know, a subsumation + integration which is not yet complete + then, upon seeing into Valis' mind (its completing itself) I saw it actually modulate physical reality, so I know that it possesses a compelling override power vis a-vis the world, these were two separate visions - + also I saw the dialectic, which would represent efficient cause, so I had 3 visions right there t but whether it - what it's assembling - is kosmos or not it is a vast entelech right in our midst Also, I just realized, Valis is the entity which induces change - via the two modes of rest-motion (off-on) which I saw! 77 It suddenly occurs to me that 3-74 + the Xerox missive may not have been just a problem to be solved - there are always problems - but a goal of