one + the same: simplier more stable states leading back ultimately to insentience, the inorganic. Thus, progressing forward in time. The simple gives rise to the complex. If it is true that any organism in order to live must maintain a higher level of complexity (structural organization) than its environtent, Then the universe is behaving like an organic entelechy determined to survive, applying laws (techniques) which smallen successful organisms employ (these laws apply everywhere + at even it level). If there was but one ultimate entelechy would still have to apply these dynamics because of 128) it did not it would turn into its own envir onment; the not-it would be more it than it This realization is especially poignant for me because the not-me came at me as several opi of my corpus of writing disclosing to me that my environment was at a level of organization higher than me, notifying me of my ultimate doom. In fact at that point I had ceased to be. But it allowed me the surprising experience of being annexed by a life form higher on the evolutionary scale than me. My total environ‐ ment assumed that quality, So I am saying, there is a domain corres‐ ponding to Pythagoras' structure + to that where I locate Valis: it is the domain of [Spinoza's, natural law (not known to the Greeks who sought reality in a primary substance). This is the real universe or kosmos + what I saw in 3-74 was perturbations in the reality field emanating from that domain. Spinoza is original in equating that domain with God + not with a created artifact (the material universe could be said to arise within that domain + totally subject to it: defined by its mind: God as intelligence). This domain neither decays nor can it be destroyed. it does not exist in the sense that matter exists. You would say that its existence can only be inferred by its effect on matter. But I think that in 3-74 I came into direct contact with it as a domain. (Hence my finding myself perceiving matter as geometric figures.) + I was aware of this domain acting as teleological t cause. (My initial argument for God supra Now, to review "pretextual cause. True cause is somehow transferred out of the real domain or 19 structure into the reality field by a kind of acausal but parallel synchronization. Maybe what I am saying is that there is not the wh relationship between these are domains that we suppose (as Einstein shows vis-a-vis mass -gravity-warping space actually). The natural law structure does not really cause events to occur in the substantial universe, does not really exert force on reality. Then what does it do? It serves as a map for substantial reality. It is a pliant map. It alters + analogically substantial reality alters. The ruling (real) domain defines limits continually, + substantial reality modulates analogically. well, then true cause lies outside the sub‐ stantial domain + is not "cause" in the pool. ball sense at all but rather a master map which is copied reflexively. Substantial reality simply reflects the ruling domain of limits. At any given time it is a picture - just as Wittgenstein conceived of verbal sentences to be in relationship to world. Language: world:: world: structure of limits. all real events occur in the domain of limit. structure ("natural law"). It continually signal substantial reality as to the picture (shape) it is to assume. Substantial reality knows nothing else. In 3-74 the ruling domain signalled me without substantial interface, + I was madified accord ingly, without any knowledge as to how this was done. + where it did not simply dispense with The substantial interface it melted it without regard for maintaining the fiction of the authenticity the substantial domain - it treated the latter of as a slave client. Thus true reality was not in "reality" as we construe it but was perturb it as it it were a field - substantial reality f 7 148 I still like the term vortex. Limit structure had formed a vortex of will or intent, of which I seemed to be set in the center as target. I saw as it wished; I did as it wished; I was what it wished. It remade me as a potter shapes a vessed. That which I needed to know I knew, to do did, to be was, to think thought; even my space + time was subject to its shaping power n + this without substantial interface. when you are acted on by the void you are very surprised. The developing map, then, designates progressively greature organization (which is to say integration, complexity + structure). It behaves like an evolving organism linking-together whose growth is healthy is basic to it, as Pythagoras noted in particular the orderly linking together of the beautiful. Its "purpose" may be the expression of infinite (final, total) beauty. As mind, its desire (purpose) may be to subsume everything into one work of art, in which morality is viewed as an aspect of beauty + not an end in itself (the Jewish Christian religion may overstress the moral at the expense of the beautiful + thus give a faulty impression of cosmic - divine - design s 1) It knows what is most beautiful. 2) it knows how to achieve it. 3) It has the power to do so, 4) It is doing so. This "map" which evolves, is the true entity or cosmos which I saw in 3-74, not the substantial reality which it perc n surbs. (If I am correct about This 14 my distinction is a correct one then there is a severe consequence: substantial reality (the physical universe) may never become cosmos but may be allowed to] fall victim To the laws of entropy + thermal decay. The substantial universe is not the issue. what I saw in 3-74 which was cosmos probably was limiting structure which had temporarily become palpable to me If Philo is correct, these are the Platonic forms + the mind they are in: viz: the Logos or Valis or Ubik. So Ubik (in the novel) which in itself moves toward divine epiphany, presides over a universe of decay (entropy), a stockpile from which it selects that which it incor porates permanently into itself - but it itself is not material reality but a blueprint, map or mind. Thus in "Ubik" the two domains or realms pull apart farther + farther! In Gnostic terms, the divine (en sof) does not reannex the sinking part of the cosmos in toto but extracts - picks up - only those bits it wishes to incorporate! This places quite a different light on 2-3-74! could it be that it is locating fragments d itself - locating + identifying - + reannexing it seeks for clues to its lost identities, then will reveal themselves. Once it reacquires its fragments the whole material universe could cease to be + nothing would be lost, is this not Gnostic acosmism, + mind, too for Then can it be said that in apprehend Ubik + Valis I have come in contact with another non-physical more real, sentient universe? Which is involved in peculiar way with our own [physical a one). It's more than the rational invading s the irrational; it's the real "invading" the irreal - which fits with the acosmism of my 27 years of writing. Again. "Ubik" The correct model: is 1) Their entropic world isn't real. 2) Ubik, anti-entropic, is. the two interact, somehow, upon dying, the chip sees them as distinct (set to ground?) the convulsive, metasticizing worlds which I write about are the physically substantive one deprived of the upper. I separated the two, + was rewarded in 3-74 by seeing -not this lower one - but the upper, whose existence I did not suspect except in "Ubik"! I dissected the universe + found to my surprise two universes! (no human can know if a natural law is suspended because we don't have a full or perfeet knowledge of "natural law" The most important aspect of the domain is teleological cause. In of natural law fact what aristotle called "final cause" was just an awareness of purpose in the domai we now call natural law o 431 It was awareness that this domain sentient, purposeful + alive. For example The 2 position mode of every object is off + then on which is when it serves its purpose; until then it is at rest (or o or off te teleology hits it + puts it in motion. Voice 4:30 am: "He died for a few [or is] minutes" - meaning me. Obviously refer ring to 3-74. But look what this says; not just that I died, but that I returned to life! "born in God, died in Christ, was born again in the Holy Spirit. This is what being born again requires: to have died. This is a very great mystery. through Christ - due no doubt to the cruci tion - you can die temporarily + return but different die literally, + then you come t back + your not the same + the world is not the same, + you can hear God's voice! Are you still partly on the other side? You must be. you're in touch with the upper domain the void. So being born again means that you span both worlds - + are in contact with God. But this means you're restored to your pre-fallen state I have it! Your death is only tempor because Christ offers himself as a ary acrifice in your place, + is taken; so is what you live on, born again. This is all about - esoterically the crufixion "Death is swallowed up in which means really, victory." 144 That's why when loaded I always write: "Ich bin der Retter." Christ took my place in 3-74. Then "Thomas" was him. So he died (i.e. accepted the death wound) + I lived on, with stered vision of both worlds If the domain of natural law did not show teleology, it would not seem to be a living, plan ning, purposeful domain (cosmos). Thus when it disclosed itself at all to me, in palpability, it disclosed teleology, + hence I called it Valis. also, upon feeling the structure of limits impinging on me, I sensed personality. As I tracked the death trail, it substituted itself for me, died + lived again; so I died in + with it lived again, but now different: aware of the voli tional domain of intent structure + limit: what I onsider to be the true reality or cosmos, which is to ay God. I found myself in the Kingdom, having traveled there by way of death + Christ's surrogation. the ancient powers were deprived of their victim, finding God in the net, to their surprise, + not me fewer, more complex things are coming into exis‐ ence (inverse frequency to complexity); hence the limit. structure applies more articulated laws. The ultimate outcome would be a unique infinitely complex thing involving the ultimate laws of the limiting structure. This is like an evolving brain its thought contents. This ultimate, unique complex would be an adequate analog in the substantial universe of the totality of the limiting structure: the picture now at last equals the map. So I know the domain from which Valis prose, was a part of was, + it tells me that al though Spinoza is substantially correct about the or ti atur go h atan an retwee e 14s he knows the parameters of natural law as if all t But where Spinoza is is known to us already wrong he is less wrong than right where he is right. He incorrectly assumes a blind determinism which is planless + without foresight + personality. Here he is ignorant of Sankara's Brahmanism. conuulsive the t will" which my worlds show (in