some that the great contribution of Dionysos to the religion of Greece was the hope of immortality it brought. Unquestionably the Orphics believed in a future life, but this belief was rather a corollary than of the essence of their faith. Immortality, immutability, is an attribute of the gods. As Sophocles says: "Only to gods in heaven comes no old age nor death of anything, all else is turmoiled by our master Time." "To become a god was therefore incidentally as it were to attain immortality. But one of the beautiful things in Orphic religion was that the end completely overshadowed the means. Their great concern was to become divine now. That could only be attained by perfect purity. They did not so much seek purity that they might -8- become divinely immortal, they needed immortality that they might become divinely pure. The choral songs of the BACCHAE are charged with the passionate longing after purity, in the whole play there is not one word, not one hint, of the hope of immortality. Consecration, perfect furity issuing in divinity, is, it will be seen, the keynote of Orphic faith, the goal of Orphic ritual." This desire to become pure comes from Egypt: "...As an Orphic I am purified by the ceremonials of the Orphics. He presents as it were his certificate of spiritual health, he is free from all contagion of evil. 'Bearer is certified pure, coming from a congregation of pure people.' like fashion in the Egyptian Book of the Dead after a long negative confession made to Osiris the soul says, 'I am pure, I am pure, I am pure, X am pure.' He then proceeds to acknowledge the ritual acts he has performed... He does not himself say, I am a god —that might be overbold— but the answer he looks for comes clear and unmistakeable, "'Happy and Blessed One, thou shalt be God instead of mortal.'" So this is the purpose of the messenger who comes in time to insert his own pure white (spotless) record in place of your bill of particulars to the machinery of retribution; by being spotless (without sin, pure) you become divine — and now (or so the Orphics seem to have taught; here in this world). Where Christ enters is that his death is all the sacrifice that is necessary to render his believers pure; by his death (I reason), his sacrifice, they pass over into divine life — and from what else he says it is clear that immortality in the next life is also meant. So there is a directly connection between the exculpation from sin and becoming divine. It isn’t just that you won't be punished for your sins (as Christianity overtly teaches); No: there is more: you enter into divine life due to this purity. So Christ brings divine life and immortality both, but remission of sin is necessary if you are to partake of divine life. "Thou Shalt be God instead of mortal." My revelation about the messenger shows that this bilking of the retributive machinery by the "messenger" is a cardinal role that Christ —-presumably it is Christ— plays, so I can’t overlook it. But remission of sin is a means to an end, and Christianity has lost sight of the end (divine life now; immortality later; all of which adds up to new life, a new kind of life, a rebirth into some¬ thing hithertofore not known). The basis of the Orphic desire for purity —the association of purity with the divine life— comes from their otherworldly view. Harrison says, "Can he not too, believing this, purify himself from his earthly nature and rise to be the 'child of starry heaven’? (In regard to this she says a little earlier, "His fore¬ fathers, the Titans, though they were but 'dust and ashes,' dis¬ membered and ate the god; they did evil and good came of it; they had to be punished, slain with thunderbolts; but even in their ashes lived some spark of the divine; that is why he their descendant can himself become Bacchos.") Obviously Orphism enormously influenced Christianity. I see little difference. I think it was Will Durant who called Christianity "the last and most successful of the mystery religions." Orphism, arising from the cruder worship of Dionysos, was the first. -1- 9-30-80 Premise: Valis is a meta system that at our level does not exist at all because at our level only its plural constituents exist as such. Valis is an organization, a structuring, of these constituents, in which they are unified into one entity. Meanwhile the plural constituents are our level behave —or seem to behave— as if unrelated to one another. An entirely new and higher way of organizing the ontological categories by which perception is structured must be reached by the observer. Thus in a sense Valis does not exist, but is brought into existence parallel with the percipient’s awareness of it, this having to do with the participantobserver of quantum mechanics. The percipient must participate in being Valis to be aware of Valis. However, Valis is real and is subsuming progressively more and more of its environment.‘ Its internal complexity continually grows. Its metabolism seems to be information and the processing of information. Its plural con¬ stituents are arranged in such a way as to constitute a language or information or messages; if you cannot see the arrangement you cannot read the message. And you cannot perceive Valis. So in a sense perceiving Valis is reading the message that Valis has arranged constituents into. Not necessarily understanding the message but recognizing it as a message. Valis is both there and not there. When it is not perceived it is not there (as opposed to: when it is not there it is not perceived). It is a way of perceiving reality —which demands a percipient— but when perceived it has definite and intricate characteristics; it is not vague. It consists of structure but a V.P. 17 percipient is necessary for that structure to come into being. But the structure is not in the percipient's mind imposed or projected onto reality. Valis did not exist until it was perceived; therefore to experience it is to effect a repair in the ground of being (Valis being considered as the ground of being). One highly important element about Valis is that it is eternal, although it changes; it can be added to, become more complex, arborizing and reticulated, but once a contituent is incorporated into it that constituent can never cease to be. Thus Valis lies outside the flux of the world we see. However, Valis' world is this world differently perceived, not another world; but it is a quantum leap upward in hierarchy, in which plural constituents become a unity by reason of integrating structure. That structure is added —supplied— by the percipient.1 Valis and the perception of Valis occur simultaneously, and neither can be separated from the other, ever, at any time. Valis is everywhere — that is, it can be perceived every¬ where. It is not in a meta reality but is a meta system made entirely from this reality. 1 By perceiving Valis he participates in the sudden total transformation from plural unrelated constituents to a unitary structure. It is as if Valis feeds off the percipient's perception of structure, using perception of structure as structure. But this is an acausal relationship, a kind of parallelism; it is ex nihilo. Valis came out of nothing. Reality did not evolve into Valis. It became Valis when perceived as Valis. There are no antithetical forces in Valis; the dialectic does not exist when Valis does. But when Valis ceases to exist, there again is the dialectic. Valis -3- uses the dialectic to come into greater being, to grow, assimilate its environment, incorporate new pieces, make itself more inclusive and complex: more Valisish. Valis could be compared to the point at which a liquid becomes saturated or when water freezes, except that perception of this is necessary for it to occur. What if I were to say, Ice is water seen a certain way? There you have an analogy. Even more strange, Valis induces a potentient percipient to perceive it and thus cause it (Valis) to occur...thus it can be said that during its nonexistence Valis is able to cause its own existence. At the time that it laid down steps to bring itself into existence it did not yet exist. Thus it treats time differently than we do; it is not passive in relation to time. When it thus brings itself into existence it is already an extensive system. Hence one can say, Valis comes and goes but is always in a sense present. The percipient sees Valis because Valis causes the percipient to see it, but Valis did not come into existence until the percipient saw it. Thus the effects of Valis are felt before Valis exists, and these effects are to be regarded as acausal; they have no cause because their cause does not yet exist. It will exist later; then, retroactively, these effects will have had a cause. What is represented here is total homeostasis: an entity that is entirely self-generating, on which nothing acts but its own internal volition. Therefore in a sense it can be said that Valis is (or becomes) anything that acts to cause it to come into existence, which is to say, by perceiving it. This involves laws of physics about which we know nothing, I would think. What certainly is involved, indubitably, is not a more complex entity than we normally know of or have ever heard of, but an entity operating under laws different from the laws we are aware of, including ontological categories of perception organized in ways we have never heard of. Greater complexity is not the key to Valis; utilizing of more complex physics is the key to Valis. In a certain real sense Valis is very simple; it is a unit. You could think of it as a protozoon, a single cell at a higher level of reality, where the laws of space, time and causation are different; and it makes use of that difference. We humans are very complex forms that matter takes at this ontological level of reality, or, if you will, at this level of physics; Valis is a very simple organization at the next level up. The billions of constituents of our level form a single cell at its level; these constituents are subsumed and yet at the same time at this level of reality they go about their business as usual. So in a sense Valis has no effect on this world. But in another sense it has complete control of this world. Both statements are equally true, depending on whether you can see Valis or not. This especially applies to the patterns that Valis is or creates in our world in which broad sequences of events add up to a coherency. It can be said: There is coherence; there is not coherence. Coherence and Valis are the same. Since Valis in a very literal way is our world, its internal structure is a latent (concealed) coherence of our world (all the constituents of Valis are elements of our world; it —Valis— has nothing else to draw on and it needs nothing else to draw on). Thus it is possible when viewing Valis to view Valis as our world and our world as Valis. -5- One can say of Valis, then, that Valis is x a way our world can be seen to be. Its structure is the structure of our world. Develop¬ ments in Valis are developments in our world. Volition in Valis is volition in and of our world. There is no difference between Valis and our world except that Valis is a certain way of seeing our world in terms of it being a kind of single unit all parts of which are interconnected purposefully and