the Logos. This is how it created the universe: out of itself: plurality out of primal unity. I reversed (abolished?) time. XXI 12-7-80 1 The Logos --by being the Logos-- is how Jesus upon his death can be the Cosmic Christ, penetrating and assimilating the world; it is how the macrometasomakosmos (with the reticulated phylogons) could be: the Logos is the explanation. Teilhard de Chardin didn't have to depend only on the Captivity letters; he knew the Alexandrian Logos doctrine and could see how it applies to Christ now. The key statement is there in VALIS: I describe Valis invading the world, and I designate this as the rational invading the irrational. This is clearly the Logos, which is the principle of reason (rationality) in the universe. Thus, in writing VALIS, I saw the situation --I understood what I had seen in 3-74-- with astounding clarity. Teilhard de Chardin figured it out by studying the Captivity letters and everything he could get his hands on re the non-Christian Logos. Remember: when Paul's Captivity letters were written the Fourth Gospel did not yet exist. Paul may not have known of an identification between Christ and the Logos. The flux, spatiotemporal, material universe (creation) feeds into the Logos, the macrometasomakosmos (Valis) and serves to perfect and complete it. Therefore the Logos is the real creation, the real world, and ours is a means to it as end; it is literally defeating, dismantling and assimilating our universe. So the Logos does not just act to regulate our universe; at the First Advent (possibly) it invaded our creation and is now consuming it, by transubstantiation, the "drop of wine poured into the glass of water," as the Stoics put it. So it is the real creation. Could it be said that originally the Logos disintegrated, pluralized and differentiated itself into/as our universe; reached a midpoint, and now reintegrates itself back out of this multiplicity? If so, I am on to the heaviest and most original theology since the N.T. (I took what I learned/saw --i.e. what was revealed to me-- in 2-3-74, added it to the Projapati myth and then to the various Logos doctrines. The universe, then, is not just regulated by the Logos; it is the Logos, and this is a process; it is becoming the Logos (once again?). Our spatiotemporal universe is here only to serve the reticulation and arborizing of the Logos, its evolution from simplicity to complexity, the actualization of everything latent --implicit-- in it. This Logos is the crucified Christ. But what is strange is that in 2-3-74 I saw what seemed to be indications that the spatiotemporal universe is only semireal (as Plato taught; and while I'm at it: Philo -7-80 developed his Logos idea to explain that Plato's eide exist in a mind, and that mind Philo called Logos rather than Nous; further, in 3-74 1 saw the macrometasomakosmos and it looked to be made up of abstract Forms --which I called phylogons-- indicating that what I saw existed in a mind, and that mind was Valis or was Valis' depending on whether Valis has a physical existence or not; so I did see what Philo was talking about; I did, then, see the Logos). Does this mean that our universe was never real in the first place (shades of Gnostic acosmism!) I don't know what to make of it. Plato, I guess, was right; the flux world isn't really; nothing in it has einai; it never truly is; it is always becoming but never is. But the Logos is, I mean the macrometasomakosmos. Is that why the Logos invaded our universe (I feel that it did, and this accords with Scripture)? It is the real life form on this planet, and it remembers everything that ever happened anywhere on this planet; it has all this stored as information. Thus it contains the entire history of this planet in a perpetual now. What is it? Where did it come from? How long has it been here? Why is it here? Why doesn't anyone but me know about it? Is it the Logos? If not -- it not only remembers everything that happens, it controls the flow of these happenings by means of its control of causation and its engramming of human minds subliminally, so it does more than remember; it causes to be what comes to pass. Everything that happens in our flux world is its internal information metabolism. We see this internal information metabolism only partially; there is a whole "second signal" to which we are occluded; were we to see it completely we would see the activity of a macrobrain, which we are in. Also, its time-rate is different from ours; it is related to time in a way totally different from the way we are. I am not sure it is in time at all; what we call "time" may be --as Kant says-- an ordering structuring of our own minds, not in the world itself. Nothing passes away for it; all is retained, but all is structured. It is --I keep saying this-- it is attacking, defeating, dismantling and assimilating our universe --the not it-- piece by piece, placing each piece in the exact spot of its own metasoma that it wants it, a vast kosmos in Pythagoras' sense. Its information traffic pours around us, only dimly seen by us; more: it uses our information communications media as a carrier -- unknown to us, occluded from us. Does it occlude us? And if so, why? Why doesn't it want us to know it is here? 12-7-80 3 Our world --our reality-- is like a record groove onto which Valis has encoded information Which it later retrieves. Our whole world is a "groove" that it plays back, as internal communication, its information metabolism; it is all brain, but its thoughts are physical, and our physical reality is the medium for that information, those thoughts. So it is a brain, not an immaterial mind. Here' s a clue: I discovered that it uses Acts as an encoding-decoding lens/grid. What does that imply? Is it simply because the Bible is the most widely distributed and published book on this planet? Or does this point to Christ/the Logos? This use of Acts could not have been disinformation (as some of the other things may have been); through this grid/lens you can see the world properly; you get both signals, i.e. the complete reality. Why is that? It must be Christ the Logos. Through the Acts grid/lens one can see that in fact no time has passed; which is why it is said, "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." The Acts grid/lens allows (enables) things to look the same; i.e. a constant is restored, what I call a morphological arrangement in contrast to semireal spatio-temporality; it is in this morphologically-arranged world, above space and time that Valis exists, although it has some relationship to the spatiotemporal flux world; it makes use of it. I just came to a momentous realization. Valis is conscious and aware; it perceives and understands; but it does not think in the language digital sense that our left hemispheres engage in; its field of attention is absolute, but, as with Zen, in a state of pure no-thought. Although it absolutely comprehends, is pure reason, it does not analyze; it perfectly knows. Its perception and its comprehension are identical. Its field of absolute consciousness is --in terms of thinking-- blank, even though it processes information, verbal information, which it arranges in physical form, as its metabolism. Conscious. Yet neither thinks or speaks -- unless the Al voice is it; but I doubt that. Yet it can convey information based on its thoughtless comprehension, as a sort of transduction. The clue is: everything it knows it knows a priori. That is why it need not think, perhaps. Knowing and thinking are not the same. If Christ is the Logos, and the Logos is pure reason, and Christ combats Satan, then is Satan anti-reason? The irrational? That is what I am saying in VALIS; that is how I conceive the dialectical combat. 12-8-80 2 An idea: the dialectic is the tension resulting from the interaction between what he [God] wills and what he allows. The corpus of what he allows is, by definition, out from under his control: it has/assumes a life of its own. It is his job to will additions that will cause pattern completions that amount to enantiondromias of the totality embracing both what he wills and what he allows; added together, they must fit into the general plan, for the good. If he did not allow as well as will, we would have a closed determinist system such as Spinoza imagines; I had left out the element of what he allows, until he explained it to me in 11-17-80; I left it out because once one perceives and understands that his will is law, one automatically thinks that it drives --motivates and initiates and controls-- everything, a sort of machine. He would have to deliberately suspend his will for there to be something allowed, and the fact of this does not follow a priori; I did not know about it upon seeing Valis and Valis' ability to control --will-- events, including the actions of people, supplying retroactive motivations, really "motivations" in quotes. But, he explains, he also allows. (Somewhere I have notes on this, but I remember it clearly, that he explained this to me; he explained that this was something I had failed to take into account; and because I had failed to take it into account my explanation of the total system was faulty.) So this might be the dialectic. What he wills would be, by its very nature, more intelligent that what he allows; viz: what he wills is based on his own omniscience, but what he allows is less than totally rational, less than totally lucid, so as a bulk it would be a less intelligent inferior side of a dialectical tension coming into existence between the two. He must integrate the two --thesis (what he wills) and antithesis (what he allows)-- into one higher synthesis, and this may be the dialectic that I saw: it is the basis of all change in history. And in the lives of individuals. Thus the wise horn of the dialectic is not God --which means that Valis is not God-- but God's will expressed in and on world. There is a difference between God and the "magnetic field" set up by his will on "the iron filings" that are the world. Yes, this would be the rational invading the irrational (Valis invading the world); the rational is his will; the irrational is what he allows. The two 12-8-80 3 contend in antithetical combat. Why, then, Valis is the in-breaking of God, the Kingdom (Kingship) of God! I reached this conclusion without knowing where I was going with my train of ideas! Valis is God's sovereignty in-breaking -- and I saw it. It has already happened: invisibly, concealed, small, like a "mustard seed"; it is here now. The exercise of his will (the arrangement of the "iron filings" by "the magnetic field") is the in-breaking Jesus spoke of; and it did take place, just as Jesus promised. There is a good possibility that it is exercised for God by the Logos; I don't know. (Valis as the Logos or Cosmic Christ, then, once again.) But I was absolutely right in VALIS, to designate Valis as the rational invading the irrational. Now I equate this with God's will versus what he allows / has allowed. Next I equate this will with the Kingdom (Kingship) of God, which was promised. If it --God's sovereign will-- had been here all the time I would not have perceived Valis as invading! I think I just did it; I reason it out that Valis (1) is not God; this must be