on whether you can see Valis or not. This especially applies to the patterns that Valis is or creates in our world in which broad sequences of events add up to a coherency. It can be said: There is coherence; there is not coherence. Coherence and Valis are the same. Since Valis in a very literal way is our world, its internal structure is a latent (concealed) coherence of our world (all the constituents of Valis are elements of our world; it —Valis— has nothing else to draw on and it needs nothing else to draw on). Thus it is possible when viewing Valis to view Valis as our world and our world as Valis. -5- One can say of Valis, then, that Valis is x a way our world can be seen to be. Its structure is the structure of our world. Develop¬ ments in Valis are developments in our world. Volition in Valis is volition in and of our world. There is no difference between Valis and our world except that Valis is a certain way of seeing our world in terms of it being a kind of single unit all parts of which are interconnected purposefully and everything is coherent (in other words it is precisely what Pythagoras called kosmos: the orderly fitting-together of the beautiful). Viewed this way it operates from internal necessity without the need of any sort of adventitious deity. It is not world to God —creation to Creator— but having its own logic and making its own choices. It chooses continually after examining all the possible choices arranged as information into a sort of narrative made out of language. Nothing created it; it brought itself into being ex nihilo by willing the perception of it — of necessity from within itself, which is a self-awareness. Thus the percipient of Valis and Valis are part of one field. The flux world is real because the dialectic is real, and it is the mechanism by which Valis advances up the ladder of its own evolution — Valis, then, is not static. It is permanent but this is a dynamic permanence. Equilibrium must always exist in Valis; the antiethical forces of the dialectic are in a secret partnership in and as Valis. This is why Valis' main device in dealing with the flux world —in order to use it to generate new bits for Valis— is enantiodromia, the conversion or backward turning of something when it reaches an extreme into its opposite. It is by this and this mainly if not alone that Valis evolves. -6- Possibly we would see Veils as a flicker of on-off, on-off, on-off, a flip-flop back and forth in its ceaseless dialectic that is in it but beneath it or rather enclosed within the palintropos harmonie of Valis; Valis as our world is this flip-flop; Valis as a coherence is palintropos harmonie. All this is very much what Heraclitus taught and he would probably have called Valis Logos. EB macro article on Taoism: (Alchemical techniques) "The aim of nei tan was to reverse the normal vibal processes leading to old age and death.1 Instead of externalizing vital energies2 especially sexual energies the Yin and Yang forces of the body are made to unite in a hierogamy (holy marriage)3 and to create the 'elixir of life,' the 'golden flower,' the 'mysterious embryo,' the 'infant4 i.e. the new immortal being that eventually leaves the mortal body through the occiput (the top of the skull) and ascends to Heaven5." 1This is what happened in 3-74 and why I didn't die; why I feel that my karma got burned up or dissipated harmlessly. I was given new and additional life, and experienced a vast surge of psychic energy. 2I experienced enantiodromia of my waning energies; I was "born again" or "born from the spirit" or "born from above." 3The opposites in my total psyche which had contended and worn me down became suddenly united in the mysterium coniunctionis, the Western alchemical term for the Chemical Wedding (of psychic opposites); this is the true goal of both Western and Chinese alchemy. 4This is what I called Firebright. I could feel him there, and knew that he had been born in my brain or mind or psyche. 5 I knew that Firebright was a spiritual creature and would not die when I died; he would ascend to the pleroma — i.e. to heaven. Thus I am saying that 3-74 had distinctly Taoist overtones, including that of Taoist alchemy. What led me to that was my realization that my description of Valis, especially during these pages written today, sounds very much like a description —in fact a deliberate description— of the Ch'ang Tao, the Absolute, with the two sides of the dialectic being Yang and Yin (the aspects that I saw them possessing during my fusion with Valis* mind in 3-74 revealed them to have the aspects assigned to Yang and Yin respec¬ tively; and of course the dialectic is Taoist, the interaction of Yang and Yin. What really made me aware of this was when I found that I described enantiodromia as the basic function by which Valis operated in terms of this dialectic; and that Valis —the Tao— is somehow a unity above or within or beyond the dialectic: "Lao-tzu used the name Tao also, however, for the ineffable reality, experienced in ecstasy, that lies at the origin of the universe and behind or within appearances. This permanent Tao (ch'ang tao) comes nearest to what other religions and mysticisms call the Absolute." "All parts of the universe are attuned in a rhythmical pulsation. Nothing is static; all beings are subjected to periodical mutations and transformations that represent the Chinese view of creation. Instead of being opposed with a static ideal, change itself is systematized and made intelligibiel, as in the theory of the five phases (wu-hsing) and in the 64 hexagrams of the I CHING which are basic recurrent constellations in the general flux1. An unchanging unity (the permanent Tao) was seen as underlying the kaleidoscopic plurality.” 1what for me are the phylogons, which I identify somewhat —but only somewhat— with Plato's forms. But after all, I am a Westerner. Well, frankly it would seem that I had a somewhat Platonized version of Taoist ecstatic experience with the Absolute. I had some experience with the Christian Absolute (the Godhead), some with the Platonist and NeoPlatonist (the One), with Brahman...but my inquiry has certainly just now —surprisingly— lead me toward Taoism, my old, old stamping-ground. In Taoism we have the flux; we have the constants in the flux; we have the dialectic —and between two sides very similar if not identical to Yang and Yin, or to Parmenides' Forms I and II— and most of all, there is Valis which I see fits the description of the Ch'ang Tao: "An unchanging unity (the permanent Tao) was seen as under¬ lying the kaleidoscopic plurality...ineffable reality, experienced in ecstasy, that lies at the origin of the universe and behind or within appearances.” And the Taoist alchemical events seem to correspond with my becoming revitalized and not dying; the union of the opposites within me; and, most of all, Firebright, "the mysterious embryo," the "infant,” the new immortal being that eventually leaves the mortal body through the occiput (the top of the skull) and ascends to heaven,” obviously when I die. Could my years of studying and using the I CHING be the historic cause of 3-74? And UBIK is really a study of Taoism; the dialectic, with Ubik being the ineffable Ch'ang Tao (melded by me with the Logos, since I am a Westerner). What is really pointed to is; the Absolute is no-sectarian; it is Christian and Brahmanist and Platonist and Taoist all at once. If it really is the Absolute, this should be expected. The "Both is and is not" of Valis means, perhaps, that it is above being; it embraces being and non-being. 3-74, then, divides into two elements; (1) The Taoist alchemical (hierogamy, revitalization, birth of the "mysterious embryo," etc). (2) The ecstatic union with the Ch'ang Tao (Valis, both as mind in me and reality outside me). Plus Christian anamnesis. The result of all three: divine and eternal life. The hierogamy in you —reconciliation of the opposites-- makes you like Valis the Tao (micro- macrocosm correspondence): above the dialectic and flux; and so you can see the Tao (Valis) because you are like it; in fact you are in a microcosmic sense it. This is the secret partnership that I wrote about: it is precisely a hierogamy, a divine wedding concealed from us; it takes place in the macrocosm the Tao (Valis) and sometimes in a person. My 3-74 revelation that Valis grew continually from the dialectic, due to enantiodromia, is a revelation that Valis itself is above the flux world in some real sense; put another way, beyond and behind and immanent within the flux world there is something that transcends it and its processes and is permanent; then when I saw the world as Valis I saw that it was unitary. Although I stress the cumulative aspect of the effect of the dialectic and flux on Valis, the real significance is that something (Valis) is beyond the flux, is itself not in flux, and gains from the flux, and never perishes (more specifically, it selects from the flux whatever pieces it wishes and from them forms a progressively evolving kosmos -—not its artifact but its own self; this accretional cumula¬ tive factor is a new revelation not known to Zoroastrianism nor to Taoism; the Absolute using the flux world of the plurality as a stockpile to eternally complete itself as kosmos; also, that this kosmos —Valis— this unity, this meta entity is a way of viewing our world as such and is only true when perceived; but it causes perception of itself. So, as in all other respects, it is its own cause. I suddenly realized; this latter aspect ("it exists only when perceived") means that it —Valis— urges the flux world on toward greater and greater consciousness, and by so doing generates itself» Hierogamy means equilibrium. This is what characterizes Valis over and against (beyond, in and behind) the flux world where the opposites contend in dialectic strife. So there is a cosmic (macrocosmic) hierogamy when it is perceived...I am sticking to that idea. I can't explain why, but I believe that the correspodence between a microcosmic hierogamy and macrocosmic is necessary for both (for either to exist). The world of the permanent phylogons that exists in Valis is mirrored by the phylogenic world that occurs in the person upon anamnesis. He discovers by memory a little permanent universe that is himself and is in himself, stretching back thousands of years, a little kosmos that cannot perish. This is the microcosmic analog to Valis' kosmos of the phylogons. As it is on high, so it is below. Strife below; strife on high. Hierogamy below; hierogamy on high (i.e. Valis or the Tac). In other words it is like perceiving like; you cannot perceive Valis unless you have the equilibrium within you, and you cannot have it within you unless the hierogamy occurs. And that, too, like Valis, is self-caused: reaching back in time to set up the preconditions for its own coming into existence. The hierogamy is itself a manifestation of the Absolute which wills its own self into being; that is, it has power over its own esse which is derived from nothing else: its Being is not imparted to it, nor did anything in any way give rise to it. Valis has a necessary relationship to the flux world of the dialectic; without the flux world and the dialectic, Valis would become static rather than growing and perfecting itself. So I repeat: the flux world is not an artifact with Valis the artificer. The flux world is, so to speak, the metabolism of Valis, somehow within and contained by