or else my body is nowhere i or it all. what I know now vie i 31 that part is that the shrilling radio is indica of the person (me) waking from a hypnotized state. Thomas' being awakened can either be rewed as a malfunction or as a Xtian technique by which we are "born again": viz: brought to actual con‐ sciousness - where upon we discover that our body is in more than one time + place, which is to say, our world is irreal, + I am back to my recent concept that it's our own very old + for‐ gotten memories fed back to us as world. We are obviously in the power under the control - of the 3-eyed cybory people, who study us: they are on the other side of the glass, in-breaking in the uncanny one way which leve discusses. Xtians are knowing invaders whove sneaked in here to wake us up + make us aware of our enslavement (als ob in cold-pac). Our real abode is a prison; ergo we are prisoners kept in deep sleep. "Born from above" means waking up (as witness the shrilling radio). 1) We lie asleep in an irreal world based on our own archaic forgotten memory contents - i.e. contents of our own brains. This is servitude. 2) Christ + Xtians wake us up, when one of us wakes up he becomes a further Christos. "Christ" identifies the wakeful consciousness, which probably exists in what is future to us, ) My Bardo Thodol trip was neither dying nor being born but, precisely, waking up + when I woke up I saw the plasmate info + Valis. 4) It is possible that out sleep is giftia e i a poisoned sleep, hence the cryptic original mention of the bichlorides as poison. At Childhood (from the start). Or analogous to poisoned intoxicated - died n ta ( t p The Golden Fish sign starts a complex series of states of disinhibition: arousal! This long complex disinhibiting can only be understoon in terms of arousal [from sleep). It require these factors to set it off in me 6) sensory depriva , so that 1) intense fear. internal time got 2) intense physical pain. out synch + West faster + 3) disinhibiting stimulus - faster. 4) at time of sodium pentathol. 5) Recognition of events as my own memory contents. only due to all + perhaps more I was successfully aroused; i.e. I woke temporarily up whereupon I saw information processing. They ar using our brains for some kind of information processing - very likely memory. They have severely occluded us as part of the toxic sleep + forget fulness. Our space-time continua are irreal but these are not dreams: they are like a holo‐ gram: technologically projected. Valis is aristotles teleological entity which "stimulates goal seeking" on our parts. It is possible, even likely, that the goal it seeks (it being a camouflaged invader into our c world) is to initiate + carry to completion the long + difficult process of waking us up out of our toxic sleep which otherwise is endless. It is, of course, the epitome of the benign (i.e. Ubik). put another way, if intense pain + fear are necessary to the arousal process, people will dvoid arousal in their attempt to escape intense pain + fear. These could even be barriers preventing -in bo ser ul ite if the arousal. 9) proximity to death: running the "tape" past the death strip. 8) Flushing (done by me with lithium + ws vitaming in huge doses) of neural tissue. I have one major piece of evidence to add to the "shrill + strident radio" as evidence of waking up - of being aroused from a life long hypnoidal state: the conscious awareness in 3-74 - i.e. when fully aroused - of symbols (visual) + auditory information on which I had [been] engrammed through out my life (by Valis, presum ably); viz: nude female torso + fish teeth necklace - certain beatles: tracks, these were now no longer at work subliminally, + I could see Valis + the 2-mode rest-motion binary system by which it (Valis) operates I (+ presumably everyone else) is normally under such controls as these unaware of it + unaware of Valis the engramming entity at work. was aroused - + Thomas was I the result. + he was not me + not living in this century The Acts material in "Tears" suggests Thomas asleep + dreaming his world, thinking about it the motor centered as he to control B 31) was able to do when he awoke. This is true of us when we dream: we think + we experience a world, but we do not have any power over the motor centers. It resembles an in utero state. slight - but important- variation of this a theory (supra) strikes me. Thomas was in fact waking himself up. The situation extant at the time was not just a means to wake him but divides into two subgroups: 1) elements serving to wake him 2) dangerous elements whose existence required that he wake, that he might deal with them viewed this way, I reason: Thomas foresaw from the beginning the danger crisis of 3-74. He there‐ ore put clues about 2-3-74 in my writing; e.g. Faith," "MITHC," "Scanner," "Tears," "Ubik" etc. de engrammed on stimuli which would finally pay off slightly before the crisis of 3-74; thus he worked backward from 2-74 to prior Gestalts of those of 2-3-74. This is what the material in the writing signifies. The implication is that Thomas knew everything from the start. So what does this imply he is? I am him asleep; he is me awake. But This makes me a cover for him. Thomas recognized 2-3-74. How? "He worked backward from it." How? Second time around? wo All I know that I didn't previously know is that he woke up in me, rather than entered (enthusian smos). How does he relate to Valis? 316) Thomas had no power to resist the disin‐ hibiting process initiated by the Golden Fish. He had no choice but to wake up - like any hypno‐ tized person. Then the real mind lies outside all the Thomases - those in hypnotic sleep being fed their forgotten memories as world. In or out, It is not up to them. The real mind can fire whatever signals it wishes to them + they see + experience + believe as instructed. If it can wake one of them up it can not wake one of them up if it wishes. This is clear. Thus I deduce Valis a priori without the need of experiencing it a postiori although I did experience it a ostiori. Thomas was asleep in death; he had lived his life + died, + yet Valis could recall him to existence; i.e. arouse him once more + with him - of course - his world still extant. World + This arousal self are Magdabourg hemispheres. infringed on me + my world (like one am radio signal at one frequency infringing on a neigh boring one). At its maximum. It had the motor centers of my body yet was in CE 45, + Rome. This is only possible if my body is really nowhere (v. supra "Valis" citation) Thus a somewhat different explanation comes to me. Info storage + retrieval (play back). Latent - active modes (i.e. stored - retrieved or played back: tracked], this fits the two made t passim-active states I saw, with Valis mak the selection). The latent state is like a dream state: world (based on forgotten memories) is ceaselessly fed to the individual brain to keep it from going nots - degenerating - due to sensory deprivation. Thomas had been in this latent recycling antique world until ceaselessly sta 31 arousal was induced, at which point there was a switch over from latent (storage) to active (retrieval); this infringed me tem‐ porarily out. Hence as he was aroused, I died; we switched modes. (Were caused to; neither of us decided.) So Thomas replaced me + coped. The emphasis here is on Valis who aroused Thomas + put me into storage (latent) rather than on Thomas per se. what emerges from this is something which can be - + was - inferred from the billions of phosphene graphics: an infinitude of stored information which can be retrieved by Valis whenever it wishes, effortlessly. A ratio of latent (incorrectly regarded as poten tial) to actual of trillions to one. not only was Thomas (CE 45 Rome) + his world retrieved, it was retrieved at my expense + at the expense of my world. I got served up old memories as My "world" - Thomas awake + I was put into reccle: so I got my own books + my stories back at me - + could have been kept in that "world" indefinitely writing is an inexhaustible store of "world" - i.e. stimulation to my brain to keep it from deteriorating. Thomas (as I correctly say in "Valis") got paid off with the "Behold ... we shall not all sleep, but we shall be changed" etc promised him. 88 Valis can restore all the apostolic Xtians effortlessly. + this means their world. This realization all stems from grasping that Thomas neither entered me signalled e nor aroused himself; he w into arousal + had no choice but to be n once again - + in this world as well as his own (physical resurrection!) Here the recovery of prior forms, as is dealt with in "Ubik" must be considered since (it always seems to be in "Ubik"!) everything call time continua) will eventually become prior forms, then everything can be retrieved + nothing is lost There is no evidence that this (1974/9) is a real present + not a retrieved (i.e. replayed) present; in fact there is evidence to the contrary: "Ubik," "Tears," "MITHC," + esp regarding the Xerox missive, a "Faith." most of all, the infringement by Thomas ti his space-time. Thomas + his world. Then, are to be regarded as retrieved + hence existing now (otherwise the term "retrieved" signifies nothing). someone + his world has no say-so in being retrieved (played back: the active mode). "... + all the modern prophets who have seen that slave revolts are rational Acts but wars of nationhood are not, who have called for new definitions of madness + sanity, + who have not been afraid to diagnose the insanity of those most rational (Dionysos war-makers" managerial of mes in America 319 slave revolts" those in gray robes rushing away from + out of, in glee, from those metal buildings they have blown up; i.e. The BIP. This is the historic archetype key: slave revolts, + what is sanity + what madness? Xtianity as the ultimate - + ultimately success ful - slave revolt because ultimately led (by the mysterious immortal + ubique entity Christ). It falls to this man + then that to be Christ within a given historic situation. Christ so to speaks breaks out, is aroused (by what I call Valis, which seems to be the final governing force totally with Christ as its agent) Valis is superior technology. "God God is a superior technology, but who is using it I have no idea. I realized this last night. Spinoza's argument that God works through - not contra- natural causes could lead to the conclusion, upon seeing a miracle, that a high technology was involved. Almost every‐ thing that I saw had to do with information processing, + it seemed as if natural law has This was the strange utilized. At least pretextually. thing. This is what gave rise to my idea of camou‐ flage. The true agency wraps itself within the natural. It's like a play. The phone must ring if someone is to pick it up + say hello. (Even though in fact there is