can only conclude that there is no mass salvation. It does not work that way. Why, this means Christ did in fact return (at the time of Acts. So the other realm is at that time + place. It is the time + place of Acts because that is when + where he returned Christ 9 My good God - then look at what "Valis discloses: not only is it a hand book + manifesto for revolution but it states that Christ is in some strange but real sense here ("camouflaged," as I put it in "Valis"). What an extraordinary concept: Christ here camouflaged. The eidos is firmly anchored here + now. Acts is here + now, working, like our aspect, off this eidos or rather these eide. My satori on the way to the post office is decisive; it is based on invincible logic - a logical realization that, having come to me, I cannot lose; it is one-way - which explains why it struck so forcibly, uniquely so. What saw that I call "Acts" cannot be there + then; it must be here + now. It was it not "recovered" by memory (anamnesis). was perceived due to a comprehension of the state of things now. then, upon my seeing the Xtian Golden Fish sign, my brain at that time (2-74) on an averbal level performed the meta-abstract ion that this Friday last on my way to the post office I performed logically - verbally as an inexorable sequence (as put forth on the two post cards); what I did on Friday was - at last - raise that sequence into fell a consciousness - which is why into a trance state unique for me. It wasn't a new thought (Satori); it was the satori (meta‐ verbal; at on) of 2-74 but now conscious + abstrack 20 last - seven years later - I had performed based on the meta-abstraction consciously - the "one mother three times, not three Mothers" model (which was described in The letter I was mailing!). This event was like any time you bring into con‐ sciousness something previously uncon‐ scious that has profoundly influenced you; it is, psychologically-speaking, moment of vast importance. I've been trying for seven years to do this; my first big break was last october. There was where (when) I first began to understand my own unconscious operation of 2-74 which opened up a whole other world to me but it was in 2-74 that I understood. premise: 1) It is impossible that one object can exist at two times + two places. 2) This object (Xtian Golden Fish sign) is seen to exist at Acts + at USA 1974. Therefore: Here the realization (meta-abstraction) occurs. to reason that there are two Xtian Golden Fish signs is to make the elementary mistake believing that there are two mothers. of Thus: A) the concept of the forms is arrived at which is the ultimate realization that Plato urges on us. But: B) "two times + two places" signifies nothing. spatiotemporality as an ordering category is abolished. Plato did not see this. The eidos which is singular + unitary can pluralize itself because the pluralization is illusory. 21 Plato grasped this, hence he spoke of the t flux (phenomenal) world as "semireal real only insofar as particulars participated in eide (or eide in particulars); other than in this respect, the particulars were irreal. Now what I think happened in 2-74 is that I spotted a message from the other 45 angle reality coaxial with ours, + leaped to precisely this realization - which was then copiously confirmed (just one example being the two parallel texts or message-systems in "Tears"). In other words I conceived of set-ground when I understood what the Golden Fish sign was ("sign used by the early Xtians"). I was right too as the events of March 1974 proved. I uncovered another reality ("aspect") working off a common essence or axis our own. Blended aspect into our owndby some kind of mechanism That I don't pretend to understand. In some way these aspects can overlap without being discriminated by us: they are not discrete. (of course not: they utilize the same eide; The doctrine - concept- of eide must be completely understood + accepted.) (This is why glimpsed the MMSK, which is the actual, conceptual structure of reticulated arborizing eide - it is the true reality. won't strike suddenly realized: "Valis" my "cult following" as evidence that I've sole out: it contains (as I have noted) a revolution ary political doctrine linked to "Tears." 22 It is impossible that one object can exist at two tims and as two places. t This object (colden fish sign) is seen to exist at Acts and at U.S.A. 1974. Therefore "two times and two places" signifies nothing. Therefore, following the above realization, the division between Acts and USA 1974 vanishes; the two spatiotemporal sets superip, ose They are based on --working off-- common eide; thus now the person not only experiences the two spatiotemporal sets blended together, he also comprehends the forms (eide). The two spatiotemporal sets had a common essence, and this common essence is revealed to him by the manifestation of the same object -- which is actually an eidos showing up as two particulars-- at two times and two places. fact I would say that "Valis" is far in revolutionary + political than anything more I've done before, since in addition to a revolutionary (i.e. radical left) perception of society it adds an urging to action; + all history is involved. (Hegelian dialectic.) most of all by unifying my epis temology, my theology + my historic view with my [radical] politics, "Valis" presents a comprehensive structure not found in my previous works. As I realized on some previous pages, "Valis" is the logical outcome of "Tears, "dies irae, "scanner. But is more than the sum of them (also, my epistemology of my "10 volume meta novel" is involved). 23 1) it is impossible that one object can exist at two times + two places. 2) This object (Xtian Golden Fish sign) is seen to exist at Acts + at USA 1974. 3) Therefore Acts + USA 1974 are both here + both now, despite what we believe about time + space, despite what we have learned about such terms as "Here, now, there, Then" - i.e. categories of space + time: i.e. the way we regularly order perception. Hence: spatiotemporality is irreal. But also: At this point the meta-abstraction to the Forms occurs [but) it is based on the logic of premise one (supra). So some‐ thing comes before the meta-abstraction on which the meta-abstraction is based, + this prior step is in fact the primary lower level ubiquitous abstraction that I call the "one mother seen three times, not three mothers" abstraction, which is a rudimentary conception-perception of universals (Forms). So-to-speak a partial understanding of the existence of Forms. Now, at this point, the logic of the original abstraction serves as a basis by which the abstraction leaps to its own built-in conclusion. There has come about a conflict between this primary + totally necessary abstraction + the conventional use/acceptance of spation They cannot both be true temporality. 24 Each violates the premise of the other. Now, spatiotemporality is something we accept uncritically, whereas the "one mother three times, not three mothers" abstraction is an actual mental operation, + an absolutely necessary one (if there is to be any order - regularily - in flux). This evident conflict is resolved by perceiving that If the abstraction is pushed to its conclusion, a wholly unsuspected mode of ordering flux will arise, in other words: 1) The primary abstraction is for the express purpose of ordering [some] regularily into sense-data flux 2) So is sp tiotemporality - as Kant showed. at this point they clash. The brain sees the solution: if it performs the remaining logical operations in herent in the abstraction, it will achieve a new, higher, previously- unsuspected mechanism of ordering (i.e. it comprehends the Platonic Forms for the first time) + can resolve the clash in systems of ordering by this utilization of the universals at the expense of spatiotemporality; it sees that spatiotemporality is logically incommensurate with the abstraction +, further that the abstraction leads to a supreme unsuspected meta-abstracting way of ordering (by the Forms). the abstraction 25 + spatiotemporality clash because one is true + one is not, + it is the latter that is not; the brain simultan eously realizes two things, not one: 1) The Forms exist as the true order. 2) spatiotemporality does not. This is why the abstraction + spatiotemporality clashed, they are alternate ways of bringing order out but of chaos only if a situation happens to arise in which they clash headon is: 1) abstracting pushed to its ultimate conclusion: recognition of the Forms 2) + spatiotemporality is abandoned. So my seeing the Golden Fish sign presented my brain with a problem, but the solution lay latent within an ordering system long employed. Hence the resolution - twin insights was instantaneous. Hence no verbal logic Plato in his the was involved or required. theory of anamnesis is so close to the tragedy that (because he truth that it is a was denied Kant's analysis of spatiotemporately as a means by which the percipient organizes experience) he didn't realize that if the Forms existed, spatiotemporality was illusory, +, if illusory, the "Former" life was not + could not really be former! Although it was a genuine other "unremembered" life that suddenly got remembered, due to an external stimulus - "reminder." God, even with my knowledge of Kant; it's taken me years to figure this out. Knowledge of the "Forms de facto obliterates spatiotemporal ordering ur na a 26 Then it can be seen why Plato could not solve the problem as to how the unitary eidos pluralized itself in/as particulars at different space-time loce. The answer is: it doesn't. Plato was on the right track in regarding the particulars as only semireal. If he had understood that spatiotem porality is illusory he would have realized that this pluralization of an eidos is only seeming, due to our use of space, time + causation as modes of organizing flux. He was so close to the answer! What is real is the structure of interrelated eide that I saw that I call the MMSK. Somehow Malebranche's "intelligible archetypal ideas" are required to explain how + why we, as plural foci of perception observe particulars as pluralizations of the eide when in fact no pluralization occurs; it's due to the illusory fragmentation of the one real self discussed by Sankara + the Buddhist idealists; this too, is part of the grand illusion, these plural selves"! Plato did not press his insights far enough. I am saying is that in So what 2-74 I comprehended the eide, + this although Plato did not seem to 27 realize it, summarily abolishes the competing organizing system of spatiotemporality no one, Plato included, has ever realized (insofar as I know) that apper‐ ception of the eide is the pushing i the quantum leap - to its con‐ clusion of an organizing abstracting mechanism common to all higher creatures, one so fundamental Thus in that we are oblivious to it. a sense recognition of the eide is a normal process that customarily goes uncompleted. It is only com‐ pleted under certain specific, pre‐ cisely-defined circumstances: a situation in which the "one mother not 3" abstraction clashed headin with the use of spatiotemporality the former is inexorably logical + correct, the latter dubitable - so the latter falls; the former leaps to its ultimate stage - instantly, in the vacuum left by the collapse of belief in + reliance on the late gories of space, time, particulars + hence causation. What I am saying, then is that it is not recognized normally that the "3 mothers" abstracting + spatiotemporality