death as surrogate, + you living on into the postmortem life, but here, so that you are in the upper realm (as well as the lower) + hence restored to contact with God - i.e. as in before the Fall, with faculties restored. A major time dysfunction (?) occurs as the phylogenic -immortal- personality emerges + remembers, so you have the 4000 year slot present. But all this can't be done unless Christ dies for you; otherwise you simply die, + enter the postmortem world after death, as is normal, only sooner. This is the second birth (salvation; triumph over time + death). Postmortem-self + -world occur here, joining the this-world self to the postmortem self to produce a "parallaxis" self + hence world - vast spaces + time. You are in both worlds at the same time with expanded self to match. This is resurrection after death. Apparently Christ selects you; this is not something you can do on your own. As your inner tape advances out of synch, you are no longer "of" the world - literally, although in it (the inner + outer tapes become dysynchronized.) What has to be realized is: you are on some kind of tape, + that tape includes the post mortem life, so if you run it at fast forward + (this is essential) get Christ to die for you at the moment of transition, you will be born again (resurrected) in this world, + experience the postmortem world + contact with God; even see God. folder 48 - 157 folder 48 - 157 As to how Christ can die your death, well, since your tape is being advanced out of synch with outer reality, {Note} the external event causing your death comes later than its analog on your inner tape. The inner tape analog is not lethal; the external one is (for me the inner one came in 3-74 + the outer one in 8-74). Thus a mythic sacramental death occurs, not a literal one, the latter having been aborted or deflected by the dysynchronization. The first one simply advances you to the next world (after the Bardo Thodol trip), but the latter slays. However, it is now disjunctive with you, from a practical standpoint, the inner analog not being there. Death strikes at you but is deflected by this failure to have anything in you to link up with, + Christ accepts the blow. (In my case as Pinky.) He sacrifices himself + death is so to speak foiled or cheated. Judgment of you takes place; you see your psychopomp, the spirit of your religion - in my case the lovely singing woman driving the car. Christ has to be with you at both halves of the death: first the inner, then the outer, so in the interval between them he is physically present. During that period it is a journey you're taking together. Christ also takes onto himself the degradation involved in death. What a strange experience - the fading in of the next world, here! {Note:} V. p. 979. Inner tape slower not speeded. External events speed up. {...} folder 48 - 158 folder 48 - 158 But in addition to the dysynchronization of the two tapes + the surrogate death there was a taking-over of me to handle the reality situation threat: the Xerox missive. So I can isolate 3 components necessary for the triumph over death to work. Christ appears in two forms: (1) as wisdom -i.e. problem-solving- + (2) vicarious sacrifice. In fact he may take a 3rd form as Valis: Pantocrator. Decreeing how the universe will behave with him as its lord + judge - oh; Yes. Judge. In this role he selected me: eschatological judge. Yes; he would have to occupy both roles: have the power to control (lord) + the decision-making role (judge). He can interfere with (modulate) the total system from outside it. He is not subject to it. Nonetheless his decisions were decided from before creation + are in the Torah; in fact that is where they reside, as in a vast book which is consulted; it is the basis. It is as if the book is the real universe + the epiphenomenal one we experience is a readout, a playing of it; it as signal source. The existence of this signal (info) source book, making the universe epiphenomenal, would account for the programmed taped quality of events; they are output conforming to a model or input. Reality is not determined by its own antecedent self but by the "formula" - the Torah. But (I figure) Torah = St Sophia, + Christ is St Sophia. The book is alive + can - Lord; it can alter itself! Rewrite itself, which we experience as Christ's intervention. This is what I saw Valis doing - the modulating of reality. folder 48 - 159 folder 48 - 159 953 Isa 73:5 If the book changes, reality will undergo the "3 Women" sort of [retroactive?] change I saw, which will involve remastered memories. So the text regarding me changed! + of course this was experienced by me as an intervention by Christ (since he = St Sophia = the book (Torah)). It changed due to my helping the kids at Covenant House; I was retroactively adopted - as the AI voice told me. __ It is not a question of avoiding death per se - as if deflecting an arrow (e.g. keeping you from being run over). I have always thought of it this way: avoiding an untimely death. While this is involved, it is not the issue. The issue is that the death-moment is taken advantage of to bring on the postmortem life here (2nd birth). Death is the worst evil we are subject to, + it is converted into a means by which not only do you not die but instead reacquire the completeness that Plato taught us regarding the soul between incarnations - + it verifies the fact of immortality. I never realized this before. Not only do you not die but you are amped up into a totally different + type of being. Consider how extraordinary this is. The fact that you don't die at the appointed time is just for openers. This goes far beyond divine providence extricating folder 48 - 160 folder 48 - 160 you from peril, deadly peril. The deadly peril is converted -my God, it is death itself!- into the raw material for a - the lowest, worst raw material; talk about lead into gold! So the blow is not deflected; it comes (answering my query, why not just have the Xerox missive not sent?) + is made the raw material for exalted rebirth - death converted into life + superlife at that - this is it. I have tended to regard my beatific vision as a reward for doing the right thing, but I see now - well, I thought of it always in terms of pronoia: saving me from untimely death, as with the stoics. Then this is not pronoia (as such). More is involved. It is specifically the Xtian miracle of the 2nd birth. Broken down to be rebuilt into something better - I didn't realize until reading "The Dark-Haired Girl". + not just (sic!) death is involved (as e.g. in a sudden accident) but the breaking down of the person: (1) progressive destruction; (2) death; (3) rebirth into something better + new - postmortem. I have simply not understood what was at stake. Averting my determined untimely death? Not really. That would have been pronoia. Alone, it would folder 48 - 161 have been a miracle. Always I have seen it as an intervening that averted ananke or fate or astral determinism, as with the mystery religions - the god (e.g. Hermes Tristogistos reaching down through the "planetary spheres" + extricating me, setting me on safe ground - peril to safety. Like freeing the animal from the trap. No! Transformation from death (literal + spiritual) to life (literal + spiritual) but not the same life; an alchemy is involved. Reading "The Dark Haired Girl" over made me understand. My center was outside me; I was incomplete, + seeking what was missing, seeking it in the dark haired girl. My psychopomp / AI voice is female; it completes me. I have introjected "das ewig'e Weiblichkeit"! That incredible desperate search revealed in "The Dark Haired Girl" is over! In view of this I must totally rethink 2-3-74. This was not divine care by God but more (that + more): it was Xtian with tinges of Hermeticism - a stupendous conversion (+ pronoia). It consisted of: a realization about the secret reality of Xtianity underlying all the change-processes of world. + myself as one of them. I identified them + in the same instant I identified myself in terms of (as) them. This lifted me out of folder 48 - 162 folder 48 - 162 space + time + world + set a vast process in me in motion. I was not who + what I thought I was, but more important I knew who + what I really was instead. This soon reintegrated me as Thomas. Guess I am Thomas; he is the reborn me, so different that I sensed him as adventitious, as ex nihilo, + yet eternal: from the distant past. A meta self. But when I read "TDHG" I realized I am more Thomas than I am the former me. Consider my boundless + insatiable interest in spiritual matters - there's no sign of it in "TDHG" - yet I had a Bible with me in Canada. Yet consider how Acts read upon my seeing the cypher in "Tears" - the plasmate; the text became alive. It was a living thing, like my dreams of the pages of the Great Book. I was in touch with the information basis underlying the epiphenomenal world. Between what I experienced (2-74 to 2-75) + what I've learned - I experienced reality as knowledge - not reduced to information, but the primary information from which reality stems: what the rabbis call "the formula" for creation, + the answers to all problems - i.e. solutions (explanations). So in my incompleteness I was driven along a collision course with (to) disaster; but Valis (YHWH-Christ) converted the disaster into the raw materials out of which there came instantly (!) a new me, a complete me, yoked to Christ himself as the residing priest of this eucharist in which he sacrificed himself to renew me. folder 48 - 163 folder 48 - 163 + when I saw Valis -+ was communicated to by Valis- I saw him, the high priest presiding at this eucharist. The epiphenomenal universe became him, body + blood: the cosmic Christ. In "TDHG" it is evident that I am desperately trying to find a center (omphalos) for/to my life, but that I was failing; I was still "stateless." Now the wisdom of my recent moves is evident: living here, buying my apartment - leaving Tess, staying friends with Doris. In contrast to "TDHG" period I have found authenticity - Sein. I have made one wise decision after another. Look at my providing help to Messiah - contrast that to when I used to buy dope. Look at how I persevered with Doris re the cancer. Look what we've been through! It's like the Dodge. My life has stability, durability, prudence, creativity, + I am constantly learning + Getting involved with Joan was a good idea + splitting up with her was a good idea. Look; I am dealing with dreadful crippling phobias. I am at home here in this general area in this apartment specifically. I have it: pronoia + conversion + sanctification = salvation. Snatched from inner + outer death. The center shifts from outside you to inside you: you have God or Christ or the Holy Spirit in you at your core. So you are intrinsically complete. folder 48 - 164 folder