of priority I agree with fttbrnibrn Plotinus and Plato...but Heraclitus must be added or the view, the vision, is one-sided. My Taoist training teaches me that the phenomenal world is to some extent real. But not as real as the meta reality above, behind or within it — as my ten volume meta novel deals with. To sum up: the structured does not decompose into the unrelated disconnected plural; rather, Nous or God organizes the unrelated disconnected plural into the structured unity; this is creation, continuous creation outside (in a sense) of time). The act of creation did not proceed the universe but goes on constantly, and this is what I saw Nous doing. Reality is gaining form, not losing it; God is the formgiver; opposed to him is entropy, the form destroyer, which I equate with evil. My system is relatively simple: it explains the phenomenal world of plurality as a means by which a more integrated realm (the Upper Realm) is given the material by which it perfects itself. The Lower Realm is subordinated functionally to the Upper; ontology is not the issue: complexity, integration, permanence, means-end, etc., are. The Lower Realm is —to put it bluntly— plundered by the Upper, like a superior life form preying off a lower. Wait; I'm forgetting my experience of world —of illo tempore— when "anamnesis'' took place. It is more real than this lower realm. It deals in staggeringly colossal constants: warfare extending over thousands of years and thousands of miles; it is enormously larger and richer a universe than this one, and totally subsumes this one. There, the real issues and the real forces are disclosed. This lower realm is a pale shadow of accidents compared to its and its essential nature. It is an ultimate realm; nothing less than the direct clash of the dualistic forces envisioned by Zoroaster interact. 1: One (reconciliation, marriage of opposites) 2: Two Two (the dialectic: Zoroaster's bitheism) 3: The Many The many The Many (our chaotic world) 3 is spatiotemporal; 2 is morphologically arranged; 1 is without differentiation. Realm 2 deals with history, sacred history; it is the essence of 3; 3 is the ontogony of 2, the phylogony. What I am thinking is — am I sure that the realm of the secret revolutionary Christians versus the Empire is the same realm as Valis' soma? Or are there even more hierarchical realms? Accidents (4); essences (3); kosmos (2); the undifferentiated One (1). I don't know. It seems to be as complex as Plotonus* system of levels of emanation! At least three levels, and possibly four. "One Mind there is; but under it two principles contend... the light and the dark." This is Taoism. I'm perplexed. The One; Nous; Soul; the spatiotemporal world that we know; maybe Plotinus is right. How can I be expected to figure it all out? No one ever has before me. But damn it; I was in a morpho¬ logically-arranged realm when I experienced anamnesis. And it is essence to our world of accidents; it is phylogeny to our world of ontogeny. And at the top is the One — the vast wasteland and void. And at some point the contending opposites are reconciled; that is the One: palintonos harmonie. Okay; the first revelation is that of the dialectic, which is the realm of the morphological arrangement; it is permanent and it is essence to our accidents. Is it also the realm of the Forms? Yes. Here are the constants. But above it lies a realm in which the opposites, the dialectic — everything is reconciled in the One; and this is logical. Where in this, though, does Valis stand? I would call Valis the One. Where does the kosmos stand? Between the dialectic realm, illo tempore, the constants, morphologically arranged — between this realm and the One? The dialectic does not operate in Valis' soma; here, only accretions occur. So I count four realms; our realm (ontogenic); then the phylogenic realm, arranged morphologically; then the kosmos being completed; and then the Void...but the dialectic is resolved in the kosmos, so isn’t the kosmos the same as the void, in which case there are three realms, two with the dialectic (it latent in our realm but manifest in the next realm) and one in which the dialectic is resolved? I'd have to say I count four realms: 1: The One (the void, the wastelands) 2: The kosmos (dialectic reconciled)1 3: Essence Realm (sacred history; the dialectic) 4: Our spatiotemporal realm of accidents (chaos; the dia¬ lectic latent or concealed under the myriad) 1Here change occurs, but above it, no change Each of the realms feeds into and is subsumed by the realm above it. There is change in realms 2,3 and 4; there is a dialectic manifest in 3, concealed but operating in 4. In &2 there is one integrated structure but it undergoes progressive change (perfection); the One in realm 1 can only be described in negative terms; it is totally undifferentiated, totally simple; there is no change there, no structure, no parts interlocked, no soma, but there is selfawareness and love and intelligence. There is intelligence in 2, also. Realm 3 is dramatic; underlying it is a narrative (e.g. or i.e. Acts). 4 is what we normally see. If there really are 4 different realms or levels this would explain my confusion for the past 6 and a half years as to what I experienced. As you ascend there is , more unity, more integration, more ontology, more im¬ portance, more intelligence; and then suddenly there is absolute simplicity: the One. 1: connected Unity (simplicity) (the One, the void) 2 Unity (-cosmos, structure, complexity) 3: connected The dialectic (essence, morphologically arranged) 4: The dialectic (accidents, spatiotemporally arranged) The top two realms, 1 and 2, are unitary. The bottom two, 3 and 4, are in internal opposition, either latently or overtly. With each lower realm, chaos increases; i.e. entropy. And lack of integration. I see a four-level hierarchy, here. First and highest there is unity and simplicity. Next comes unity and complexity, and change (in the top level there is no change). Then in realm three change turns into a dialectical strife of opposites; enantiodromia appears. In the lowest realm accidents replace essences; space and time enter, rather than a morphological arrangement outside of space and time; even the dialectic is concealed by the chaos. There is an enormous transformation (descent? ) between 1 and 2, because not only does simplicity turn into complexity, but for the first time change enters, although there is no antithetical combat. Complexity enters; change enters; but still there is structural unity. And then in level 3 another enormous transformation (descent?) occurs; unity ceases; .there now are opposites; change -—movement toward perfection— becomes outright strife. Then in level 4 again there is an enormous transformation (descent?): chaos and accidents appear; i.e. ontogeny replaces phylogeny — not only is there strife and multiplicity but there is just plain noise and the random. Also it might be argued that an even lower (5th) realm exists: heimarmene: necessity replaces freedom. This is the immutable yin world of cause and effect, the lowest realm (descent?) of all. You can read this hierarchy from the top down (descent), or from the bottom up (ascent), but hierarchy it is. Level 5 is a subhuman level, the realm of blind striving; what I call the android (in contrast to the human). This 5th realm is described on Plotinus; it is —for him-— matter...which is easily equated with physical law (ananke), i.e. heimarmene. So my system gets more and more like Plotinus'. The great bipolarities are: integration versus strife; unity versus multiplicity. Unity equals integration; strife equals multiplicity. Negentropy equals integration equals unity. Entropy equals strife equals multiplicity. Few, complex, integrated; many, simple, disintegrated. And yet above it all is the One which is totally reconciled internally and totally simple; an anomqly. And it is stacked as a hierarchy. And, in the higher realms, there is a Mind. Actually it operates here in realm 4, but veiled. With each descent, Mind becomes more veiled; strife becomes mixed with chaos — first strife (the dialectic) enters, and then chaos. And below chaos: the immutable world of total determinism, with no real mind; the realm of evil. Ananke. I will stake everything on this: it is evolutionary^, not a primordial descent; it is evolution; it is stacking; it is building; it is creating. Each higher realm evolves out of the lower. The ancients had it backward, due to Orphism's influence. Matter evolves into biological life which evolves into meta life forms: Valis. {folder 01 - 001} 3/20/74 12-2--80 Philip K. Dick 408 E Civic Center #301 Santa Ana Calif 92701 (714)836-6367 THE DIALECTIC: God against Satan, + God's final victory foretold + shown Philip K. Dick An EXEGESIS Apologia pro mea vita Ω ȳ ∴ {folder 01 - 002} accounts for my seeing Rome C.A.D. 70 superimposed with/over U.S.A. 1974. Either I was seeing two spatiotemporal continua of realm #4 that have common morphology (phylogons) or I saw the phylogons that underlie our realm #4 accidents; I saw morphological arrangement in either case: if you superimpose two spatiotemporal continua by reason of their identical realm #3 morphology you have "abstracted" realm #3 out of realm #4 (although I deny that you are abstracting: I am a realist + I saw this superimposition; it was external to me. Or is it possible that 2-74 consisted of a quantum leap in abstracting from accidents to essence on my part, a perception/awareness of einai underlying [v. p 512 passim] accidents as follows: [illustration presented below in text form] (A) World of Acts USA 1974 (B) AD 70 Rome accidents accidents Common Essence "superimposition" of the 2 continua A scanning by me of two spatiotemporal templates + a perception/awareness of essence identity (identity due to one common essence) - hence a brain-function leap on my part in world-experience: A + B are [in essence] identical, are one - which would require me to grasp the concept of essence versus accidents - hence a realm underlying -beyond- accidents - hence the notion of accident in contradistinction to essence - hence morphological sameness/identity - which involves transcending spatiotemporality - which only can be understood a la Plotinus. {folder 01 - 003} Because outside of Platonism-Neoplatonism this - all this qua realms/levels of ontology not just of thinking - is impossible or does not exist, is noncommunicative (i.e. "Rome AD 45 + USA 1974 are both here + now equally"). I grasped [the category of] essence + it is real; more, this is how reality is in fact arranged. I could grasp the category of essence + see that A + B were on the essence level one-+-the-same, but I could not then extrapolate to the Essence (Form) realm in general. I.e. the next implication was lost to me; I failed to draw the next conclusion. I had just proved the reality (in fact superior ontology) of Plato's Form World, + didn't realize it. However, having made this quantum leap in mentation/perception-of-reality, I could not halt the involuntary chain of mental processes triggered off in my brain, which (i.e. my brain) had discovered that an ultra way of world-perception/experience/Dasein was possible - + more accurate - + so neural circuits fired + I proceded to progressively further & further abstract - think/see in categories of less spatiotemporality + more + more conceptual arrangement - the Xtian element was only a trigger/clue; this did not have to do with Xtianity per se but with abstracting of essentials at {folder 01 - 004 folder 01 - 004} the expense of accidents hence of spatiotemporal arrangement; as a result I ascended through the realms of neoplatonism - which makes VALIS Plotinus' One. There is no system of human thought (doctrine) but Plotinus where what happened to me - what my brain/mind did - is conceivable, is understood to exist. +: Plato +