anamnesis the month before had this specific problem-solving as its goal; my meta-abstracting was goal-oriented ... it was planned; it wasn't an accident. Also it had to do with the meta-morpheme in TEARS, which is a constituent of the information basis of the morphologically-arranged realm. {folder 01 - 049} 10-20-80 1 I finally see the source of my confusion, which I will herewith straighten out and then (God willing) let it rest. The structure or mechanism of 2-3-74 was Platonist Neo-Platonist anamnesis, precisely as Plato describes it (see earlier notes); it has to do with prenatal memories recovered and a Form realm that is not spatiotemporal but is morphologically arranged. However, the content of the anamnesis is, contrarily, Christian; more, the Form (eidos) involved is a Christian one: the secret revolutionary early Christians against Rome ... and, because this is the nature of the Platonic archetype, recurring again and again throughout linear time and space. So in a sense two mutually contradictory religious systems seem to be proved by 2-3-74: Christianity and Neo-Platonism. My identity in terms of the Form world is Christian; my knowledge of that identity comes to me via the structure of the Neo-Platonism world-order. This is what has caused all the confusion. For example, the reincarnation involved is Neo-Platonist and can only be understood in terms of myself as a Form with each incarnation as an instance of that Form in the spatiotemporal flux world; it is me against the Black Iron Prison again and again, wherein I am a secret Christian and the Black Iron Prison is, so to speak, Rome, at different times and different places. There is no room in Christianity for reincarnation and no hierarchy of realms such as Plotinus describes and no anamnesis and meta-abstracting such as Plato describes. However, there is no mention or indication in Platonism, Neo-Platonism or Pythagoras of a secret revolutionary Christian movement pitted against the Empire. As long as I pursued the Christian element I got nowhere in figuring out what happened in 2-3-74 and how it happened. I had been swamped by apostolic Christian material in terms of my identity, role and knowledge, but none of this explained what happened and how, unless I was willing to settle for "A miracle performed by the grace of God, by Divine Providence," which I was not willing to settle for. So if I am interested in reconstructing apostolic --i.e. genuine-- Christianity and my identity in its struggle against Rome, then I should go toward that; but much more: I want to know what happened and how, and I now know that. Interestingly, the system that is proved to be correct is Platonism and Neo-Platonism (e.g. reincarnation, the Form world); whereas Christianity is shown only to be my identity-role, my committment. {folder 01 - 050} 10-20-80 2 Therefore I must affirm Christianity --the authentic apostolic form-- as my orientation, in fact my historic role, but it remains a matter of faith and personal identity; whether it is veridical I can't say. Philosophically and metaphysically, Platonism and Neo-Platonism in its basic elements is verified; were it not true my experience of 2-3-74 could not have occurred. I might have discovered other Forms than the Black Iron Prison: what I call "other narratives." However, this is the one which defines me: opposition against the central tyranny, expressed over and over again. To boil it down, I am a Christian but Neo-Platonism is true. This would tend to indicate that I hold false theological views, since the two systems are incompatable; however, I am archetypally committed to Christianity, and will continue to be, since as an eidos that is my nature, my essence (as well as, as I say, my historic role). But I have herewith accounted for the contradictory elements stemming from 2-3-74 (for example, I was disinhibited by the Christian fish sign, and yet Christianity could not explain why). I see (at present) no way these two systems can be reconciled. Nor is there any reason they should be. I am not forced to choose one over the other. Christian is what I am; Neo-Platonism is how I know what I am. I should regard Neo-Platonism as a sort of ultra advanced physics: like the TV set, and the program that I am watching on the screen of the TV set is a Christian drama having to do with war between the Christians and the Black Iron Prison (this distinction has come to me before; v. supra). I would guess that as time goes on, the fact that Neo-Platonism is verified but Christianity remains merely pistis will cause Neo-Platonism to drive the Christian element from me; but then I would be surrendering my historical existential identity and role, and this would not be good; it would go against myself as eidos, my essence in the Form realm. There is a paradox here ... but as I noted recently, paradox seems built into the very basis of reality. Investigating the Christian element led me into infinite regress, into speculation upon speculation; Neo-Platonism and Platonism led me to definite conclusions. I should keep this in mind. {folder 01 - 051} 10-20-80 3 This goes a long way toward explaining the strange basic schism in me (which finds expression, for example, in SCANNER, its basic plot). It explains my twin parallel opposing views of Christianity; on the one hand I feel myself to be a Christian and on the other I view Christians and Christianity with abhorence and contempt. It would seem that half of me is devoted to the wisdom religions of classic Greece, which is why I enjoy the pre-Socratics so much; and yet another part of me is led back again and again to the N.T. "Zwei Selle wohnen ach! in meiner Brust." I really am two people, one of them Christian, the other pagan. As a result I am forced to function while holding two mutually exclusive views -- which, as F. Scott Fitzgerald says, is the mark of the true artist. One part of me disinterestedly seeks truth; the other is a devoted, faithful believer in Christ. Perhaps the solution for me is Gnosticism; and perhaps this is why Gnosticism and its acosmism always attracts me -- without ever convincing me. The older part of me is Christian; the newer, oriented toward detached scientific, philosophical scrutiny. So I wind up with two mutually exclusive answers to my questions about 2-3-74. Viewed one way, Christianity is the answer. Viewed another way, Platonism and Neo-Platonism is. I must go on being a Christian, acting out the role of genuine revolutionary apostolic Christian, as a strategy: in order to overthrow the Black Iron Prison which I detest. But that is what Christianity is for me: a strategy. I know --all the time that I am a secret, authentic, revolutionary Christian-- that it is Platonism and Neo-Platonism that's objectively true. But the Platonist and Neo-Platonist has no revolutionary drive; he will not change society, the world, to bring on the Kingdom; therefore I must live as if (als ob) Christianity --genuine Christianity-- were true. Strange. "He causes things to look different." Accidents in contrast to essence. "So it'd appear time has passed." This sentence was my clue, but I could make nothing of it. Now I understand. This was the leap my mind took in 2-74: that no time had passed. But I reduced USA 1974 to Acts, rather than both to a common essence; there I erred. I was so close to understanding it ... but much work remained. {folder 01 - 052} 10-20-80 4 There is certainly an irony in an apostolic Christian coming into being in twentieth century USA because of a structure of the world order not entertained by Christianity. But I think I have it right: Christianity is the content of the experience, Neo-Platonism and Platonism is the explanation, the mechanism, of the experience. This has caused me no end of confusion; as long as I studied the Christian elements --which was a natural thing to do-- I came up with no answers at all. There is no verification of any elements of Christianity in my 2-3-74 experience, and yet Christian elements virtually drench the experience. However, I do recall a dream in which I was digging in the foundations of my old house on Francisco Street and came across a book marked in huge letters: PLATO There was my clue, but it fell victim to the plethora of other "clues," or what I took to be clues. Frankly I am much happier to have a reputable metaphysical (philosophical) basis for 2-3-74 than a debatable theological one. So these results obtained during the last few weeks are totally syntonic to me. I have done a lot of studying, a lot of research; and it has paid off. Of signal importance --and fitting in with many intimations I've had over these six and a half years-- is that a meta-function in my brain took place, something like --or exactly like-- an evolutionary step in abstraction/ratiocination. I have always sensed that in 2-3-74 my brain was working at a higher level than it ever had before, that I had made a quantum leap in comprehension or thinking ... but I had no idea until the last few days how great, how crucial, that leap was. It was a leap that, alas, I could not sustain; I cannot now see the world-order as I saw it for that one year. Partly this is due to my inability fully to extrapolate from the basic leap; here I failed, and the leap died away. I did not perform all the steps necessary. But I performed an entire series, an unfolding of metacircuits ... as I guessed at the time (this is why my GABA fluid dropped; there was indeed a disinhibition of neural circuits that had never fired ... and never fire for most people in history). {folder 01 - 053} 10-20-80 5 "He causes things to look different." So one thing can be the same but look two or more ways. This sentence by the AI voice ratifies my Platonist explanation (universals; essence versus accidents). This sentence was my real clue; it should have been enough. First things look one way (call it aspect A); then they look different (aspect B). We conclude that there has been change, whereas in fact it is the same things looking like A and then like B. Thinking that substance A has become substance B we conclude that time has passed, but there was no change in substance (essence), only in how they look. The concept of time is deduced from change (see the E B macro article on time; likewise the E of PH: "All we really know is that change has occurred."). If substance A disappeared and was replaced by substance B, then it would be correct to deduce that time had passed, but in fact A and B are two ways that one thing looks. So it is a false deduction that time has passed, because in point of fact there has been no change; the same thing is still there. This is what the AI voice was trying to convey to me. The difference is between B replacing A, and the same thing looking different, which does not involve the passage of time. But the sentence seems to suggest deception. He (whoever "he" is) wants us to think time has passed. I was thinking about this last night. Time dilation. Was this part of the quantum leap my brain made in 2-74? Did I abstract Acts AD 45 and USA 1974 and see a common substance --so that Acts AD 45 and USA 1974 were actually identical, but simply looked different-- and this meant (besides that there is a Form world beyond the world of appearances) that time is irreal, or rather the passage of time is irreal? That in fact we are being deceived? And I saw, literally saw,