dissolves into Valis. Acosmic Neo-Platonism! __ I had just been in the Prison world - I got my real memory back. & it's coaxial. As is the "2nd signal" Paradise world. But the Paradise world reveals Valis posing as world. So 3 worlds, & then Valis, who is the One of Plotinus. The uppermost world reveals sentience & volition. Valis as a Land! Camouflaged as world, but it can camouflage as the different worlds which are coaxial; ah - it generates different worlds at what - You can be moved from one world to another & not remember & so not know; whichever world you're in you think you've always been in it. folder 48 - 005 folder 48 - 005 So I was being moved up through the realms, but it's Valis that really exists, able to provide world upon world. & as you learn or improve or grow or choose rightly or solve you are moved from one world to the next without remembering the previous world — that it exists & that you were there. Viewed this way, consider my anamnesis! But what is even more extraordinary is that each world requires a different per sonality from the self — different language & habits, etc. But this is logical; in fact the necessity is obvious. So with anamnesis I remember just having been in another world —a Prison world— but was a different person. I can see an evolution in my being moved from world to world — improve ment in the worlds. This is especially evident when you contrast the Prison world to the Garden world — & then Valis itself! My God — I got to see a world trans formed in front of me: backward to the Prison world & forward to Paradise. (1) It was transformed twice, in opposite directions (the Prison was memory). The Garden was not memory, but a moving by me into: I was moving in that direction & away from the Prison world: there's no doubt that the Prison world was memory. (1) In view of this it's not surprising that I saw the world spinner like behind the spinning. folder 48 - 006 In other words, if world upon world is spun out & each seeming to have always been there, a spinner must exist. The worlds are sort of its body experienced as world(s). It influences you inwardly in terms of memory (+ personality) So anamnesis is special; the spinner has shown you the true state of affairs. IF at the end of "Three Women" they'd remembered they had really been living in Calif, they wouldn't be transported -moved- spacially from Texas (?) to Calif, but Texas (?) would have faded out, & Calif in, along with the memory/realization that Millie was her roommate, not mother. So they weren't really in Calif & aren't really in Texas, as we generally understand it. Valis must be working directly on your mind. Thus the inner-outer tapes. & Valis creates along the orthogonal form axes at high speedPerhaps it can run you at ultra high speed through the past of the new world you're in (the way they record tape) to the present of that world, hence the time-rate of the previous world is acutely slow in comparison, But the normal time rate of the two worlds while you're in them is the same; only the catching-up, the laying down of fake memories, is high speed - virtually instantaneous. Like the phosphene graphics. Decades in a few hours. This is technology. folder 48 - 007 folder 48 - 007 It seems to me that for a short period in 3-74 all 3 worlds were there simultaneously, superimposed. Then "Tears" faded out. This may have been the total range of "signals" or realms. One master realm which Valis then partitions off vis-à-vis you, and you ascend during the educating process. Until finally you are granted anamnesis: enlightenment. Does "Tears" consist of evidence that I did in fact live in that prison world as I later (in 2-74) remember? Yes. It survived, hence is quite valuable. Because it is quite unlikely that I was the only person living there! "Tears" proves that 2-74 and 3-74 weren't simply the power of suggestion or a breakdown, a psychosis on my part. Description of that world smuggled (?) into our world. Deliberately - that's the purpose of "Tears" - a trans-realm document that depicts that realm. Plus the cypher, which may be a signature of authentication. Who from. After all the secret Xtians are active in that world as I (Thomas) well remember. Alternate coaxial world. What a feat - getting a description of it across into our world complete with signature of authentication. That world would be the fully fallen level or part of the Cosmos, and of course the Xtians would be active there. But now "the work is completed. The final world is here. He has been transplanted and is alive"; Christ is in that realm. The most -totally- fallen realm of all. folder 48 - 008 folder 48 - 008 So I was a Befahltrager. I carried the message (1) of conditions in that realm; and (2), the introduction of Happy King there. That's what "Tears" did. 1) By its overall depiction -the dystopia presented- it showed that it dealt with the totally fallen realm. In fact, passing from one coaxial realm to another is discussed (i.e. presented) in it. 2) Having done this, esp. by means of the Acts material, which identifies the Xtian source of my vision, the 2-word cypher tells the news concerning that realm: the succesful introduction of the Happy King. Stunningly important news about that realm. That I was in 1970. Now, nine years later, I am told that the "work is completed." I was transformed from a Befahltrager to a Geheimnistrager. Look - I know based on my perception of the "second stereo signal" which turned this world into Paradiso that we're dealing with coaxial worlds - so it shouldn't suprise me that "Tears" and this world are coaxial. It wouldn't be just my memory that was changed, it would be everyones'. Apparently I had spoken Greek -at least scientific Greek- before the change. There was no dog and no cat. I wasn't married to Tess and didn't own the Dodge. I lieved in a cool moist high-altitude. I drank beer; I may have been a catholic. folder 48 - 009 folder 48 - 009 The "retaining wall + roses" dream in "Valis". That was me. In other words the anomalies that "weren't" me in fact were me - as I'd been: left overs from the real past. Mainly the "Tears" world that was jarred into my memory by the Gold Fish. I'd been a Catholic and well-to-do. In a repressive right wing society where I prospered. But the switchover didn't occur in 2-74; my real memory was jolted then. So that elements of the previous track broke through. Not perfectly erased. Impression of a prison dystopia as in "Tears" with the possibility that "Tears" survives a tinkering with time to produce an alternate, better world, survives as a description of the worse, original world. This fits the AI voice's statement yesterday: "The work is completed. The final world is here." I.e. alternate track due to time travel technological tinkering, not "ascending orders of ontology" a la Plotinus. "He has been transplanted + is alive." Transplanted from a potential track to an actual track? Well, anyhow into "the final world." Certainly the statement "the final world is here" implies that a succession of surgery-like time-travel to the past changes has been made and reached final form. "Final" also does not mean linear time final; i.e. the folder 48 - 010 folder 48 - 010 end of the world. Why, then "the second stereo signal" that I saw could be the track they've brought into existence out of alternatives - no wait; it isn't a world; the garden is a world. The "second stereo signal" is their ultra technology presence in our world camouflaged from us (e.g. the plasmate info traffic + Valis). The pay off of "the final world" obviously won't be manifest until he is - until he begins to act. That could be some time: 15 or 16 years. "He has been transplanted + is alive," of course; they normally aren't really here physically; they beam back information + something in the nature of a field. But this means they actually sent a physical person -as embryo? or baby?- back in time, or a psyche! It's the difference between an image (TV, movie, hologram, photo) + the actual person. This is the actual person, probably inserted into a womb. Like: organ transplant. Medical technology. Some woman somewhere here - another virgin birth - immaculate conception. folder 48 - 011 Compare: "The Head Apollo is about to return" with "He has been transplanted"; i.e. it isn't going to happen - it has already happened! "The work is completed." There has been a progression from the imminent to the actualized. The accomplished. In fact, there are three stages: 1) "St. Sophia is going to be born again." The future - could be a week, could be 2000 years from now. 1974. 2) "The Head Apollo is about to return; the time you've waited for has come." The near future. 1978. 3) "The work is completed. The final world is here. He has been transplanted + is alive." The anticipated event has already occurred. 1979 - just about a year after (2). + not only has it been done - it's been done successfully. A point about (3). He doesn't come to life here; he was alive elsewhere first + then "transplanted" to here. + the visual impression of the "Bill + June Black" couple expressing joy. __ I am convinced that "Ubik" is correct; we are dead + have forgotten: 1) Our original life elsewhere: "the stars" 2) Fall to the lowest level of death: The BIP 3) Where we are now. (Purgatorio) 4) If we can remember (1) + (2), upon reaching the top level of (3) we go on to 5) Paradiso - The Garden Christ is the messenger from the Kingdom of Light who wakes us up from sleep to life. (Salvation.) folder 48 - 012 folder 48 - 012 It seems strange, on the surface, that you would go forward into the next realm by remembering the previous realm, but also you are remembering before that: when you were alive; + you are remembering the fall + your ascent back up thus far, + that you have still farther to go. You are not home yet. Memory + Self are the same thing - as "Three Women" showed. In fact memory and reality are the same thing, as the film also showed. So Self + reality are interrelated. Of course it would divide up into 3 realms: past (Inferno), present (Purgatorio) + future (Paradiso); there is always a worse part where you were, the part you're in now (middle) and the better part (future); it's not an arbitrary division. + before the first part, the BIP, lies the stars. Dante's "Comedy" is the best description of the ascent of the soul probably ever written. He places anamnesis as occurring at the top level of purgatorio, just before entering paradiso, which fits my experience. The Soul has finally reached the point where reality is restored to it because memory is restored to it. Ah. My self up to 3-74 was an epiself based on amnesia. Thomas is my true self based on memory (anamnesis) and hence different folder 48 - 013 folder 48 - 013 Nonetheless these characteristics distinguish the 3 realms apart from being merely past, present + future: Of the BIP world, nothing good can be said, it is unmitigatedly bad. The mid realm is a mixture of bad + good elements. The top realm is unmitigatedly good. This suggests