Prison (the Empire), with these constants extending throughout all the centuries and miles with their accidents differing from one space-time to the next, but their essences always constant (exactly as Plato describes, his distinction between accidents and essence). (With essence and the Form World identical.) Here in this kosmos of the phylogons there is only essence.,.what Plato did not realize is that the Forms are interwoven; later on, Christian thinkers figured this out, that the Forms are a realm in the mind of God. They constitute, I discovered, Pythagoras’ kosmos (I'm not sure if anyone has realized this part of it). This realm is morphologically arranged because it is a mental conception, not psyche and soma but noos (vide Hussey for the distinction). This would explain my tenvolume meta novel, my conviction that in some sense the world we see is not real and that another world lies beyond, within or behind it. -30- So the realm of the phylogons is here, but "here" really refers to a ubiquity; it is not here versus there: that has to do with space and time. The accretions as they enter this kosmos do not arrange themselves according to mechanical laws nor according to some volition or impulse within them intrinsically; they are arranged; they do not arrange themselves; they are arranged as God perceives and comprehends them; this is a realm — well, the AI voice put it this way: "Matter is plastic in the face of Mind." That's it. The Mind of God arranges the new accretions continually; he selects where they will go, accord¬ ing to morphology, which is to say, meaning. Only in this way —positing a Mind that arranges— would it be possible for the Form axes that I describe in UBIK actually to exist — an arranging Mind and such a realm not organized by space and time. Constants, what I now call phylogons, must exist for there to be any coherence in this realm; here Plato's idea of Forms, as the EB points out in its macro article on philosophy, is important, in that it is a way by which the myriad objects and processes of the flux world can be comprehended; order brought out of chaos. And order (in contrast to chaos) is the basis of this kosmos, this world of the phylogons; this is why it can justly be called kosmos — and why our world seems and is chaotic in comparison to it. It is now possible to understand fully what I saw: Valis using our world as a chaotic stockpile from which Valis takes the pieces it (Valis) wishes and fits into the proper place in its kosmos, to build this Kosmos; this is indeed Plato's Form world as reinterpreted by Christian platonists and possibly even Plotinus (I'll have to check on that). Forms (the -31- many edoi) themselves represent order, but a meta or higher order would have to exist in which the edoi themselves are organized into a coherent structure, which is to say kosmos; this is only logical; and the system of arrangement would of course be morphological: according to meaning: conceptual relatedness, not accidental juxta¬ position in space and time such as obtains in our lower realm. I checked. For Plotinus, the ideas are the thoughts of the Intelligence (noos) or God. Ideas in a Mind that contemplates them. The EB on Neoplatonism says: "Intellect for Plotinus is both thought and the object of thought; it is a mind that is perfectly one with its object. 1 As object, it is the world of forms or ideas, the totality of real being in the platonic sense. These forms, being one with Intellect, are not merely objects but are living, thinking subjects, each not only itself but, in its contemplation, the whole. They are the archetypes and causes of the necessarily imperfect realities on lower levels..."etc Another point: "It must be remembered that, to Plotinus, the whole process of generation is timeless; Nous is eternal, and time is the life of the Soul as active in the physical world, and there never was a time when the material universe did not exist. The 'levels of being,' then, though distinct, are not separate but are all intimately present everywhere and in everyone. To ascend from Soul through Intellect to the One is not to travel in space but to awake to a new kind of awareness." Soul is produced by Intellect (Nous) as Intellect is produced by the One. This is Plotinus' theory of levels of emanation. -32- "Soul both forms and rules the material universe from above; and in its lower, immanent phase, which Plotinus often calls nature, it acts as an indwelling principle of life and growth and produces the lowest forms, those of bodies. Below these lies the darkness of matter...’ Etc. This sounds something like the three realms of the COMMEDIA; an ascent back. Here’s a basic summation of an element of Neoplatonism: ”5. Degrees of being are also degrees of unity; in each subsequent sphere of being there is greater multiplicity, more separateness, and increasing limitation — till the atomic individual¬ ization of the spatiotemporal world is reached.” The higher spheres are not in space and time, and they are more unified until they work up to the One. This is exactly what X have been saying about Valis being a meta structure that is a unity, of which we see only the discrete plural constituents at our level: "1. There is plurality of spheres of being, arranged in hierarchical descending order, the last and lower comprising the universe, which exists in time and space and is perceptible to the senses," Note 1 on the previous page. Valis is self-constructing; its kosmos is not an artifact but its own self. I am now convinced that there is no doubt that 3—74 was a Neoplatonist experience: that of the Form World (outside of time and space, and arranged morphologically). The Hind of Valis is probably Plotinus’ Nous, one step below the one. But I may have had some sense of the One in my postmortem experiences: the vast void and wastelands. -33- "The original creative or expressive act of the One is the first great derived reality, Nous (Intellect or Spirit); from this again comes Soul, which forms, orders, and maintains in being the material universe." I would think that for Christianity, these three hypostases (the One, Intellect and Soul) would be simply God; or perhaps God and the Logos. But I am substantially revising Platonism and Neoplatonism due to my revelation that the phenomenal world is not derived from the Form World (although the Form World possesses greater ontology; there I agree) but, rather, feeds into it and causes it to become more complex, more reticulated and arborizing, more complete, and is a kosmos. Thus the spatiotemporal phenomenal world serves the Form World; it has a purpose. Also, the phenomenal world is chaotic compared with the Form World; there is a hierarchy of negentropy (which I equate with Plotinus' idea that the downward movement of emanations is from oneness, from simplicity, to multi¬ plicity; there we perfectly agree. It's really amazing that I could have worked out the concept of Valis as a meta entity, a unity at a higher level — worked it out on my own when in fact it is basic to Neoplatonism, this hierarchy of realms proportional to multiplicity as they descend. And then to realize that the world of the phylogons is morphologically arranged and outside time and space — voila: I have reinvented Neoplatonism!) Really, these major developments in my exegesis represent a push-pull relationship between me and my reading about Platonism and Neoplatonism; as in UBIK, Platonist ideas predominate. Now I can see why 3-74 resembles UBIK, which is a Platonist novel and consciously so. 3-74, then, simply ratified the Platonism in UBIK. I suppose that Ubik is Plotinus' Nous. -34- I've made a series of breakthroughs recently. I knew that when I experienced anamnesis I entered another realm, and this made me think of Plotinus from the very beginning. But now, I feel, I have verified it rather than simply assuming an identity. This is much better, but it took a lot longer. The main difference between my system (or revelation) is: Plato and Plotinus see a descent (based certainly on Orphism) whereas I see a hierarchical evolution (i.e. from the lower to the upper, rather than a descent from the upper —-which is unitary— to the lower •—which is plurality. I see what I call stacking. The lower serves -—feeds into— the upper; the upper is based on the lower. I see progress, as the unitary kosmos is assembled. So in place of a descent and fall I perceived (it was revealed to me) that the totality of reality is moving in a negentropic direction; toward meta levels, toward unity, toward intelligence; again: it is evolving, not falling. I may be influenced by concepts of the Cosmic Christ in the process of restoring creation, which is an evolution. But then my system contains the dialectic, enantiodromia, differentiation through the (conflicting) opposites, which very much resembles Taoism (but again with an added element: evolution). My system is a mixture of Heraclitus and Plotinus — the former taking away the deprecation of the flux world, the tendency to regard it as mere dokos (as Parmenides did). The elements in my system that appear in Heraclitus' views are an antidote to the otherworldliness of the Platonist elements, producing a more balanced result (unlike Plato I do not have to meet Parmenides' proof that the empirical world does not in fact exist, i.e. the world of plurality and motion. To me the world of change and plurality, the spatiotemporal universe is completely real, but it is subsumed by a higher real, a meta realm of structure, of kosmos, of integration, of greater negentropy (i.e. form). So there is a hierarchy of realms, and I suppose a hierarchy of ontology, if by "esse” you mean functional end versus means (the phenomenal world is means to a higher end). The ancient world was dominated by the notion of a primordial fall. Also, our modern knowledge of biological evolution on this planet was not known to them (with certain exceptions). So whereas antiquity was dominated by the notion of a primordial fall, we today think in terms of evolution, which I construe as a motion from the many simple to the few complex to the one total integration of every¬ thing. However, the world of the phylogons lies outside of space and time so perhaps both theories are futile; nonetheless I saw our world as a stockpile from which Valis selected parts for its soma or kosmos; so in terms of a hierarchy of priority I agree with fttbrnibrn Plotinus and Plato...but Heraclitus must be added or the view, the vision, is one-sided. My Taoist training teaches me that the phenomenal world is to some extent real. But not as real as the meta reality above, behind or within it — as my ten volume meta novel deals with. To sum up: the structured does not decompose into the unrelated disconnected plural; rather, Nous or God organizes the unrelated disconnected plural into the structured unity; this is creation, continuous creation outside (in a sense) of time). The act of creation did not proceed the universe but goes on constantly, and this is what I saw Nous doing. Reality is gaining form, not losing it; God is the formgiver; opposed to him is entropy, the form destroyer, which I equate with evil. My system is relatively simple: it explains the phenomenal world of plurality as a means by which a more integrated realm (the Upper Realm) is given the material by which it perfects itself. The Lower Realm is subordinated functionally to the Upper; ontology is not the issue: complexity, integration, permanence, means-end, etc., are. The Lower Realm is —to put it bluntly— plundered