Kingdom myself as a different person, meshed with it). the two-mode passive-active system; the twin tape programming. Awareness of the Empire + its spies, its desire to know about us. + finally I saw the The need of absolute Kingdom, a year later. secrecy was impressed on me. That the Kingdom existed only by its invisibility + stealth. Consider The secret baptism + Lord's supper (the two greater sacraments) which I enacted with Chris: The two specifically specified in the N.T. This Kingdom is the truth, + the empire is the lie; these are the two antithetical realms which form our composite world. 33 2 i "The man who knew how to lose" points at great mystery, the essential Xtian mystery miracle) of death + resurrection, + shows that to some extent I understand it, because I have eved it. It is what I call "compression, an alchemical transmutation from which (com‐ pression) a sweet beauty comes, sweeter than all else: higher than act but like it. This is i what began with, to, for me with the phosphene graphics + passed on through the stages to clude all else: the Kingdom the node woman, alis itself the Golden rectangle. The void, the plasmate, the AI voice - all are pieces of the miraculous transmutation following my humiliation + degradation + death. It is connected with some kind of high law of the "running the other way." the Taoist conversion into opposites. ➀ Valis itself. World as God in Spinoza's sense. perhaps the doctrine of the two spirits ( Zoroasterianism + the Essenes). Just as the dark Spirit destroys, a transformation takes place, but only the wise mind with its a priori fore knowledge knew how to lay down moves long in advance leading sequentially to this victory in the hand. What has happened is that the light has been born at the Kremlin (inner‐ most ring) of darkness as if darkness itself despite its intentions (being blind) gave The birth to it (thus I say in "Valis" that rational is born as an invader within the prior irrational). I have captured it in the t story, what happened to me. But it is so elu sive: the spiritual permeating the material as domain, a realm. Kn is truly satanic arguing for the non reality of this domain. n 35 from that story ("the man who") I will some‐ day understand my experience of 2-3-74, macro union of opposites: the Eigenwelt (the spiritual) + the Umwelt (trash), as depicted in "The man who" - Fox + Rybus! This is quite different from finding spirituality in the trash stratum as such, since two realms are joined it would be equally correct to say that one had found track in the spiritual. This is not a view of the trash realm but a superimposition of two realms - an exter‐ val analog of inner individuation. The melding -amalqum - of the two realms is total; one realm is made from them as in an alchemical trans‐ mutation. Is this not the ultimate transmutation? the two most extreme strata brought into unity? This is nothing less than the repair of the ruptured cosmos. This is the way it should be i I saw the divine in the trash level but did not understand what it signified I just thought I had seen the divine in the trash level, as if it was always there but just not perceived. But more was involved. In a genuine sense I had put it there: me functioning as a lens or condenser or refraction system which unified the two "signals" in myself. The unification was so to speak in me as mirror. Thus there was ontological salvific efficacy in my Gnosis (remember‐ ). (Being changed.) This, then, is why my 2-3-74 experienced imaged my writing. It was indeed my own former thought contents returning to me in 388 externalized, magnified form; this is why Valis resembled Ubik - in fact why it "existed" at all. I do not quite understand this, but I had generated a world (idios kosmos), or found world isomorphic with my own mind, a 2-mirror mutual reflection I did not merely see back + forth: the divine in the trash; by an act of will put it there. This was a divine trans‐ t cendence of world as material + inanimate. it was an act of divine creation re-enact (+ hence being) the creator's original Thus I act of creating the intact kosmos. was no longer son (v. Eckehart) but Father What must be realized is that The normal bipolarization of the divine + the trash is a partial madness. to reintegrate them is actual sanity. When reintegrated the two realms turn out to form a language: hieroglyphs of God," which is a surprise. The divine element arranges, + the trash element is that which is arranged. Which is a capsule description of the relation of the deity t to creation in toto, viewed this way it can be understood why the two realms should not be bipolarized but integrated: how can the arranger exist without something to arrange, + how can the arrange exist coherently without the arranger? Eash is to the other + together they form a vital I 5 2 natural wholes my ability to grasp this I shows up in e.g. "Ubik," in which begants grasp this in "Ubik" the as two components are presented separate (devolving world Ubik) but It is obvious that integration of the the two parts must come about. world in "Ubik" then is the fallen cosmos. + Ubik is seeking to repenetrate back into it. So the secret is: the very highest + the very lowest realms fit together. (This is more than them being syntonic. why do they fit together? Because originally they were one realm. It is Christ who reintegrates them. They are reunited in Christ taking any given constituent (item of the trash realm, it is impossible to figure out what will be created when it is joined with its divine part (i.e. enhancement). Its contours will be changed. Ah - then I know what Valis is which I saw. When the two realms highest I lowest) are rejoined into one something on the order of God-matter or sentient volitional reality comes into sight or being. In a sense it is not God + 360 in the same sense it is not matter; it transcends both categories + is in a category by itself. It is matter-Godified or God-matterified. Neither category con be reduced to the other. So creation is reabsorbed by the creator + is no longer separate from it God then takes on a material form due to + can be know empirically e this unity of opposites: the two ultimate This is not pan opposites: world + God. theism; this is something else. The Tao? matter + spirit have become one, + we have no name for that! Thus I say, I did not merely encounter the divine. I encountered the divine realm fused with but not as the lowest trash realm. I saw one realm made up of both. Now, normally we do see the trash realm. It is the divine realm that is missing. But to see it Solus is to fail to reintegrate the decomposing cosmos, which is the real this for repair to occur it is essential that the divine break out in (or break into or epiphanize) in the trash realm because that is the lowest realm. I did not understand this (what happened in 2-3-74) until I reread "the man who" which pitilessly analyzes what truly constitutes the spiritual, + in which the spiritual + the so-to-speak anti-spiritual are fused into one even higher realm 86 This is the secret of secrets + is known in [zen] Buddhism as well as Xtianity (+ also in Cabala.) (+ sufi.) Gnosticism particularly understands the ontological repair value of it, The Hermetics are able to explain how the repair in the microcosm (person) Acts to repair the macrocosm; so does cabala. Thus when God (Valis, Ubik) breaks out in the world or into the world (epiphany or invasion) it takes this form: penetration of the absolute lowest stratum or not at all. God is no longer transcendent, or, put another way, world is no longer fallen. God does not descend but erupts. So I would perceive The divine as an acutely ingenious camouflaged entity within world, mimicking it, blending with it + yet "tugging" it away from plumb (as supra put it: a valence). + the fact that I This superimposition would show up as contour enhancement points to an antecedent unity of the then sundered realms - a truly aston ishing realization, + one that lets us in on the primal secret These last few pages (based on a rereading of "the man who knew") are the most important that I have written, simple though they be. I am especially delighted by the realization taken from Eckehart, that I briefly became the father generating cosmos - intact cosmos, re capitulating the original act of creation so that time was overcome, the time in which the cosmos ruptured + part fell. What I experienced, then, in 3-74, was cosmos i restored to its intact origin al tate e 362 t you could ask, what do you get if you combine the divine + the trash volitional matter tugging strata? causal processes toward goals + a structuring of the diverse (discrete plural) into an integrated unity. You get matter whose behavior is that of a highly intelligent entity which possesses foresight. I.e. you get what I saw I called Valis. You get that cooperative purposeful - i.e. goal-seeking behavior between + among objects + the causal processes governing changes The objects, briefly, you get trash in that thinks, trash that plans, + it all interlinks. It is as much God made into matter as matter into God. So you can't call it God + you can't call it matter. certainly it is neither spirit nor is it matter it is a wholly different thing. is fake matter, it simulates (or t seems to simulate) matter, but onto‐ ogically it is transformed though the accidents remain unchanged. This is hat happens to the host at communion: ratter become God; God become matter. Then the situation which Spinoza understands comes about: God has a sody + it is the objects which make up the universe, + his thoughts are their causal changer 363 which are goal-seeking (i.e. purposeful). Spinoza was seeing a restored + reunified cosmos. Out of this restored cosmos God speaks as he did in primordial times, since this is thinking, knowing (+ foreknowing) matter It is not exactly matter but a simulation that only appears to be matter. Here's a thought: what if the percipient is (or has) a decoder grid in him that can extract the contours of the divine otherwise buried in the lowest matter stratum? He has the Then it is a detection + extraction process - key. i No; it is an adding, a superimposition. He has the missing parts necessary for the message to Gestalting - + there is no come into existence. Gestalt until he adds his part. The Gestalt does not just become visible [to him, e.g); it is completed + hence brought into being. Why, this makes him a component in a system: Then in my writing I may be extracting detecting by virtue of my possessing essential largely c parts of the message) information lying outside me; specifically "Ubik" + "Tears"! This would be why 2-3-74 would seem like my writing coming back at me; I was now consciously seeing in what I had been subliminally experiencing. that case I had already detected Valis (Ubik). This is a gate, grid or template decoding by the superimposition of essential pieces. + what is extracted - what Gestalt? Why, a sophisticated macro life form camouflaged within reality +