the information. This tells me to whom the information goes! It does not go to those who already know, i.e. a secret Xtian underground to link them together or give them news + orders; it goes to everyone to provide the lens/grid so that the blitz will occur + they will see. It is a sort of tug, aiming at an alchemical transmutation of perception/understanding. This (if true) sheds new light on "Tears": here is a classic instance of this use, + how this use shows up practically. (Conversely, it explains how + why the Acts material got into "Tears.") There is one story + it is told for one reason: not so it will be seen (read) as a story + believed, but so that it will install the necessary discrete pieces of the lens/grid in a person, presumably over a period of years so that, unknown to him- self the person knows the story - in the form of pieces engrammed from a variety of sources at various places + times. The analogic right hemisphere will assemble it into a structure if + only if all the pieces are provided; the Golden Fish sign that day was the missing final piece that caused the Gestalt literally to come into existence out of the many pieces; all of a sudden it was + I saw. Now, that vision lasted only a nanosecond, but: the Gestalt was now formed, + it was inevitable that it would thrust itself as perception-awareness-understanding-knowing into my conscious mind eventually - which it did. So I connect the information that Valis produces back to the construction of the lens/grid [Gestalt of information] by which I saw [Valis +] that information - a complete circle: the information causes you to see the information! ("A chicken is an egg's way of producing another egg," so to speak.) This fits earlier theories I've held re the "plasmate." Viz: You see it because it gets into you. But the information is not self-generating; Valis generates it. What is Valis? We are in a delusion ("He causes things to look different ..." etc). What we see is not the case; conversely, there is a reality that we do not see. Value-sign reversal must take place. The result (i.e. when the grid/lens is used) is a fundamentally different world. Not only that, a vast "story" is disclosed, having to do with a basic dialectical strife. It is, as I realized when I read the E.B. Macro article on "Messiah + Messianic movements" quite literally a Messianic, apocalyptic view of reality of a Zoroastrian, Qumran, 4th Gospel, N.T. nature. It is sacred history, not secular, + it consists of constants (eide) not flux spatiotemporal sets of accidents. Valis, then, is the messenger, the revealer: hence the Logos. How important is this revelation? Why, it is the very corpus of Zoroaster's revelation; it is an entire theology/religion that includes a basic interpretation -decoding- of all human history, including an anticipation of a final victory by Light ¹ + the establishment of the Millenial Kingdom + the return of the Savior, exactly as put forth in "Valis + "VR"! ¹ + an overthrow of the Iron Empire Does it make sense that this is the information that Valis generates + spreads? Yes, this is logical. But it is not a new revelation; it was known in 600 B.C. Nonetheless the grid/lens does not state the information as information; it causes perception (experience) of this as reality - true reality, otherwise hidden. Thus it is self-authenticating. This is terribly important. There is a vast difference between being told that something is true versus experiencing it as the case. The practical importance is that the percipient will now [existentially] act on the basis of what he now knows - look at me between 3-74 + 8-74! He has been "turned around." Since he is living in a different world he is de facto a different person. But I now don't see Valis occluding or controlling us; I see it painstakingly disclosing the truth piece by piece in such a way that if all goes well the many pieces will convert suddenly into the vast, new Gestalt that will serve -function- as a means of reappraising + interpreting all reality (in connection with this, delusion is abolished + truth is revealed - no small matter; the Acts lens/grid would not work if it were not true, a valid decoding "hologram," as I initially called it. Apparently this works out -occurs- very rarely. Perhaps there are degrees. I seem to have gotten it all, intact; but then I depend primarily on my Gestalting faculty. + I must always keep in mind: once the Gestalt formed + I saw + understood, Valis fired the remaining information to me overtly - as if in confirmation. (It certainly was that.) + then in additional confirmation there is "Tears." The basic story is told in "Tears," yet - well, is it? Only if the Acts lens/grid is perceived: but this is precisely what Valis added! The encyphered material in "Tears" is not a message by Valis but the message, its sole message (the dream is essential: this is the in-breaking of God! The Acts material alone is not enough! Presumably, then, there is no secret organized Xtian underground to which this is diercted; it is for all of us, subliminally given. "Tears" is anything but unique, then. It is an instance. But the purpose is not to disclose Valis, the revealer; the purpose is the over-all system involving history + the dialectic that the grid/lens discloses.) Well, "Valis" + "VR" should certainly please Valis. If you combine the two novels you have the correct + complete story (disclosure) overtly. This is why Valis cooks + rides our communications media + deals in information: it has a story to tell us to be used as a mechanism to reveal true reality to us. + this is why it engrams + programs us. What we must realize is that what we see normally is less than real - not the true story - which is concealed within it. The only way the true reality can be seen is if morphological coarrangement replaces spatiotemporality: This requires the lamination of several (more than one) spatiotemporal sets so that the constants emerge (as put forth in "Valis". It's like when the phosphene graphics permutated so rapidly; the constants emerged. Thus the revelation of truth is related to Plato's Form world, + the concept of the Form world vs the Flux world. Then the impression of relevant synchronicity is the engramming by Valis pure + simple; it is addressing the person through the info media: this is not a mistaken impression. But consider the aspect of the ancient in Valis. In a sense it is so: in a sense it is an illusion. The template was devised a long time ago but it applies to the now; that is the whole point. (1) it is ancient; + (2) it applies to the now - this is both the paradox + the revelation: the secret is here: how the ancient can be the now. If you can understand this, you have the answer. This runs against common-sense based on the assumption that spatiotemporality is real. Only when you perceive the now as the ancient ¹ do you have the answer. ¹ or rather the ancient + the now as one + the same. There has in fact been no change, hence no time has passed: things merely look different, this is not change. The persistence of the constants -their survival- shows that no time has in fact really passed - since "time" is deduced from change... But if constants persist, there has been no change. This is what you see due to the template: the constants; the template separates them, extracts them, from the mere accidents. It is both the time of Acts + USA 1974. Reincarnation has nothing to do with it: this completely obscures the true state of affairs. It is simultaneous tracking. + this fact points to the truth: no time has passed; it is not -repeat not- tracking in two different continua; they are one + the same; otherwise "my body would have to be in 2 places + 2 times or nowhere at all." The twin tracking is in fact one tracking under 2 aspects; that is the true explanation, the true point of it all. What Valis is trying to convey. You cannot actually track 2 worlds. Therefore they must be one world with 2 sets of accidents. This is the only logical solution, as bizarre as it sounds. Every other possibility is ruled out. It must be the time + place of Acts always. (If constants are considered as equalling reality.) Because, like it or not, the constants are found in Acts: the time of the apostolic church, when Jesus had left + not yet returned, but some of the 12 were still alive; + -most important of all- the Holy Spirit was with them. This is the matrix, the constants, the truth. He is just now gone + is about to return; time is compressed. Only a few years have passed - since he left. Some of us still alive remember him; that is the core to be remembered via anamnesis: we knew him; we were with him (as is said in "Valis"); this is the essence of the Xtian experience, to remember him as if it were yesterday, +, equally important, to know that he will return tomorrow: i.e. very soon: this compression of time. This is the task of the Holy Spirit, to produce this experience of oneself + world. What is remembered is Jesus; what is anticipated is Christ. The interval between is short; this -i.e. Acts- is that small interval, dividing the two advents. To sense it as small -to remember + to anticipate- is the whole disclosure. Obviously by the Holy Spirit. Who collapses time is who sees the only reality as the recently departed Christ + the soon to return Christ; this is what the parables allude to, to view reality and self this way is to dwell in the Kingdom; this is the Kingdom, this beauty, that it be free. "Where, amid the shadowy green, the little ones of the forest live unseen." It is not-God: it not pantheism; the ultimate love: to curtail the ubiquity of the Godhead. Null Ubik is the truth; the solution to the absolute mystery. To not be the universe. Each reunion is accidental, + a reminder of the source of being: love. Love lets go/forgets. Love curtails itself. Withdraws. But if the created separate thing (einai) returns of its own accord - love triumphs over love. Love is love for itself alone, + not for what it can do (create). The prodigal son. If the separate thing desires to return + forfeit its einai - then it must love, too; + the two -God + his creation- are joined; this is absolute bliss, that einai is not enough; the creature longs to return. This is rapture for God, that it wishes this; that, created, it wishes + tries to return, through the maze; it tries so hard. This is his reward. He gave it einai + it voluntarily surrenders einai (Sein!) in favor of nonbeing: i.e. return to its source. It would rather not be that it may be -dwell- with him; this causes him to feel absolute bliss. Einai is the most precious gift of all, + it gave it back - to of the template by which the Zoroastrian apocalyptic, Messianic reality can be seen clearly points to the role + nature of Valis being the revealer, or messenger. But it is not God that is disclosed: it is the meaning of history: the dialectic; for example, the Empire is revealed. The activity + events of this world are uncovered, not the divine nature. Not God