out of is congealed; I saw our system as Valis sees it, + at the rate Valis moves in relation to it when involved in it, as he is. He feeds into our system. The faster you move, the less objective time you consume. (Given a fixed objective amount.) Valis has more time than we; by entering into our system he makes his time either infinite or virtually infinite. Rate of movement is inversely proportional to speed of system, if there is an objective time (callibration). Hypertime. Ah - he experiences one of our years as a second, retaining appropriate present (which would extend 2000 years of our time experience). Hence the vision of "Tears": AD 70 to AD 1974 as one present. folder 48 - 087 folder 48 - 087 He becomes their protector + extricates them: de-occludes them + instills in them an understanding of the truth; he is the "low murmuring voice" who spoke to Elijah + showed him the true situation: "He is not in the thunder, not in the fire or storm," etc. __ All reality is epiphenomenal, dependent for its existence on something else (Valis). In this respect Valis is the creator, rather than "setting it casually spinning," in the beginning. With great effort + time spent I have discovered a creator (underlying generator of reality). But this isn't immanent vs transcendent because it's all nonspacial concentric rings of ontology. __ That dream about the tall building: "Alto Carmel" - there were fire engines parked around it. + it was on Mount Carmel that Elijah called down the heavenly fire. Phoning my friend Elisha. Dream of prophet called "Elias." Tom Disch felt that the personality who had taken me over was Elijah (it was near the time of Passover) but he didn't connect it with the prophecy in Malachi that the return of [the spirit of] Elijah heralded the advent of the Messiah. But since then I've heard all the prophecies by the AI voice. Perhaps also significant is that it was Elijah who experienced the theophany of YHWH as the "low murmuring voice" just as I do. folder 48 - 088 folder 48 - 088 He was afraid of the Romans because as John the Baptist he had been killed by them - my dream about being in the cage in Roman times. + this would be why he spoke/thought in the Koine rather than Hebrew + remembered the Xtians as illegal - a secret underground. He expected Christ to return very soon + felt joy, not sorrow. Also the dream of the pitcher of cool water + the wrapped cube (i.e. cake) of food; they are mentioned in 1 Kings re Elijah; they kept him alive. Provided by God. This would seem virtually to cinch it. __ 4:00 AM hypnagogic: "The Half Moon Bailers." What? Well "half moon" refers to Diana's bow - to the lunar goddess; + "bailers" get you out of jail {Note} (I'd been thinking of the tax thing). Summation: tutelary. Also the lyrics "half moon" are followed by "night time sky" - i.e. the celestial powers. {Note:} Or just "bail you out" in a broader sense: out of trouble. __ It seems to me that the most important realization-revelation I've had is: 1) Reality (i.e. the universe) is epiphenomenal. 2) It depends on a unitary sentient volitional being for its existence, which I saw + called Valis. 3) Valis is YHWH. 4) YHWH "has been transplanted [here] + is alive." This is the sum of it. All else folder 48 - 089 folder 48 - 089 is of derived importance from those 4 propositions. Except a personal one: 5) YHWH intervened on my behalf in time of need, demonstrating divine providence. He saved my life. 6) YHWH is not spacially distinct from the world (universe). 7) "He has been transplanted + is alive." He enters his own epiphenomenal world + is not recognized. {Note} Nonetheless he -by entering it- replaces the epiphenomenal with his own absolute ontology, in camouflaged form. If the epiphenomenal world was/is extruded it is now reabsorbed. This is a respiration: exhalation + inhalation. {Note:} Does he wish to be recognized? 8) He never intrudes with anything from outside the natural universe to accomplish his ends; so the elements of the natural universe are operated through inconspicuously... I.e. he does not manifest himself except as [elements of] the natural universe. But, as I say, it is an epiphenomenon of him. 9) The issue is not Good vs Bad, pleasure vs pain, beauty vs ugliness, meaning vs meaningless, order vs disorder but Being vs Non-Being; thus YHWH is called "He causes to exist whatsoever exists; i.e. Sein vs das Nichts! (I heard the voice of the salvador salvandus calling to me, + it was the call of pure is! (Vs is-not.) folder 48 - 090 folder 48 - 090 Thus my acosmism of decades -of my whole life- comes to an end in an understanding at last not just of the nature of reality but of God, the two being linked through the basic nature of God (previously unknown to me) of "He who causes to exist whatsoever exists." The 2-3-74 apotheosis was an experience not accompanied by understanding on my part; now 5 1/2 years later understanding begins to come. This is perhaps an even higher moment than 3-74 because for the first time I understand the issue correctly as being Sein vs das Nichts, no less. For the first time I am openly + consciously aware of the true issue involved, + aware of God as the guarantor of being + hence good if being is to be preferred to nothing; theodicy is contained in the act of causing Sein per se. Since the only Sein is in God, whatever he causes to exist is therefore in a sense him (cf Spinoza). He does not fashion reality as artificer to artifact; it is more like what Brahman does: assumes multiplicity + variety; i.e. the new + diverse. My acosmism was a failure on my part -not a failure to know reality- but to know God. I could figure out that reality -the universe- was epiphenomenal, but I could not see what was truly real that sustained or generated it. Now I can. But look at the payoff of my acosmism! I got to see Valis, the unitary volitional sentient entity acting as guarantor of reality. Reality in 3-74 assumed the aspect -the correct aspect- of deity: God is the nature of reality - i.e. the substantia or esse. folder 48 - 091 This leads me into a whole new relationship to reality (Sein). I see an issue far more important than what is good - The issue is, what is real? It is what it has always been for me: an epistemological (not moral or aesthetic) issue. I have always sought the real + at last have found it: the real is what YHWH causes to be real, + all good, beautiful + desireable flow from this: they are implied by existence per se, simply because the issue of Sein vs das Nichts is the only issue of importance. If there is Sein, the rest will flow from it naturally. But the search for good, beautiful + desireable takes for granted Sein, which should not be taken for granted, since it is the real issue at stake; if it fails, all fail. __ Since he works through the universe our relationship to him is normally via (through) the universe. But in acute + extreme situations he can render the intermediary universe void + deal with us directly; this is a disclosure of the real state of affairs. If this happens, one can assume the situation to be one of gravity. Also there is a desire by him to make himself known above + beyond the needs of the situation. __ I just realized: the "Belial won, + took over the churches as well as the state" dream exactly collates with the 2-74 vision of Xtianity as illegal + secret + underground. It is the rest of folder 48 - 092 folder 48 - 092 the story; it explains 2-74. + then 3-74 (Thomas) was the instilling into me a psyche of that current underground transplanted from biblical times. Note the term transplanted ("+ is alive"). = YHWH folder 48 - 093 folder 48 - 093 In terms of scanning, he can scan or play our system with years passing in seconds. So ours is the high speed motion + his is the high speed scanning (experience + perception). Only a highly efficient system could scan that fast - + enter into what it's scanning at the right time + place! If he is set up in advance to feed in, + he must be, he is operating at high speed indeed. He must think + act faster than the system. Supra: "We are cells in a body, + we grow old + die" - + are replaced by ourselves: reincarnation. Our real life span is that of all the replacements sequentially of that cell: but there is a loss of memory at each successive replacement which can be overcome, if overcome we experience the organism itself (Valis), its mind + ourselves as cells with actual life spans the length of life of the organism. + the organism operates at high speed; in its time terms, cells die after a few - weeks? If you suppose an objective time length, let us call it y. Valis transverses y in one second; we in a year. Therefore (if this model is correct) Valis is moving faster through time (modeled on space). Suppose a time travel machine which when you get in it, decades pass in seconds. Isn't this an acceleration of the rate of passage through time? Yet if someone outside the time travel ship could see you, you'd appear to congeal. If you in the time travel ship could see reality while you traveled, reality would seem to speed up frantically - decades in seconds: fast motion! folder 48 - 094 folder 48 - 094 So the congealed (i.e. slow moving) entity is actually moving faster through time than the rapidly moving reality around -i.e. outside- him. Under LSD you slow down in your motion through time - by "time" read "change." You observe change slow + even stop. But its intrinsic rate hasn't changed; yours has. Motion through time is rate vis-a-vis a regularly moving object like a clock, an ordinary clock. If its hands turn faster (for you) you have speeded up in your time-rate-flow. So Valis is moving through time super fast; hence all the "clocks" turn (move) at frantic speed. [Your subjective time has slowed, + objective time remains -is- the constant, so when objective (clock) time speeds up, since it is really constant, you have slowed down. {Note} Think of 2 cars traveling parallel at the same speed. You then look out of yours at the other + it has begun to speed up + is pulling ahead. But if its speedometer shows that it is still at the agreed-upon constant, you must have slowed down, but only subjectively - wait; this isn't right.] No, you are the real constant. One travels into the future - moves faster through time, by slowing down in relation to clock time. {Note:} Subjectively only! Your biological clock has slowed, + from outside you are seen to congeal. There are 2 kinds of time; the word covers two phenomena. While you move faster through objective (clock time, as the frenzied clock dial shows) in terms of internal biological time you have slowed - ah; Einstein's relativity! There's the answer! I've independently discovered relativity! folder 48 - 095 folder 48 - 095 Paradoxically, you are both slowing down + speeding up. From inside looking out, you have speeded up: you know this by the frenzied turning of the clock hands. But someone outside still in