suspension (as Philo believed) but a making use out very (deft use of natural law) deftly. This deftness is precisely what gave it away to me: what I called Valis. So Valis) Valis requires - for it is to exist - intel lingent natural law! So intelligence does not lie in the objects but in the laws governing the objects. + when it was exerted on me in 3-74. I became a snerned object, subject to those laws. Then pronoia is the extraordinary occurance where these laws (being the will of God) show concern for the then person elfare of a are not 517 (Philo is wrong) but a valence shows itself. The result is that the inexor able causal process is robbed of its victim (the laws here regarded as a bad fate) the divine mechanism seems to be to substitute the wise mind for the person at the moment of crisis (karmic pay off) whereupon he uses reality is a new way. This substitution is known to us as the vicarious sacrifice. In this substitution the natura naturans replaces a mode (the given human) of the natura naturata domain. These must be the "upper + lower realms" the AI voice spoke of it places its own mind at the service of the victim of its law; this is the me entity in the universe which for obvious reasons the law cannot destroy since it itself is the law; the law is an expression of its own existence (will). Naturally it would see its own law (will) as sentient rather than mechanical So I was right: in a certain real sense I was Valis; Valis was an expression of my self. But I was not myself. So twice this mind is introduced into the equation: at, so to speak, both ends the surrogation is as much for efficacy as for ritual purposes. It knows the para‐ meters of its own law (will). If it could suspend its own law, as Philo believed 518 There would be no need for surrogation Spinoza shows why surrogation is necessary; it cannot suspend its own law (will). for the reasons Spinoza gives. Without intending to, Spinoza clears up - explains - one of the greatest puzzles in Xtianity I fascinating: what you wind up with in this surrogation situation is Sankara's atmen - Brahman. Exactly it. The microform of God in the person Acts in conjunction with Valis the macroform: inner + outer! They are identical as soon as surrogation sets in This explains why I wasn't just taken wer by the Holy Spirit but also saw Valis! If Spinoza is right + God works through natural law rather than suspending it, pronoia will have to function quite differently than if There are miracles. Long sequences of synchronizations will have to be arranged well in advance that pay off (simultaneously) at exactly the right time + place + in exactly the right way. So great amounts of advanced preparation (foresight) will be needed. But I conceive of these as normal + regular within the unitary system. What is unusual is seeing how it works. n it years presents the phylogenic information engramming: to overthrow the state (the BIP) + be free. Its grid points to the underground. After 52 years of work I cracked the code of/in "Tears" + read The engramming - + understood Christ + the underground identically, this was shown to me in 2-3-74, independent of saw the underground alluded ook: I the 819 to in the book. It is real. It goes back to Moses + the fight against egypt, which means passover is involved. There is where the story began: with the Hittile covenant, Ikhnaton + moses + replacing slavery. monotheism, the Jews. the Bardo Thodol trip: triggered by gazing at a piece of shing metal (Boehme, Tagomi me? Why? Abviously disinhibiting. re Spinoza. So when I saw Valis I saw what pinoza calls natura naturans: the will of God, upon which the natura naturata realm depends, + I saw it as 1) Intelligent 2) volitional; 3) aware of me, + 4) helping me. (This is why Valis had no body as such: was not an object + yet was objects + the causal laws governing them: esp. the latter. + 5) unitary - this was important, the key to understanding reality. I knew me. It was the I-thou relationship that Martin bober speaks of. e 4:30 am insight: Valis crowdes out stupider reality; this is the dialectic. like a Greshems law: smart reality out stupide, specifically because crowds of its foresight (v. Zoroaster): so it does make plans that pay off later blind reality can't compete, e.g. Look how it prepared for the Xerox missive. This is not a game Foresight has t survival consequences, it progressively 836 subjegates more + more of reality with the accidents unchanged. This is not immanent deity, pan theism, as with Spinoza; no: God has invaded creation + combats it: the Zoroastrian dialectic that I saw: God (Noos) vs creation (determinism + chance - i.e. ananke). God is neither transcendent nor imminent but has invaded creation (which may be an artifact). (1) The next question, then, is whether Valis is at The Cosmic Christ. Inasmuch as 1) it was a passover, 2) I heard the bells; 3) saw the blood + body; 4) saw transubstantiation; 5) was disinhibited by The Golden Fish. It probably was. Also 6) the personality of Thomas had once been human; + at the time of Acts: he was afraid of the Romans. {Not âž€ This is in fact a definition of Christ: i God invading the fallen cosmos to restore it He is not here just to talk in this sense he is like the Shekhina of the Jews. The dream in "Tears." This is not the earthly Jesus But the risen Lord who is now a cosmic figure seen not by everyone, but only visible to Those he chooses. Where the is, there is the Kingdom. The EB says "the creator as Christ re-enters + revitalizes his own creation." (Or rather "entered anew: ("with creative power.") This is precisely my vision (concept, understanding) of Valis invading creation (i.e. reality) in other words my perception John. Valis invading echoes the opening 521 "... + his (Christ's) return to his own disciples through the Holy Spirit." (!) (J.B. on John.) (The Keregyma. I reiterate an idea I had before that I consider the crux idea: some people who we see walking around are living in another universe, a greater universe, the Xtian universe of the Holy Spireme with different time + different space from our own, +, in 2-3-74, I got temporarily into it + in it the Parousia is here (Has occurred.) + they know it. How This can be I don't know; the spirit has the keys to that Kingdom over which Christ (Valis) rules. + its (their) messages ride our media - e.g. "Tears." Valis is no longer just an invader in their reality but is their reality: a unitary, sentient, volitional entity natura naturans), the body + blood That is ubique. (For them, as it was for me briefly in 3-74). Total inte grated structure with foresight. It has defeated its adversary that has only a posteriori hindsight. It is like a post mortem world. In essence these people have been restored by the Holy Spirit to man's original sta 6 that of the 3-eyed people i h o are 3 22 t they constitute an underground amory us + are alluded to in "Tears. from the standpoint of species evolution, they constitute a body of Xtian supermen, undetected among us. They are not believers; they are participants in symbiosis with the word-wisdom (Logos-Sophia) entity via the Paraclete, What I experienced in 2-3-74 is precisely the Kerygma of the N.T. although Jesus died he is alive + s (us There returns to his discip i - o i by through the Holy Spirit, which then I restores us to our original state (unfallen), with supernatural faculties rather than e.g. "Christ + cognition + Gnosis. (died for our sins," etc. my novels open up the idea of plural super‐ mposed realities (starting with "Eye"), differing from person to person ("Geworfenhect"). Consider the BIP Acts reality that I saw in 3-74, + the PTG in 2-75. If you can understand them you can under‐ stand the idea of people walking around here but in a different universe. 23 i t s - The monopoly money in the dream could equal not play money but counterfeit money (i.e. what I have found is counter‐ fect!). Oh - + the slot: where words appear. Orphan annie decoder badge: Figa a i.e. counterfeit + code. "Cabrillo" I i i + equals "the man." (via cabillare (+ cabrillo the explorer: i.e. new world. Gold watch red (red glass is obtained from Gold.) ordering code for dairy: milk, cream, butter milk, etc. Food. Cereal box - Baby food with medical info on back. Many symbols of children - childhood. flower pot with stick with writing on it indicating variety of plant: Bruce tatlock school. Growing seed; stop-action photography. Many frames: phosphene graphics, with constants visible. Jack armstrong pedometer. Ah! Cereal premiums. This ties children's cereal to code! encoding done in childhood, ob vious. Now we're getting somewhere (+ monopoly + its play money is children's game). +, most of all, the words Olive Holt are from my childhood. Freya Holt living on dairy ranch. The contest of play money where I won box camera. Drugstore: medicine. Watch: timer on bomb. No - being timed in my response: stop watch. Calendar watch with slot for day + date like the rollex watch I had in point reyes But what if Fig. A refers to King-Felix not the Xerox missive? In any case according + to the dream I delivered it to the right people suppose cabrillo, placentia + the chicanos refers to us portuguese states of America"? dream in "Tears" - I had the initial impres sim that it referred to the Roman Catholic church 824) what if the BIP "track A" is an alternate world in which - as in a mis' novel - the Catholic cause won in the 17th century? consider my revelation that the Catholics opposed slavery - which I've verified vis-a-vis the E.B. Not illegal Xtianity but true Xtianity what I call "the Xtian universe" (more space, ess time) is an alternate world which I saw in 2-74? A religion-drenched world (such as Amis portrays)? Suppose a freedom underground exists in it. The only survival of protestant movements, the BIP is the monolithic church? This fits in with Tears" being an alternate world "where the civil rights movement seems to have failed"? + the Acts mmaterial points to the church not as the under‐ hound but as the establishment state? or: like the west "really won" in "Faith" - the Catholics really won in "Tears." "Tears" is the true state of affairs : repressive Catholic state inc. the USSR. Nixon anti-Catholic. The two Kennedys Catholic. Why, the secret Fish Xtians I saw in 2-74 is the Catholic church which really rules; hence "portugese states of America." They have the Holy Spirit which holds a dual role: both establishment + revolution: in dialectic interaction itself! It is the 11211. 3 levels of ontology: with protestant victory Catholic victory Holy in 2 at freedom underground] Spirit. Roles I Y, Y, Y; does 3 (freedom underground) equal Y (protestants?) not exactly. No, this is too complex. The truth is that the chunch really rules, by virtue of the Holy Spirit simultaneously which I + 525 i authoritarian + revolutionary? Is sort of a binary-mind life form presenting y + y as simultaneously true. It makes + breaks conventions dogmas + customs + institutions; but most of all it (the Holy Spirit) rules this world. This is the real secret. We rumans cannot fathom its pattern, plan or logic, why