entire ediface of secret Messianic movements was supernaturally disclosed to me, or else by fantastic technology, and it's all in VALIS. And (get this!) the E.B. article on Messianic Movements talks about it being connected with the Enlightenment! The "second signal" -- cryptic information, the two-word cypher in TEARS, and the Acts material and the (oh God!) the dream material in TEARS -- Messianic Chiliasm. There is a secret organization fighting the BIP. More. The Kingdom is here, secretly; I saw it. And Valis is Christ or God. I am pitted against all establishment Christianity, which takes its cue from Augustine, that the present order will endure. The E.B.: "The granting of toleration to Christianity by the Roman emperor Constantine...and its becoming the religion of the Roman Empire heralded a development in which the church became the ally of the present order rather than the harbinger of its passing away." There you have it. “As far as the struggle with evil in this world is concerned, Augustine surrendered and abandoned the field. No imminent supernatural intervention in history was expected. Augustine taught what has been referred to as 'realized' eschatologoy. For him the battle has already been fought on the spiritual ground that really mattered ... he rejected as carnal any expectations of a renewed and purified world that the believers could expect to enjoy." "Augustine's allegorical millennialism became the official doctrine of the church, and apocalypticism went underground." And I have it all there in VALIS!!!!! [11]-30-80 I have it: why VR deals with Judaism. "Emphasis on the expected Second Coming introduced an element of messianic unrest in addition to questioning the validity of the present order; it was soon repudiated by the church as 'unspiritual,' since it envisaged a messianic kingdom upon earth --rather in the manner of the Jews-- instead of a heavenly kingdom." Note: "Rather in the manner of the Jews." Hence VR, based on what the AI voice said, spoke of "He has been transplanted and is alive" as YHWH, not Christ. "The heretical element, thoght not inherent in millenarianism as such, resided in the tendency of radical religious or social criticism to use chiliast-messianic terminology when such criticism propagated the notion that the present rulers --and even the very forms-- of church and state would be superseded by a perfect order." This is just incredible. Because 2-3-74 constituted proof that some secret underground chiliastic Messianic movement exists, and Christ or YHWH is the head of it; therefore it possesses supernatural powers or advanced technology; I don't know which. This first shows up in TEARS. It has to do with the future, so it may indeed be technology. It's all there in VALIS. It first showed up in TEARS. So I'm not just a Christian; I'm a revolutionary chiliastic Messianic millenialist, part of a secret underground group led by either the Cosmic Christ or God and possessing either supernatural or advanced technological means. We are pitted against the entire world-order, both church and state (vide VR!!). And it is on the Jewish model, although Christian. I had better burn my exegesis. Because this has to do with revolution, radical social reform; it has some kind of relationship to Marxism, to socialism, to the overthrow of governments and the establishing of a new world order. Again let me think back to Nixon and his downfall. Oh dear. This secret group with its technology (?) acted in 1974. It's all true. The fourth empire (Rome) was hurt badly by it. [1]1-30-80 The secret underground Christians do not exist in the past but exist now. So I didn't remember a past life; Thomas is my actual identity, and my actual role is as one of these secret revolutionary Christians. Somehow now is Acts, in terms of morphology (the value signs reversed from the seeming to the real). So this is my identity, my role, my involvement, and now. The Empire, too, is now. It is all taking place here and now. The sodium pentathol and the golden fish sign. Hal was right; I was not in touch with PKD². But the sodium pentathol put me in touch, plus the golden fish sign. PKD¹ got in touch with the real PKD², just as Hal anticipated. But it's not Pigspurt -- or is it? Could this be the esoteric inner side of Pigspurt? Or Pigspurt an outer secular manifestition of it? Here is the crucial point: my anamnesis did not occur because of the Xerox missive, but because of the golden fish sign, the Christian secret fish sign. The Xerox missive ambled along a month later; I was already disinhibited, AND NOT BY IT. SO IT ISN'T PIGSPURT. But it’s radical and secret and revolutionary. It’s much older than Pigspurt. It goes back to Frederick the Elector Palatine. It is R.C. 11-30-80 The ultimate goal of the fight adinst the Empire (Rome) is not pluralism or freedom --although those are sought for; those are the political, social goals-- but the Kingdom of Christ, the fifth rule following the four empires (Assyria, Persia, Greece and Rome). Since Christ is St. Sophia, there is an identity between Wisdom (learning, knowledge, the humanists and the Enlightenment) and this Fifth Kingdom: where Christ rules, knowledge (Wisdom) rules. Here is where the R.C. Brothers' goal of universal knowledge ties into Christ's rule; this is the common ingredient. So there is a connection between, for instance, the Dutch war of independence against Spain, and Christ’s rule (the Kingdom which breaks into this world and displaces Satan’s Empire, Rome). Freedom, pluralism, information, living information, Christ. Versus the Empire, homogeneity, suppression of information, ignorance, obedience, Satan. Knowledge. Knowledge of what? Of Christ. What about Christ? That he is here; the Kingdom is here. This is precisely what Joachim del Fiore foresaw: a time when there would be a spiritual church under the Spirit, rather than men (as rulers). This was the beginning of the revival of the original millenialism of the Church. My God - by projecting a hologram of Acts onto world (as the "2nd signal") it treated world (reality) like a book, like it treated "Tears" onto/into which it also projected the Acts grid. Thereby it turns reality into a medium for information, making it (reality) into language. Which can literally be read (like a book). This [realization + fact] is just stunningly significant. The info traffic can only be extracted if the Acts grid (or lens) is projected onto it. What would tend to wish to turn reality into a carrier for intormation traffic? I would say, a life form with information metabolism. (What I would call the "plasmate.") + I saw this life form, did I not? The macrometasomakosmos which is constructing itself out of pieces of our universe! It is not a mind but a brain; its thoughts are physical. This is anything but spiritual; i.e. in no way is it God, who isn't physical. This is a form of reality, + not God. There is some kind of intimate relation between Acts + information. Could this point to the Logos? I think that the extraordinary correlation between my 2-3-74 revelation + what I found in the E.B. article on "Messianic movements" confirms 2-3-74 as a genuine Christian revelation. Valis is the Cosmic Christ; Thomas is the Holy Spirit; + on 11-17-80 I experienced the Father, God; so I have experienced the Trinity in toto. I just cannot ignore (1) the elements in 2-3-74 that I find in the E.B. article on "Messianic movements - Christian"; + (2) Acts + its relationship to a meta life form with what I call "an information metabolism" - this suggests the Logos + there were so many other Christian elements. + on 11-17-80 God did say that the 2-3-74 theophany was genuine, by the argument to infinities. But the Holy Spirit + Christ represent something like a politically active movement in the world, where the combat with Satan takes place (the dialectic that I saw), whereas God is transcendent + other: Christ is transubstantiating the world into his cosmic body, as the captivity letters say, so Christ is intimately involved in the world + its evolution; he has invaded it + is in combat with Satan here. As it has been revealed to me, Christ is so-to-speak God's champion in the war to recover the fallen + disintegrating cosmos (creation). He is dis- mantling + assimilating it for his own metasoma. This is revealed by the Holy Spirit who "reminds" you of all that Jesus said, + reveals Christ's nature to you + the historical revolutionary unfolding + the combat with Satan. Christ is wisdom or so-to-speak information. He is eternally anchored in the spatiotemporality of Acts, as if it's all being fought out there in some strange mysterious sense that I don't understand. I would say, at this point, that the theophany of 11-17-80 completes the theophany (or rather epiphany!) of 2-3-74; yes! the earlier one was an epiphany, but 11-17-80 was a theophany. (This is not quite Trinitarian, but the God of 11-17-80 was the God whom Dante reveals in the last canto of "The Commedia," the God of love: "the love that moves the sun + the other stars.") It is (well well) it is as if Valis -Christ- is not God but intelligere Dei: God's wisdom, God as a knowing absolute - of course; it is St. Sophia, God's Holy Wisdom. But the essence (einai) of God is agape, so in 2-3-74 I experienced his noein, but in 11-17-80 I experienced his einai. The Son (noein) proceeds from the Father (einai), + the Spirit joins the two, like a blitz: Ruah. So the Trinity is revealed to me - by the Spirit, which is in you (enthusiasmos). +: Christ has a body but God the Father does not - ah; that is it! Corpus Christi, the mystical resurrected cosmic Christ has a body, but the Father does not. However, you can only discern this body by means of the Spirit. This is Trinitarian. 3) The Spirit reveals (discloses) (recalls) noein 2) Christ knows einai 1) God is, + that "is" (i.e. being) is agapē. I have been shown the last secret of the Trinity: God’s being, essence (einai) is agapē. Beyond this there is nothing more. From revelation (the Spirit) to intellegere (Christ, Hagia Sophia, Ho Logos) to agapē (Abba) - 2-74 was the Spirit causing me to remember; then in 3-74 I saw Valis, the Cosmic Christ; + now on 11-17-80, Abba, the Father (agapē). The God who I experienced in 11-17-80 would be absolutely correctly designated by the term Jesus used: Abba. I can see why now; it is no mystery. I read Robert Anton Wilson's "Masks of the Illuminati." He is aware of the paradoxes + playfulnesses, the like of which He -not I- is the playful trickster + guide, the real me who projected the hologram of Acts. He remembers being a secret revolutionary Xtian, with passwords - but he could be late Medieval, not first century - as the E.B. described in its article on "Messianic Movements"; he could follow Joachim del Fiore. He put the material in "Tears", e.g. He lived in a monastic, communist community where they had that pitcher of water, + techniques for reincarnation upon death - the pink cube of something. The Greek suggests first century, but there is that part about blowing up fortifications with explosives - which I sort of feel is connected with the 1600s. Maybe he viewed himself as an apostolic Xtian, but wasn't one literally; I have to keep in mind the explosives. Maybe he's come back a number of times; that must be it. But I do think he was a templar, + this points to the illuminati + R.C. => Acts material in "Tears" is for the purpose of encoding. Acts projected onto world is for the purpose of extracting info back out (decoding). Now, what kind of world is it where there is information