deal again with the Xerox missive situation + this time successfully. This would explain the uncanny taking-over of my motor centers, all that stuff that made me think I was under the power of OCCP psychotronic technology. The agency responsible obviously is Ubik/Valis. This taking over of me - it was the whole point. I think this is the real past, but real = "real." There is no USA 1974/9 more real, but it's a creation of Ubik/Valis + they are running + rerunning it. I am here from elsewhere + specifically for the purpose of dealing with the Xerox missive. This raises an interesting question: am I who I think I am? I may be an impostor (exactly as I felt I was in 3-74!) here for the purpose of handling the Xerox missive; I was right: there was programming laid down in me in advance for dealing specifically with the Xerox missive, triggered off in 2-74. Deliberately. "Another personality," but not Pigspurt as I quite reasonably supposed at the time. I felt it take me over. No; it is from the future; I am sure of that, based on my dream folder 48 - 080 folder 48 - 080 today. That "waking up" wasn't an accident. I (PKD) was pre-empted by the real self (Thomas), the self who had come back here for this sole purpose. Of course it woke up (v. the strident radio). Since the Xerox missive was Pigspurt, ostensibly, I would naturally suppose it was a Pigspurt personality; I was aware of the other personality in me - he had supernatural powers. The cypher in "Tears" - that was to notify those in the future that he was successfully here. Then he could be regarded as a evolved human of the future. This is a big story: that evolved humans from the future are here in our midst. Suppose the real Xtians have very real supernatural powers. Given them directly by YHWH. + they are a small minority underground, highly secret. Initiating alternate worlds. + basically two information systems have intersected, + the wiser one is dismantling the lesser one + assimilating it. The secret Xtians are agents of it as "set" to "ground," here within the hologram created by the intersection of the two information systems. What is at stake is nothing less than the victory of the superior (a priori) information system over the other. YHWH is the mind of the a priori information system; it is breaking into the inferior but very powerful a posteriori information system: penetrating it on a one-way folder 48 - 081 basis: attacking it. This is the plasmate that I saw. It consists -the secret history consists- of an assault on the inferior information system which is very simple replication + not novel in its possibilities compared with the a priori one. What must be realized is that Valis (YHWH) is an invader. The inferior system is sealed off: closed: the BIP. It merely repeats certain thought patterns over + over again, like a complex. As a mind it is a psychotic mind: nothing new ever comes into it - except that YHWH is penetrating it by wisdom (shrewdness + strategy). I now conceive of YHWH as the rightful God who was expelled at an earlier time (defeated) + is returning. (Cf Hamlet + the Bacchae.) This was before the fall; the Garden, when he ruled. He tried to return at the first advent + failed. Now he returns again. He is, in fact, here. He is both new (as I conceive him to be in "Valis") + primordial: from before the fall. This ousting of him is the original crisis in the Godhead. An impostor has ruled for thousands of years. He has worked through a small number of chosen people, in stealth. Everything must be re-evaluated. We are carefully inculcated with the idea that the loving N.T. God replaces the Wrathful O.T. deity, but in fact the "loving" N.T. God is Satan, which is why he has been silent for over 2000 years - + will always be. Only YHWH colloquizes with man as friend to friend. YHWH is the God of the weak, the powerless! folder 48 - 082 folder 48 - 082 YHWH does not 1) occlude our perceptions; or 2) occlude our memory. YHWH causes 1) ajna perception (of Belial's BIP); + 2) anamnesis. He invades with the otherwise concealed truth; it is the ruling power Belial who occludes us to our enslaved condition. The truth is analogous to what Elijah perceived about Ahab + the condition of the Kingdom. There is a reality (under the simulated one that we accept as real due to our double occlusion) but it is a so-to-speak overrun reality. Lifting one of us out of this occlusion is a process that takes years of YHWH acting on the person, waking him (e.g. "sleepers awake"). It flashes as death is to life: a sort of reversal of polarities. If we are said to be alive we die; but (+ this is the truth) if we are said to be dead we come alive. We do not understand 1) our condition; 2) our reality (world). YHWH is not -+ has not been since the fall- at the center of our world (v. Elijah + Daniel; the prophets all). Recourse to him is recourse to justice served by the irrestable power to guarantee reality, like a court. It (the power) shows up in -when- ultimate tests (confrontations) are involved (Elijah vs Ahab, Daniel vs Belshazzar, etc). These are corrections -Balances? Rectifications? - Justifications?- in the Kosmos. By which the Noos of the Kosmos re-regulates itself (the Tao). At the time of each such re-regulation there is a sort of quake of time + space (like a dysfunction, but actually a justification, an folder 48 - 083 folder 48 - 083 aligning. Perhaps the natura naturata has lagged (out of synch with the Logos as plan). Yes that's it. There is a plan, + when reality departs from it, it is periodically corrected (brought into conformity;) the epiphenomenal is brought into conformity with the archetype. YHWH is the Noos of the archetype. It's a question of homeostasis: self-correction within a closed total system of which we experience only the picture, image or epiphenomenal. The archetype reveals itself at the occurance of these corrections; if the archetype as Noos + plan + realm did not exist, such corrections would not occur; there would be no Logos for the epiphenomenal to be brought into conformity with. It would in fact not be epiphenomenal. So some latitude for straying exists, as with any homeostatic system, like a heating or cooling system. The correcting device (?) is built into the system; it functions invariably, not arbitrarily (cf Taoism). It so-to-speak comes on -cuts in + overpowers the epiphenomenal- automatically when overbalance occurs: "straying." But still, this is an intelligent "circuit." It moves "faster" than the epiphenomenal reality that it controls. Viz: it is of a higher (i.e. more sophisticated or complex) order. Otherwise the epiphenomenal might successfully fight it off, which is an absurdity re override systems that folder 48 - 084 folder 48 - 084 cut in + correct. Working through (als ob) the natural, it amps up certain persons, objects, processes so that they become instruments of itself: enthusiasmos. But it is really correcting itself. Via them; via those persons, objects, processes (as if they are hollow vessels). They are no longer ipso facto epiphenomenal; hence I experienced 1) enthusiasmos (Thomas); + 2) theophany. (Valis.) The epiphenomenal has been invaded. Valis is hyperfast: (the opposite of time dilation) it traverses years of our time in seconds - laying down frame upon frame which it keeps in its present - i.e. perceptual memory. What I was seeing was hypervelocity along the time axis as space axis. To understand it as moving hyperfast in time, time must be construed as spacial layers. (I.e. it can get from 1934 to 1974 in seconds.) This is not slow but fast, on its part. I was seeing something moving so fast that normally we can't see it. Slow is when 1934 was a long time ago, fast is when 1934 was seconds ago. So if 1934 was seconds ago for it, its lifetime extends in 1000s or even millions of our years. Then anamnesis is its normal span of memory, + the deoccluded perception its normal perception. It remembers 1000s of years. + sees decades as present - why, it may see 70 AD to 1974 AD as present; memory is not involved but perception of what is, folder 48 - 085 folder 48 - 085 not was. To a fruit fly, reality would seem static, congealed. But when Valis took me over I saw everything speeded up frantically. My (PKD) lifetime became a matter of seconds + I speeded on into the next life: i.e. the post mortem life. Crete to post mortem: one lifespan. Time-lapse phopography is a way of speeding up action: collecting days in seconds. Then the world of "Tears" is the archetypal world. We are cells in a body replacing themselves as they grow old. Hypnagogic 4:30 AM: "You're the 5th person in history to figure this out" [i.e. supra, re ultra high speed entity.] Buddha, etc. "We are all YHWH." (I.e. all 5 of us.) Viewed from outside, Valis is very slow, too slow to see. (For us to see it.) But viewed from inside it, by it, it "moves so fast that our reality is speeded up to frantic velocity. So we see it as slow + it sees us as fast - too slow to see it at all. So I didn't see it moving at ultra high speed, but rather our reality as it sees -+ controls- our reality; as it experiences our process world. Its memory, too, of layers laid down. It's our reality seen to move fast, acted on by it (Valis). It as our reality! folder 48 - 086 But I'm writing all this as if time is subjective ("the experience -psychological- of time"). If time is an objective callibration, then Valis really is an ultra high speed system, passing between two given time markers at millions (thousands?) of times faster than we: years in seconds. + with therefore a totally different -expanded- present. So it probably is a control system, or functions as one (on the epiphenomenal). Fruit flies: their movement is faster than ours, we are congealed to them, but their time is slower: i.e. for them weeks pass but for us only seconds, in the same given objective interval. They must (or would) move faster to fill up the "weeks." So Valis in our system is ultra high speed to us but out of is congealed; I saw our system as Valis sees it, + at the rate Valis moves in relation to it when involved in it, as he is. He feeds into our system. The faster you move, the less objective time you consume. (Given a fixed objective amount.) Valis has more time than we; by entering into our system he makes his time either infinite or virtually infinite. Rate of movement is inversely proportional to speed of system, if there is an objective time (callibration). Hypertime. Ah - he experiences one of our years as a second, retaining appropriate present (which would extend 2000 years of our time experience). Hence the vision of "Tears": AD 70 to AD 1974 as one present. folder 48 - 087 folder 48 - 087 He becomes their protector + extricates them: de-occludes them + instills in them an understanding of the truth; he is the "low murmuring voice" who spoke to Elijah + showed him the true situation: "He is not in the thunder, not in the fire or storm," etc. __ All reality is epiphenomenal, dependent for its existence on something else (Valis). In this respect Valis is the creator, rather than