I assigned certain qualities to it on a par with those attributed to God by St. Anselm. For example I assigned ubiquity to it, + the wisdom to save humans, + the volition + ability, esp. the ability to revitalize them in their Bardo Thodol decomposing, entropic running-down; I attributed to it absolute rejuvenating ubiquitous power toward all humans in the Bardo Thodol state - + attributed to it the ability to in-break when- + where ever it chose." Now, to follow St. Anselm's argument, to deny Ubik actual existence would be to theoretically contradict the internal logic of my formulation. For example, if folder 06 - 068 folder 06 - 068 ubiquitous, + this quality is its primary one, it is ubiquitous before all else. Thus in my nanosecond dialectic frame flip flops I have conceptualized something which by definition must exist in all frames during all flip flops at all times + places. If it exists at all it exists everywhere. But Ubik is just a thought in my head (which I happened to write down + publish - that is not vital). Wait - it is! Ubik became information, like "Tears." Could the plasmate have invaded + replaced (transubstantiated) it, as it did the King Felix cypher in "Tears"? If so - We're not dealing with just a mental idea; we're dealing with info, + if the plasmate replaces it with its living, self-reconstituting body - So it may not be the concept Ubik that we are dealing with but the plasmate become Ubik, {...} look what that would mean! Then the plasmate rides to everyone who reads "Ubik," + I was the first person to read it - This -about the plasmate- may be what I've left out of my calculations. + yet - the concept of ubiquity, if my system is correct, would have the effect of generating it in all frames (as the 1:.618034 ratio is ubiquitously reconstituted). It's interesting that for me, ubiquity was the primary attribute, not omniscience or omnipotence (I did not know the ontological proof of God, at that time). For this to work, platonic forms (realism, the reality of universals) must be presumed true - + in "Ubik" they explicitly are. ___ Changling fairy: Pat Conley's power to change the present by manipulating the past. __ When you are born again you are born free of astral determinism. folder 06 - 069 folder 06 - 069 Oh my God - another -+ main- point of 3-74 which is in "Ubik." The way Jory invades Ella Runciter (because they're all together in cold-pak + Jory has more vitality). The way Thomas invaded me. Isn't this exactly the same? My vitality had dwindled; his was strong. Again, what is implied is that a bunch of us are together in a Bardo Thodol state, + intermingle; but - intermingle as Jory did with Ella - which would be (i.e. Thomas' invading would be) impossible if we weren't in the Bardo Thodol state! He invaded me at a time when I was very weak. This is why I hear the AI voice; he or she is very close to me + bleeding across, as in cold-pak. What this factors out to is, if we are really here where we appear to be, it is impossible that I could be or contain or be in my head with another person who is living at another time + place ("not living in this century") + I could not have seen Acts, + if I did, it could not have been syntonically blended with Calif 1974. So I am not sure what our real condition is, but one possibility ruled out is that it is as we believe it to be - as it seems. What the Acts material in "Tears" proves is that 2-74 wasn't just hypnotic suggestion. folder 06 - 070 folder 06 - 070 On the basis of Thomas taking me over, + my continual hearing of the AI voice ever since, while going to sleep, + the written info in dreams, one could deduce that even though I can't see him (or see his world any longer) despite all appearances to the contrary he is closer (physically, literally) to me than anyone else is - which certainly suggests the situation in "Eye" + "Ubik" + "Stigmata" + "Maze" - esp "Ubik." As I wrote earlier, our dreams -which we take as real while having them- prove that if the mind is correctly hobbled it will take (as if hypnotized) any thing as reality; it can be commanded arbitrarily to believe + to experience verisimillitude. But this is precisely the verisimillitude which was upset by the anamnesis of 2-74, + 3-74 esp. the causal train melting - the latter being what you'd expect from the irreal (it was overruled or it got adjusted or adjusted itself back into synch). (To restore the impression of verisimillitude, specifically.) + my responding in advance to external stimuli - this is revelation sine qua non of irreality; our lives are preprogrammed on an inner tape + cleverly synchronized with "reality." I have prima facia evidence that 1) our world is fake + 2) our situation is not as it appears, but on the affirmative side I do not clearly understand what our actual situation is. Except that I saw Valis transubstantiating our world + growing constantly, invisible to us (totally camouflaged), + it seemed real. + I saw the living info plasmate which was Valis' "blood." The key must be in "Stigmata" with the plasmate equalling Eldritch's Chew-Z, + Thomas equalling a growing ubiquity of epiphanizing one person (Thomas being Christ), + the landscape {hence} that one person's reality (Acts). folder 06 - 071 Do you suppose the plasmate ("Chew-Z") makes us see the illusion as real? (Leaving aside the issue of its epiphanizing, transubstantiating power.) Wait - I see a way of corrolating "Stigmata" + my nanosecond dialectic flip flop frames, the element discussed supra: ubiquity. Ubik + Eldritch share this common ingredient: ubiquity. What if via the plasmate (or even in opposition to, but I doubt this) - ah. Via the plasmate the eidos "Thomas" (equalling Ubik or Eldritch) is ubiquitous throughout all the frames from Acts on. The plasmate is the middle stage of the ubiquitous eidos "Thomas" who is Ubik who is therefore Christ. Thus all persons in frames following Acts are ontologically reducable to Thomas (Christ) + hence all worlds are reducable to Acts. Stability -constancy- is thereby introduced into an otherwise out-of-control + going God knows where halving dialectic, the way Eldritch shows up in all his worlds. It can now direct the dialectic from within it. I think I've got it, here. This modifies my psychotic idea that I created Ubik. No - it was already a ubiquitous (i.e. constant) form in all frames; thus it showed up in my writing, as a result of its ubiquity, not a cause. folder 06 - 072 folder 06 - 072 3-74 consisted of my Karma "short-circuited by grace," which involves the interruption of causal trains + the substitution of me at the critical moment by the divine so that a trap was turned into (converted into) an opportunity. This required the literal melting of reality. Because of this divine intervention I learned a great deal about the nature of reality, but most of all I witnessed a theophany + now know [of] the intentional underlying the inanimate. I know the cosmos to be sentient + purposeful + benign, as well as wise, + in growth (self-completing) process. I recognize the phenomenal world as illusory + that a moral order subsumes the merely causal. The divine invades the mundane, + is the rational attacking the irrational, overpowering it progressively. My highest revelation has to do with the sacred body + blood which are ubiquitous, + are holographic in that they exist in both macro- + micro-form! They lie at the meanest trash level + not only at grand strata; in fact the divine seems to penetrate our world at, so to speak, the bottom, not down from above. The blood as living information is all over the place, as if the universe is a cup or vessel filled with it, + this blood communicates with us + is in us + can become us. All creatures are ontologically reducable to Christ, + all space-time landscapes to Acts. folder 08 - 001 Regarding the invading entity: what if it's more than a free variable but an actual quasi-life form assimilating a stagnant process-failure - in which case, where is the dialectic (binary system), in the invading entity or the invaded entity? I think in the invading entity, as it arranges the boneyard of the antecedent universe into subsumations of itself. This is the entity which the mystery religions put you in touch with: it is from outside the program + breaks the hold of "astral determinism" over you, which is: time, space, ego + causality. I.e. it lifts you into the upper realm + makes you divine [Note]; i.e. one with it. So the secret is: "Christ in us". [Note] + immortal It is some kind of process entity. (The dialectic.) ____ Okay. Let's finalize on this. The reversion of Calif USA 1974 to Rome CAD 45 is (as is shown in "Tears") reversion along the Platonic form axis, as put forth in "Ubik". There is a Platonic-form relationship between the Nixon USA 1974 police tyranny vs us new left hip types, + Rome vs the secret illegal Xtians. Yet another element of "Ubik" is shown to be true, + to apply to 2-3-74: 1) time (world) reversion. Double exposure. 2) along a form-axis (Platonic) 3) simulated reality, which is entropic 4) an invading information entity which is negentropic 5) this entity freights our media with its messages - at the trash level. folder 08 - 002 folder 08 - 002 6) But at the same time this info entity seems divine, everywhere, + is the Logos. 7) An Empedoclean dialectic is in process - progress underlying all else. 8) Their dead boss-friend Runciter seems to be coming back "from the other side" - like Jim Pike to me. On a one-way basis. 9) He + the info entity (Logos-Ubik-Valis) seem to have some kind of close relationship. 10) Oddest of all, there seems to be some hint of Tony Boucher + the German Quatrain (which constitute my dedication in "Ubik") in my 2-3-74 experience. In summation, as I wrote Peter Fitting, there is an uncanny number of Ubik-esque elements in my 2-3-74 experience - too many to discount. As Claudia wrote, "the ontological categories of space + time collapse" etc. + I felt in mid 1974 that "'Ubik' contains scientific information." I.e. that in both a broad general sense + in specific particulars it is true, 2-3-74 confirms it. + I even dreamed the word Ubik in '74. Ubik + the OCCP. Not only is the "onion" model of accretional time put forth. But the Platonic form axis, which is original with me (evidently) implies another kind of time -reversion or no- which no one has ever conceived of. This is not linear or orthogonal or circular time, etc. But an eidos-time - so presumably it's from the upper realm - it folder 08 - 003 folder 08 - 003 may be the way time c (3) -hypertime or eternity- works. On this Platonic form axis, USA Calif 1974 + Rome CAD 45 may (because the form is virtually identical in the two) be just a hair's breadth off in pulsation or frequency or wave or whatever. Anyhow tangent to each other. The reversion just serves to disclose this temporal form-axis; it is a temporal axis, after all. The aperture to this axis was revealed in the billions of phosphene graphics, which permutated in processions of linked style (artistic style) coherence. (Resemblance.) I just realized: the phosphene graphics were a third manifestation of