connection between the two, "Rome is the physical tool of Satan," as the J. Bible puts it. Behind the mundane, secular tyrannical power (the Empire) lies a supernatural power that transcends this world + its history. The two can't be separated. I must shame-facedly admit that although both were revealed to me (although in different ways + at different times) + although I explicitly deal with both in "Valis" I have never before perceived that two revelations + two "regions," so-to-speak, are involved. But they interact. + these twin revelations are in accord with Xtian Messianic, chiliastic thinking, although there are some very important original cosmic, mystical elements in my second revelation (but which accord with the captivity letters of Paul); viz: I am into metaphysical, epistemological, cosmic aspects not generally contemplated (but they do accord with scripture, they are not heretical). I see now that the later revelation which came to me directly from Valis' mind accords with the prior one that blitzed into being in 2-74, upon my seeing the Golden Fish sign; the 2-74 one had to do only with so-to-speak secular history, or political history. But the later one was mystical + cosmic + dealt with ultimate supernatural entities. The accord of these two revelations acts to ratify my conviction that it was all genuine (2-3-74). 2-74 revealed Xtians but not Christ; no epiphany/theophany/hierophany was involved; that came later. Then there can be no doubt that Valis is the Logos/St Sophia/the cosmic Christ, since this is the cosmic, mystical side of the original political, historical, secular revelation - in other words, the ultimate dimension, of the earlier (2-74). Well, I just now proved to my own satisfaction who Valis was/is. The first revelation is incomplete; it deals with Xtians but not with Christ: that came a month later. All that remained, then, was the revelation of God's love - which came on 11-17-80. But this carries me out of universe entirely + into the next world. Spiritual struggle is shown to be a false one. Steiner: The faith (pistis) summons the reality into being, + shapes it according to pistis' own variety/nature. My pistis is in Jesus Christ, + my seeing the cosmic Christ, both the body + the blood (which is exactly what i did see in 3-74), is proof of the greatest faith imaginable; God grants as a miracle what faith believes in, + to the degree of the faith. What was set off by the Golden Fish sign in 2-74 was utter faith - it goes back to the AI voice in high school; unconsciously I realized that God did indeed exist, + I filed this information away; + it blossomed into faith later, + so I saw Valis the cosmic Christ. God would have granted me Krishna if I had faith in that. "I am he who causes to exist what ever exists", the blood + body of Christ existed for me in 3-74; ∴ God (who I encountered in 11-17-80) caused it to exist because of his love for me; pistis is, whether you ever realize it or not, trust in him, "Miracle is the fairest child of faith." No wonder I can't convince anyone. God is not going to grant that vision to very many people. It is to reward me + make me happy - theodicy, due to all that has happened to me; throughout I keep my faith. It was an epiphany of the Logos, Jesus Christ (not pantheism), it was God's miracle. But, outside (so-to-speak) of miracle, it was not real; God could have caused me to experience something quite else; this is why I have always suspected that 3-74 was my wish, due to my wish (e.g. ESP), or enchantment; as I often say, "it was too obliging." What I did not realize is that this pointed to God's miracle, given not out of mere justice but love. Most people - that (what I saw) isn't what they want, much less believe in. I am a sort of saint, + so was granted the miracle. What is saintly about me is my kindness. (This is why the AI voice said that my action vis-à-vis Covenant House is what did it.) All my acosmism -e.g. in my 10 volume meta novel- was a testing of God, to know him, since he is the creator of this stuff (maya) we call reality. YHWH is Brahman-Krishna, it's all the same under various names; he gives rise to world out of himself, as magician (wizard) conjurer's trick. How else could i see 3-74? Not only Rome (another time + place) but -as if this were not enough to prove it illusion- then no world at all; instead the cosmic Christ or rather just Christ. He was nearby. I do not just know this by faith; ah - my faith, through God's loving use of his creative (wizard) power, makes it so. So it (what saw; first Acts (Rome) + then the Christ) is true just for me - but still true. Observer-participant universe, this theory, without realizing it, requires God's loving wizardry-creating to make it so. My goodness: I've melded Brahmanism (wizardry), God's producing a creative miracle out of loving-kindness (Judo-Xtian) + modern physics. Oh, + faith (Xtianity). Not bad for one puff of pot. Mark this: in 2-3-74 I shared St Paul's vision, in all respects (e.g. his own conception of Christ - + what in fact due to that conception + God's miracle + loving-kindness he experienced). I should simply, without the frills, tell people I saw Christ; it is the truth. + cut out all the complexities; the sentence is clear enough - I only confuse people with the overtones + complexities. 1) They will not believe me, but (2) equally important: they have been told; i.e. warned that the eschatological judge is here, which is what the dream in "Tears" says. I.e. repent, there is no time left to delay. He is here, this time, as eschatological judge, + this is my Kerygma. "Valis" is okay, though; But it shows confusion, when in fact the message -as in the dream- is simple + clean. + he can sentence: death. This is dies irae. I am one of those to whom he has granted life, + entered in the book. I am like Paul on a tiny scale. I tell the news. The reason my experience with an epiphany of Christ doesn't "conform" is that little knowledge exists, even in ecclesiastical circles -+ the logical circles- as to what a genuine epiphany of Christ would be like. Mine was real; I saw the body + blood [correctly]. Given the epiphany, there is nothing bizarre + idiosyncratic so in a sense it was not only real but objective, not totally subservient to my preconceptions; after all, just how specific -if at all- were my preconceptions [of an epiphany of Christ]? None existed; what existed was my faith that He did exist. There's nothing shameful in thinking about the epiphany; it is meritorious to think about it. It shows love + faith. My vision was the highest imaginable. It is tied into my Xtian anamnesis: remembering him + seeing him (with, as I say last night) the eyes of faith (but it was real). To see him in the trash of the alley - utter faith, utter vision, utter revelation, equalling Paul's. Dynamic, universe-process. A vision to the extent of mine is never before known, I should be very happy. + the "Fiddler" incident + the "Asher" material show he is still here, but invisible. + it is not a vision of the crucified Christ but the resurrected Christ triumphing over the universe: progressively bringing it under his control. This [realization-distinction] is very important. The particle of iron lodged in the sacred body [of Christ as universe] is the nails that wounded him. It is we secret Xtians who are the phagocytes in the cosmic body, attacking the particle of iron - the BIP. + - the iron tip of the spear! All this is alluded to in "Valis" - the iron particle, phagocytosis, the hurrying Xtians, the spear, the blood, the wound! + the wound healed + closing. A clever reader of "Valis" will be able to put it together - i.e. the wound, blood + spear from "Parsifal," the BIP, the cosmic phagocytosis of the iron (metal) particle lodged in the cosmic body of Christ. So I did see the cosmic Christ; without realizing it I supplied specific details (e.g. wound, iron particle, spear, blood, etc). Incredible that in writing + reading "Valis" I did not see this application of the "Parsifal" material to the cosmic corpus Christi. The wound inflicted is [made by] the Iron Empire. Why, this is Xtian mysticism at its very highest! I have solved one of the mysteries presented in "Valis": the relationship of the "Parsifal" material to Valis, i.e. the cosmic Christ; it has to do with 1) the blood 2) the wound 3) the iron particle (spear tip) 4) repair There is a Hermetic micro-macrocosm identity, here; Jesus as microform, cosmic Christ as macroform, inc. details. There are 2 dynamic processes by the cosmic Christ. 1) His growth + control over the old universe 2) The healing of the wound. It is the wound that impairs + impedes him - i.e. the BIP which we "phagocytes" attack. This is what went wrong; the cosmic Christ is injured. This is Satan's counter-thrust: the spear-wound by the BIP, the Iron Empire; it has injured the cosmic Christ. We rush to repair this internal injury, when from within we attack the Iron Empire. Mentally, it is like an overvalent complex, rigidified. My vision is essentially mystical, not epistemological, metaphysical or analytic; nonetheless it is true. As far as I'm concerned this element of the Black Iron particle -+ phagocytosis by the secret Xtians- prove that it is the cosmic Christ that I saw. XIX 11-30-80 I happened to read the E.B. article on Messianic Movements and am simply in shock. Everything revealed to me vis-à-vis 3-74 and the AI voice -- it is Christian covert Messianic movement -- it is -- look; there is an invisible Christian Messianic movement or group or organization, what I used to call "the secret underground Christians" -- my experience in 3-74 (based on 2-74), with seeing Valis and all my dreams and the AI voice (e.g. "The Empire never died") -- anyhow; there are five kingdoms or empires; yes, empires. Assyrian, Persian, Greek, Roman, and the next --the fifth-- will be Christ’s. This is chiliastic, millenialist thinking, as opposed to Augustine; it has to do with movements breaking out late on, starting with (yes, guessed it) Joachim del Fiore. This is incredible. I am in shock. The entire ediface of secret Messianic movements was supernaturally disclosed to me, or else by fantastic technology, and it's all in VALIS. And (get this!) the E.B. article on Messianic Movements talks about it being connected with the Enlightenment! The "second signal" -- cryptic information, the two-word cypher in TEARS, and the Acts material and the (oh God!) the dream material in TEARS -- Messianic Chiliasm. There is a secret organization fighting the BIP. More. The Kingdom is here, secretly; I saw it. And Valis is Christ or God. I am pitted against all establishment Christianity, which takes its cue from Augustine, that the present order will endure. The E.B.: "The granting of toleration to Christianity by the Roman emperor Constantine...and its becoming the religion of the Roman Empire heralded a development in which the church became the ally of the present order rather than the harbinger of its passing away." There you have it. “As far as the struggle with evil in this world is concerned, Augustine surrendered and abandoned the field. No imminent supernatural intervention in history was expected. Augustine taught what has been referred to as 'realized' eschatologoy. For him the battle has already been fought on the