do that. What I call "programming" or "determinism" is the original curse which holds us in deformed thrall. So in a sense, rather than something being added to me (something good) in fact something evil was removed. Something evil in me died. (Was killed?) + I was free. The Wurm in me was slain + I became as I should be, as we once were. Not only is it only Christ who has the power to remove the curse, but also the authority; it is his choice + his alone, I now realize. This is what I gather from last night's understanding (supra). He moves about the world, in time + space, selecting out: choosing his flock, calling to them; + they hear + know his voice, the Good Shepherd. As He says in the Gospels to his disciples, "You did not choose me; I chose you." folder 20 - 039 folder 20 - 039 I must return to orthodoxy, to a christology. A christocentric view; I have been corrected in my views, + by the savior himself, who spoke to me for the first time. We will not all be saved, whether I like it -approve of it- or not. He selects from among us. I cannot fathom the ways of God, of grace, of providence - except to know that He saved me, + it was He -Christ- who saved me, + that only He can save us. It would be nice, universal salvation, but - The revelation of last night points to the truth of the doctrine of predestination. I was saved from the beginning, from the foundation of the world. As I wrote at 4:30 a.m. last night, I was doomed to be saved, an economical use of language + precise. It was my destiny + nothing could interrupt the process which fired in 2-3/74. I belong to him. I do not belong to myself, + nothing can take me from him, even Satan's desperate whispers in my head, his frantic noise. In 3/74 the fleshly stricture was removed from me, the original curse placed on us (on me). I was given back my bright nature by the God who gave it to me originally + then temporarily withdrew it. My period of thrall began thousands of years ago + ended on the Savior's birthday in 1974. The decision was not made in 3-74. The results came then, the end of the process. When I saw the Golden Fish I knew. This was what I knew: that He [...]ed + that He had chosen me, abolishing time + space in the doing of it: collapsing world itself into an eternal relationship that had always been so + would always be so: I was outside of time folder 20 - 040 folder 20 - 040 + space forever, even when I returned to it. It was like the startle-response I had in the dream where the washerwoman presented me with the laundered patriotic trophy: the fight was over + I had won - doomed, so to speak, to win, + not based on any merit, good deed or act on my part; I had been extricated + placed in safety, the the battle was over with me safe (Saved). That trophy meant: the books are closed - + they were because of Christ + only because of Christ (my salvation had very practical consequences). This is what he has the power + authority to do - to end the battle in victory, extrication, salvation, + close the books forever. Adjudication, on/for me, regarding me, had been rendered - absolute, final + perfect adjudication. He acted -not only as savior- but as judge, final judge; the power + authority was vested in him by the Father, + in my case -regarding me- he exercised it (cf the E[...] on this aspect of Xtianity: the closing of the books on a person forever, in this life one way or the other, as with Ma'at after death). The masks (in the Canadian dream about Kathy) were removed when I saw the Golden Fish + knew in the blink of an eye, totally, what it was all about - + always had been. The "game" was over for me. + then in 3-74 I saw him i.e. Zebra: the divine macro plasmate, melting reality: it was all revealed to me, his presence + power + the vortex of authority: the creator + Noos (in the sense of Xenophanes). folder 20 - 041 What I have not taken into account all this time is Christ as Judge, rather than simply Savior, my Savior. Now, at last, due to last night, I understand the absolute role of Christ Pantocrator: Judge + Lord of creation. He has the authority to judge +, as Zebra, is lord of the universe; it is his, just as I am his: I experienced him in 3 roles: Judge, Lord + Savior. The basis of his judgment will always be unknown to me - there flashes in my mind my experience with the beetle in Washington DC when I was a child, + the love + mercy I felt for it; maybe that was the act on my part which redeemed me; it's as good as any. As I showed love for that beetle, so He showed mercy + love for me, + extricated me when I was being tormented decades later. The child saved the later man, then; I sealed my fate... On such bases fates are sealed: the books are closed; + yet it was Christ who gave me understanding at that time of what I was doing + that it was wrong; I knew remorse, absolute remorse, in that instant I knew it all! I know nothing now I didn't know in that instant. I spared creation in microform in the thirties, + in the seventies it rushed furiously back to save me, returned to do for me what I had tried to do for it, all the force of my feelings then had traveled all around the globe of the universe, +, magnified into the macro, rushed furiously back to save me, folder 20 - 042 folder 20 - 042 in return; I:beetle, Christ:me. Why not? Why look further, deeper, searching for greater complexities? (It is something like Karma, a Xtian kind of Karma: in this life.) This may be why the 3-74 visions seemed to me to be an answer or answer to a question or questions, which I had asked a long time ago, at last arriving, having traveled millions of miles + many years. Maybe the beetle had offered up a preyer of thanks which was heard by the macrocosm; my divine nature began to return that day, with that insight: the curse began on that day to lift - the process started, + culminated in 2-3/74! Began as small as a mustard seed + grew at last into a kingdom. In that situation with the beetle my relationship to the universe changed + never changed back. ___ The realization of Christ as judge: it fits in with my basic + underlying sense of the universe (or reality, the hologram, world) being a teaching machine, presenting us with lessons to learn, it is obvious that finally some judge must decide if we learned or did not learn - failed or did not fail! This is the great assize; this is adjudication. It fits together. Then I can believe that whatever I was supposed to learn I did learn; I did not fail, + so was chosen by the Good Shepherd. So there is justice -divine justice- in the universe, but its dimensions are so vast, so much is taken into consideration, that we can't see its shape. But it is there. It works on too vast + complex a scale for our minds to fathom. folder 20 - 043 folder 20 - 043 When I spared the beetle I spared the universe + decades later it rushed to me to spare me in return. A signal that circumnavigates the universe, from the micro- to the macrocosm, + back. Bounced off like radar. _ New theory: 1) First angels were created. It didn't work out. 2) Then man was created. He was made higher than the angels, actually a replication of God, but his true nature has yet to be revealed; he is now in a limited or debased form, with vast {potential?} for an unglimpsed God state. So right now he is lower than the angels. What I call homoplasmates are humans whose true nature has come out. This is in essence a secret, although it really is the ultimate Kerygma of the N.T. (esp. 1 John 3:2) In a sense, this would explain what Xtianity is really all about (as revealed by the N.T. - cryptic sentences here + there). It puts a new light on "being born from above" or "of the spirit," + certainly on 2-3/74. We are talking about metacircuits + evolutionary quantum leap forward (up). "Salvation" means a lot more than being freed from sin etc. There may be a hidden line of homoplasmate; the authentic early Xtians I speculate about. The breaking of the programming - In my notes supra I speculate that in 3-74, instead of something being added, rather, something, a limiting factor, was removed (the push-pull deterministic programming - it was broken). (p 36 passim) Anamnesis points to a recovery of lost faculties (v. Calvin), not the acquisition of new. folder 20 - 044 folder 20 - 044 This is really baffling. Orthodoxy says, "originally we had faculties which were stripped away," but the concept of evolution runs counter to this - wait; the answer is teleological purpose. The need (challenge) rousing yet-dormant faculties. No, damn it, a limiting factor was lifted off me; I felt it break - get broken. That is not disputable; I experienced it clearly, the release, I was temporarily out of phase with the outer tape. We are enslaved! Programmed, fed a reality, without true volition as to how we'll react. This {raised?} my teory of negative hallucination: what we're not allowed to experience. What we're deprived of (v. Calvin). This fits in with "Scanner,". We are occluded; something ("the bichlorides, a very poisonous poison") Ah! Now I understand why that was the initial verbal revelation presented to me! It tells me the primary fact: we are als ob brain damaged. This was the first piece of news, logically, in terms of priority! This is item one! It is als ob we've all taken (or inhaled) mercury - heavy metal! Now at last I know why this was shown me on the "cereal carton" - ingested from childhood, lifelong, from the start. + "aspirin of mercury" {again?} taken internally. So something was flushed out of my nervous system in 3/74: I detoxed. "Scanner" is the crucial part of my writing. Then it is evident that our proper full functioning is impaired, rather than just not (yet) achieved. Then we are "cursed." William Burroughs is correct. + not just me qua me but us as a species, a race - all of us; Christ has the juridicial authority + power to remove it. Damn it, I can now be sure which it is folder 20 - 045 folder 20 - 045 1) impaired (original) faculties or 2) evolutionary leap forward. It is 1); there is a limiting factor, poison-like, reducing us. But orthodoxy says God our creator did it to us as a punishment. Maybe we are in a prison due to a primordial crime. The fall. What did we do? I don't know, but Christ saves us, restores us - removes the "bichlorides" or "aspirin of mercury". The apple - something eaten. Cryptic hint - we ingested (ate) something poisonous. "Scanner" is so illustrative. Substance Death! "Til sin brought death (sic!) into the world + all our woes!" The Todesstackel - the sting of death is sin. Poisoned