So in the post mortem state Ubik in contrast to world is visible. + I say, I wrote "Ubik" remembering a prior post mortem state. But as a matter of even greater importance was the teleological cause coming into existence of everything by intention (+ fitting together, each element limiting all others - this is Pythagoras' kosmos, + its nature is divine mind). + I exper ienced that divine intention motivating me, from inside, causing me to act! What was unusual was the the awareness on my part, not divine totality's iato hin e 185 jurisdiction. The Xtian miracle of resurrection is in fact one of transmutation, in which by some secret process of miracle, which we cannot anticipate or understand the low (in fact the lowest the dreas] are made over in an instant into the highest; so that which is most high is made out of the degraded, + in watching this process proceed we cannot see what is coming, +, when it happens, we cannot see how it is done; but it involves a joining, a fitting together into structure; + this is the Xtian miracle, + it breaks out where it is not expected; it cannot be controlled or sought, There is no formula. It is not that that which died returned to life. It is that that which This is was low is high (really, in fact). an event in a workshop, + the shavings lie everywhere. "The workman is concealed within the workshop." immanent deity in the dreas only at the end does this one miracle, which the is properly called "resurrection," occur. N.T. is code for this process; Christ is not person among persons but the spiratus of Christ is reborn" This miracle: its life. is a way of secretly talking, of alluding to the resurrected (thing] too, is not in the workshop like an artifact, but is the workshop + transmutation: it transmutes its own self. resurrection" is a way of it arranging itself. the Gospels - the N.T. - is an occult alchemical axt having to do with [Note laws of physics involve degrading + compressing. âž€ Little kno 180 process is involved. The successful resur rection is rare + requires a long history. probably centuries. 3-74 was this infer that a hidden group (the authentic Xtians) can read the N.T. correctly as an account of, but not formula for. This "resurrection." Still like the "Bardo Thodol" to which it is related. It is an accurate guide, perhaps the best. There was no historic Jesus. "St Sophia" is a process resurrection (born again!) event t s e t o not being the original "base metal acceptable. I.e. not (yet) transmuted. we are dealing with super physicists who have mastered time - + immortality via eternity (i.e. supra-time) t (I figured this out upon reading "the man who knew how to lose" + treating it as a template which I compared analogically to the events (ingredients) in real life) which made it up. The story decodes the reality it portrays (contains, or t rather is) (it - the story - is a codebook to a very complex Gestalt of reality con‐ be stituents, + this Gestalt cannot the story i fathomed without the codebook is a neutral grid. But the "resurrection" is not a way of viewing reality; it is an 187 in particular, this is how the passion must be understood: as a description of an alchems cal degredation-compression process leading to "resurrection" ("born again" in a transmuted form, as Paul makes clear in his statement, "Behold! We shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling on an eye") He who like e.g. Jeter ignores this is like a linear thinker in contrast to a multiples (debono) thinker. It is one whole dimension short. - as Zoroastrianism teaches - each of us f is an equal mixture of "Atoms" of darkness + of light, can certain specific tribulation (degradation, compression) processes refine away the darkness "atoms"? The death of the dross. that story ("the man who -6) was assembled. From parts lying around: a fitting-together. It was collected: like an explosion reversed. The right pieces picked from here + there + put in place. kosmos! Like info assembling: message synthesis - a decoding by way of selecti out of "the inferior bulk" - i.e. a o set created. I see how the reality code works. The selecting out - the "mation" mode us the "at rest." When finally assembled the message was not what I had intended, but I was pitilessly accurate So was successful 88 This forces me to re-evaluate 3-74 as a "resurrection" involving unsuspected laws of ultra physics. Rybus' cure is a miracle. If she is cured, Fox's lyrics ("the poor cripple") are not recy cled sentimental crap but are veridical. (since "the poor cripple" states y: that a miracle cure can occur.) If Rybus is not cured, as Mevane believes, then Rybus' survival tactics failed. Her survival tactics included - are epitomized by Stigmatizing Fox's lyrics as recycled senti mental crap, i.e. not veridical (nully). Therefore if she is not cured y is correct + nully is incorrect So: if she is cured - as she believes - Y is the case. If she is not cured - as he believes y is the case. to (viz: R states: "Fox lies, I believe Fox lies is my tactic to get well." Fox then states, "You can get well." R must now either state "you lies. I cannot get well" or "you do not lie." F the latter Fox is necessary for survival. t cannot be dismissed - on any grounds i.e. it must be taken as veridical). As game strategy, Fox has outsmarted the AI plasmate since the statement "Fox lies" is the death. producing (spiritual death) statement. (It is spiritual death which is referred to. No one suggests that Mevane will biologically die. Thus R. as Thanatos has won is 1189 by virtue of Fox's tactic. If fox equal spiritual life fox equals the divine. Henc the divine has tricked the subspiritual into acknowledging its (the spiritual ele‐ ments) essential role in subspiritual survival If the subspiritual cannot exist without the spiritual then if the subspiritual exists (which it is admitted it does) then the spiritu realm can by rigid logic be inferred to exist. A, representing the subspiritual may even seek to be anti- or null spiritual. If R takes this tactic on, it must deny its own existence (since the spiritua states "K exists"). R. can say, "I exist but I am not well." Fox has precisely stated "well" not "is." But then R's stratego or tactic in stigmatizing Fox is worse than a failure; it is self-negating. R. has conceded The it to be a survival tactic. It is not. domain in which R. survives intact is Fox R has now said "the statement "I am well is crap" in this situation, Mcrane Acts as a container of Fox. If he believes Fox, K. is well + there is no problem, + he should bond to R. If m. Repudiates B he repudiates Fox. Viz: he says" Fox lies, you are not - cannot be - well." He is agreeing with Rs original stigmatization of Fox. The decisive power of choice - of making y (Fox tells the truth) or null-y (Fox lies) true lies with him te bonds with R (fixes her coffee) + thus proves y (Fox tells the truth) true th a 190 his tactic. His strategy is to render y true; he wins (spiritual life) of y is true (Fox tells the truth). If nully is true (Fox lies) he loses. To repudiate r would be on the grounds that she is not actually well (which thought occurred to him before he remembered Fox's "poor cripple" lyrics). But upon remembering F "most haunting" lyrics causes him to follow this logic + he ... fixes k her coffee. If Fox is right (Y) R is well This is the definition of my winning (the stakes: spiritual life). So if he repudiates r he repudiates Fox. I was right last night: R + Fox now agree. One can either say B absorbed Fox (pessimism) or be this as Fox absorbed R (optimism). it may, what is undeniable is that the power to make Fox's lyrics true (y) lies with Thus I say he chose rightly. The implica o. tion of this is that the Kingdom can be "within the hand" + be invisible (due to following either the wrong line of logic or, put another way, acting on the wrong line of logic. put another way, the key to the Kingdom is inside the Kingdom. You must be in [side] the Kingdom to get inside; this is a precise paralled to the problem posed by the Xerox to missive where to solve or the unknown the inknown in be (in ad know 9 Irish bull. Both situations (the story) (+ the Xerox missive puzzle) illustrate the magic element of the Kingdom. 1) To see you must believe (pistis) 2) But to believe (have pistis) you must first see The entrance to the Kingdom is inside the Kingdom. Some kind of ratiocination which does not work from cause to effect is required (linear sequence.) You must work backward beginning from the end. a new form of reasoning - heuristics? - is required. The Kingdom (not defined!) must be assumed (as premise) to arrive at Kingdom (conclusion but now defined). This is impossible. Augustine said, "you have not forgotten some‐ thing, actually, when you forget it, because if you had actually forgotten it you would not recognize it - know it - when you remembered it or were told it." So anamnesis is required. one does not find the Kingdom but remem‐ bers the Kingdom; knows it to already be not there but here. Recognition (as with me in 2-74). There is no other avenue in but to realize you are already in + have been in for some time K.W. cannot exculpate Rybus because he cannot exculpate Rybus. He is locked out. He "malice - she destroyed m's (spiritual] life." says but if she did she would not exist herself; she cannot have, whether she realizes it or not. A sick or R well verifies fox. Fox has power over R, but B has no power over Fox The choice is Mso Cs or rectly. 193 you can never get into the Kingdom; you need to have always been in it. I believe that the perception of being in it derives from an ultra brain processing which does something to or with time + to or with causality in which is somehow abolished. Process stops. sequence means-end is turned into picture structurally represented. End is not posterior to means. End is retrievable within means. (Cf Leibnitz) ah the Xerox missive situation + 2-74 contained in my earlier writing (end in means). This is proof that end (future) is contained in means (present past). effect in cause, not after cause. Time or sequence) is like tracking a groove. "Later" c music is only later because we agree to track it sequentially. (As a helical spiral.) It could be tracked backward or laterally. 1974 follows 45 AD. but obviously something more like Kings or layers is the case. Inner-outer. The future is contained within the past. It can be excarated. There is a heasured erosion anyhow. 1) 45 AD is the past 2) with anamnesis, 45 AD is not merely remembered but experienced as present. 3) if 45 AD is present, what then, becomes of 1974 AD? It, too, is present. 4) A kind of cube is formed bounded by 45 AD on one side (dimension) + 1974 on the other (dimension) 3) sequential or linear time ceases + is superceded by (4). Time as line has now been replaced by time as cube + is so seen. s This time cube