doing is its primary task or possibly even its sole task, the task which defines it. This certainly tells me who/what it is. Here is a perfect example where final cause + formal cause come together, the the formal cause in this case is kosmos - no, wait; I don't know that! It is a coherency; that's all I know, a subsumation + integration which is not yet complete + then, upon seeing into Valis' mind (its completing itself) I saw it actually modulate physical reality, so I know that it possesses a compelling override power vis a-vis the world, these were two separate visions - + also I saw the dialectic, which would represent efficient cause, so I had 3 visions right there t but whether it - what it's assembling - is kosmos or not it is a vast entelech right in our midst Also, I just realized, Valis is the entity which induces change - via the two modes of rest-motion (off-on) which I saw! 77 It suddenly occurs to me that 3-74 + the Xerox missive may not have been just a problem to be solved - there are always problems - but a goal of some kind in the very high sense of Valis pursuing goals + stimulating goal-seeking in parts of the world, +, finally, n world itself. In which case the Xerox missive situation may have been even more important than just a threat to meets, the bet anything it had to do with charles wisens + pretextual cause. My letters served as pretextual cause vis-a-vis Nixon. whereven it introduces change (the passive active binary mode) it is to incorporate the thing into its own entelechy throughout this vast ultimate entelechy the plasmate info flows, unifying it. Physical thoughts; it is creating a macrobrain + neural pathways in it out of world, instead of brain generating mind. Mind is creating structuring) brain - its brains. So God's goal re the world is to impose structure on it which will turn it - organize it - into al giant brain. The brain wears off backward in time. There is no priority to mind: the brain could be said to be assembling itself, if grows more + more rational, it's already function as a brain: thoughts (the plasmate) flow as (saw. It is in operation through it 7 2 the opposite of this process is disorganiza into the simple + many + similar (duplication), in which the parts do not interact - i.e. dis‐ integration. What Valis seems to me now is a brain in which the number of interconnections becomes progressively greater. In 3-74 I was to put it simply assimilated - not into this vast brain - but into its functioning. It did the think + through me the acting. Now the significance of the plasmate becomes clear. It is the very traffic of this brain + shows clearly that it is indeed a brain. It could not be a brain without traffic. (Message, thought or informa traffic.) Likewise, how could the traffic exist without a brain existing? but also the brain itself is alive + in growth or development process. New connections are being constantly established - constituents linked (a major aspect which I saw: this linking) + then the links broken + new ones formed. My basic error was to consider this information (created by the linkage) to have an audience (receiver). I think now that its own internal intrinsic ration cination was the case. It knew by virtue of these information-creating linkings. human brains would be very valuable to this macrobrain, perhaps as memory storage cells, but for one to function it would have to remember (anamnesis). It would be stimulated into firing its long-term memories, which were really there for the macrobrain's use, put there by it to retrieve later: like documents put in a safe deposit box carefully hidden - slumbering 273 what if this macrobrain disassembled itself into components in the form of many individual humans here + there with amnesia, + the totality reconstitutes itself by relink these humans simultaneously restoring Their memories? So that they + hence it begin to function again - as if it were smuggled in here piecemeal + then reassembled + started up once again? What would the individual human component experience? There might be a distinct + specific time in which he was integrated + fired; at which point he would not only be aware of the macrobrain but of his own true nature as well. Two things would be involved. Hypnagogic thought: it (Valis) does not incorporate what it does not need in 3-74 I came to touch another mind for the first time in my life, + now I'm alone again. Krishna - a magnificent gift-trick. she. alis is a mind all right but not my mind: the exteriorized mind of Christ in me. Imposed in the Jungian projection + Kantian / sense as form onto reality (eidos + matter). How Christ experiences world. It was Christ in me experiencing world: icro + macro as mirrors. "No one has seen the father but me. God was created within my mind. The soul creates God, not the other way. God, so sees world at I God knows only (Valis). God t It is the ultimate state, to give birth to God - + then see him externally as well. In a sense it is an achievement (not an intrusion). + "the journey of the soul." 3: "Who do you miss more, God or stephance; i, "Stephance. A. you have chosen right. You are saved. : than because you found his creation fairer This is him + thus you delighted him. a mystery which has eluded most mystic/ religious people. But I chose right; it is the greatest hymn of praise to him possible for he t created her.) (It also means that you thank gift of her to you, the world.) him for his 3 Valis is reality + Kathy + steph: my mind generam The AI voice. I memories t derived not from them but from a I my memories them. This is the she. I -made of him a land. as early as Joint" I was beginai, o solve the problem of the source of reality: based on verbal info emanation from your own mind + boosted This is the Bardo Thodol state, as correctly put forth in "Ubik" + I have to speak exploital it + my knowledge o it by programming the reality I want. which is to have her + / as God. 2 t Looos: world reality as information, t pino s generator memories p wald I It is God but as a subjective projectin in the Bardo Thodol state. It is God but So what? It is she + the it isn't real. whole system is justified due to her beauty 2-74: old memories of world projected into world. This was the start of a sequence different worlds based on projections of of by) my memories. There is simply no way escape it: 2-3-74 proves that we are to in the state depicted in "Ubik": our own forgotten memories fed back to us as world Look: Lem didn't know the "T. book of + he figured it out - about the dead. world as past (forgotten) memories! th "When you have eliminated This proves it! the impossible the implausible unlikely is all we are dying falling or that remains." rising souls - on the tree of life, really the tree of death as the Gnostics realized, + hence were acosmists + I am using some kind of power based on my epistemological knowledge to control This reality. I broke my own programming. i.e. the illusion. The "dnadeath strip" was I knew, a delusion forced on us. 96 or I concentrated energy in the delusion world based on my own forgotter memories + gained control of it (magic). Valis, then was my own mind: that if the Father (as he - I - appears in the dream in "Tears"). ultimately, multimodels of 2-3-74 must be accepted Father Logos world soul Father Final absolute revelation: hrist's blood "the plasmate is c (nfo because he is the Logos) 2) Valis is Christ's body plasmate + Valis are "my blood is body" - the 2 forms (species) of the 3-74 was a cosmologized + Host. eucharist due to Christ being born in my mind: the Magdaberg Hemispheres phenomenon. world is projection of psyche onto some kind of receiving stuff which amiably assumes whatever This is sprojected onto it (e.g. forgotten memories). of course Brahman, + the identity between Brahman + the Atman. Karma + Maya are both involved - broken by Christ being born in the soul. Christ is female; hen or is one's soul itself she? Becomes mary - to say St Sophia. Christ born as infant. Christ She raving been born departs but she remains. thre where is this loop to reality hight? t generator + be broken? If self tself i t i regains its forgotten forgotion) tworld memories. Then it s (memories knows itself as author of world. (I can s th ink of several ways his retrieval might o occur. self might simply ecognize world as its own mem 27 in fact its own memories. Or someone or something might deliberately set out to trigger off anamnesis. in any case upon recognizing world as its own forgotten + very ancient-memories it would view world (correctly) as old + ossified (prison; totally rigid), to be broken. This freedom from the past would be a transcendent goal, over‐ shadowing all other goals. This is the astral determinism, planetary powers fate or Karma of the ancients ananke or upon anamnesis. the memories would fire faster + faster + of then burn up. Whereupon not memories but the mind of the self itself would be the basis of world: the temporal lay would be gone, + world would reflect the flexible, living mind, not its ossified memory-contents. World would Then be alive + sentient + intentional, + subject responsive) to the conscious will of the self. This presumes a Bardo Thodol or "Ubik" like situation. In "Ubik" Ubik is the mind of the person breaking into the world of ossi‐ fied old memory-contents; i.e. genuine new life in the devolving husk of the old, as if immanent in it + shining through from behind or within. It is the present concealed in the past. (Hence Ubik halts the form regression + brings reality up to date!!) the person's mind is in The present; only his thought-contents being memories, are in the past. So this model not only fits "Ubik" it explains Ubik vs regressing world - world as memories uncovered successively layer after layer. But there is an imperishable spart of the mind which appears in "Ubik" as a in like This is the mind containing the memories Ubik. I 278 The mind must somehow be in the process of either succumbing to or, alternately, burn up its memories through this reprise them. It relives them, reaches the juncture of the Pythagorean y + prevails this time, where in fact it originally was dealt a mortal blow or anyhow chose wrong. Then a successful choice at this unique crucial juncture would be followed by the mind regaining touch with itself as world, it would be born the memories being gone. "a second time" or "from above" or "by the Spirit" But this would signal its - the mind's or souls - ultimate emancipation from maya + karma + world in the sense that the Buddh + Gnostics taught. It would happen only once over a series of lifetimes + signify that the journey of the soul had bottomed out + the soul was now free to return home (reascend through the ten sefiroth). the veil of illusion would be rent + the in overcoming at this unique thrall ended. decisive moment the self would have