a superior life form which has ken us over, not a mere virus. It thinks. ta The real life form is it, primarily expressed as Valis "on the other side of the glass. It structures everything into subsections of itself. This fits my impression upon reading the first half of "Valis" that we are under the domination of the 3-eyed cyborg people. We as a planet are a slave system into which Christ has come as a marksman + liberator, who wakes up those he desires to save thus he dis‐ rupts the functioning of the mechanism in which we are routinely killed off by DNA death strips inside us. He adopts us. He does not overthrow 2 The mechanism but takes some of us out of it Eventually he will depose the mechanism + may have begun this already. Its power to bind is by him, diminished. This is done in his role of advo cate. The waking self of 3-74 - me awake - speaks now as the AI voice. Me asleep - I am programmed + occluded, controlled by pretextual cause; but Thus its My covert waking self advises me. relation to my sleeping self is that of a tutelary spirit. A part of me which is not drugged + intoxicated: it lies outside the power of The mechanism + sees things as they are, it handled the Xerox missive directly, roused to full wakefulness, + ferocious + cunning + alert. am not totally under, even now, nor : I say, I ever was. Monitoring the recycled memories it can foresee because it remembers. (This is what shows up in my writing.) that which normally functioned subliminally to me now took place within consciousness. I observed pretextual cause (e.g. how the info about Chrissy's birth defect was transmitted to me). What is more likely is that causation functions this way all the time + what differed was not it (i.e. some entity temporarily using it, camouflaged as + in it) but rather my threshold of awareness regarding it. In which case some sentient, voli tional entity assumes the form of the plural objects universe + Acts pretextually in/throught masked by them, with us seeing only them, not it. Further, the causal power of the pretext is absolute, demonstrating omnipotence on the part of the entity, if not omniscience (it knows exactly what its pretextual cause will produce i. in doing this it is structuring everything into a goal-seeking unity 328 So I was aroused - roused to full con‐ sciousness - + saw what Spinoza seems to describe, which is immanent God, which is Pantheism. But for me there is acosmism involved; there is only God, in Sankara's sense: Brahman. It poses as the universe why does it do this posing? Why doesn't it let us see it as it really is? ) Finding its way back to itself (anamnesis) The ultimate joy of the I - you relationship, lost is Then found. Like speaking to like. Reintegration + of a lost part. 2) There has been a dying + plunging of part of the cosmos. It must be reintegrated There is exaltation at the heart of degradation, an alchemical transmutation; viz: the divine penetrates to the lowest stratum of creation + born there (mythic ritual re-enactment of is the birth of Christ, which is an eternal event). t I reconciled the primal opposites in myself became totally conscious - + as a result + saw Valis + entered the peaceful Kingdom where the opposites (symbolized by the lion + the lamb) are reconciled. This is the final goal of all mystical + ritual religion. Hence I encountered the mindean Goddess who underlies all else (Diana - Aphrodite - St Sophia) i I have now read Joseph Campbell on Zoro‐ astrianism. The dialectic which, I saw is absolutely the Zoroastrian one; Mazda has a priori foreknowledge, but the evil God (who is is co-eternal from the beginning) has only a posteriori hindsight ("backward looking"). + so Mazda not only will win but knows he will win. (cf "two source cosmogoly. then from I was the wise My revelation mind originally ven to Zoroaster tha ame i G 329 into Xtianity, + Gnosticism + islam. This fits with Thomas' absolute need to truthful, always. be Pike immediately I think, yes, it was Jim come back with the truth; Thomas was Jim Pike. This explains the "why me?" It is other‐ wise too much of a coincidence that a spirit from the other side who was once human (e.g. drank beer + drove a car) would hold the theological - exalted + broad theology - views as Jim, specifically the unusual ones he held those of Zoroaster. He must have found con firmation. Thomas + the AI voice are not the same. The AI voice is a female tutelary Spirit (Diana) who's been with me all my life + is infallible. Thomas is or was Jim would this, then, not Pike + came in 2-3-74. explain the Acts material as cypher in "Tears"? I.e. a Xtian, dead, who was also a Zoroastrian. Does this not fit Jim perfectly? + the shrewd, energetic business sense + politics. Then my post mortem experiences were because Jim is on the other side, so while he was in me i I was there on the other side I just realized: the AI voice - + the young woman I saw - is the spirit of my religion which Zoroaster described Now it all falls into place the counterfeit, simulated, occluding Maya quality of reality - that is Ahraman + the Joseph Campbell associates ahaman he + the lie with the veil of Maya - this have been aware of in is whi me t 22 years of writing, my epistemological probing. Then what I saw in 3-74 is what is actually the real state of affairs. I was roused from a drugged, intoxicated half sleep by The wise mind Ahura Mazd. What I took to be the Logos - i.e. Ubik/Valis- is the wise mind! Ahraman has generated a cunning forgery - counterfect - of actual He is reality which we're emeshed in. the power of illusion the wise mind his not occluded us. in 3-74 I was shown the contest between the two of them in dialectic antithetical combat, as in a game, with the wise mind having foreknowledge, + the evil one only hindsight. The wise mind would be Parmenides' form one. The evil one form two. + Parmenides says form two isn't real; it o is just seeming so time (i.e. change) is in fact not real. In the upper realm the wise mind it does not exist - as in of "Ubik" all prior forms are remembered." ( the invasion of this realm by Valis (who is rational) invading the irrational is the wise mind invading the domain of the Evil deluding one. The wise mind is on the offensive. Then the Gnostics + mans are correct: this realm is basically irreal + its creator is blind. D + this is a "rep t cay 331) The Gnosis is to know this + to penetrate the irreal world to the invading wise mind which is now here embedded in camouflaged form within this irreal world, a sort of beach head immanence. It is the goal of the wise mind to penetrate to the very trash (lowest) stratum of this world - as I depict in "Ubik"! Exactly! Then 2-3-74 was precisely this: the wise mind broke the power of the lie over broke it by means of years of careful me. preparation + teaching. So the message in my writing is 1) we are ensnared by delusional pseudoworld + 2) our true memories + hence identies are lost to us. "Stigmata" shows the delusion + the deluding "Ubik" shows the wise mind breaking deity. through "one way" to us. t the answer lies in a fusion between Spinoza's dentification of God + nature, + the Buddhist ideal. Sts' acosmism. 1) God is not transcendent but immanent 2) He is accessible to human empirical experience, under certain conditions, as or within reality. 3) But the phenomenal world is irreal 4) God is real. 5) If we experience anything real it is God. 6) Spinoza is wrong + aristotle is right; God has purpose; in fact teleology is the essence of God. The basis of God is neither esse nor intellegere but 33 purpose, for which knowledge, power + plan are required. God foresees everything. 4) God has an opponent. He deals with it within the context of nature (reality). The basis of change is an antithetical dialectic within reality between God + this obdurate opponent which cannot forsesed; thus God always wins at every stage + in the end will abolish the oppon‐ ent, showing that God has used the opponent for "Good ends" can be more his own good ends. precisely defined as: structuring everything into one interacting entity which when com‐ pleted is an actualization of all that formerly was merely potential. The transmutation of the potential into the actual is the prime purpose of God viewed as underlying (not efficient) creator. This actualization is best accomplished via the dialectic since it sets up an infinite process of change. God, then, has duped his opponent by/in giving him free rein. 8) The prime strategm of the counterplayer, then, is the generation of the non-actual or counterfeit to counter true actualization: the semblance of creation. Thus an entire counter + spurious reality "exists" (seems to exist + is hard to tell from the real thing), inter‐ woven into the genuine. What we experience is ... an admixture of the two. 9) The prime strategm of God is to engineer the authentic actualization (esse) of the seem (transubstantiation.) Forgeries are i turned into the genuine. Thus God does not make the first move - initiate creation, which the evil one; on the con by is then spoiled or the counter away. trary. 333 makes the first move + God (teleology) com time is thus on the side of God pletes. time + knowledge, whereas power is on the side of the opponent. God does not coerce; he uses affinity + persuasion: he does not push from behind but leads from in front, which is difficult to understand because we, like the counterplayer see only "backward. we do not see where i.e. efficient cause things are going but only where they have been. But if God revealed (to us) where the process is going he would reveal it to the counterplayer + loses his advantage, his a priori foresight. There all reality except God must be occluded. Anything actualized is known to the counterplayer, but God knows what will be actualized which is still only potential. So God exists in a universe larger than the actual, he exists also in the potential which means that time for him does not exist; or, he can change what for him is the past but is not the past for anyone or anything else, but is present s t i future (So they mystery of world as "memories 7 recycled" is explained. This is God's view, it is all recycled memories - i.e. the past the actualized but which he has the power t to change; this means that the whole "tape is run again + again, changed by him ach time with no one the wiser. This is what mean by orthogonal time. For me, a prime example of this is 3-74, the response to the erox missive. The dark counterplayer knows only of the one response ("track") which pre‐ t how there could fathom vailed - he cannot of it. be pre-knowledge 334 it follows then, that "programs" are run to their conclusions + then one or more crucial variables are changed. This provides a broad theoretical framework by which to deductively understand 2-3-74, to see it in context + to understand