this information. Thus (I realize) Valis + the information cannot be separated. Literally. Valis does not have a mind; it only generates + transmits (moves, distributes) information, +, apparently, the information only comes into existence due to Valis. Is it possible that Valis has as a primary task or as the primary task (my God) awakening people as I was awakened in 2-3-74 to this titanic dialectical combat - i.e. war going on here, century after century? In which case 2-74 was not an accident, + may have required years of programming into my mind the many discrete constituents that jelled in 2-74 when I saw the Golden Fish sign? It may have to build it up piece by piece - did I not discern how it had engrammed me on the Fish sign over a period of decades - many separate accretions of engramming were required for the actual event to pay off; I had forgotten this last night when I reasoned that I got disinhibited by accident! What I call the Acts grid/lens may, then, be the outcome of years of work in which constituent after constituent is added to the person's mind, building up a total integrated structure; yes: I reasoned that the Fish sign must have jelled a very large number of discrete constituents already floating around in my mind - + I asked, how did they get there? Answer: why, the very engramming + information-processing that Valis engages in! What I understood it to be doing. What I have spoken of glibly as a "lens/grid" + a "two space-time continua superimposition, a dysfunction," may in fact require: 1) painstaking teaching of the person subliminally over decades, piece after piece, accretion after accretion, a whole ediface; + finally: 2) disinhibition So Thomas did not get into me by any miraculous enthusiasmos, + the Acts grid/lens is no simple projected hologram. These two -Thomas + the decoding grid/lens- may have to be composed of many many pieces inserted over a period of decades + finally triggered off like a chemical -or alchemical- reaction. Then this having been done prior to 2-74 + up to + including 2-74, Valis then overtly transferred further conceptual realizations to me (e.g. the dialectic, the linking-relinking, the rest-motion binary modes), doing openly now in completion of what had been subliminal before; now I was conscious of another mind in contact with mine - hence some of the information was in me prior to 2-3-74 + was disinhibited, but other, further information was transferred in 3-74, i.e. at that time, openly; hence I was aware of Valis both internally + externally; but this open information-transfer was predicated on a vast integrated corpus transferred - engrammed subliminally over a period of decades. So some parts were remembered (!) but others were not. Now, this "remembering" is precisely what the 4th Gospel tells us the Holy Spirit will do. Then the Acts material is not arbitrary. Seeing the world in terms of Acts is logical + necessary + precise + accurate. + literal. The double superimposition may not only not have been a dysfunction - it may have required decades of engramming + info-transfer to me in preparation, + this all was then followed by more info-transfer, but openly, now. It may not be easy to get a person to this point. Now, as to "Valis." In view of the above reasoning, there is no effort made to conceal the true reality, to occlude, on the contrary: it takes great efforts -literally decades of efforts- to cause a given person to fully + really see the true state of affairs. For one thing, the whole situation is very intricate, + it branches off or reaches up into the supernatural realm; a great deal has to be conveyed - but "convey" is not the right term; this is not taught as, for example, subjects are taught in school - i.e. taught about: the words refer to reality but are in themselves not the reality. Here, however, the reality itself is disclosed. Hence Valis does not [primarily] tell/talk/narrate. It reveals; you do not know that x, y + x are true; you experience x, y + z. (But the AI voice helps out with verbal explanations.) You are not told about Acts (the Bible does this); you are in + at Acts as world. If indeed this is the true state of affairs, enormous efforts may be required to make it real to you. +, having done this, the Spirit then transfers the rest of the Kerygma openly + fully. I did not realize how much had been revealed to me until that day -very recently- when I read the E.B. macro article on Messianic movements. Now I add to that the notion that Valis acted to transfer this knowledge to me in accretion upon accretion over a period of decades so that in 2-74 I did not just know the totality; I experienced it. To quote from "Valis": "Reincarnation has nothing to do with it. I'm there now [i.e. in the world of Acts, Acts as world]." The Golden Fish sign was to Valis what the dope was to God (in 11-17-80): it simply released it. This must be the case. Then perhaps I can reconcile 2-3-74 + 11-17-80. In a strange way that is extremely difficult to understand, Valis is God, the same God I experienced in 11-17-80, but seen (experienced) in terms of his influence on world as revealer; why, this is the Alexandrian Logos! The intermediary who is a messenger + acts on creation, is not transcendent + other. Here is a great mystery. These are successive states or degrees of divine self-disclosure in relation to a given person (myself). 11-17-80 is predicated -not just on 2-3-74- but on 2-3-74 + the Exegesis. What seems to emerge is a picture of a great dialectical battle between God + his adversary, fought -not in the heights- but here in/on this world. (As is stipulated in Zoroastrianism.) Valis is God-here-in-world acting in this struggle; but God who I experienced on 11-17-80 is outside + above the struggle, so the Logos is the combatant against Satan. "Valis," then, is fundamentally correct. Now, the fact of the battle being here would explain the necessity of the "little ordeal now." The Zoroastrian explanation holds (this, too, is well-expressed in "Valis" down to specific details). The dialectic is here + not in the transcendent God. So the establishment of the Millenial Kingdom requires the defeat of Satan (I am viewing this in Zoroastrian terms) + this is no small matter. "VR" makes this clear. The coming of the Savior [just] means that the battle so-to-speak breaks out in the open; the disguises are discarded. Jeez - I just realized: I say in "VR" that the transplanting of the Savior doesn't end the conflict; it just means that it breaks out overtly - as I see it now! Then am I to assume that what I see now will be seen by everyone? + it will be too late to choose sides! Which side each of us is on is the side he is on now. Because, see, at this time each of us must choose so-to-speak in ignorance yet in a state of freedom, free will, with no actual clues external to us (since things appear as their mirror opposites). It takes enormous shrewdness (which is what Hagia Sophia imparts) to choose correctly. This may be the real maze. Boy; as I explicate this, it becomes progressively more + more Zoroastrian! Which fits in with my revelations early on in 3-74. {I leave out from the transcription the phone numbers on the bottom of the page} 1) Gestalt (inner) acting as template that is imposed as decoding lens/grid by which to interpret the outer world 2) The "apex" of the Gestalt is analogically inferred - filled in to complete pattern 3) This "apex" provides the "straight line" 4) Valis is a deflection from the straight line. 5) This explains why we can't normally see Valis (or its information); the inner Gestalt is needed for there to be a straight line from which there is a deflection. 6) Only Valis can install the plural discrete constituents in you that, when the final catalytic piece is added, causes the Gestalt to form - whereupon you are not just told what history consists of (like reading about it in a book); you see it; so you see "dream time" reality, the past blended syntonically with the present. This relates to my earlier theory of meta-abstraction from the common morphological essence, I now see why I did -was able to do- it. First I saw + then I meta-abstracted; but I saw due to the decoding lens/grid! I saw the two spatiotemporal sets superimpose + leaped to the conclusion of the supra spatiotemporal eidos. But the lens/grid will fit between you + any spatiotemporal reality because the dialectic, the two-sided war, is always the case. This is another way of saying, "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." The grid/lens shows that this is not so. This can be seen, literally seen. The dialectical conflict is a constant. Any spatiotemporal reality seen through -in terms of- the lens/grid turns out to be the same -one + the same- matrix reality. This, perhaps, is the startling ultimate truth; it is not just that the dialectic has been with us for 1000s of years; no, more: when the Acts lens/grid is utilized any + all spatiotemporal realities turn out to be the same matrix reality: one + the same. Were this not the case, the grid/lens could not work with any + all realities. By means of the lens/grid one perceives that despite appearances [to the contrary] nothing has changed since Acts. Here let me reconsider what I call the value-sign reversal of the lens/grid (which I supra worked out in detail). This value-sign reversal is so crucial that - well, in some respects this is the whole point of it all. This is what an encoding-decoding grid is for. Then the information traffic that Valis generates is content-stable: the same pieces -constituents- are produced and transmitted perpetually; if it is called a "story" it is always one + the same story; there is only one story - + that story is what shows up in "Tears"; here is an instance. The Acts story reconstitutes itself again + again, perpetually, as the key, the master template. This is a new idea on my part: that the signal emitted + imposed on our media is always the same: it consists of the discrete pieces that when all are added together the lens/grid is constructed. This is the purpose -the goal- of the information. This tells me to whom the information goes! It does not go to those who already know, i.e. a secret Xtian underground to link them together or give them news + orders; it goes to everyone to provide the lens/grid so that the blitz will occur + they will see. It is a sort of tug, aiming at an alchemical transmutation of perception/understanding. This (if true) sheds new light on "Tears": here is a classic instance of this use, + how this use shows up practically. (Conversely, it explains how + why the Acts material got into "Tears.") There is one story + it is told for one reason: not so it will be seen (read) as a story + believed, but so that it will install the necessary discrete pieces of the lens/grid in a person, presumably over a period of years so that, unknown to him- self the person knows the story - in the form of pieces engrammed from a variety of sources at various places + times. The analogic right hemisphere will assemble it into a structure if + only if all the pieces are provided; the Golden Fish sign that day was the