arrow "Silence" comes from above and leads to y: "Trial + punishment finding no acct of misdeeds" } The blank white document contains no instructions, orders or information, so it must be -can only be- used as substitute (for the info-signal input). If, as in (A), info reaches y, it inexorably acts on it; it makes no decisions, no judgments; its response is mechanical. The only way to abort or abolish its punitive reaction is to keep the info (signal) from reaching it. Think of the person involved as a computer punch card with info in it, + Christ as a perfectly clean info-less card. Clearly, it is the Torah involved here. folder 48 - 200 folder 48 - 200 Ah! The messenger's blank document when inserted between the list of your sins/crimes + the retributive "court" acts as an interrupter component introduced into a signal circuit. + being blank it is a squelch type of interrupter, rather than a noise or scrambler interrupter; it erases the signal-flow - not the signal but the flow (transmission). The fact that a messenger brings it shows that this is not an illegal interruption; he has the authority to do this (as in "Victoria's messenger riding comes"). Just so he gets there in time, before reception. {Note} The message is opaque. (Stiff high quality acid free linen bond rag watermarked paper.) Sentence by the court is automatic, not interpretive. The court can't be appealed to, as by a friend of the court. It hears no pleas. This is not a trial but a sentencing. Guilt is established by the info per se. The court knows only the info fed to it; it is a machine. In the presence of the white document, all the court's settings relax -subside- to zero. They register 0-0-0-0-0. This is an abnormal situation; it does not occur naturally (i.e. without a deliberate official interrupting). Perhaps without the white document, there is always some signal on the input line. Being a machine the court can't reason, "something is the matter." Since it doesn't reason in the first place. {Note:} Timing is all-important. The messenger can do nothing if he arrives after the "court" has received the signal, the info, the particulars of sins/crimes. folder 48 - 201 Although this wasn't presented to me as a cybernetic model it certainly can be rendered into cybernetic terms, whereupon the difficult notion of "vicarious atonement" becomes easy to understand. It's as if Christ's credit card (magnetic info card) were substituted for mine. His is blank of sins/crimes. Mine contains a whole list. His is substituted by being inserted between mine + the receiver (court or karmic retributive law). The court is no longer plugged into my record but his record. + he has the legal authority to do this; it is not illegal sabotage: his act is official, in plain sight; no duplicity is involved. He can + may do this wherever he wishes, assuming he gets there in time. Thus 2-74 had to occur before 3-74: {Illustration: undulating arrow from "My deeds in the past" has "2-74" inserted and then straight arrow leads to "3-74"} Messenger: message coming over circuit. Message, info processing. This message is blank, which is a cancel message. {illustrations: undulating arrow from "Info" has "Cancel" inserted, and then straight arrow leads to "Machinery {Note} A) arrow from "Info" goes to "Info" to "Info" to "Info", and then leads to "Machinery {Note}" B) arrow from "Info" goes to "Info" to "Info" to "Info", has "Cancel" inserted, and then leads to "Machinery {Note}" } {Note:} Machinery which receives the aggregate info, processes it + acts upon it. In (B) it receives nothing. folder 48 - 202 folder 48 - 202 The aggregate info exists but it never reaches the machinery which processes it + acts on it, due to the interrupt blank insertion. It doesn't countermand the information with counter information but with no information. It denies information, that actually exists, to the machine. The opposite of a bill of particulars would be a blank page, not a page with any other information of any kind. I am shown how the vicarious atonement works, in an information processing model. It is very simple. You just substitute a blank page for a bill of particulars (information) before it reaches the processer. This resembles Luther's conception of God seeing his spotless son instead of you on the day of judgment. In my model the retributive machinery acts automatically once it obtains the information, but it is denied the information; a deterministic system is envisioned instead of an all-knowing God ... something more like the karmic wheel. The solution is to deny it the information on which it acts before it can act, so timing is crucial; if the machinery obtains the information, it will act. __ The vicarious atonement -which is a freeing (you) from karmic determinism- has been explained to me in terms of information processing. Thus I can now understand the purpose of the crucifixion. This fits in with my dream in which it was explained to me that all the centers of folder 48 - 203 folder 48 - 203 power on Earth have fallen to the dark power, + God (YHWH) is "instilling" early Xtians into people on the periphery - like me. + that I will be guided by the AI voice. In my attempt to understand YHWH I must not abandon Xtianity. I may deny the doctrine of original sin, but I do assent to the mystery religions + Paulline doctrine that we are subject to "planetary" powers, or "astral determinism," or the law or {JA} script, which is mechanical + retributive, + Christ frees us from its power - as in the messenger dream. I must always remember that the soul of an early Xtian has been instilled (secretly) in me. God is the guarantor of reality, but Christ makes us free of the ancient original system: an evolutionary step of titanic significance. Freed of our 2-tape programming we become really human, rather than reflex machines. (To do this we must re-enact the passion -humiliation- suffering, death + resurrection of Christ, as I did.) This is a sort of mythic alchemy of transmutation. folder 48 - 204 folder 48 - 204 Christ is both the exemplar + the high priest presiding over the re-enactment of this process. Lastly, I must never forget that I saw reality as the cosmic body + blood of Christ. I saw reality change, + although I now have new memories, I am sure it changed for the better; my life was saved. __ 4:15 AM insight: Only YHWH has the power to create worlds for me like my novels (e.g. "Ubik," "Tears"); it is his way of notifying me as to who I'm dealing with. I know this only from the most profound study of YHWH. Also, he manifested himself to me in a form I showed I would expect: Like Ubik. So when I saw Valis + the plasmate I was not seeing God, but seeing a manifestation he took to accomodate me. One I would recognize, + could handle. He created himself as world - showing far greater power than I (before now) realized. Thus he still remains unknowable to me: Valis + the plasmate only point to him! My God: he took control of my perceptions of reality. (This explains why I saw "Tears"/Acts/BIP as well.) He was in my brain! Again the key term: camouflage + mimicry. There is a whole level left that I haven't encountered. "Joint," "Maze" + esp "Ubik" show that I think in terms of an info + info-processing model. Halving {above the page} is directly proportional to the complexification via the dialectic moving toward infinite complexity & smallness along an infinity of form axes. Space is the receptacle of Being - not time. Plato's [Geometric] forms theory is correct, so is my Form-axis. So is UBIK [ie VALIS ], so is the dialectic. Progression as we know it is a "diagonal" based on the totality of form-axes involved for each given epinode (replication of the self-replicating, halving, complexifying basis). It does not need to be perceived to exist. Our right hemisphere perceives it (ie the world of "UBIK" & "Valis") & our left doesn't. Our left is "slotted" along the MULTI [form-] axes diagonal: a device which produces the most complexities (ie an infinity of them). {picture:} Geometric form {moving through} time locking pipe (collar) {which is surrounded by} all the form axes {resulting in} infinite permutations. The process just follows lines of least resistance in halving + complexifying. My problem is that my left hemisphere time axis rate of movement is contaminated by right hemisphere spacial infinity & complexity, is urged by it. Diagonal total of epinode (original Gestalt of which this is a mechanism for complexification & dialectic halving) which is a microform -among many- of the one original macro node (brain, noüs). {bracket} She (Diana) is the hawk (of Horus) in female form. I try to break away from the time locking collar (clock time) & into the infinite time of any given single form-axis (in space). My motive: I have glimpsed the infinite form axes - as proved in "UBIK". &, being forms, are so beautiful that I yearn for them. I must have glimpsed a form axis prior to "UBIK." Maybe on an acid trip I glimpsed one & intellectually (left hemisphere?) understood it. I knew what it was because once I was a Greek Xtian (1)Platonist; & I knew I had glimpsed infinity. (1)[neo??] I have no real "now." Which curses me with high BP - but: I got to get up into the upper realm of forms finally in 3-74 based on my 2-74 neoplatonist Xtian personality - was it worth it? I feel yes. The forms are so lovely as they permutate. {circled:"1"} The incarnation was a revolt against the angels by God. It's stated in the N.T. (eph? cor?) that 1) God's plan was hidden from the powers, thrones, dominions, etc. 2) that the plan existed from the beginning 3) that Christ now rises through the levels back to the pleroma stripping the powers, thrones & dominions of their authorities: specifically destroying the Law (which not only had no power to save but which actually killed by bringing sin into the world!). ("Astral determinism.") & 4) men will be lifted higher than angels & will judge them! Lucifer/Satan was the chief archangel. The secret must be that - did he guess (before creation) God's plan for man, & the creation of the God man, & revolted against this? Or has Satan been given -was given from the start- given dominion over this world & man, & this is what Christ broke - ie the "secret plan"? Then he (Lucifer) is Palmer Eldritch, & refuses to give up his power (over us & our world) & so deceives us with Klingsor-like spurious reality (the "ape of God," interpolating fake creation)? Yes, this is it! Christ really won at the space-time Acts, but Lucifer occludes us to this & "Tears" reveals the truth (& "Scanner" goes on to analyze the occlusion!). Here is the correctness of my acosmism. Moses was Satan. This world is Satan's prison - over/around - us - the prince of this world. & Christ (Jesus) was bait to (as Gregory says) lure Satan into attacking the innocent & divine, God Himself! {circled:"2"} The secret is, Satan is God's brother, ie the Logos' brother. The Logos is the elder brother: Nommo & Yurugu. God gave Satan authority over this world: ie the Law, which involves the powers, thrones & dominions. But God had a plan, secretly, from the beginning, to trick the younger brother Satan: the baited hook of Jesus. Much of what goes on is war directly between Christ & Satan & only incidentally involves us. The Logos comes into being before creation. Then the angels, specifically Lucifer. Then