with dogs + with cats, but we can't see Valis. Okay - suppose we're in Valis, so it isn't Valis + us but just a macro-organism that somewhat loosely collects us in it. Not Valis as the cosmos, universe, creation or world but a specific large life form here on this planet + perhaps also elsewhere. So it is in us as Thomas was in me, + It is also around us as Valis was around me Now, what interests me is that it doesn't seem to think like we do. It is very different from us No - I know what it is; it is St. Sophia which we know as nature, as in James Stephens' poem providing claws, wings, cunnin - shaping the different creatures + then defenses + powers + facultiess is is the Logos. That which gave harvey his teeth + his cleverness gave This is the final answer wdness in 3-74. ie me space e 862 in that case yes; it was an evolutionary quantum leap in perception + cognition (vide Teilhard de Chardin). It was biologically + physiologically real. Since I can now pin I point what I experienced (acquired, displayed manifested) was shrewdness ("an almost uncanny ability to see below the surface" "an uncom‐ fortably or even dangerously close guess) I can see the survival utility pure + simple amidst the eerie + paranormal + mystical aspects. It was a form of instinct. Apparently I made use of a vast mind not my own but one that informs all creatures great + small although not always: not all creatures at all times + places. In that sense I was not functioning ontogenically but on some larger basis. As an expinant of an aggregate. I exhibited paranormal shrewdness, + as a survival factor this is probably the sine quo non shrewdness: guessing - + in such a way that there appears to be no basis for the guess being correct, or near correct, but it is; so it is uncanny; it can't be explained how the guess was made [correctly); + it looks below the surface it's a hunch. Paranormal - inexplicable. It's like a knowing; no, a para-knowing. You specifically to not know; this is precisely it. Yet you match the Gestalt of your guess as analog to he hidden underlying reality, +, although you ant prove it, the guess is paralled to the hidde ruth but not deduced - derived - from it! It i t arallel but not causually related. This is a ecial faculty. This acausal parallel Gestalt is working analog. A synchronication topologi‐ 86 There is as yet no theory to explain how This might be done. You are working with a patens unknown. Yet you envision its form ow? Well, in my case the para-helper told te, which opened up a whole otherwise invisible universe. ah! When I saw the Golden Fish I shrewdly realized what it indicated, even then (2-74) this faculty was at work; it was a lightering leap a total realization, but it was an instance of this same shrewdness [faculty]. Y would not exist if y did not exist; X implies Y, but why? "Instinct." Like seeing a broken branch on a trail + leaping to an instant realization re the unseen: the "uncomfortably close guess it must have to do with my intuition in the Jungian usage. Taverner is killed (in the dream) all right having come before pilate (Felix), + then is resurrected (exculpated: 2nd advent) in the epilog, Both advents depicted. As the eschto‐ logical judge (wise old white-haired king) he presides over - adjudicates - his own death, so it The single sheek is a voluntary sacrifice the final shries that that Taverner emits is Jesus emitted on the cross. + when I had the dream I heard it. it does not go 2-3-74 (2= Gold Fish). t goes: "Tears" + then 2-74 + 3-74, + "Tears" oints specifically to Christ + the 2nd ad ient [Note} + through "Enalishman's castle" to the ode + the underground + fascist Rome. ➀ Well, so does the Gold Fish + the te Sophia revelation! tl it went on to the epiphany or + theophany, ego the info about Chrissys birth defect. An outright theophany the process that began with the divine material in "Tears" I e I dreamed I was working on my exegesis in it I reasoned: Freud showed that there are "forgotten" childhood (i.e. early) traumas, + his whole therapy consisted in taking the patient back to the trauma + reliving it, thus exor cising it + the neuritic fear it created in The present (specifically in situations remin iscent of the trauma). Well, 2-3-74 reminded me of an early traung that was still causing me fear - a vast fear! - in the present. The fear was chronic: that they'd get me. under the pentathol I abreacted in true Freudian -thepapeudic fashion to the original trauma; the original trauma + the present one reminaful of it fused. This is what happens in true abreaction; they fuse (it wa as if I had been placed under hypnosis by 1) The pentathol, 2) the Golden Fish; (Freud + blue originally used hypnosis!). However, the original trauma was in first century AD Rom abreacted back to that, + it fused with th I current analog of the 2 CP "trap" papers co witness "Faith" + "MITHC"). Phylogenic abreacti So I had indeed lived in AD 70 Rome as early Xtian (which I've often thought) but wha I never realized was that the prototype of in has trap occurred then, without which the 6 o sition. This is why after 3-74 I have ceased to have my chronic neurotic anxiety in the night (that they are going to come for me); I relived the original trauma + in so doing exorcised it! I got at the roots of my anxiety Freud was right; there were buried memories of an early trauma in my subconscious - of 2000 years ago! So Thomas was an earlier me from the time + place of Acts, which accounts for the Acts material in "Tears"? + I exper ienced reality as he had, + he had had the Paraclete with him, so I saw either God or Christ (we didn't distinguish them in those days; we knew Jesus was God!) This is 1) why/how I knew that the Xero missive would come - it had come in the coriginal trauma situation; + 2) knew it was. forgery + hence what to do with it; they foole me once before! In 3-74 I was in two space time continua at once, due to the congruencies of the two situations (traumas), + due to the terribleness of the original trauma, it cost my life! Hence: "There's someone else in my head + he living in another century." Also the koine Gre also the cosmological knowledge (Gnosticism + Qumran). Abreaction to the original trauma 2000 ye ago. + exorcising of the anxiety thereby I1) bet it cost me my life originally; this I had post mortem experiences! a the Paraclete is with me now be "why me?" is explained. The Holy Spirit "Rode" the phylogenic self from the ancient world into the modern, like rising up a tunned, a time tube, with PKD 1974 as the exit + Rome AD 70 as the entrance So I had the what right but not precisely the why. (Abreaction to early (sic!) trauma, + reliving it.) It was a psychological event, but had religious-mystic attributes because in my former life I was an authentic, early, spirit filled, secret Xtian The Xerox missive was a trap. or. It was not really what it seemed it was probably it was a forgery. it was probably us. If us then probably army G-2. So the correct response was to notify the Bureau. but not to say it was us army G2 forgery. the amazing thing is that my abreacting to become Thomas again, brought him into the modern world! (Like in "Charles Dexter ward.") It was a bigger universe. Thomas is in touch with the truth. Here is an extraordinary mystery the Paraclete used this abreaction as a popline to the present world. My world. It entered the modern world, from its own time, through me as I once said, "like a snake crawling up a Gardenhose." Then it was a clever stitching together of 2 space-times, creating a conduit; I was in his world + he in mine. I am sure it was purposeful. Thomas was brought here from 2000 years ago. My original impression was correct. contingent knowledge produces only a pseudo I write about. universe, which is what o i a much bigger miracle + purpose is involved than saving me from the Xerox missive" the AI voice could have done that. Am I to assume that the Paraclete used me as a conduct from the time of Acts to the modern world? Then what is Valis? Sometimes I think I was Valis. If 3 I" was the Paraclete it could be. No: Valis Father. Thomas son. I.e. St Sophia. To be born again at this time - short circuited through from Acts to our world, linking the two advents. What I experienced was the miraculous birth - for the second time - of Christ; this + nithing less. I wasn't Christ; he passed through me - like a wind (pneumena), into the modern world. those to whom it (she) had bonded in symbiosis (homoplasmate) were killed, so it short circuited time to a reincarnation of one of The apostolic Xtians (homoplasmates) + thus ame here (to our time). So it escaped the comans (its enemies). So St. Sophia came to he + took up residence in me, but she did it from the world of Acts. So, what I've called "anamnesis" is more an abreaction, a reliving of a primordial Rauma, hence the fusing together of two per‐ onalities + two space-times normally 2000 years apart. 35 86 Plato on the Pythagoreans: "the saying that is uttered in secret rutes to the effect that we men are in a sort of prison. as It is the God's who care for us. + we men are one of the possessions of the Gods. "some say the body is the tomb of the soul. "I once heard one of the wise men say that now we are dead + the body is our tomb." Diogenes caertive on Pythagoras. Hermes told him that he might choose any gift he liked except immortality: so he asked to retain through life + through death a memor of his experiences. I woke up. Did I come to life ("born from above")? + remembered. + saw the prison. + knew (as in "Ubik") that we are dead. Hence when I came to life I was no longer here but (found myself) in another world - much larger + older entirely. We must be plugged into "polyen cephalic fusion" + not really here. Our for‐ The gotten memories fed back to us as world smaller newer world. But actually we are dead + in a prison; the life before this was real, which is the life (world) I remembered - abreacted to. where I died (+ am now dead; I remembered My death). So I didn't remember my previous life but my [actual] life. (Where + who + when I actually am, "enchanted" so that I suppose I am me + here + now in this little universe t of course - the vast technology that Valis displayed is quite capable of enchanting us + causing us to experience this far world 569 If I hadn't seen Valis I'd be at a loss to account for the necessary technology. But Valis has it; Valis generates this world The way a stereo generates sound. In fact we are in a sort of prison + are in some sense dead. It's all a