to the US military! Instead of handing over the papers to the woman (more or less). He did the chickenshit thing, + succumbed, to his own later bitter regret: it dehumanized him ever after + it was a test, as in "Faith." +, as in Faith," the correct solution lay in cooperating with the woman. 897 upon reflection I think that the supra 5:00 am vision was not OCCP. I was handing a Bible to someone, not technical papers + it was it was a finished to a man not a woman. book with contents that were not new but rather sanctioned scripture was depicted. authoritative. It was like the King James Bible kee. + I gave my mother years ago. what it seems to be saying is that the infor‐ nation in me is religious in nature. That what we are dealing with is further divine revelation, It is to be printed in not classified documents. a public way. It is printed in a public way. The Logos enters (invades) its creation - has already invaded it at an earlier date + assimilates it through transubstantiation. In this process an antithetical dialectic is involved between foresighted Wisdom + hindsighted stupidity, this foresighted wisdom being the creative Logos pitted against creation which has a non-intelligent will; it is reason vs blind striving. Logos (Hagia Sophia) progressively has captured more + more of creation until now it steers commandingly in an invisible, pervasive way. Creation perpetually passes over to its jurisdiction. The Logos is not located in one place; it is a ubique field Waxing: its "tugh grows equally everywhere, as it fits things into + place. (Cosmos. V. Pythagoras. It combats its own dark (yin) side. The dialectic I saw are its own two natures locked in antithetical combat, out of which activity all change is generated. Time itself is created; spare is converted into time. The two aspects are sufficiently separated so that we can align ourselves with the light (form one, yang) 48 it outwits through Logos - reason - its dark side, rather than defeating it by force. So Logos is the bright side of God. + it will e I t win because it has foresight, + the dark side has only hindsight (v. Zoroaster). Thus all is God: one side or the other; Spinoza is right in his minism, but he does not see the antithetical dialectical nature - inter‐ action - within this God. Logos is God differentiated pitted against his own will (karmic law which Spinoza so ad mired, as a Jew): the "immutable cause-+ effect world of yin" (the demonic realm: Nebelheim.) God is not Homogonous. But The Logos is of one nature: bright + creative: Yang. when I saw the dialectic I did not just see the activity of God (against his opponent) but I saw God himself - both sides of the dialectic. I saw into the raw original nature of God himself. "I bring weal + whe." So there is a contradiction within God himself but we are to under‐ tand that the bright Logos side always triumphs in the end - is eternally winning, in fact: wins now, win before, will win in the future, in each situation. Apperception of tis embodies our trust. We can trust him; sames-James always loses. Sophia Satan, yehweh + Christs Paraclete the final striving power wisdom I love ypostasis is the Shekhina : female. Each is pro‐ ressive more tamed + gentle + loving + wiser 549 Valis" is essentially correct: the entry of the Logos is of a recent date, + combats the primordial irrationality (James-James). but these are not two deities but two sides of the deity. Then, third, comes the Paraclete + fourth, Sophia. (I'm not sure this; she may be part of the Logos; yes of I think so - the feminine side of God.) I am saying, the core (primary in time + ontology) of reality (i.e. God) is not rational, but the rational (known to us as the person the Logos) successfully combats + subdues - sobers - it, ceaselessly, in process, again + again; it is perpetual combat + perpetual victory - due to the Logos' foresight, which the irrational (striving will] lacks The means of the victory is foresight the nature of it is structure: co + herency. The joining together that I saw the linking! (Cosmos.) irrational (power) poses + rational (wisdom) solves, say, the evil, chaos + destruction in I the world can be explained 1) by saying there is no God 2) or he is weak; or 3) he has an irrational side. I select (3) but say It is always defeated by the Logos. I say there is an antithetical dialectic in God 53 t between his irrational + rational sides + the latter always - perpetually - wins. believe this because it was I revealed to me, by the deity himself. i crossed over - no. This small universe t i melted away, + I was in the greater universe where Christ is. The universe behind this one: Naturans generating this one as an epiphenom enon. As if we are normally lost in a The huge prison + work. a stage set. fake in secret the Xtian underground mixing with the prison population as liberators. + the invading Logos camouflaged equally secretly steering events (to good outcomes). Connected to the underground by the information fillaments of the plasmate, so that it speaks inside their mines, advising + comforting them + directing even at times controlling them (occupying them as extensions or stations). Another time, them another place. e t just thought of something very strange. In t 3-74 I saw immanent coherence, sentience + intent. normally we don't see this. 1) Did I see something always there but occluded to us? 2) or did it only occur at that time: answer: Tess didn't see it. I saw it because my perceptions were enhanced. So it may well always go on. Or - it may have been an inbreaking into a deterministic closed order. Could it be this against which the we mind part of the dialectic works? Since the closed order is sub-rational: it is "astral determinism." Then Spinoza is wrong 531 Then Valis has invaded our reality + combats it ("Sobers" it.) (The light in St. John entering the darkness.) not immanent + not transcendent. The domain of darkness is invaded by the light + this [light] is what I saw that I called Valis. It's like an intelligent cancer - it replaces normal reality with itself + then Acts as a coherency. Unifying all the things it's replaced. camouflage. An intelligent life form preying on the unintelligent, assimilating it + replacing it by increments. Surely this is what St. John is describing. Then this is the domain of Dark‐ ness. It may not have ubiquitous/complete control; it's still in combat. Look - this entity is capable of taking over a human + operating its moth centers. It's very intelligent. It may not work through natural law; it may simulate natural law in addition it preys on reality + replicates itself by fier tilizing humans? "Birth from the Spirit. This is more + more gounding like a life form. Body + blood - the plasmate - fillaments. Using our communications media. It is an information entity. Basically it thinks, grows, gains control God created the universe + then as Logos introjects himself into its center + in a dialecti with it assimilates it to himself, progressively. this is neither transcendence nor immanence but (JN 1) a third relationship between God + world, one of developing process of assimilation at the end "God is all in all." (Tielhard; 552) is This introjection of God into the world is "The day of Yahweh," his in-breaking (v. the dream in "Tears"). we best proof that it's not imma‐ nent ala Spinoza is 1) It is using the total universe reality) as a stackpile out of which it assembles itself so there is a not-it as well as it: parts fitted into place forming a unitary entity embedded in reality camouflaged to resemble it. (i.e. reality. 2) It combats reality which is less intelligent than it, in dialectic. 3) It appears to have invaded reality from outside - i.e. from a position of transcendence (the "upper realm") 4) It entered our world at a given historical time + place: Rome 1st century AD + originally was a man who feared the authorities. Its span of the present goes back to that it simulates causality the way it 5) simulates assimilated objects + people. 6) it is in a vast Xtian universe to ee it you have to be in that universe. 1) It evolves you a quantum leap forward. the Holy Spirit reveals the true meaning Christ (+ his mission) + God's plan - i.e. Valis (cosmic Christ). So the Holy Spirit reveals the other, Xtian universe, the This then, ring underground, everyt was i The revealatory agency by which I saw Christ (Valis) + understood the (dialectical) plan - the assimilation, etc. So I saw Christ by means of the Holy Spirit: the latter put me into the larger, Xtian universe. Also the Holy Spirit "reminds" you (me) of what Christ did + said; this is anamnesis, so the Holy Spirit causes the anamnesis. I just realized what the "Faith" + "MITHC" material shows; it shows I was preprogrammed to fire in 2-74 + 3-74; it is empirical proof. In other words, if one asks, "why did the Fish sign + the Xerox missive disinhibit me?" the answer is in the "Faith" + "Mittic" material; I had an internal corrolate engrammed to react to the situation; so the situation was a disinhibiting stimulus, for that inner material which the writing done in the "cos shows was there, already. It would have to work this way or the Golden Fish + the Xerox missive wouldn't have had the effect on me that they had - i.e. disinhibited me They were just (sic) signals to what was already There. It was the "what was already there" that was the core matter. Does this mean that the Xerox missive, like the Golden Fish, was a means, + the end was the dis‐ inhibition? I would recognize the situation - + esp. with the Xerox missive I did. 8 Nazis (fascism) won wize Hence we are a police state. scode. purpose of code: to tell underground it is time to act. why act? Because we are a police state - i.e. BIP. Act against police state. comment: an underground is logical in the "MITHC" + kind of society depicted in "Tears "EC." Upon being shown the Golden Fish sign in 2-74 I saw not just the BIP but the underground (the latter is missing in "MITHC" + "Tears" but is in "EC"). + therefore the signal code is logical fascism won (insidiously). "Tears" ties in with "mith However, fascism has an underground enemy equipped with ultra technology. the stations of the cross: me, with the death station occurring in early 1974 + reborth (resurrection) in 2- or 3-74. Death: the oral surgery. Then the Bardo Thodol trip +, in 3-74, rebirth (resurrection). cause I was back at Acts. I awoke (the radio) to eternal life through mythic dentification with Christ. I beed. The world bled. world as meal. Music. Orpheus? Sorrow - grieving. The edible isen lord as cosmos. me as part of him. plants me incorporated into the meal/body-+-blood. the Garden - Gesemonic. The camouflaged cosmic body in the landscape. Passover. - a reason perhaps why when loaded I repeatedly wrote, "ich bin der petter" I was assimilated by + to the cosmic Christ So that I became him by being in 3-74. Id mythically einitied tified with him 35 the agency that achieves this is the Holy spirit who God sends to whom he wishes, it his decision, or perhaps Christ's - delegated