that self-perception is essential to the Godhead for it to be (to possess esse), because its Sein is related in some way to its intelligere, to its knowing, since it is a mind. It could not really be until it understood itself, and in understanding itself it caused itself to enter a series of infinite regressions (permuta¬ tions, in a dialectic, its wisdom and its power divided). Selfawareness, is automatically a dynamic process, not a static one. The entire universe came into existence upon its turning its attention on its own nature (intelligere directed at esse). But for this to occur, it must be self aware, and this is what 3-74 was: an epiphany [Handwritten note on the left margin:] (Of course the original cultural purpose of the Eucharist was to "cause" this self-caused coming into existence of the Holy Spirit in you; it acted - like the Golden Fish sign - to remind you of the Last Supper - to promote anamnesis!) [Handwritten note on the bottom margin:] ( So the Golden Fish sign actually did for me became of the pentathol, what the Eucharist was supposed to do: cause anamnesis + bring in the Holy Spirit) -56- [Handwritten note on the top margin:] (The E.B. says yes, The Eucharist is supposed to produce ananmnesis of The Passion + death of Christ - + this is so - but what is missing is the realization that the ultimate purpose is to cause the Spirit of Christ -the Holy Spirit - to "enter" you; it occur in you, actually be Them, not just remembered.This knowledge is not lost.) of self-awareness.,.and yet in it the dialectic finally stops; first there is the dialectic (I understood that first) and then there is, finally, a stasis, which is to say a healing of the schism into that which perceives (intelligere) and that which is perceived (esse). A reconciliation has taken place, the mysterium coniunctionis The opposites in it are reconciled; it is no longer divided into the half which knows and the half which is known (wisdom and power respec¬ tively); it is back to its primordial state, having driven by means of the dialectic the permutations through infinity to their resolution which is where they began (so they are not infinite; a point comes when the metakosmos is complete; at that point the permutations stop; flux stops and time is abolished; and the Godhead is no longer riven). This is why my thoughts came faster and faster, why I rushed down that tunnel; why I saw the graphics; it was due to selfawareness set off by the golden fish sign. The conclusion of this was my seeing Valis as a unity, Parmenides' unchanging One. It would seem that the dialectic process will eventually be exhausted, although I don't know why logically; perhaps the permutations come faster and faster and there is an upper limit to how fast they can come...time gives out, the acceleration having reached a point beyond which time converts into space. So time isn't infinitely divisible, as is space. it seems to me, however, that there is another possi¬ bility? the Godhead can at a certain point know itself absolutely, that this flux process is not infinite simply because it is not infinite; a point arrives at which there is nothing else to know, and there it freezes. Flash-cutting turns into freeze frame. This is what happened with the phosphene graphics, for instance. [Handwritten note on the left margin:] (Remembering [Christ's] Passion + death would only produce a mood of sorrow; The Holly Spirit is risen Christ + would - does - promote Joy, not sorrow . The Imperial Church has now not only half of the sacrament - the really important second part that most matters - the true mirracle + purpose is missing!) [Handwritten note on the bottom margin:] (The Imperial Church has forgotten what it is supposed to remember; the message is not 'Christ's crucified' but Christ risen + with us again! ) -57- [Handwritten note on the top margin:] (So what originally was a sacrament of Joy has become a comemoration of suffering, sacrifice + death - defeating the whole purpose of the Lord's supper. Because the Spirit does not enter you, of course the sacrament is holy - but pointless.) This would correspond with the completion of the macrometasoma. There is such a point as this: its completion. So I am now saying that the construction of the macrometasoma is a representation of the Godhead knowing itself as it permutes down the time axis driven by the antithetical dialectic; it is the Godhead in process (as Whitehead and Bergson taught). But a point comes where this ends: the structure is finished. No more reticulation and arborizing is possible. If it were not so, how could one speak of the Mind completing itself? Perfecting itself? What would be the point of Wisdom playing Big Nigger with creative power? It would just go on forever with no resolution. After all, everything that occurs is added as an accretion to the macrometasoma- The Wise Mind —Hagia Sophia—- may reach a point where (this is a thought) that anamnesis ends the schism and hence the dialectic; my 3-74 experience is evidence that such a end, which is a return to the primordial pre-schismatic state, is beginning to be reached. The two sides of the dialectic are perceived as one internally consistent unity. The Wise Mind has remembered its identiy. (Had it forgotten? Is the dialectic due to its forgetting? And when it remembers, the dialectic ends, because the Wise Mind recognizes its opponent, the dark counter-player, as itself — as I depict in VALIS REGAINED? Is that why the flux ceases and pure structure is seen? Pure unity? Parmenides* unchanging One? Where motion is impossible? Then recognizing its opponent as itself is another way of saying, "It has achieved self-awareness." This was its goal. And this is what happens in VALIS REGAINED. The Wise Mind had fallen below the threshold of awareness of its opponent as its own self, and this is self-alienation; this is the schism; this is a lack of selfawareness, which is what it is striving for. [Handwritten note on the left margin:] (+ them in 2-3-74 the actual thing [long forgotten?] did happen to me - the epiphany in me -[illegible] by Christ's spirit without my intending it) -58- [Handwritten note on the top margin:] ( I know what the precise necessary recollection - insight - that's missing is, because I had it when I saw the Golden Fish Sign: Christ Lives!) (i.e. is here with us now + then it comes to be[ing?] Christ in the form of Holy Spirit.) This self-awareness was expressed in my dream where the plaque made from my crimson shirt and white tie was held out to me by the cleaning woman, I grunted in recognition. This could well represent the Wise Mind (myself) seeing its opponent for what it is: a forgery. The opponent is not real (that is, not a real opponent). The game has been a delusion into which the Godhead itself fell. Then the Godhead itself fell prey to maya (Dedalus built the maze and then fell into it, as I put it in VALIS). The opponent is a forgery and there is no antithetical combat; it is a game and nothing but a game; it is irreal. However, this waking up by the Godhead was due to a sign it itself placed in the process to wake it up, to cause it to remember. It remembers that, too. So its wholeness is restored, its unity and integrity. What a moment for the Wise Mind, to identify to dark counter¬ player, its adversary, as its own self. This is the monism that Evelyn Underhill speaks so slightingly of, but it is Sankara’s tat tvam asi; this occurs for the Godhead itself. Perhaps in its effort to know itself it became progressively more alienated from itself, farther and farther from its goal as the dialectic drove/drives its two halves along — and then moments come when it recognizes itself again, although perhaps locally and temporarily, epicenters of restored unity. I just cannot get away from the Gnostic idea of a crisis in the Godhead in which the Godhead split in half or even into pieces; but the dialectic suggests in half, into two antithetical sides. Its effort to understand itself has led it into a series of changes the result of which is not greater self-knowledge but greater self-alienation. However, at the [Handwritten note on the left margin:] ( So the message + sacrament of the Imperial Church is not "Christ risen (vicorious) + with us" but "Christ suffering + dead - taken from us" - a message of defeat. Interesting the true message is 180° reversed, + as a result the [cotinue below] [Handwritten note on the bottom margin:] Imperial Church Celebrates + dwells in suffering, the stations of the Cross, etc,+ not joyous Feast of the Harvest.) There is something else very strange about the Holy Spirit besides it only existing (i.e. in you) if you believe in the risen Christ being here now (i.e. in it, the Spirit). Christ, in John, says: "I still have many things to say to you but they would be too much for you now. But when the Spirit of truth comes he will lead you to the complete truth, since he will not be speaking as from himself but will say only what he has learnt; and he will tell you of the things to come." The Holy Spirit picks up where Christ has left off. As if completing a sequence of information. But (as I know from 3-74) he does not verbally convey this; he — shows you Christ and from the interior of Christ's mind, and shows you Christ externally...crudely, it's "show, not tell," but how does he do this? You literally see Christ (what I called Valis) and you are in Christ qua mind. But (I seem to be saying) Christ in a sense is not there. This is something like the Eucharist, like transubstantiation, done by the Holy Spirit apparently on whatever's nearby (it doesn't have to be bread and wine; it can be half the room of your apartment and the objects and processes therein). But 1 think this becomes true only as/when the Spirit does it; so the Spirit doesn't just reveal what is really there; the Spirit causes it to happen; or there ceases to be an distinction between you perceiving it and it happening... so the question, "Is it Christ if you can't see it?" has no meaning. It's as if the Spirit re-creates Christ at the point where Christ left off with the disciples; I'm saying, You generate the Spirit in your mind by the mysterium coniunctionis, and then the Spirit generates Christ in the outer world — turns the world into what I call the macrometasoma or Valis, structure, -61- metakosmos, pattern, integrated unity of the unrelated plural. This is transubstantiation, not just like it. The Eucharist takes place, performed by the Spirit, and it's real; it's not just a re¬ enactment of the Lord's Supper...it has something to do with time, though. You’re back at the time —and the place— of Acts, where Christ was last seen by the disciples. There is continuity of Christ, here. It's as if the Spirit is a transparent mechanism that acts as a lens or intermediary state between you and Christ. The Spirit and the risen Christ can't be separated; wherever the Spirit is, there is Christ; contrarily, there is no Christ unless you have the Spirit in you. But then, What is Christ under these circumstances? Not a man. There is nothing there that wasn’t there before, except the linking. If the Spirit can turn anything into Christ —the weeds in the alley— what, then, is Christ? If this is not a revelation by the Spirit that the