meta-novel: that each of us lives in some kind of simulated reality, "simulated" in the sense that from a strict ontological standpoint (i.e. measured against absolute or objective reality, the Dinge-an-sich) it isn't real -- specifically, it or some of it (with Valis most of it) is generated by the person himself. So seeing Valis did not represent a breaking through, on my part, to absolute reality; it amounted to a demonstration of the radical subjectivety and uniqueness of our worlds, our plural worlds. I did not see things as they actually are, but I verified the idios kosmos vs the koinos of Heraclitus that I am devoted to as a principle. Hence Tessa did not see Valis. Valis was a special way in which I interacted with the macrocosm, one in which the resultant field was highly charged with my own will, sentience and volition. folder 82 - 108 folder 82 - 108 -4- 4-4-80 I even caused time in my idios kosmos to slow down and then run backward. In order to get information available only in the future. The initial breakthrough in confirming my subjective plural worlds participant-observer-field theory came when, under pentathol (and later) I saw a double superimposion of two worlds, at different times and places; this triggered off the whole experience to follow. Holding two distinct belief systems (due to the pentathol and seeing the golden fish sign) I saw two distinct worlds. The shock to me was great, and some unconscious part of my mind drew the correct conclusion: that to a great extent I generated my own world out of my belief system, and, this being the case, I could control my own reality I could seize mastery over it. Which I very soon did. I impinged more on it than it did on me. 3-74 just proved that I have been right all along, that you can never know the universe (reality) as it really is because you can't exclude yourself as a participant-observer. But, in all my writing, I never saw the utility of this observer-participant unique subjective individual world; viz: that under certain circumstances you could exert vast will on it, the subjective unique field which comes into existence as an interchange (interface) between you and reality in itself, and warp it to meet critical needs, needs which if not met meant the end your life, and, if met, meant your literal physical salvation. If world was partly the product of your own mind, ideally you could voluntarily control world; also, you could amp up the percentage of the combined field emanating from you and hence control it even more. This I don't think anyone has thought of: to increase your ratio so as to increase the control you would have. folder 82 - 109 folder 82 - 109 By amping up the ratio of participation the person, as it were, goes out into the world, advances into it in order to control it, to get it to yield up certain clearly defined results (such as information). The person does not replace the objective component, does not evict it or squeeze it out (so it is gone) but acquires mastery and power over it, as if he were a shaman. The real world is still there, but subordinated to his will; this is a form of magic (of the paranormal?). So this is not solpicism. It is a matter of his will versus the world's. His will over the world's. A matter of relative power (hence the dialectic? It is a capturing of world and subjegating it. World is no longer master over the man, but shaped as by an artist. Apparently the objective reality consists of information, and this mastery permits an extraction of information, which is what is desired. The information is NOT IN THE PART OF REALITY (VALIS) WHICH IS THE PROJECTION OF THE PERSON'S MIND BUT IN THE OBJECTIVE PART; and this is mined. Reality does not yield up information voluntarily; the information must be extracted from it. The more actively the person's mind participates in the joint world-field the more information he can derive. It is as if the person has extended the boundaries of his mind/brain outward to encompass reality, to enclose it; his mind/brain now lies extended outside his physical body, forming the main component of the perceived (by him) field around him. So this hyper-amping and incursion does not mean a loss of contact with external reality; quite the contrary -- there is expansion of self rather than withdrawal (from reality). Reality is invaded by the person's mind. This is a profound aggression by the person's percept system into the folder 82 - 110 folder 82 - 110 realm that it sweeps out; it is actually out there in that realm, active in it, taking control of it. This is the "net" phenomenon. The percept system does not passively wait for data to come to it; it goes out and takes the data. This is the Hermetic transform, where the person's brain is out into the world, and the world is thereby reciprocally incorporated inside him. Thus he has knowledge of the world because he has power over it. Wouldn't this incursion into the world give you greater knowledge of it? Yes and no. You would be able to extract more information from it that you did not know, but the Weltbild would be hopelessly animated by your own mind, by its sentient, volitional animation. It would be world, but world as yourself, as an isomorphism. Which probably on its own it is not. There would be no way to know where your mind ended and objective world began. But this is true anyhow. However, in this case you would be encountering hopelessly predominating amounts --contents-- of your own mind as world, since the mixture now weighs heavily on the side of your mind, and against objective world. The blended field is now so predominately made up of your own mind that you are now predominately living in a reality of your own mind, a perceptual field made up of your own thought contents...but mixed in with these are all sorts of data not emanating from your mind, and it is these that your mind is seeking; these are its prey. Without these, there would be no purpose in the incursion into world by your mind. There would only be psychosis, a titanic abreation to a primitive mental state of psychotic projection. Then Valis is a limited life form created by the interaction folder 82 - 111 of two subfields: a human mind (mine) and objective reality (whatever that is) with my mind determining the dynamics of the syzygy. It is a life form brought into existence, a kind of interspecies symbiosis! It is alive. Where is it? In my vicinity. In a certain very real sense it is separate from me, distinct from me; I and objective (absolute) reality have given birth to it. It is a thinking mind that uses natural objects as its soma; it has no other body. It disturbs time, space and causality. It is out there; it has a mind of its own, independent from me; it knows things I don't know -- it is not just me projected but something new (synthesis). It can tell me things I don't know (information derived from objective reality) and it is sentient and volitional and animated (derived from me) -- something new in the world. To understand this you have to go back to Capra and THE TAO OF PHYSICS, to the idea of fields. This is truly awesome. Valis is more than me (information; which is to say intellegere) and more than reality (animation, sentience, volition, will). It is as if the information of reality had become alive. It is as if a living creature, me, suddenly had the entire information of reality at its disposal. VALIS AS TRANSDUCER OF INFORMATION -- DUE TO THE HERMETIC FORMULA THAT THE MICROCOSM MIRRORS THE MACROCOSM; THUS AT ANY GIVEN MONAD (VALIS) ALL INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE, IF TRANSDUCED. The information is known (incredibly) a priori. As if in some way it registers on the interface of the transducer. folder 82 - 112 folder 82 - 112 -8- 4-4-80 "Valis knows nothing but what it has been told." A long time ago the AI voice itself defined Valis, and I knew this was the definitive statement because I used it as the opening statement in the dictionary definition in VALIS: "A perturbation in the reality field." I see now, having read Capra, that subatomic field theory is alluded to. And, I believe, the perturbation was caused by me. This sums it all up, then, what the AI voice said; field theory and me as source. Valis has defined itself, and all that remained for me was to identify myself as the source of the perturbation. Since normally reality is process (in time), when time is stopped, a vast change occurs: things cease to pass away. The what I call the phylogons are visible as the moving dot present vanishes and is replaced by the slot which exposes reality as accretional layers. The form axis categories are visible, the true basis of reality. Nothing comes into being and nothing passes away; the present-dot scanning system is gone and the whole "groove" is available for inspection. This is the world the medieval realists spoke of, as did Plato. The phylogons are cross-referenced into the vast structure that Pythagoras knew as kosmos. So what you have is a sort of infinite library, and the person's mind (mine) is the device that searches in the library and retrieves the information it wants. So together I and the library comprise Valis: the search-and-retrieve device which moves aggressively into the library, and the library itself. folder 82 - 113 folder 82 - 113 The golden fish sign acted as a retrieval trigger or key for an earlier space-time; it did retrieve it, showing that when time stands still or is reversed the past age (of two thousand years ago) is still there. What I called "anamnesis" was a retrieval. Reality is a library. Memory equals retrieval. Like the koine and the original Christian sacraments. The golden fish acted as a retrieval index-trigger; it's still here. "Anamnesis," then, may have been a perception of extant reality in the Valis two-source field. folder 82 - 114 folder 82 - 114 -1- 4-5-80 By creating the universe the Godhead implicated itself in evil, due to the fact that the ontogons must perish to produce the phylogons. So God, as Christ, assumes the form of an ontogon and mythically dies. But, more: each time an ontogon reaches the moment of its death Christ replaces it and dies for it as substitute (surrogation). This is what happened in 2-3-74; this was Thomas. ** Es klar ist. God programs the inner "DNA" tape and, over the years, rolls it in synch with outer events to produce total kosmos and ontology; viz: when a "bump" on the "DNA" tape fires in synch with outer reality, ontology of self-and-world is produced; otherwise acosmism would be the case (for the outer) and the self, without the synch, would drift. (On its life course.) God is in the tape and in the outer events. (Upon seeing FIDDLER ON THE ROOF the night I learned Laura is getting married.) This negotiates you through the "bump" with no possibility of deviation. A great deal of engramming in years prior to the "bump" is employed working backward from constituents in reality present at the "bump" (tonight); the strip is not a constant roll (as in "Electric Ant") but separate sequences of these "bumps." This makes 3-74 a rite of passage. Teleological programming in retrotime is used. I am not sure what the rite of passage was in 3-74, but possibly it was the paradigm expressed by Passover itself: the emancipation of the Hebrew slaves in Egypt by Adonay: freedom