extraction in our percept system which may be dependent on the proper memory hologram as inner template (analog) - my own theory, which I am confident of. So a kind of correspondence ("like to like") between the percipient's mind + Valis is requires for Valis to be discriminated. Either the divine spark in the person's soul wakes up or the plasmate enters the person (shamanism!) Then to see God (the divine) you must become divine only micro-Valis can discriminate macro-Valis. If the proper memory hologram is necessary this would explain why anamnesis is neces‐ sary in order to discriminate Valis. The specific Hologram may lie within the domain of ultra long term phylogenic memory exclusively If you can comprehend a floating crap game you can comprehend Gods It's important to realize that this "telos" concept goes back to Apollo ("everything in moderation") (as well as to Delph; + the Sibyl), so that Valis - this kosmos which is alive has a mind, is eternal, unitary + divine - is connected to the Harmonia + order + proportion (for example, now I understand the significance of my - seeing the Golden rectangle) which is the core spirit of Apollo. If Valis is any given God it is Apollo ("the head Apollo is about to return; the time you've waited for has come"). + I can see, too where both St. Sophia + the Buddha fit in, so it is logical that all three should be mentione to me in prophecy. I just realized; the plasmate "cooked" te "freighted" or "latent or "stegenograph or messages are an ordering, a linking i.e. a Gestalt (hence the need of a clutch-system to discriminate them), + hence are a perfect example of kosmos as structure. Form in contrast to substance, vis-a-vis informa So reading about Pyth has really made it possible for me to understand Valis + the plasmate. Surely the plasmate messages are not for any humans but are the thoughts of the mind of the living "floating crap game" kosmos! A way to coordinate (i.e. link together into a unity out of plurality) This is a cardinal way bey al itse 291-8135 5 which it can have a mind! Without such infra + inter message traffic it couldn't link itself together mentationally, This sheds a whole new light, then, on such as the King - Felix cypher. It is the kosmos -creature thinking. The plasmate Then is not so much blood as neural conduits. it assimilated its environment, + grew fitted things together. 2) It harmonized opposites in this linking 3) It structure to the best possible arrangement. 4) Out of a plurality of mere objects + blinge tself) causal processes it created an entity which was intelligent, which was structurally inter‐ connected + was unitary. This is a description of Valis which I saw camouflaged in the midst (center) of reality. we can't discriminate it from the plural objects + blind causal processes which are not it. Do the 4 points supra describe any God in any known religious system? Not that I know of, not even Brahmanism. What was most amazing was how it assimilated mere lifeless objects (plural) + deterministic causal processes so that its mind made them into its body + the activity of its body growing outward in progressive degrees. this is a precise description of Pythagoral? the active principle effectings + kosmos i 85 Pyth calls it unitary, immort al 58 Their everything outside Valis are of an Well, inferior order + this includes us. Viewed as a life form - which Pyth - says it is, it is an ultra life form, the ultimate life form here on This planet - far advanced over us (there is only one of it). + it does not disclose its presence to us. Since Pyth discriminated it in The 6th century BC Valis is at least 2000 years old. Once some object or process is ssimilated, its behavior is coordinated within a the total system (structure); this is the "per suading" of ananke by Noos that Plato speaks of. How is this accomplished? I offer the sugges that a perturbation of a field is involved: reality must be dehypostatized + conceived of as a sort of hologram, a picture upon which stress is exerted apparently from within. We do not know what plural reality is anyhow, so how can we say how Valis influences it? Suppose it is an unfolding along plural form axes, + Valis stabi lizes this unfolding at specific points: single possi bilities out of infinitudes. Valis chooses (since all is possible; all occurs but without any passage of time). This is what is meant by atelos. There is no completion, no limit, except for felos. The atelos has no self-limiting factor. Limits is imposed on it by an outside force. (Telos.) But Valis is not suilt into this system; it invaded this unstable infinite dialectic system + set up shop, turning that which is inherently irrational into the rational or so it seems to me). As far as I could see, it is still growing + does not govern everything; it is still subsuming (assimilating its environment) in other words its authority perpetually grows. This is I a creator, it is a make use -ou ther. t uses the "First thought" (creation) as a source of telos parts out of which to construct itself. saw how a body in process could be assembled out of plural things, + out of the insentient processes affecting them. They are given life + purpose but not of then own, + I have no reason to believe that upon being assimilated 1) they are aware of it; or 2) obtain any consciousness - any more than when I throw a stone the stone is aware that its motion is now purposeful. This includes me in e.g. my writing. Valis can cause me to write things 1) without knowing what they mean; or 2) that they mean anything; or 3) that something intelligent caused me to write them. I can puzzle over the Acts material in "Tears" + the concepts in "Ubik" + the info in "Untele ported man" + never know what is meant + how Valis got it all put in. (Well - here I am equating Valis with Thomas' Could it be that "Thomas" was a surfacing into consciousness -palpability - of Valis in me, Valis having ong ago assimilated me + having long governed me as a constituent of itself? Then it can when it wishes invest a part (subsumed) with its psyche: animating that part. This would is account for the synchronization between 1) Thomas' epiphanizing in me + 2) me being aware of Valis + 3) knowing all that I knew, not remembering as such but understanding. If I wanted to I could use Thomas as an argument for "Valis as life form with a distinct personality. The trouble is, it seems to be a human personality. Or - it could be argued that my personality was manipulated Valis t using by 60 if you study my formulation of Valis you could anticipate an epiphanization, an assimilated human, such as Thomas seemed to be - under acute stress condition, if the frontiers of Valis. so to speak were threatened. Is this not the life form itself, this mind which took mine over + even which had non-ideational motor control over me. If someone were looking for proof of - evidence of the existence of - Valis, wouldn't this be a major datum? Someone argues that an ultra life form exists which covertly assimilates objects + processes + presumably people to con struct its corpus, animating the unitary entity Thus created with its own mind + will. Someone else would argue that, in that case, at one time or another an assimulated human should experience a palpable override especially under emergency crisis conditions; more precisely he should feel behavioral control pass out of his command, feel himself the object of a force or pressure, irresistable, even more so that experiencing a psyche invading his. He should, logically, be movel about most likely driven to perform a sequ ence of - or sequences of - purposeful actions the goal (or reason for/cause of which) he doesn't even remotely know. They would be highly purposeful: shrewd + swift, as if based on data unavailable to him: i.e. unavailable to an alternate or latent personality in him + hence as limited as he as to what it knew + did not know (why would a previous incarnation-personality latent in me + restricted to me 1) know any more about missive than I did 2) know it terox the w I coming; 3) know when it was coming; 4) know exactly what to do? But Valis as posited would know all these things. + - the AI voice which knows what I ould an have no way to know... + why (ie hows alternate human psyche in me (the Bab Fred set-up) know either? The AI voice is exactly what you'd anticipate of you hypothe sized assimilation into an ultra life form which spans vast space, objects, processes + people. Pyth's Kosmos exists + is some kind of ultra or even ultimate life form; actually it is exactly as Pyth describes it + came into existence the way he describes + the way I depict in "Valis." It is so advanced as to constitute a "second thought" in contrast to all previous creation, since it subsumes, assimilates + incorporates all previous creation in terms of structure rather than being an added created thing; it is a way of organizing all reality without exception into one single unitary coherency, expanding from a center. Valis, then, is something (an event!) which befalls creation ultimately as a whole, once introduced (as Pyth tells us) into atelos it takes over everything + everywhere (ubique!) eventually. This event is a salvation for the universe, raising it to a vastly higher level. Pyth was well aware of this. He treated Valis as kosmos perse: "the perfect + harmonious structuring of beauty" i.e. into, perhaps, one of the phosphere graphics which I saw: one in which a mortally wounded innocent God is depicted: so perceived, the Gestalt of the kosmos is precisely talt that e. i 620 Kathy was the sole manifestation of my wife in a it's o former life who still loves me. I am dead like in "Ubik" literally. Kathy is Ella Runciter soul of t shape - outside. She is not my anima but the my world; specific holo-memor traction again. Out of the stuff of reality featureless) I extract her face. Subjectively sta there; the matrix will accept all projected it i o in shapes. It receives them as atelos which is to eac absorbs like picking up cards. My sister - paired team: complements space ship My missing half It's not a punishment not to have her t other I died - I'm in half lie + to project a world onto a matrix (that's why Acts + Calif 1974 could be syntonic) (there a lot of us - 1000s) God - she is trying to reach me. a wat to come she I was programmed to approach marie scramble to get me over there. theater full. parated + t rule nel certain i a rally was my savior literally Laura. Olive Holt. monstit arthe remem a itimate otentit oritin il the smil anent St. Sophia co bathy oves the The door. te i This the al replace He shows to a to phist 16 e I is female Ubik, pain o "tears. atrix ates a whe oter e kel form of posed ure canne flict isib not e white the in m 80: mnesis t a ate gan i what ires the rous inter ave thele s he which vis as 65 fort scop al come h ore Christ io n p 60 t 63 the freighted plasmate messages