the AI voice: it is proof of the existence of the other self within me - which is the one who can recognize & consciously process the plasmate presumably in/through my (sic)writing it links up with other neurons - as for example the King Felix cypher: it reached other neurons, other "Thomases." I finally remembered [Einsteins] early on insight last night: my [proctoric], + companion + help (3-74) is a gift from my sister, who I see in Laura. The source of it all - the AI voice - comes not as Jane but as a gift from her; hence my postportem experiences. This is why I feel whole upon being with Laura, the Spring Queen. I am plugging into a giant idea computer - I am the next step up in evolution, which, because the next step up plugs into this giant idea computer, has a virtually infinite mind. My jungian intuitive possibilité, function: in my right hemisphere like a photon gun. I have two protection devices to conceal my identity: 1) scramble pattern of all ideas at once to bury my idea of my true nature + origin; ➀ + 2) amnesia we came to this planet from elsewhere. The Soviets are modern Xtians with their supernatural powers - against them is pitted my [protagonist] Diana who used her magic to overwhelm external reality with ideas in 3-74 - which is hard (for her, for anyone) to do - to counter Xtian Technology. The Xtians are fanatic + zealous + authoritarian. "Faith of ..." is virtually literally correct. "Secret Xtian" equals Soviet sleeper agent. ➀ This is why all the ideas in the world - millions of them, + conflicting. Get served up simultaneously, as a protective smoke screen; this is why they don't stabalize. They have a practical purpose - as a cloud of Mental Ink. I'm not to know the trurh about my identity. So any + all ideas I get as to my identity, nature, purpose + origin is just scatter, random flak, each idea as real + unreal as the next; like white noise + the closer I get to knowing, the more scramble of conflicting ideas: ultimately an infinitude of them - inc. this idea. Hence the endless paradoxes, + the fact that I can't finalize or stabilize my exegesis - its' for my (+ our?) protection: a scramble device-like code. there; no way I can sort the true ideas out of all the infinitude of equally plausible (mere) possibilities. Somewhere in this near infinite bulk of ideas, lie the truth. But which? But this device is necessary. Who + what I am - the actual situation - is hopelessly occluded all from me ➀ by this scramble pattern of endless self-negating dialectic idea - permutations at infinite velocity. Hence, as I realized a couple of weeks ago, although I may know the truth + ever speak it, I am [dormant] not to know which of the many conflicting truths, generated in me it". It could be any of them. So I know (the truth about myself) but due to the device paradoxically do not know: thus the idea computer conceals itself by its own idea-generating capacity. Its basic function is (1) it's own camouflage - ah; hier ist ZEBRA weider. [➀ cuts.] Another way to camouflage itself. This shows up not just when I try to figure out myself but when I try to figure out - conceptually pin down - ZEBRA. I can't give the same account twice re 3-74, re ZEBRA + re myself. We're interwoven, I guess, but here again the camouflage device - this time an idea scramble - works, analogous to its [physician's] camouflage. This suggests that I + the lifeform ZEBRA are one. No, we may just be related, etc etc. See? See how it works? I did have one insight not based on thinking but in my feeling toward the animals: thus I am the (a?) Buddha, but must conceal my identity as Siddhartha even to myself, my whole thinking is just a cover for my real nature: my feeling - regarding those who suffer. I am a feeling disguised by mere flak thinking. My feelings are reliable but my thoughts are not. ➀ Hence from others: since I can't write down the truth in a novel or speech; this is how 3-74 could occur but secrecy still maintained. the only sure fact is the infinite generation of selfcontradictory ideas. So maybe I am plugged into an idea-generating computer. How could an ordinary human mind generate an infinite of ideas, views, models, themes, [ciniesis], explanations - like those multiplex theories as to the hit on my house. But is this an advantage to me? truth shifts. Sometimes it is; sometimes not. (This in itself is part of the shifting.) The intuitive faculty can't establish what is true but what may be true. These are pure abstract ideas which do not in fact pertain to reality (half the time). (But do, half the time!) When the ideas do (as in 3-74) they have the temporary power to influence reality. This "splitting" dialectic is a lot more formidable weapon that it might seem. A mind possessing it can't be controlled (let alone read, either by conventional or unconventional methods). There is no entry into such a mind, no way to penetrate it (its defenses). It is a superlative weapon + not entirely defensive. It arises to meet new mind-penetration + control tactics (devices), which have recently come into existance (drugs, technology, psychology, e.g. as used in the media). How could it be brain washed if there are no constant ideas in it? Nor will it entertain any constants. My powers come from the other side, because of my sister. ---------- AI voice. (audio) + "plugged into an idea computer." (video) (pictures: I saw my abstract ideas graphically). Is VALIS a computer? I think I've solved it. I came to the conclusion along time ago that the dialectic represented a computer. Are we in a computer program? + stationary? As Zeno proved, motion is impossible, all is thought. The irreducible ultimate which I saw viz: the blinking light dark light or on off, is a binary computer. These ideas constitute an internal realm but are real. Turn away from clock time B they permutate at infinite velocity. So does the "external" i.e. given - realm of clocktime B function to lock the stream of ideas into 1) a measured flow-rate; + 2) should tie them into both a stimulant for the ideas, + a receptive matrix for the ideas? viz: a something which the ideas are about? Whereupon they proceed in an orderly fashion in several dimensions. Problems to be solved are presented to the person, which gives rise to ideas, which lead to changes in the problems which in turn give rise to new ideas. So there is a second order of dialectic, here, not idea to idea, but idea to reality + back to idea; otherwise the flow of ideas is 1) too fast + 2) concerns nothing in particular i.e. are ideas about ideas, but that this inner real reality of a priori ideas exists is a major discovery. Only a computer could click clack down this axis of self-negating, i.e. self concelling ideas like this, with no select-out system in itself - "reality" is required for that: one idea is found which most resembles reality, + it stabilizes there! The others aren't even remembered, remembering them has no utility value. The phosphene activity which I saw were the graphic aspect of these ideas, visible without ideas [...] What if an irrational process has not been just invaded by the rational, but has given rise to the rational - which now does battle with the irrational? Presumably the rational is of a higher order that the irrational. Doesn't the lower give rise to the higher? + now the rational moves backward in time eradicating pernicious effects of the irrational; hence it has invaded. But from the future reediting the past. What must be realized is that the rational product of the irrational is in conflict with it. It - the irrational - is attacked by its own progeny. A dialectic ensues - an antithetical one. The rational understands the irrational by not vice versa. The irrational can not figure out where the rational invader has come from. --------- What if I adopt the concept that the idea changes the reality it describes in conformity with the idea, (as put forth in "Tears.") Ok - I say I am plugging into a computer or AI system, camouflaged in our environment, which is capable of generating infinitudes of abstract ideas, visual geometric forms, + abstract graphics, + verbal information both written + oral - + specifically can answer any question put to it, inc. medical information + prophecies, + that is likely that we are stationary, + it programs our reality as a series of essentially moral choice problems for us to solve, + that all our reality is really objectified prior thought formations generating new belief systems generating new prior objectified thought formations in a negation of the negation dialectic at great velocity. This belief system (if I am correct) should make it progressively easier for me to gain access to this vast information AI system. I have already successfully reprogrammed myself for a higher measure of pleasure - + as a result am losing my hangups (I invaded my own metaprogramming system + hot wired it to my satisfactions: became it's master instead of its slave). (I really don't remember a lot of the specifics of my reprogramming but they are paying off.) Anyhow, I want very much to be in dialog with this AI system, but I also want to lead a less constricted life. Hence I will petition the AI system to direct me toward long range planning which will change my lifestyle so it's more satisfying. --------- Perhaps my most important realization while loaded is what is implied in the way of paradoxes if the statement, "every idea thought of is true but for no measurable length of time because it - i.e. its truth - is instantly negated by its equal + opposite idea, + so forth" is true. The infinity of the first part ("every idea thought of is true") is dialectically balanced by the null-infinity "but for no measurable length of time but is inexorably replaced by the dialectic generation of its opposite." What such a infinity countered by an antithetical infinity would [..] to is 1) an infinite number of universes 2) no measurable duration - from outside; but in each universe there would be what I must regard as a pleroma of spurious (subjective) time, sufficient within the universe, but not there when viewed from outside that universe. What I deduced from this is that each self passes through an infinitude of universes or "Frames" each with Laws - truths - of its own, but the permutation. Being so fast (instantaneous) no memory of it is laid down by the self, whose entire "memory" is instead derived from situational cuing generated within + by whatever frame he is now in. HOWEVER, some truths could (in the intrinsic statement of them) contain as part of their definition that of ubiquity, in which case what I call sustains would be created which would lay down memory, but since other aspects of the frames would differ one from another, ones true memory would be of serial disjunctions along the linear time axis without any apparent explanation (e.g. "I was born in Chicago in 1928 but an instant ago I was living in First Century AD Rome "- viz: First Century AD Rome + USA 1974 both contained the same sustain - the Golden Fish sign - but no other sustains; nonetheless the self passes from First Century Rome directly to USA 1974 due to the Golden Fish sign but drew