sat" or vice versa; "The court sat and the books were opened." This is the essence of the apocalypse. I looked up the reference in Dn, "The court sat, and the books were opened." This turns out to be the passage in which the Ancient of Days with his white hair like wool is mentioned, and of course this has to do with the dream in TEARS as I've long realized. But now I notice --by studying for the first time the J Bible-- that in this section (Dn 7) there is not only mention of the Ancient of Days, the court and the opening of the books (the J Bible note on the books is, "The book in which men's actions, good and bad, are recorded. The Book of the Predestinate.") but also this: "I gazed into the visions of the night. And I saw, coming on the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man. He came to the one of great age and was led into his presence. On him was conferred sovereignty, glory and kingship, and men of all peoples, nations and languages became his servants. His sovereignty is an external sovereignty which shall never pass away, nor will his empire ever be destroyed." This beyond any doubt refers to Jesus, as the J. Bible notes specify. Now, as to the "Ancient of Days," the citation reads: "Thrones were set in place and one of great age took his seat. His robe was white as snow, the hair of his head as pure as wool." Etc. He obviously is the eschatological judge, and he confers sovereignty on the son of man, Jesus. Is the "Ancient of Days" God (YHWH) or Jesus as Christ the eschatological judge? Well, if you turn to revelation 1:13 you find the Son of man now dressed in a long robe..."His head and his hair were white as white wool or as snow..." Etc., and the J. Bible notes stipulate that this is Christ as the eschatological judge. folder 84 - 003 folder 84 - 003 -1- I was too tired (wasted) to write this down last night, but I realized that it is my Eleatic continuum view of reality that permits me to see purposeful changes in the reality field, rather than mechanistic cause-and-effect derived from the discontinuous view; thus my Tagore vision --"the ensouling of the animals"-- is of necessity linked to my unusual mechanics/physics, which is to say everything that I have worked out philosophically, epistemologically, politically and spiritually (theologically) are of a unified whole, and no part can be sacrificed. The ostensible king is a fool (Narr). The ostensible Torr fool is a king and makes the laws; that is, he adjudicates, and his laws, moral laws with the force of physical laws, covertly obtain. Hence the Yorrick scene in HAMLET. (Hamlet equals Yorrick equals the fool.) What the ostensible king says the laws are -- they are not. The ostensible fool is not only king he is judge. Appearing insane, he utters cryptic clues. (That pertain to the real story or situation.) The whole thing is a riddle that must be figured out. It is some kind of ritual or pageant or charade or game; it is acted out, as on a stage ("all the world's a stage, the men and women merely players"). Like the party scene in Fledermaus. The two main sources of information are: the bible and the plays of Shakespeare; they may be in fact one source. Looking this over I suddenly realized that he who takes the ostensible king to be king and the ostensible fool to be fool is doomed, for the ostensible fool is the one who truly rules and who makes the laws and who judges in terms of those laws, and those laws are quite obviously quite different from the ostensible laws that the ostensible king envolks. It is like a secret court concealed as if camouflaged within an ostensible and in fact ostentatious court. I suddenly recalled a vision I'd had recently when loaded: that the third attribute (in Spinoza's sense in addition to extension and mind) is: participation in infinity; that is, what we see is a finite slice of what is infinite, for each thing and each act and each situation; surely this infinitude is what is designated by the term "archetypal" which refers to illo tempore, the dream-time. Could this be the true meaning of the 180 coaxial "other realm" based on the common essence, or more likely the common essence itself, the dimension of infinity? folder 84 - 004 folder 84 - 004 Heuristics, the problem-solving procedure that involves conceiving a hypothetical answer to a problem at the outset of an inquiry for purposes of giving guidance or direction to the inquiry. It consists of (1) developing a conception of what one expects to discover, (2) using that conception to guide one in seeking, selecting, and assigning meaning to facts, and (3) continually developing new, more adequate conceptions as the discovery and interpretation of facts proceeds. Advocates of the procedure contend that all scientific knowledge is acquired in this manner and that all knowledge is relative, tentative, dubitable, and ever subject to change, there being no end to the heuristic process." COMMENT: This is a negative feedback loop familiar in electronic circuitry; the output signal is fed back into the input signal and modifies it, with the result that a very rapid series of self-controlling, self-regulating (that is, homeostatic) corrections is set up that amounts to high-velocity reprogramming. As the solution improves as output, it being backfed into the circuit's input, the self-correction occurs so fast that for all intents and purposes there is an ex nihilo problem-solving taking place in which that (solution) which is to be found (as the goal of the process) exists at the start of the process. "(They) pointed out the indispensibility in creative human thinking, as in its computer simulations, of what they call 'heuristics.' A large number of possibilities may have to be examined, but the search is organized heuristically in such a way that the directions most likely to lead to success are explored first. Means of ensuring that a solution will occur within a reasonable time, certainly much faster than by random hunting, include adoption of successive subgoals and working backward from the final goal (the formula to be proved, the state of affairs to be brought about)." COMMENT: "...working backward from the final goal." In other words, retrograde reasoning. For every conscious line of thought (problem-solving) that goes in the normal direction (from cause to effect) there is an obscured, provisional effect-to-cause retrograde line of thought, or in fact many of them, with each abolished as soon as the goal is better formulated; thus only the ultimate goal reaches consciousness; that is, the final goal arrived at. By its nature, then, heuristic problem-solving procedure in human minds will consist of mainly unconscious or subliminal processes lying outside the awareness of the person. All he will know is that somehow as if ex nihilo that which is to be proved or found is there in his mind as premise; there for input, not solution. This means that the heuristic processes have already occurred, and what reasoning he now employs is ex post facto; the problem has already been solved. folder 84 - 005 folder 84 - 005 April 20, 1981. PAY OFF: The introjection of Christ into the system is certainly the epitome of the adding of ex nihilo newness, of revitalizing creation as if from outside. Thus the term "Christ" _has_ to refer to any and all newness choices wherever and whenever they occur; "Christ" is the zero - one binary disjunctive event per se, and so is always now and always here. We see it and understand that we see (and experience) Christ, and this is newness, re-creation (in an unending process of creation). Christ _never_ arises/occurs as a result of the past, as an effect of antecedent causes; he is always born "from outside." Hence his epiphany can never be induced or predicted (by definition). Christ is that which does not follow mechanically: he always _invades_ world. To see, then, that Causality is not observed --that the "effect" is in fact not an effect at all --of its cause-- but is ex nihilo new is to see --literally, not symbolically-- Christ. Hence where there is Christ it is always the case that there has been "a perturbation of the reality field," something acting on it, intruding on it, invading it, "from outside." In terms of mechanical cause-and-effect Christ can never be said to be a _normal_ event derived from the antecedent system. Without these periodic insertions the system would run down; it would loss [sic] shape, organization and vitality. Cause-and-effect, then, taken in itself, is a losing game. The only thing that Christ can be said to be a result of --Christ as an event in the reality field-- _is the need of this event._ It is physically, mechanically causeless; it is absolutely teleological. Efficient causation has no bearing on it and will never yield it up (here Pierre Teilhard de Chardin is totally wrong; world is not spontaneously converging into the point omega; what he calls "Point Omega" is something done ceaselessly to world, an endless invasion). Wherever the effect is correctly seen to exceed its cause (which is then by definition not its cause) there is Christ. Conversely, wherever effect follows cause actually, there he is not. Christ, then, is an event, something that occurs in and to the reality field; Christ is not a person as men are persons. Christ is the beginning of the universe all over again, as a repeated event. folder 84 - 006 P.O. Box 12702 12006 Stan S Fullerton 92712 Lie intransitive. Lie 3 of inanimate things: to be or remain in a flat or horizontal position upon any broad support: as, the book lies on the table; snow lies on the fields {hand with finger pointing right} the forms of lie are often ignorantly or carelessly confounded with those of the transitive verb lay. folder 84 - 007 folder 84 - 007 April 15, 1981. Sleep insight (hypnopompic): In-breaking. Hartshorne -- pantheism -- the E.B. macro. We are within it (MMSK) as interconnections, but organic model is incorrect. It is a signalling system, mutually adjusting (this is what Pythagoras saw). 0 - 1 flicker rate (misinterpreted by me as time frames; no: it's binary. Tries out a false move (0), then corrects to 1 which is actualized in/as the next "frame." Has the effect of separate frames due to the off-on pulsation; discrete: isn't-is, nonbeing-being. The system shuts off every trillionth of a second (0). These are decisions. After each off (0) when it switches back on to 1 the "frame" (1) is different (in terms of internal arrangement (adjustment, mutual adjustment, interaction/interconnection). Boehme: yes -- no. Hartshorne 0 -- 1. Quantitative (0-1) to qualitative (info). While it's off, reality ceases to be. When it comes back on it is slightly different. It (the system) doesn't transmit a zero bit; it (the system) ceases to be. This is when it makes a tentative move which it then cancels in favor of a better move; at every junction (trillionth of a second, flicker rate) it discards an inferior move in favor of a better one; hence Leibnitz's view that "this is the best of all possible worlds." This is how a computer works. The zero position is the void; hence when I conceive of God as VALIS I am only getting the 1; I need also the void, the zero. To comprehend/apperceive/envision the void is to envision the other phase (zero phase) of the flicker binary pulsation, the sum of the two phases being the totality. Thus the Muslims are correct; the universe is destroyed "every day" (actually every trillionth of a second) "and recreated." But what is interesting to me is