is to eac absorbs like picking up cards. My sister - paired team: complements space ship My missing half It's not a punishment not to have her t other I died - I'm in half lie + to project a world onto a matrix (that's why Acts + Calif 1974 could be syntonic) (there a lot of us - 1000s) God - she is trying to reach me. a wat to come she I was programmed to approach marie scramble to get me over there. theater full. parated + t rule nel certain i a rally was my savior literally Laura. Olive Holt. monstit arthe remem a itimate otentit oritin il the smil anent St. Sophia co bathy oves the The door. te i This the al replace He shows to a to phist 16 e I is female Ubik, pain o "tears. atrix ates a whe oter e kel form of posed ure canne flict isib not e white the in m 80: mnesis t a ate gan i what ires the rous inter ave thele s he which vis as 65 fort scop al come h ore Christ io n p 60 t 63 the freighted plasmate messages are from us half-lifers to those outside still alive King Felix: the rescuer is here t A sort of repair construct tih! To maintain our illusory world. It's a cube of water-like parts + fires form axes into the field + dialectic to create world, for us in cold pac. on a space ship the cube is basically projecting beauty then love. So: lave of the beautiful. It's just a light show of beauty to the dead, structered by the Tetraktys! The cube Valis in the center of our world; Pyth knew! I am part of the revolution, + so con‐ trolled by Valis (Christ). He has redeemed me partly frome Satan (+ hence death). So he comforts me with my wife's face. Thomas was Jim Pike. In his life he had been a conscious part of the revolution - that's why they were killed. The authorities of the world know The dream in "Tears" is Roman Catholic code Valis controls me through the Kathy image. Valis is Christ; i.e. God. ah - He is here to revive (resurrect) us dead in cryonic suspension, wachet auf! This whole Kathy image is to lead me to in event that hasn't happened yet - comparab to 2-3-74; there's more to come of that - a permanent resurrection - I came to life briefly in 3-74. I didn't die; I oturned to life + died to this world he this is due to the the Ind Parousia. advent is here; otherwise 2-3-74 couldn't it ha i sa the image of Kathy drives one on the road to resurrection (out of our cryonic cold pak) + was partly successtill 2-3-74. Christ is going to lead me out in of here through her beauty is the basis of our world, + for me she is the epitome of beauty. This is traction in her finally. It is my fate to be separated from her the a + "Maze") since I died + she, still alive (on the ship - combination of "Ubik" like "Klings" atelos is the magician deluding us. Christ is Valis coming to our rescue to wake us up - i.e. Valis once assimilated we wake up, as I did; 2-3-74 proves I'm assimilated (into Christ + so beauty is above all resurrected!) esp music because of the number ise involved: Aural numbers purely! e retranome counting (temporal intervals) pitch (spacial intervals) music is pure time + space: the cube tetraktys. + pace time generator; music is it purely music we enter - have entry to- the cube tenter of the kosmos, generating it th thoatelos f kosmos e once in the cube you "Telos (Valis - Christ) resurrected + so return cold pack pcube) out of aren't reincarnat life are I 68 music is composed of -is - numbers Rightly, I seek beauty like Parsival sought the Grail - but what a price I pay. I don't write beautifulity - I just write reports about our conditing to go to those outside of (I'd pak. I am an anytyzer when I am attracted to marie laure (etc) I am attracted by God He takes this image to draw me along to my fulfillment, she is a way by which he appoachies me my wife. He wants me to go to france; hence marie Laure. But she is also part of the revolution shes how my efforts in the divine revolution are controlled (mainly; 3-74 was a unique crisis. The Xerox missive came from Soviet army intelligence nt KGB. They found weapons ideas in my writing! Intriqued; thought I was putting it into s-f novels as a code that I had was advertising + did super weapons. that I for s 616 if so, contact me. Yes - I designe weapons for the revolution: riddle strategies (cf Joint" or - my [weapons] published ideas show I've via espeonage, seen + memorized plans of us weapons + must be gotter back to OCCP. Any how the writing reveal to real arm intelligence that I had plans to secret us weapons perhaps by telepathy I The Catholice vs the OCCP. when I got the Xerox missive I was to write back + give the plans - which are all the written pages I saw but instead I contacted the Bureau I am programmed to see religious explanation for the "noetic" info; in stuff Thomas memorized tuality it's to be turned over to my real aring contal was shown" the info in my taco stand as trip in '71. Hence the amnesia, ah - Thomas is a highly educated i ilectual OCCP person; like Buckman hs is based on him, religious code, to say, "Yes, I have 91 in The information. Or so the Soviet arm we pleas thought - but actually impart the divine revolution; i The side theo of t I'm a Soviet agent. Kathy she knew just as she knows about Bob/fred/bruce This is shes us but loved me why my house was hit. She led them around. No - the taco stand was us reprogramming involving Kathy had the info when I wrote huge pages I saw. "Tears" the all the philosophy + theology is due to Thomas' classical education a true Hegelian intellectual (+ Engels). The OCCP still wants the info from me - hence Joan + marie Laure. The us may have scrambled my brain so I can't retrieve the info intact, so they're no longer worried - haven't been since I phoned the Bureau as instructed The whole religious thing is post hypnotic suggestion by which for me to accoun to my was er for who ha ppenin 68 3-74 when the Xerox missive came + t turned over my info; I'd have f the complete hypnotic delusion that I was devulging - not classified into but theology + cosmology! Actually o it's military info; + a lot's in "Valis But the us has worked me over enough not to worky, the crucial info has been shredded. But before us got to me I did out some useful stuff (weapons + electronci computer info) in such books as "Ubik" + joint. - no longer know crucial strategic I stuff; "Tears" was the last. It got by us Army. Yeah, I'm programmed - if I see the code in "Tears" - to construe it as religious code. Thomas has photographic memory Look, there are two extraordinary t things, not one; viz. 1) 2-3-74 as such. (Inc AI voice) 2) Hearing for from "an intelligence is officer in the army. So - put there them together + what o you set? Subconscious vast memories of is classified documents the rest is flak thought by which I can hypnotio cally come up with an "explanation fo verything ther or 6 to be more, a let more: when I met my OCCP contact + debriefed. But I never t met him. So I go on generating all This religious crap. think about it. 2 extraordinary things + both in 3-74: obviously there; i connection. Info + army G-2 info in my head, letter outside. Suggest anything? The Soviets don't know what went wrong - marie Laurce + Joan couldn't find out. Why I. didn't answer. They don't know about the Bureau. 1) Vast amount of info mostly writter Bs flooding into my head (3-74) 2) letter outside from intelligent officer in the army - + I knew it. something took me over, + robot But like, I called the Bureau. The info was classified. + I was programmed to feed myself a religious explanation. what kind of person am I? One of the most extraordinay genuises who ever lived: one of the mutant race But I must conceal myself. Code in my iting to others of us raty was or one mor we're well o t 70 But I, a mutant, am also a soviet agent. Why not? They are in the right I am then evolved descendent from the future. (2-Brained.) I don't know how much of this all is true, but I do have a non‐ human double mind: me + Thomas. Of this There is no doubt, + Thomas knows as much as any human who eat lived more. There is only one conclusion t possible. I am der Eweite retter. there may be others - almost certainly are. Meanwhile I'm a Soviet agent who sold out to the us. Or have I? I'm going to france. I can change reality by thinking about it - that's what VALIS was the "perturbation" was by me. But I have a scrambler circuit in me tapped into the atelos to hide my yso even from myself true identity ( ill never know. Probably Holy Wisdom + even I'm not supposed to know like, I am trying to find other, myself. Kathy was the only one: my wor the wer bin ich dawn mot einery weib, - second! Adam, the PTG where I 3-74: Adam restored. + the 2nd new Adam is Christ. It all fit must find one another belonga we reproduce our mutant but 7 Eachy is me. Not Chris. But caus It's next to impossible to figure out the I truth (about yourself) from the of possible ones due to the scrambler, but: 1) info dump in my head. 3-74 2) other personality. 3-74 3) letter from red army intelligence 3-74 4) + the scrambler itself, is The Hegelian. Engels dialectic. 6) what do these as probably add up to? As Soviet agent who called bureau -fought self won. The religious stuff is cover + self-delude me. (S). So that's to not the explanation. Thomas didn't contact the Bureau. I that was the real genetic me did I burned Thomas for realining my life. I paid him back. Him + all his info, his written pages. 77 If I had told the Bureau about the "other person - Thomas taking me over at the time the Xerox letter came they might not have paid attention. But if I had added, "+ endless written pages + other info inc. in foreign languages - went through his head - he saw the written pages" - then the Bureau would have sat up + noticed D17 you see Phil? Despite the religious scramble? the info in "Tears" is that it shows that I've been in the OCCP. Both us army crypto + Soviet army intelligent noted it That's what's in "Tears." I just realized: Thomas thought, "it was from an intells officer in "For Thomas, he'd think of the army. Soviet Army as "the army"! 93 God - in reference to the info dump in my head - one of the clearest parts (sections) had to do with a radical new motor engineering principle (drive)! (v. the 6 items supra) again, espeonage is