realized! + the idea of adoption links it to the N.T. as well. Here an elevation of the man adopted in implied i as I saw in 3-74, reality is made up of two parts: 1) a devolving regressing mass 2) onto which a divine power ubiquitously Acts. These two parts are shown in "Ubik" Hence "Ubik" is true. Ubik is the source of the written messages which show up in "Joint" +" Exe." In "Ubik" I got it right. Two parts to reality: 1) a regressive "inferior bulk" + 2) divine power + messages inserted everywhere into it. Sophia? The trick is getting the two components to disentangle is to somehow die to the world, whereupon it devolves away off into The past, leaving you in touch with the divine which does not regress. Again, I had this right in "Ubik" - the strange half-death or death which leaves you - I know what I alive - in a second birth? Wait did: I speeded up + got out of synch with world so that in relation to me it regressed. 107 through a series of reincarnations until Macro Christ i one + the same: me in myself him, him in icro Christ me! This is 3-74. Spirit (or + not only is Christ an eternal born again self) which always existed + is "success. again in humans who have + moral fully negotted the treacherous infinite route. But (secretly) it is a Not over many female spirit: St Sophia, lifetimes of reincarnation. In the Hermetic renaissance as in antiquity the good life + the mor life were not separated +, as the microcosm Christ mirrors the macrocosm, it, too, is Christ. The person in the Kingdom is Christ + the Kingdom itself is Christ: a landscape alive (what I called Valis). The crucial transformation is the short-circuiting of deterministic karma by that which is alive - hence a judge who adjudicates in favor of the person, saying in effect, "the trial a journey is over you have come home successfully." Thus the deterministic system is revealed as having been secretly intentional - sentient - all along: the greatest mystery of all. It has at posed him problems of a moral nature + he has solved them. It now ends in return to unfallen nature + home. In 2-3-74 I was on my deathbed. I was having Bardo Thodol + post mortem experiences. Then another self replaced me (from the time of Acts) it handled the problems which were killing me. It acted as surrogate in my place + apparently offered itself as a sacrifice in my place. Laws or the law were/was satisfied + I was spared. It was a divine self, a deity when the forces of death came they took it, not me. Thus Karma was broken. Now I am told "we adopted you (because + as you adopted the home‐ I less street children]." I was told t am your tutelary spirit." In form it resembled a sheep. Enthusiasmos. The Xtian Fish sign triggered it off it spoke i St. Sophia. of" sissess in + write in code: what does that uggest? + dialectic thinking 11-17-71 -my house hit by group who we BOSI; + ost knew it. A secret society in the ist + not the Gov - not the us God, a vast secret fascism revolutionary group which killed ennester + orking + him. A military secret gove sinment - exactly as in "Tears" as Pigspurt. I know this; it's Pigspurt against then The single premise which will accouns or everything has to do with time. I created a vortex which drew the future info it - inc. my future post mortem experiences on the other side with God, + a future me (+ the future as pictures + written info) into the present. This would t I also explain the vision of Acts; drew the past in too. I perturbed Everything which time. Occham's razor. I saw has to do with time + the ther side (since that lies ahead of me). o take the Essene - Gnostic-Platonist idea of the soul entangled in matter + descending into sleep + forgetfulness + intoxication. I call it the dying soul: it is in "half life" - Bardo Thodol, the latter being a true description of our present condition it falls down through the 10 Sephiroth until it reaches malkuth where the Shekhina in it blitzes back into fusion union) with the En-sof + the soul is reborn + wakes up. So we are really at hypostases of the Kabala tree of life The 10 Sephiroth. It is at the bottome at the trash layer, that it switches across to total divinity 2 So we are in an entropic devolving process as in "Ubik" (which states our true situation) - but, at the bottom (the trash layer) we encounter the divine the Shekhina or Ubik + are re-animated by the divine, exactly as depicted in "Ubik." This female entity (hypostases of the female side of God) is the AI voice I hear. This is Valis: immanent deity. I am hod or mercury, creative power + also messenger, protected by the Gods (as shown by the cauduses). This is why I have all the [written] info: it is t the messages I carry which go into my writing - messages from en sof or Zeus. Thomas is my reborn, revitalized living, awake self - achieved through Ubik or the Shekhing. I am in the lane of mercury] hence I saw palm trees + the cauduses. + the written stuff, inc material in "Ubik" + "Tears" inc. the cypher is the messages of the God's which mercury delivers in 2-3-74 my high velocity passage t was down from hod to molkufl! Where I encountered the Shekhina (Valis i Ubik - deity immanent!) I fell the rest of the way + so, paradoxically, was saved (restoree to life!) I 3 (atter wenner fiction college of the future 5000 i for college students have thought of something t totally important. What 4 weeks distinguishes my 2-3-74 212 350-1289 experience from the broad class of theophanic or generally - peaking religious mystical experiences is: there was need: a problem to be solved. (Which another i mind than mine promptly solved.) Q: Is there a class of religious experiences which con tain this element? N A: Yes: one, miracle. Divine intervention usually done by angels (would you believe tutelary spirit; So Either this isn't a religious experience or eter is primary miracle (in definition), not a theophany at my stans. Even Elias at Hore saw nothing. s The end times are here + he is saving his own. ahem, since it was I who was subjected to the stress of is logically more likely that I did everything. i what if the purpose of the Xerox missive was to disinhibit me. To cause me to remember - but I al ready had. A signal. To remember. But I began to one month earlier - so I must have known approx, them It was coming. Came in response to "Tears the cypher. the code in "Tears" was a trap, + the intended ho victim sprang for it. I had shypnotic instruc t -is to contact the Bureau. No. I overcame them. there must be 2 selves in me (v. "Scanner") It's divine. He is the judge. âž€ All the covert messages riding our media, this is technology. This is an invasion. There i another life form here + I, like pellig, am a termined oit - of Valis. It's a central mind + it saved me its terminal, through which it write, in 253 74 119 There are aspects to it never reported If I broke through to the next world it must have to do with my being in symbiosis with my sister + rence we span both worlds. It is as if I am dead, while alive. to write that what hap Remember how I used ened is that it was the "time of the restoration of all thinge," + recently it is more so for me. Okay. It was (specifically) miracle (divine relp + suspension of natural law). (+ theophanis Then these are the end times. No, it's my centual sister. No I am a terminal for an AI system who solved the Xerox missive problem + deals in information written + oral. when all the ornate florid speculations are over, this remains: it was the good shepherd, Ho cyrios - Christ. All I need is 100 faith; I have 9990 experience. The speared + dying God in Roman times. The proof: there is no one that the Acts material could point to except Christ (or the second comforter). + "King Felix" very likely locats to him. + Pinky certainly was the savior Christ who the Xtian fish started it all off, + lied for me. o remembered Jesus. + the mention of "St Sophia"? im told not to say aloud that I am early Xtian, nor to speak of Christ's ecret female nature. + their reason for adopting me is specifical precisely Xtian. I saw the world of Acts, + remembered it + ound it in "Tears" - all pointing to Christ 115 The visual images keep changing be‐ cause there are 10 sefiroth, of which I have seen Gor). I've solved it; the idea recurs in my writing, schizophrenia is a mutation - elovution A but as yet by + large unsuccessful. am one hologram binary brain. I embracing both hemispheres. Like set-ground (us) field - code by which these mutants the power to will reality contact one another (the "melting"). The coming into parity con sciousness of the right brain so shocks amazes, perplexes + scaress the mutant that 9970 of the time he becomes insane; this is the 2nd part of "schizophrenia" the first part is as supra. The mutant leap makes him crazy; he panics. It is always mate female; the syzygy Plato spoke of: the whole person reunited I got on the wavelength on which the autants' info was being transferred. The schizophrenic wills his own reality; but it doesn't change. Or did it with me in 3-74? The psychosis succeeded. Success ful psychosiss willing me's own reality, so as a result there are plural realities, in fact, + not just the me, as I predict ( in "Eye" + "Joint; et al. In 3-74 I proved could be done; I did it it schizophrenia: when it works its the ultimate psionic power. At 19 years the right brain should be born into consciousnest with it's taped memory of + knowledge of Christ 16 I was so scared that I warped time. cause + effect. e So I am herewith not only explaining what rappened in 2-3-74 but explaining schizophrenia Lem (P92): "the main source of the information that makes up pseudoreality is the brain of the han lying in cold storage; in this way we caus account for the fact that each relaxation of the direction of psychic processes by the stimulator correlates with changed appearances in the mind of the patient. He will experience them as a change of environment as if in a dream." in 2-3-74 my reality collates with material in my prior writing - i.e. material in/from my brain. his realization by me (subconsciously) in 2-3-74 riggered everything that took place in me off (as I ecently realized). This "everything" resembled "Ubik" + Bik... the sort of "uncanny one-way intrusions" + he collapse of time (distinction between past, present future). + the info, the plasmate, etc. Not Lem's analysis evolves around the dictum that no technology is without hror. It will fuck up. A simulated reality will eventually betray its simulated nature. Not intrusion into the mind of one person in "Cold-pac" by that of nother new point: 1971 Xerox I t on my missive Lem's a unme article on "Ubik" thouse is I I Ubik +