into negentropic time / morphological arrangement (Plato's eidē). But I took this ultimate view of reality as a vision of God + so fell into a terrible trap both epistemologically (philosophically, metaphysically) + also theologically (spiritually); for example I supposed a pantheism ala Spinoza. But my main point (made on p. 858, which I intended to be the last page of the exegesis, is: I thought the sequence went: 1) theophany (2-3-74), followed by: 2) exegesis of that theophany. 3-74 to 11-80 But in fact this is correct: 1) exegesis 3-74 to 11-80, followed by: 2) theophany, 11-17-80 (!) In other words the -this- exegesis came before the theophany. The exegesis finally reached the conclusion that everything I had seen in 2-3-74 had to do with world ("a perturbation in the reality field") except a glint of color in the weeds of the alley + a ripple of wind" - which was -even this was- not God but just the tracings/glyphs/footprint of God on reality. Thereupon, i.e. as a result of this realization (11-80) I then experienced a true theophany - + I construe what happened this way: 1) the world is delusional (Maya). 2) In my 10 volume meta novel I saw this to be the case, saw world as a mere delusion, + I looked for reality -true reality- behind/beyond it. 3) Therefore, obligingly, the arch deluder served me up a further delusion (2-3-74) much more complex + sophisticated, based on my own particular preconceptions (anticipations, suppositions) as to what "true reality" would be like if you could see it. This is why 2-3-74 resembled "Ubik" + "Maze" etc. 2-3-74 was a playback of my own mind to me (which every now + then I suspected, but I kept thinking, "well, it only goes to show how astute my intimations were") 2-3-74 was - enchantment! Yes; it is so. However, this sudden transformation in world in 2-3-74 did show that world as we normally see it is indeed a delusion; it’s just that what replaced normal world was no more real, just more sophisticated + complex, +, to me, not just more convincing but totally convincing! I believed for over 6½ years that I had seen true reality, in contradistinction to the previous Maya; but (as I say) it was just a more cunning Maya. As I say in "Valis," the maze is alive + it changes. Okay. Finally, in the exegesis, I realized that I had seen nothing of what I had in 2-3-74 assumed I had seen, which is to say, God. It was world, + world is by my own definition + analysis irreal + delusive. I was, without knowing it, even more embroiled in world than ever, than the most ordinary average person is! + I construe this as Satan’s wiles, the a posteriori horn of the dialectic; God gave him free reign. Satan could not see where it was leading, but God with his a priori knowledge could. It led me to God in this way: on 11-17-80 God actually manifested himself + presented me with logical arguments + analysis as to how I could know I had this time in truth experienced him. His argument lay in one line: the argument "to infinity." Would I accept an equation between God + infinity? (We had to agree on a premise, some postulate or other, some definition). He said, "I can provide you with an infinitude of bliss; not just great bliss but infinite bliss. + this infinite bliss that you [will] feel derives from my personality + essence of loving-kindness (agapē). Will you accept that only God possesses an essence (einai) of agapē that would cause you an infinitude of bliss?" I agreed, + it came to pass; I experienced his personality + essence of agapē + felt infinite bliss. There were no complexities, no enigmatic epistemological puzzles, no enchantment or magic: only a wise, loving old man, an individual human - except that everything about him extended into infinity along all axes: Wisdom, love, power, personality, intimate gentleness yet firmness, + eternity, unchanged simplicity. He concealed nothing from me; he played no games. He explained the relation between my life in this world + what it would be in the next, in terms of his theodicy (this was another + fundamental absolute: his theodicy. It, he said, is a promise from which we can draw conclusions, rather than starting elsewhere (e.g. in world) + reasoning to it. It is structurally -i.e. logically- related to his nature: agapē (i.e. anything but theodicy, absolute theodicy, would be incommserate with infinite agapē). A major point that he made was that I was not employing analytical logic vis-à-vis 2-3-74 but was, instead, engaging in creative speculation - which led to infinite regresses, over + over again. Thus (as I say) he offered as a substitute (1) an agreement on one premise, + then (2) logical deductions from the one agreed-upon premise; he taught me to analyze + not speculate. + he was (I should remind myself) he who is customarily meant by the term “God,” i.e. the transcendent, loving, wise God of my fathers who both (1) wills; + (2) allows - i.e. allows error, i.e. independence to his creatures: free will; + this is logically deducable from his nature (agapē), because he would never infringe on the integrity + autonomy, which is to say the essence, of his creatures; if he only willed + did not allow he would de facto rob them (us) of their (our) einai! So this, too, logically stems from his nature, + my realization of this is not speculation, creative speculation. My exegesis, then, is both a delusion in which I am trapped +, in addition, a delusion I am creating for others -i.e. in "Valis"- but he allows this in order to protect my integrity (einai). Thus (to summarize) delusion -super sophisticated Satanic delusion- (i.e. 2-3-74) led to a futile exegesis, a hell-chore (punishment that he allowed Satan to inflict on me) - but: okay. "A chicken is an egg's way of producing another egg." Viz: the primary delusion (enchantment) of 2-3-74 led to the further delusion (second delusion) of the futile exegesis; I was totally trapped in Maya, led there by my own original suspicions -ironically!- that what we see is delusion! But: the second delusion -the exegesis- exhausted itself finally ("glint of color, ripple of weeds, in the alley"), whereupon a true + self-authenticating theophany did then occur - + it bore no resemblance to 2-3-74 whatsoever. Obviously, if the God of 11-17-80 were genuine (+ as I say this theophany was self-authenticating based on (1) premise; + (2) logical deductions from the premise) then 2-3-74 was something else. Well, it was enchantment + magic; it was a spell; + enchantment magic + spell do not reveal, but, on the contrary, addle the wits; I was (as I say) fed what (1) I would most likely believe; + (2) wanted to believe - a bad combination that does not lead to the truth - i.e. to God. However, Satan had, to generate a reality I'd accept, to reveal a great deal about reality to me, but he took the risk knowing I would confuse it with God. (Which I did.) Basically what he revealed is that my 10 volume meta novel + its basic acosmism is correct: what we call "reality" is some kind of projected hologram + not real at all. We can be made to see anything + believe anything. Viz: in 2-3-74 I decomposed -desubstantialized- "reality," which is an epistemological victory, but then I completely believed in what I saw instead! I said, "World, which is irreal + which I suspected all along is irreal, broke down + conceded that it is irreal; so what I see now instead must be real -but it wasn’t- must be that which I define as real: God. It was not. It was just a more sophisticated delusion. My years of skepticism turned into naive credulity. "I saw God!" I said for over 6½ years, but in fact I did not. All I really saw was the projection machine + the projection break down, whereupon it compensated by devising another + better projection - to which I should have said, "Aha - it tricks me further," but instead I said, "Aha; now I see what is really there: God, immanent God, probably Brahman." I was not applying logic, deductive logic (e.g. "If it can project first one reality -USA 1974- + then another -Acts- it can project anything" - that "anything" being Valis). Epistemologically, what I really know is all negatives: that what we see is not real, + that we cannot by our own efforts outwit the projection machinery. It can serve up one thing after another, ever more cunning + psychomorphic ("I am as you desire me"). "Valis" is a hodge podge of superstition + sensational nonsense - + yet "mixed in with the inferior bulk Sophia has inserted -without Satan knowing it- certain truths." I.e. "We fell into the maze, + the maze is alive; it changes" (thus rendering null + void all speculation as to the real nature (morphology) of the maze, if you think about it (+ this insertion was added after I was done, due to something Pat Warrick suggested!) Where I started to wise up vis-à-vis 2-3-74 in terms of my exegesis was when I rememered that in the Bardo Thödol trip your own prior thought-formations come back to you as world - which I wrote about in "Frozen Journey" + that was based on ideas of Lem’s! + the God who revealed himself to me on 11-17-80 is quite different from my own prior thought-formations; he is the orthodox transcendent Judo-Xtian Heavenly Father, loving + wise, who allows free-will; this world is an ordeal. But we [all] go to him in the end; he wins all of us -in the dialectic with Satan- eventually - + he knows this, due to his a priori knowledge. Anyhow, in regard to 2-3-74 I It has to do with ESP + mind control + the paranormal - as I realized the night of 11-17-80! For example, God does not cook + ride our communications media. Or use code. But they do. It all has to do with occult information processing. This is not God. "Valis" should have been written with no theological overtones. Brief thoughts upon (1) reading "Valis" over + then rereading this packet, esp. the "paranoid" notes made the night of 11-17-80: Accidentally, due to (1) the sodium pentathol; + (2) the Golden Fish sign, I (PKD¹) got in touch with PKD², ie Thomas, + saw through his "Acts lens/grid" which is a way of saying, "saw the world as he sees it" which involves more than simple perception, it involves interpretation. 1) He's a political revolutionary. 2) This occult stuff was not supposed to leak through into PKD¹ -consciousness- where I could/would write about it; this occurred due to the pentathol + the shiny gold object - I was hypnotized + got in touch with my control, Thomas. An accident. As a result I then (1) saw as he sees - the Acts lens/grid + (2) knew what he knows. All of which I put in "Valis" - + this was never intended. He is part of a worldwide, ancient political revolutionary group, + I wrote it up in "Valis" because he got accidentally disinhibited. So into my consciousness flowed priceless occult, arcane revolutionary knowledge - which, presently, I wrote up in a novel ("Valis"); but not due to my being under a control, as was the case with "Tears"! I now had access to my control's mind due to a combination of circumstances, all accidental: my angst, the pentathol, the pain, the shiny gold object. (No "beams" were "aimed at me" - it all had to do with the flooding of PKD² into consciousness - by mistake. Boy, he