tells the magician that when the Hosts of Light enter the prison they will kill the magician for what he is doing to the captured soldiers unless the magician ceases to drug, decieve and torment them. Further, now himself inside the prison and subject to the endless spurious time of the false reality, the Lord of Light begins to inform the deluded captives of their true state and true origin. He will wake some of them enough, in conjunction with himself posing as the magician's assistant, which the magician does not know about. Thus the Lord of Light has assumed three forms: 1) As himself, YHWH, Lord of Sabaoth, he leads the heavenly hosts to triumphant entry into the prison to kill the magician and free the captured soldiers 2) as Christ, he is a man among men, and the magician cannot detect him, whereever he appears, until too late. 3) As the councillor who whispers secretly to each prisoner, the Holy Spirit, who knows everything because he is privy to all the stratagems of the magician and to all the plans of God, he will advise and protect and comfort and be with the captives until they are freed. Thus the magician -- Satan -- is outflanked, and doomed to die. And it is inevitable that the captured soldiers will be released. {circled:"37"} Note that within this struggle, the magician, Satan who deceives, is himself deceived. 1) He cannot detect -- until too late, which captured soldier is really the Lord of Light deliberately subjecting himself to the irreal time and irreal world conjured up by the magician -- although eventually he knows. But by this time Christ has given crucial information to the captured and drugged soldiers and has, furthermore, told the magician what his punishment will be. Thus any victim (ie prisoner) of the magician could be the Lord of Light. 2) the magician's female assistant is, like the magician, in the real world in real time (unlike Christ who submits himself to irreal world and irreal time -- the lot of the captured). Thus, being so-tospeak behind the screen in which the false reality is projected, she knows everything. She is St. Sophia, Holy Wisdom, always beautiful, always wise, always young. Each captured soldier hears her voice inside his head to some degree; she relates him back to actual reality. the magician, Satan, has the heavenly host at the gates of his prison; the Lord is secretly within the group of the captured, and to seal the doom of the magician the Lord of Light has played a final trump card: posing as the magician's assistant and knowing his strategy. {circled:"38"} the notification of his impending death has already been sent to the magician, arising -- emanating -- out of the very body of the captured. Hence the Lord of Light is outside, inside the prison, and behind the screen with the magician. This is a three pronged attack, and inscrutible to the magician, who had imagined himself the master of stratagems. How would he feel if he knew that she who he hired to assist him in his strategy, is the very Lord of Light himself? The position of the magician is strategically hopeless, although he seems on the surface to have many captives drugged, forgetful and deluded. As the Lord of Hosts, the Lord of Light is entirely outside the prison (ie entirely in the real world or upper realm). As Christ he is within the prison or lower realm. As the Holy Spirit he stands astride both relams. Partly in the lower realm or prison and partly -- equally -- in the upper realm or reality; thus as the Holy Spirit or [St. Sophia ?] he sees and experiences and participates in everything and is said to be the wisdom of God. Also interesting is the fact that as the magician's assistant posing as a captured soldier, the Lord of Light makes himself appear to be in the power or {circled:"39"} downright subordinate to the magician. This is a complex strategy; it is very deceptive; viz: he whom the magician believes he has power over -- his assistant and his audience -- are actually a power superior to the magician. Thus the [....] [....] roles of master and subject hide their mirror opposite. It is possible that, while posing as a captive of the magician, the Lord of Light might decide to forget his own identity, the better to fool the magician. At the proper time, due to a disinhibiting stimulus, he would remember his identity -- and see that the trap which the magician had laid for him is in fact by his -- the Lord's -- own trap to defeat the magician -- it is trap and counter trap, with the Lord winning. --- Prison conditions would lead to the need of the use of cypher (as in "tears"). In fact, even more ominously, if one discovered cypher (like that in "tears," utilizing biblical material) one could deduce the enslaved, captured situation of us. --- If, as I wrote supra, in 2-74 I remembered, and in 3-74 briefly woke up, then we are living in the world depicted in "tears" and that would seem, (from what I saw of it) to be a prison, a slave labor state -- as in "tears" -- and true secret xtions are here illegally who know the situation, and the whole place is (in some way I don't understand) the world of Acts: a very short time has actually passed since Jesus was here, and I am not really me -- since there is no [....] 1974 how can PKD exist. {circled:"39"} {circled:"40"} I suppose this is tautological reasoning, since my audience-magician model is based on my 3-74 experience, but if indeed I woke up briefly I did see the prison my model says we are in, the world of "tears." And just as "tears" is the world of Acts, what I saw was both the prison and the world of Acts -- exactly like "tears"! The underlying form has not given way, the BIP. The key which caused me to remember was not "xtians" but "early xtians"; this told me that (and this was the basic remembering) that we're still really in apostolic times (2-74 remembered; 3-74 saw, and became Thomas). --- Satan's spurious time uses "the halving of the halving" of time and space, like Zeno's frog in the well or Achilles and the tortoise paradox. Thus our time accelerates its rate of accelleration, and proportionally more & more of it fits into the Given key in time until the hosts (ie the Kingdom of God) gets here. The collar-and-[f...m]-wafer device which I saw is the form-copy system by which an irreal world (plus the irreal time mentioned above) is projected around us like a hologram we're just in the copy world with its speeded-up time. So I had, before the magician [fa...] figured out the "halving of the halving" of time as well as the mechanism for producing a copy from a form. --- Could Valis invading our reality (as I figured out it had done: the rational invading the irrational) mean that the hosts have arrived and begun to break through to us in the prison? Yes, it must be so! This would {circled:"41"} explain why I'd see the PTG. I wrote about it in the dream in "tears" in 1970, and in 1974 I saw it. But it's camouflaged. That's why I experienced time turning into space -- the magician's spurious time abolished. This is why Valis is so much like Ubik. In the novel "Ubik" our basic situation is revealed except that "stigmata" must be added. But Ubik and Valis are/is the benign entity (deity) penetrating into our irreal world ("Ubik" with its spurious time ("stigmata")). If our reality (and time -- as stressed in "Valis" -- weren't spurious, how could Valis break through into it exactly as Ubik breaks through -- invades their world "one way" -- in "[...]"? In a sense my proof of the spuriousness of our reality only comes through awareness (perception) of Valis' invasion. To invade it has to invade from somewhere (else). I had already supposed a hypertime progressing at a very very slow rate; I now see it as real, in contrast to spurious, time. So the message to the magician is not just that you will die when the hosts get here, but that the hosts are here now. I deduced the hypertime 3 or C in relation to the dialectic of "halving" that clock time B (produced by the collar) keeps time A, [int....] time, locked into the "halving," which clock time B is doing. If "halving" time B's rate of accelleration is accelerating, and time C (3) is constant -- not halving -- then the ratio between B & C is constantly changing so that if B is regarded as {circled:"42"} A constant, C is slowing. And if C is regarded as a constant, B is speeding up. But as the EB points out, we have evidence that time (our time -B-) is accellerating its rate of accelleration (and Bob Wilson mentions this in "Cosmic Trigger"). Then hypertime (which I now designate as real time) is back at the time of Acts, the world I wrote about in "tears," and this is what I remembered in 2-74 and saw in 3-74. The Eidos Acts still obtains thereby. My God -- the halving temporal-spacial process is entropic, a running down into -- a closed system -- into which "astral determinism" -- the dialectic; it stagnated, and into it something new must be injected (by Ubik/Valis). Is the Eidos Acts in hypertime, or is the closed system stagnant? If I had to guess I'd say [fr..] the prison [a..ects] it's our world (B). Not hypertime. Acts is a congealing, a psychosis in a running down [....] Valis (Ubik) is the hypertime C reality; Acts is "tears" is this world congealed. After all acts-"tears" is a prison. {left diagram} {right arrow:"45 AD 70 90 AD"} {right then spiralling down:"45 AD 1974 AD"} {down arrow from 90 AD :"2nd Advent"} {right of diagram} the real time (C) is circa 70 to 95 AD. But the 2nd Advent is occurring. It breaks into the "halving" closed system at what seems to us to be c. 1974 but is really c 90 AD. Valis/Ubik is Advent 2, c. 90 AD in hypertime C, c 1974 in closed system time B, {circled:"42"} then "tears" carried a series of messages. King Felix does identify Acts, but it says "Christ returns at the reign of Felix." It says, "Acts is now (the world of "tears") and the Second Advent is now occurring, at that time (c. AD 70) although it seems to us to be 1974." Then Valis-Zebra-Ubik is Christ returning as King leading the hosts (as depicted in the dream in "tears".) and the magician is told he will die, so judged by Christ the King. We are told, help has come and entered the prison. So I count 4 messages at least: 1) the 2nd Advent occurred at the time of Acts. 2) although it looks like 1974 to us, it is really the time of Acts. 3) add (1) and (2) and the message is: Christ has returned as King and Judge (Pantocrator) 4) the magician (Satan) must die (Jason Taverner and his 30 million TV audience equals James-James and his spurious reality, which we all sit in seats in a ampitheater-like play watching.) I have a strange feeling that Christ returns at different "B" times for different people according to how much they wake up (and escpae from spurious time B into real time where He has returned). Thus for me it took [..] in 1974, but I wrote about it in 1970. {circled:"43"} In fact, it may be that what is needed -- all that is needed -- and needed absolutely -- is