revealed to me six years ago, but only now do I understand what I saw (the plundering of the stockpile to form the soma), now, as a result of FIDDLER when, for me my chaotic life was turned into kosmos. Thus the synchronization of plural parts --which has been the hallmark of my 3-74 revelation (hence displaying the attribute of a folder 82 - 134 folder 82 - 134 -2- 4-11-80 unitary volitional sentient entity) is Valis; i.e. is kosmos. This synchronization is the Urgrund of what I observed which gave rise in my mind to the notion of Valis. I see now that it is precisely this that is sought for, is achieved (by the principle of organization). I was indeed seeing the ultimate miracle of the universe; the primary activity of God in the universe, converting chaos to kosmos. What I saw that I called Valis was kosmos, and it was something achieved by a process, a selective process; I saw that process at work, and it was guided by absolute intelligence (stockpile to soma, as I have been calling it). Then what I saw that I called Valis was localized total organization. Last Sat night was another localized total organization: my life. Valis' own soma! Valis is that which it successfully organizes. It is organizing itself. folder 82 - 135 folder 82 - 135 -1- 4-27-80 There is a series of realms. Each has its own laws. The sequences resembles that of Dante's COMMEDIA. Dante was influenced by Joachim of Fiore who taught of three successive ages: that of the Father, the Son, the Spirit (each presumably better). I would equate the first with power; the second with justice and wisdom; the third with mercy and love. The BIP world of TEARS that I remembered when I experienced my anamnesis was of a former lower world which I had lived in; it had its own causal laws and qualities. In 3-74 I made another jump from the realm I had been in during this lifetime up to 3-74; I rose into a less severe realm; hence I saw a perturbation of causality. In each ascending realm the causal laws weaken; the next realm up involves more freedom, less determinism (or fate). Whether there are only three or whether there are more I don't know. Apparently it is the common lot of mankind to live life after life, rising and falling and staying the same, but apparently it is unusual for a person to be jumped from one realm to the next above during --in the middle of-- a lifetime, as was the case with me. It, then, was somewhat on the order of being taken bodily into heaven (I am not joking when I write this). New, milder laws obtained from 3-74 on. And I saw the agency who brought about this jumping for me (Valis). I have even been told why I was elevated. I think this explains 3-74. Being extricated from a trap was a subsection of a greater fact: the being jumped to a higher, milder realm, where my fate (falling victim to the trap; i.e. my astral determinism or ananke) did not obtain. This is clearly related to what the mystery religions taught, beyond doubt. GOD: a principle of selection that promotes design in the world process so that the parts are subordinated to the whole, and can be understood only in relation to the whole. If they can be understood in themselves it follows that there is no God, because there would be no subordination of parts to the total design. To catch a glimpse of design, then, means to catch a glimpse of the whole. The two are the same. A question which I never asked before. Where does the phylogons - memory of VALIS exist vis-a-vis the real world (i.e. where I saw it constructing the inter-related phylogons based on accretional layers of ontogons)? Possible answer: in the actual physical universe there is a point present of reality --actualization-- but the past perishes; however, the past (of the universe) is retained is/as VALIS' memory in this inter-related phylogons form. So as the moving dot of the present passes forward along linear time, the past reality is collected in VALIS' memory, but in the abstract hierarchical way that Arthur Koestler describes as the basis on which human memory operates. Thus the past does not exist as it did once exist as the present, but rather in the abstracted phylogons which are inter-related by affinity, meaning, etc. Could "synchronicity" be the morphology of this memory classification/abstracting as it dynamically forms in the present? Before it goes into the past? I.e. while the reality is still here? The rest-motion dual modes. Motion is when something is incorporated into VALIS' memory out of the physical univeserse. Ergo, VALIS' memory is not the physical universe, but taken from it (operating against efficient causality). VALIS' memory of the universe is not the universe or even like the universe, but it is like Pythagoras' kosmos. It is interwoven and fitted together in abstracted form - the many phylogons. This is what is permanent; the universe is flux. But the universe is a source for this kosmosl it is a plantation, from which thing after thing is plucked (it is the "stockpile"). Now, somewhere in this is the explanation for my seeing A.D. 70. It does not exist as the past of this universe, but it does exist as memory in VALIS' mind. Somehow I tilted into inter-related memory-phylogons. Its, not that of the universe. This explains what otherwise cannot be explained; viz: how it (A.D. 70) could exist here and now, i.e. in California U.S.A. 1974. It's not a matter of multiple tracking, and not a matter of the actual past, but of VALIS' memory storage (i.e. contents and the way they are arranged). The golden fish acted as a trigger-exciter for inter-related memory phylogons; they were caused (by it) to fire. The memories were not in my mind (reincarnation) but VALIS' mind. The secret is: it was not I who remembered, but rather VALIS in me. Which explains the later enthusiasmos. Hence "Tat twam asi." Sankara and Saivism are right. The Wise Mind actually grows through this dialectic in terms of its own internal order and complexity (process) and subduing chaos: its perpetual victories are cumulative in terms of world order (its growth). It's as if it is subduing the living serpent of chaos and assimilating it. This is (equals) continuous creation. Hence: the cosmos is not full here, yet; not yet completely created: Here is an original idea; this isn't just sustaining creation; no: we are still in the days of creation; it is not finished; it is ongoing and it isn't in ex nihilo: it is more along the lines Plato describes (the Demiurge and chaos!). This would explain such negative elements as pain, evil, disorder, the meaningless. Creation (order) is not yet finished, and it is a dialectical process with matter-as-chaos as a semi-sentient obdurate antagonist (set vs ground). Like a higher life form preying on a lower. And Valis' soma is the cosmos being formed within the "stockpile" of this chaos (again, setground, a kind of workshop with pieces lying about everywhere and a structure "camouflaged" therein, in the midst). This is a new theological (i.e. cosmogonical) revelation, although in a sense it is a fusion of TIMAEUS and Zoroaster; still, it is new. The work is not done yet, and the battle is between Form (negentropy) and primordial chaos (entropy -- vide UBIK!!!!). (This is Empedocles.) With both form-imposer-builder-structure-creator ala Pythagoras -- and the ainti-eidos (vide MAZE!!). The formdestroyer destroys forms but the form-creator continues to build --assemble in the unitary kosmos-- new forms surpassing the destroyed old. But once a piece is incorporated into the kosmos it is safe; impervious to destruction. It lies in the past in some kind of way (like a slot present in which the past is now and here, just as in UBIK all past forms exist within the given present form along the form-axis; cf Leibnitz). Anyhow if here, invisibly ("camouflaged"? Did I see this secret kosmos, the outlines --contours-- of which are concealed from "Belial" the form-destroyer? Yes, I did (it has to do with anamesis, the retrieval into the present of the past; as in a memory structure, cf Koestler on memory). Valis doesn't just build it; Valis is it, is what it builds; it is self-building, cannibalizing the stupider opponent. The kosmos is not "here" in the sense of at one spacial spot vs "there"; it is invisibly ubiqitous. This is strategy. It is totally homeostatic. The present moving dot must be regarded as an accretionproducing loom, laying down layer after layer, as fast as the phosphene graphics permutated. This is a new theology, a new self-disclosure by the Divine. Not any known religion, a mixture of: 1) TIMAEUS: creation still going on. 2) Zoroaster: dualism, God and Counter-God. (God equals negentropy (form). Counter-God equals entropy (chaos). Both active and sentient, but God possessing the advantage due to a priori (absolute) knowledge.) 3) The Cosmic Christ: forming his macrosoma. 4) Meta-biology (i.e. two life forms in competition: total homeostasis by Valis). 5) Valis as construct (Al system). 6) Process creation and Divinity: growth in complexity, reticulation and arborization. 7) Pythagoras' kosmos: structure as ontology, as sub¬ stantia. 8) Accretional laydowns from the phenomenal world to the real world: Plato reversed. 9) Pantheism: ala Spinoza. God's body (soma). This constitutes in its entirety a new revelation; Valis is no God formerly known; closer to Ubik than to YHWH or even Mazda. It may be a local krasis, in fact. Planet-wide only (hence a UTI, so to speak)? "Negentropic vortex"1 Which grows by assimilating its environment; it (the vortex or krasis or kosmos) has a higher level of organization, like a cell. This higher level or organiza¬ tion permits it to assimilate its environment by way of arrangement —i.e. pattern— and can't be discerned because the material objects remain unchanged; all that changes is their arrangement to each other and one another; it's like a very advanced game of Go. This is why we are "occluded" to it; it does camouflage itself because it has an opponent. 3-74 derives out of UBIK rather than previous, known religions. This is why Ubik could never be reduced to any known philosophy or religion, but resembled several. Valis can change the past because it —the past— is in Valis' memory structure — the past is NOT THE PAST FOR VALIS, BUT IS PART OF ITS STRUCTURE/SOMA. In essence what I have done —starting with UBIK— is locate -4- a sacerdotal power buried in the trash layer, rather than in an afterlife heaven. It is here and it is now; here in this world and as this world (as living structure; Pythagoras was right. One could almost say; God equals ratio; i.e. 1;.618034). Of course we can’t see the structure/soma/kosmos/krasis; virtually all of it is in our past...but it isn’t past for it. This is why for me to see it in 3-74 I had to experience anamnesis: the restoration of the past. Then it became visible to me. In no way does Zoroaster see the antithetical dialectical combat contributing to growth and perfection of any such thing as a krasis, world-order or kosmos (or macrosoma of God). Only the ultimate victory by the Wise Mind would contribute anything — not the process itself. And in no way was this dialectical process, this combat between good and evil, homologized with creation, with the process of the creating of the world-order. Does any religion homologize the creating of the world order with the dialectical strife between good and evil? Taoism comes closest. I say my revelation was: the dialectical strife between good and evil, between negentropy and entropy (chaos) is the act of creating the world-order; this sounds like one of the preSocratics talking, Anaxamander or Empedocles or