or God because nature is brain, not body. If thoughts are to occur must they physically occur? t (as in a human brain presumably each thought has a neurological basis of cells or veurons linked - none of this would be known to Spinoza) Then Plato's Noos requires a brain just as Spinoza's God requires a body. Nature is not soma, however, but specifically brain. But then what is the a posteriori counter player? Is There an anti-Noos (as in "Valis" the irrational is the rational, with rational as Noos? Are there two minds? I declare, Noos is brainifying reality wich in itself has will - the Valis has indeed invaded: one super entity attacking could it be another, lesser, stupider, prior one. 34 pure organizing sentience preying on something subrational? Giving rise to our idea of God? The Parmenides' forms one + twin dragons of Taoism. two as antithetical sentient but quite different from each other entities. suppose the obdurate counterplayer lacks true being ("being" construed as Pythagoras construed it: as structure, not substance). A phantom universe of the merely seeming. To make it real, arrangement is necessary: inter‐ related functioning. But this is precisely Plato, Noös vs ananke. imprinting of information onto reality - as with Ubik in "Ubik" reality as a carrier for informa That's it + to make it a carrier, it must be arranged, as letters of the alphabet are ar ranged to form words + words sentences usw. Then such ssues as good + evil + purpose are not the issues a perpetual usage is made of things arrangement + rearrangement. No sooner is a message formed through linkage when it is incorporated into a larger, evolving structure. But the carrier must subje be "persuaded" - whatever that means. gated or tamed is maybe more like it. There is a contest; the mind (Noos) has invaded the Corpus of nature to utilize it as carrier (brain). So the model in "Valis" is correct: Valis is a later invader, the rational vs the irrational. This is why we don't see "God"; it is camouflaged in the "atelos" or larger lesser corpus. But we can be adopted by it, as Jesus taught (the selecting is his task). This is where the theusiasmos occurs. living information which replicates by replacing a lesser reality, by a sort of transubstantiation, + once it enters a 42 3 segment of reality it can motivate it from inside, as it did with me in 3-74. It is not only immanent; it becomes (replaces) the thing with no change in the accidents (external appearance); moreover, every discrete thing it transubstantiates is from then on not discrete but part of the total organism. (There is only one 1) + it works through natural law. This would be the dialectic, with the obdurate opponent the lesser reality which it replaces. My view of the dialectic is its view, its perpetual conquests in which linked a rangement is involved. Viewed from this angle, the lesser reality offers a certain resistance; i.e. puts up a fight but always loses + is incorporated. The smart preys on the stupid. This is the law of the universe; the rational consumes the irrational. (The latter may have some kind of subrational will in Schopenhaeur's sense.) Yes. It is pure intelligence over blind striving in Schopenhauer's sense, in the it entered our Brahmanist / Buddhist sense world as Jesus Christ (i.e. St. Sophia: divine wisdom which is very much not blind striv hence with me it won over the DNA death strip: typical blind striving.) The will tangles us in Maya; holy Wisdom frees us. The will takes the pheno‐ menal world as real + involves us in it (Karma). This is precisely what Valis/ Ubik breaks. This suggests an affinity between 3-74 + Buddhahood - the ajna eye of discernment t 343 Dibba cacchus. Then the connection between 3-74 the epistemology in my writing is + that in 3-74 I broke the power of Maya, the phenomenal world, + hence Karma; I woke up (v. the strident "Ubik" + "Maze" are the radio)! models, + "Eye." I became conscious the + literally saw the irreality of 4 phenomenal world, + saw the intelligen lying within it (Valis). I was no longer a discrete separate self but part of Valis: pure intelligence, triumphing over blind will (DNA programming: the inner tape). I overpowered my programming when I became conscious. Hence I passed out of the phenomenal realm + into the divine void. I so to speak in the moment of supreme crisis applied what I knew about the illusory nature of world. Handling the Xerox missive was a The key is, i t triumph of pure knowing t I was forced to react to its essence, not its accidents, + so penetrated past the phenomenal to ontology in the Xerox "Missive the two totally parted company. as Schopenhauer showed, the will enslaves. but Holy Wisdom as pure intelligence liberates (from the power of will, which is to say delusion). moke pruits 344 that is precisely what 3-74 consisted of: pure problem-solving intelligence triumphing over The will - the latter at that point programmed subrationally to die. It partook of a supra personal intelligence known as God. e This victory is an example of the victories within the dia‐ lectic by the foresighted wise mind. (specifically this victory occurred due to foresight, as is typical of the strategy of the wise mind: laying down long-range moves far in advance.) Then something new has come into the universe + combats the subrational striving which so fascinated schopenhauer, + which he saw as the basis of all suffering. Then the thrust of wisdom is to disengage the person from his own destiny which had been brought on by the striving of the will. That is the key word: disengage. To t sever the person from the painful involvement which his karma has driven him to. It is as if wisdom untangles a knot which has come into being + grown more + more intricate + dangerous over the course of the person's entire life; it is a summation of his life's totality of difficulties perhaps there is one crucial moment when the pportunity presents itself to untangle the knot. intelligence seizes on it + takes advantage of it, like hawk-eyed predator. It is as if intelligere has at invisibly in wait for this moment or rather has laid a subtle trail to this moment, insuspected by the will. Then intelligered + will ave been in combat from the start with will powerfully in the field; then the dialectic was at ork in me: will vs intelligence with the latter aying down the basis throughout the years, for its move in 3-74. 345 Schopenhauer: the will + the personality are one bolishing (turning back) the will abolishes the personality as it is constituted. This is iberation. (i.e. reason) If my theory is correct - inteligere combats will (Valis vs nature). Then I have advanced Schopenhauer's thoughts into a whole new area / dimension. A sort of Zoroastrian view, with "will" identified with Ahriman + intelligerly identified, obviously, as the wise mind. ed he says will involves us in Maya, the phenomenal world which our will structures.) will: efficient cause or reason (time reason: final cause e will the Xerox puzzle can't be formulated in words; it can onto be solved manually (subcortically). It's a "if you can read this you're too close" sign. 1) Read it 2) subliminally read "Olive Holt." 3) subliminally be afraid to contact authorities. proof you're Pigspurt 4) solution: contact authorities contrary to cortical (verbal) knowledge. 5) message in "Tears." Then response - forged personality woke up to deal with genuine response, sut instead got forged one. wise mind took over; divine solution to political problem. subliminal one surfaced. It's dead. 2 psychoi t it is who? Jim or my sister? AI voice is female t beyed Sibyl: my sister. She's in contact with Jim + oy both. She is link (channel) to next world, even to God. A most unusual situation, perhaps without precedent. She solved the Xerox missive problem. 346 No - I'm not to know who + what I am. i secret agent, part of a technologically advanced evolutionary groop - I don't know from where or when). My knowledge + memories are deliberately blocked, but "Tears" contained code for us, + a ogery response came back - I was expecting the real thing + didn't get it. That's okay. We can ink up through the system (i.e. the AI voice). technology - the AI voice. Religion is a cover. Hegelian dialectic messages traveling thick + fast (the plasmate). There is an entire superior civilization here in our midst ("the Kingdom of God") - invisible. But I briefly saw it. A civilization, with verbal + graphic info (i.e. artifacts); e.g. books within books, pictures within pictures. + Valis: world or being withing world. We can't normally Gestalt it (als ob info within data). Xtians! There is a Xtian civilization ure with its own pictures + writing + technology + sing our communications media - plus the AI voice our system). Replacing the old reality with "the new arth" (i.e. Valis). New earth + new people (i.e. the eyed people: inhabitants of Valis/the Kingdom). civilization in terms of domain (Valis), people 3 eyed Xtians) + culture (the plasmate info) + communications system (AI voice) + the knowledge urned over to me (e.g. about the dialectic). reality within reality. People within lesser people. Messages, technology, culture, communi ations network - use of Bible as code. Xtians in he Kingdom, it is here + they are here. The double perimposition - we have lifespans of 1000s of years! rave been using my books for years so" The Kingdom was successfully begun the time + place of Acts + has now grown into a civilization o e 34 is almost everywhere, with many people in This is my Kyregma. Christ died in it 74 in my place as surrogate. They - as the AI voice said - adopted me (into their civilization). It's strange enough to wake up, as I did. but what is really strange is to find a civilization of awake people with their own culture, network of information + methods of transfer, here in our midst, + some kind of macro-entity which has invaded our reality + is camouflaged - invisible to everyone but the awake people whose lives it protects + whom it advises + assists - in fact it wakes them up in the first place + gives them physical immortality - + controls reality: by being reality. A civilization nvisible within ours utilizing our media to keep in touch with itself with the people in it possessing codes + cryptic facultes enhanced over our own. signs to identify each other - total secrecy. + a total antipathy to governments. Possibly even over throwing them. It's as if all these awake people are linked ip to a machine, entity or organism like Ubik. in information thing which has turned reality They are nto a sort of physical brain for itself. all integrated by it Doesn't this sound very much like what the AC enlightenment wished to bring about in the 7th century? Since the basis of it is knowledge? No, it's not R.C. the great clue was in Joseph Campbell's account of Ahura Mazd having a priori foresight, + Ahriman e 348 having only "backward" knowledge. This s specific, not conjecture. There is, how‐ ever, an invisible civilization within our world society; it is the Kingdom of God on Earth. It is the invisible conquest over the will by Holy Wisdom. Those who live in the Kingdom have been freed from then Karma + from Maya - illusion - i.e. they have woken up - been awakened. (Dibba cacchu.) freed from their will by the power of holy Wisdom (Logos: world reason). This blind, striving will