made up for") by the (6) infinite bliss to come. ("Made up for would merely clear the slate by balancing bad -the ordeal- with good -the reward to come. Were this the case, mere equipoise would be our proper philosophical attitude. But due to "more than made up for" - why, joy would be the proper -logical, I mean- response. God made this perfectly plain; it was to this point that he most urgently spoke; this is central to the primary disclosure of agapē as his nature. Agapē does not settle for equipoise but leads to joy; + he showed me that that joy extends into bliss - in fact infinite bliss. These elements -love, theodicy, bliss- cannot be separated, really. The variable of "allows" is (I think) what renders reality puzzling to us, since it introduces the possibility of error, waste, futility, evil. It makes the total system unfathomable to us, since it defeats the very element of determinism that Spinoza supposed. I could say, weakly, that "through his infinite wisdom God saw that allowing as well as willing created a better universe," but I don't think that is it; it is more fundamental than having to do with his wisdom - which I see as a collateral hypostasis: Hagia Sophia who is not his nature but his instrument. Power is his instrument (his will); omnipresence is an attribute, as is eternal existence; he always was + will be. His einai is love (agapē) which by definition contains kindness (so it should read "loving-kindness" - this is agapē). I understand allowing to be produced from loving-kindness; viz: it is an infringement to abridge a creature's freedom + negates that creature's einai - which is to say, it is spiritually destroyed. Unless it is allowed to be (einai) it has nothing; einai comes before pleasure or pain; viz: you must exist to experience anything, either good or bad. God cannot cease to allow without contradicting his own nature. You may say, "I would prefer noein to be his einai, noein not agapē" but agapē it is. Personally, having experienced that agapē I count weal or woe little, because agapē culminates in infinite bliss; so the argument that "allowing" introduces evil, the futile + pain falls if one is aware of the infinite bliss that the experience of God's love causes. My answer goes back to God's answer: agapē -his nature- guarantees absolute theodicy, + this theodicy connects with "the little ordeal more than offset by the infinite bliss to come"; this is a God who loves + allows + ultimately bestows infinite bliss. I can't prove this, but I know it because he explained it to me. No one will ever believe me, but he told me for my sake, not to edify the world. He did that through Jesus. + since he permits error he is untroubled by the fact that Jesus' revelation falls on many dead ears - again, God allows as well as wills. I want to say something about the Logos -the principle of world reason- + St. Sophia, divine wisdom (they are combined in Christ). This is the instrument of God by which the universe runs; it is the Nous of the Greeks. To me, this was always God's essence (cf Heidegger: "Noein + einai combined" - the ultimate ideal). What this as ultimate principle leads to is Roman + Greek serenity + stoicism. For me, joy is to be preferred, even though it allows error, pain, evil + futility. Nietzsche (sp?) realized this; he saw it as Dionysus vs Apollo. I think the fact that God's einai is agapē + not noein means that we do not have a comprehensible universe; it will always evade our analysis. We can know God's nature -through Jesus- but not the ways of the universe, which will always have enigmatic elements in it (from our standpoint). This is why theology + faith exist beyond philosophy, metaphysics + science. Spinoza said that pleasure is the highest virtue because it is self-justifying; if so, what, then, about infinite bliss based on knowledge of God's nature, loving-kindness? I have all my life been one step removed from genuine understanding, because I stopped where Greco-Roman civilization stopped: with reason. (Logos.) I never evolved into the Christian world. I saw it as dishonest because it flouted reason. Thus the essence (einai, Sein) was withheld from me in favor of Logos. But God allows, + this means allowing error + folly; God allows creatures not to know him, as well as to know him. Essentially, then, I still lived in world, although it was enlightened world. "Valis" contains my erroneous message: the rational invades the irrational + subdues it (Plato's nous "persuading" ananke). I read but did not understand the N.T. + Dante. (In Dante there is no error. He saw it clearly, as put forth in the final canto of the Commedia.) Yet, I defined the authentic human in terms of "how kind he is" + how much empathy he has (empathy, I thought, equalled agapē; but it does not; it is less). Logos is the penultimate truth; agapē the ultimate. Now vide XVII p 21 passim, for my sense of God's individuality: "a specific man, yet like a book, wise + gentle; a sage + humanist." It is totally evident that as of 11-17-80 I know nothing more, less, different about God than is found in orthodox Christianity, in every respect. But v. p. 14 on trinitarianism. But is this strange or disappointing? Or does it indict my experience as unreal precisely because it is (as Platt noted with disapproval) conventional? I did learn things about God that I knew about but neither believed nor understood (the best example being the matter of free will, which I always regarded as a copout a la C.S. Lewis). I think that my apperception of his individuality is unusual: not that he has (as is an article of Christian doctrine) personality but that he is a man, an infinite man. After all, I had been totally convinced by Xenophanes' view that "he is unlike us in all respects," a view I regarded as distinctly advanced over traditional theological anthropomorphism; I prided myself on that (v. "Ubik"). I think that what I had conceived of is real, but it is the stoic + alexandrian Logos or world reason - which I [now?] identify -I think correctly- with Christ, not with the Father. This is a major point. Ubik is the Logos, not transcendent God. I was apprehending the divine as world order, the divine here in world - but (+ I should never forget this) in the course of my exegesis I finally viewed my contact/experience of/with God in 2-3-74 as limited to "glyphs" or "traces": the glint + color + ripple of wind, of motion, in the weeds of the alley - traces which were impressions from something immaterial beyond the reality field. At that point I was prepared for the 11-17-80 theophany. Look: I have (on p. 12) given a good, solid reason to designate + identify Valis as Christ, because I perceive Valis to have been world reason, i.e. the Logos of the stoics + Philo, + St. John specifically states that this Logos is Christ (+ further he equates this Logos -actually Hagia Sophia + Logos- as God. But based on my experiences I don't think this is the case. I venerate this world-wisdom entity, but I found it to be other than God; it seemed to be -as the terms for it clearly explicate- pure noein; its einai is noein + not agapē, in contrast to God. If God's einai were noein, how + why would there be the separate hypostases of Hagia Sophia + the Logos? Proverbs 8:22 specifically states: "The Lord created me at the beginning of his works, before all else that he made, long ago. Alone, I was fashioned in times long past, at the beginning, long before the Earth itself..." To me, this clearly subordinates this Word - Wisdom - Christ (Logos - Hagia Sophia - Christos) entity to God: it is a created thing, + if its einai is noein, as I construe it to be, then noein is less primary than agapē - + this is a great realization... + herewith I just lost my Trinitarianism! Based on (1) my own two experiences; + (2) scripture itself. My experience was: we are isomorphic with God the Father but not with Christ if indeed Christ is Hagia Sophia - Ho Logos. Because of his incarnation as Jesus -- Well, I have the AI voice's own statement: "St. Sophia is going to be (or will be) born again; she was not acceptable before" - certainly referring to Christ. I believe this to be Valis, pure reason. (Noein.) Because of Hagia Sophia's incarnation as Jesus we tend to think of him as more like us than God is. But my experience is that this is not the case. The human side of Jesus is like us. But Jesus + the Cosmic Christ are not the same. (The Jehovah's Witnesses make this distinction.) Valis is not Jesus; Valis is the Cosmic Christ, which is what it was before the incarnation (if I read St. John correctly). Our essence (nature), then, is not noein but agapē, this for me is an enormous + quite new discovery. Anyhow it is clear in reading "Ubik" that Ubik is Ho Logos; I say so. If you are a trinitarian, then I have said in "Ubik" that Ubik is God; but if you are not - I guess due to 2-3-74 + 11-17-80 I am a non-trinitarian millenarian, anticipating the messianic kingdom here on Earth; so my total views are consistent: to me Jesus is the Messiah (but also the Word - Wisdom entity), but not God. I am, therefore, a strict monotheist, very Jewish in orientation, very like the Qumrān people - including their Zoroastrian bitheistic dialectic fighting it out in history in this world; hence "VR." So my views are beginning to take distinct shape. I know where I stand - + it is not so orthodox after all! 1) The spirit reveals the truth. Therefore the spirit knows the truth. This is intellegere (noein) or wisdom. 2) But the Logos - St. Sophia has acted to construct this truth-in-reality as reality based on its world-reason or wisdom. 3) Yet God the Father causes creation; he is the creator; he does this due to his einai which is love (agapē); viz: due to his love he desires creatures -in fact all reality- to exist, + he has the power to cause it to exist. Viewed this way it is a trinity: 3 "persons" or predominances but one entity. His agapē is the cause (motive) of his creating reality; by his wisdom he orders (arranges) it, structures it -this is his Logos or plan- + having ordered (arranged/structured) it he knows its nature + his own nature, + therefore is able to disclose -reveal- it. + he reveals/discloses it to us out of his love for us, to aid (parakalein) us - which returns us to love: where we started. So perhaps it is a trinity. Made one -a unity- by love! Love leads to creation, then the wise ordering of creation, its internal structure (i.e. the how), + love leads to disclosure of the truth to the creatures that make up creation so that they are led back to their source: God. 1 / Create / Power 2 / Structure / Wisdom 3 / Reveal / Love The disclosure by the spirit leads to the ecstasy of the finite creature as/when it is led back to its infinite source + at the same time discovers -is shown- its own nature; hence the initial state (i.e. creation) is love; + the end-state (ecstasy) is also love. + the Logos incarnated itself as a human -debased + sacrificed itself- out of love for