picture structurally represented. End is not posterior to means. End is retrievable within means. (Cf Leibnitz) ah the Xerox missive situation + 2-74 contained in my earlier writing (end in means). This is proof that end (future) is contained in means (present past). effect in cause, not after cause. Time or sequence) is like tracking a groove. "Later" c music is only later because we agree to track it sequentially. (As a helical spiral.) It could be tracked backward or laterally. 1974 follows 45 AD. but obviously something more like Kings or layers is the case. Inner-outer. The future is contained within the past. It can be excarated. There is a heasured erosion anyhow. 1) 45 AD is the past 2) with anamnesis, 45 AD is not merely remembered but experienced as present. 3) if 45 AD is present, what then, becomes of 1974 AD? It, too, is present. 4) A kind of cube is formed bounded by 45 AD on one side (dimension) + 1974 on the other (dimension) 3) sequential or linear time ceases + is superceded by (4). Time as line has now been replaced by time as cube + is so seen. s This time cube is the true kosmos. We suffer perceptual amnesia; our sensory apparatus cannot retain an image but allows it to permutate rather than be added to: we track, as in a groove, but this is not how the "information" is. Anamnesis, then, is perceptual, not inner memory (as in e.g. I remember my phone number). What is remembered is now. It is not a matter of "I was once in Rome C. AD 45; but "I am in Rome CAD 45 + in USA 1974." This s turns a time line into a time cube Then the linking of this "plasmate message traffic [only] occurs in/across/ through cubed time + can not only not be read any other way but not even seen (for it only exists as coherent info in cubed time). This means that some group or mind is plugged into cubed time. This would help explain Acts material CAD 70) showing up in 1970 in "Tears"! It would certainly explain the 2-74 + 3-74 material in "MITHC" "Faith of." These are just layers of (withing + The cube know it you have to already have known it. to How is this done? Is time the key? Effect preceeding cause? Retrograde time? Ex nihilo may be involved; the present must affect the past, or the future the present (same thing). It's the carkeys locked in is there a prototype solution the car enigma. This is a type of nvolving reversal of sequence? 194) puzzle posed, so an answer comes into being which utilizes the unknown as given - which is to us a mystery as algebra would be to someone who had never conceived it. You work with your desired result as if you had it as given. That which you are seeking for you have in advance. How "an this be? Leibnitz may have had the answer: all future states of a thing are contained in the thing; if this is so, any given desired future stage can be extracted now. (In advance of its t temporal unfolding. If as in "Ubik" a past segment becomes now, then to it, from its V.P., the future is now. The lamination works in two directions. So if you can retrieve the past into the now, you make the future accessable to the past. The solution is to begin in the future + i s summon - retrieve - the past you work backward from The solution the [future] solution to the problem! is in, e.g. 1982. the problem is in 1974. So in 982 (e.g.) you utilize anamnesis, secure the past transfer back. From the standpoint of the past receives passively. You cannot work actively from he past to the future, sucking the future back. there is no vortex in the past (1974). Firing occurs in the future + perturbs the (yin) past. Thus a loop feedback) is set up: So the future creates itself via A. 1982 (eg) Go anamnesis. It is not B 1974 t that the future is buried in the present ut that, as in "Ubik," the past is buried in within - the present - "Ubik" (again) has it right. You can drill down (back) but not up ahead). No matter. Then the AI voice - + Thomas? ust be in or from the future The causal train lelting which I saw was due to fo 95 universe CP0 box 70 ny 1000 threw out the Fox she threw when R. out the possibility of her [own] cure. So The Fox isn't recycled sentimental crap; it is the ingredient essential to R's cure: the miracle itself. Is R cured? No. No why not? because she threw out the Fox; she did not kill Mcrane; she killed herself (spiritually) The issue is: is the Fox thrown out, or did She (it) return at the end? Here is a mystery. then cure; no fox no cure. The power is If Fox with the Fox + not with R. Fox has more power over R's life than over m's. I knows the power (value) of Fox; R. denys it. What results? who survives? The Fox will decide. R's cure is a phantom cure; v. her "it has to be crap, to me" speech. She erred. Her final debased condition stems from the error of denying + rejecting the Fox. dence she is only cured biologically. She is paid back. But then me is proved right M thought this but then afterward he remembered Fox's "cripple" lyrics. This is added further, modifying) info. M. indicates that he believes fox, so here believes R is well (which means spiritually). Fox has won. 96 If re is not well it is because she rejected Fox as crap; this is certain. M's fixing coffel indicates that he believes K. is well because he believes Fox. Had he refused to fix R the coffee would he not have really been repudiating Fox, + so would have spiritually assassinated him self; one not R. doing it but m doing it to himself. The only reason for rejecting a would be if she wasn't well actually (spiritually). K.W. doesn't see that he would really be rejecting Fox + in so doing murder himself - he could not do anything more self-destructive. Yet K.W. supposes that rejecting I would be life-pro‐ moting for m. K.W. says, "R is not truly Well," but then Fox lies. It is for who says R is well (as does R). But Fox has the deciding power. In fixing caffee for R, mis affirming - returning to - Fox. Fox + R are now Fox a R well - not well running parallel. o joins Fox + K. this goes back to my original insight upon reading the story that he lost istensibly but won essentially - because he was back with the Fox (inside his head). K.W. saw this as winning no Also, thing. But the Fox has application or, viz: her lyrics say, R. is miraculously cured. So it is n a real victory, not symbolic, + not just in his head. I admit that my original intention was to show him as losing but a pitiless dispassionate literary statement - i.e. the story - when read back indicates to me, to my surprise, that he on in d 1974 to 1) hearing the Fox clearly again in his head; + 2) the nature of the Fox's lyrics. Without this he would indeed have lost. I sensed in the situation, + not just in the lyrics, the Xtian miracle of resurrection/transmutation: made explicit by the lyrics. Going from my situation with Doris to the story + back to my situation with Doris I see the situation differently (this is the high value of art vis-a-vis life). the thing is, the Fox - the spiritual element can't be thrown out even if you try, it holds the ultimate power + subordinates the sub‐ spiritual or even anti-spiritual. (Viz: since r's statement "I am well" depends on the Fox for validation; lacking the Fox R is wrong + o is right.) In losing, a wins. ("He who gives his life will save it.") This isn't a story about someone who lost "But did the right thing." (Which is sort of how I envisioned it when I began it - optimistically, it could be called the right thing. K.W. says "He lost + it was the wrong thing." I say, i "He won," but I did not see this until I read it over. I had no idea he won. It was a big surprise to me. But the best story artistically would be, He lost ostensibly but in an essen‐ tial miraculous secret inexplicable way (esp an Xtian way) he won, which is exactly what I've got (due to the Fox's lyrics). What saved the story was my refusal to falsify. Consider all the alternatives: no good 1) She does not get well 2) She gets well isn't a us + an 198 conceivable possible worth is this story? 3) She gets well, is a nuisance, + my throws her out (K.W.'s solution). Even if one could correctly say m. was right to throw her out where is there a story in this? KW stigmatizes My version as miserable tragedy - avoidable tragedy, is what he means. To retain the tragedy, m must "be a wimp" (this could be said of Hamlet equally, as Hans reichenbach did!). Thus It teaches bad conduct: wimp conduct (actually KW is factually wrong; there is no implication That M's conduct should be emulated - if t indeed he did lose, as K.W. claims. Only if he essentially won do his actions become a role model some people will read it that he lost - v. the fitte - + won't emulate him. Anyone who sees him as winning would have to see how, what + why - since I state in the title he lost. I do not claim he won (anywhere in the story). If a reader flashes that he won, that reader has flashed on the Xtian transmuting - not sacrificing miracle. So, as I originally realized, two parallel] stories are told. 1) He lost. 2) He won. two mutually contradictory propositions are put forth simultaneously. The story is a riddle, a puzzle, an enigma. It can only be correctly understood if fox's "cripple" lyrics are viewed as a tactic in response to R's "crap" tactic. this is not a berne psychological game but a strategy game. R plays her "crap" card ejecting fox. Fox responds with her "cripple" ard. Fox wins. It's like chess. With her ri pple 199 card fox re-enters + in a commanding position, since she, not mork, gets to determine whether R is cured. The game is over; Fox won so o won, + so did r; hence M. Acts correctly in fixing the coffee The keys to the Kingdom lie in perceiving the simultaneous two mutually exclusive stories: 1) he lost. 2) he won. If only one of the two is perceived - either of the two! - the key is not found, because a new must (or higher) reasoning comes into being in which two mutually negating propositions are seen to exist within one corpus (in this case this story), + out of this the infinite dialectic which I saw in 3-74 is created - so that infinity itself is created (by a kind of oscillation); this is the true basis of reality since all else eventually expires: immortality is put on by the man who "the man who can think this (the dialectic). knew how to lose" thus flip-flops back + forth endlessly, each of the two stories instantly giving rise to the other, its opposite, upon its own coming-to-be, + the domain in which