determining role in select¬ ing me; chance actions on my part, Alone, without a priest or guide, I reperformed an ancient myth whose nature I still do not fully understand- Mainly it had to do with a letter which both informed me of something about myself (my actual nature and actual origins) and posed a grave problem that I had to solve. Had therebeen no letter there would have been no other universe, no altered, enhanced perceptions, no ’’second signal. ” Likewise for the golden fish sign. Likewise for the time of the year. Likewise, in fact, for my burning a votive candle at a holy shrine. That this was indeed, then, an authentic religious experience I now cannot doubt. It was not precisely mystical, certainly not psychotic, certainly not a drug experience (although a component necessary for it to happen may have been the washing-out from ray system of the mellow jello; I can't be sure). I can look at it this way; God approached me through the medium of a sacred mythic rite reperformed; reperformance of that rite put me in touch with the Divine and in fact the Divine Realm. But it must never be forgotten that absolute faith amounting to knowledge, knowledge of the divine, was the essential first step; without it, reperforming the rite would have accomplished nothing. Here the pentathol was a crucial factor. -6- In that sodium pentathol is a drug —a very powerful drug— it can he argued that drugs were a factor. So, too, was intense physical pain and the trauma of the wisdom tooth extraction. So, too, were the severe anxieties I had been chronically feeling. All these plus other factors were necessary. Nonetheless I maintain that I now know why what I call ”3-74” took place: it took place because I entered the dream time or illo tempore or sacred time, and I aid this because I reperformed a mythic rite from thousands of years ago and I did it with total faith. What has defeated me in the past has been the "Why me?" question and this answer is responsive to that question, as no answer has been before; it stresses two points: (1) Mythic rite reperformed. At a specific time of the year. (2) Chance. Neither has been stressed or understood by me before now. I was a participant in an ancient fertility rite (see the quote from the E.B. on the subject of time, supra), the purpose of which was to insure revitalization or rebirth or spiritual birth of the participant and perhaps even immortality. This is why I sometimes have thought it was Dionysus who entered me. it was the corn king, and one avatara of him is Jesus Christ. Second, the mystery element of anamnesis Was involved — a major part of 3-74. I joined an old religion, one predating recorded history. In a sense what I experienced was magic, holy magic, a kind of enchantment (tills shows up in VALIS REGAINED). What I say of this is: there is another universe, and through such reenactment of sacred ritual us I acci¬ dentally engaged In you can enter it and commune with the gods. - 7 - This is recognized by e.g. Eliade, but how many "civilized” people have experienced it? We have lost the techniques, the gnosis. Now what do I say about the novel VALIS? It is about this voyage on the axis of another kind of time...and what is this other kind of time like? I perceived the phylogons ana the fact that nothing that is past truly ceases to be, but, rather, is added to progres¬ sively; accretional layers are laid down, becoming ever more reticulated and arborized. This is the main discovery, this permanence of past and present reality — hence all reality. Flux only adds; it does not take away. Another aspect of this sacred time is that the present extends for thousands of years and embraces countless historical episodes laminated into massive gestalts, as if one picture is becoming continually more and more clear, a vast struggle is revealed; that between the Empire —which is a prison— and the forces of freedom who penetrate it from without. These are the constants in the flux of variables. These never change. The Empire always has existed and the fighters for freedom have always attacked it from outside and rebelled against it from within. We lead countless lives —reincarnation— but they add up, actually, to one extended species or phylogenic life, a|l of which can be remembered. Each of us plays the Same role again and again in society after society; if he fought the Empire once he will fight it again and if he was part of its apparatus ho will be part of its apparatus again. So two sides, roughly speaking of light and of dark, contend. There is only one space-time and it is a perpetual matrix. Evil is in control. Evil has been in control for thousands of years. Light and the true God have been pushed to the periphery or are enslaved within the Prison. Only a short time separates the first incarnation of God as Jesus Christ from the Second Incarnation. The record . has not yet come but it is imminent; those who were alive at the First arealive now and will be alive to see him return. What we call "thousands of years" are only a small interval, in this other time, this sacred or mythic or dream time. In fact, God has penetrated the prison, the domain of the Empire, in a camouflaged --disguised, hidden— form. This is the great secret: He is here now, already, but veiled by mimesis. He directs and aias his disciples within the Prison. He can take over their minds and assist them by enthusiasmos. The Empire knows of this but does not understand it. The space-time world of this Sacred time is found in the Bible as the book of Acts. Thus when I wrote TEARS I discerned this stratum, showing through in a ghostly fashion, as the basis of reality. Acts describes the power of Rome as expressed in the Procurator Felix. He interrogates his prisoner Paul; Paul is under arrest and in the hands of the Roman authorities. He will eventually be released. This is the supra-temporal template: the power and presence of Rome; the procurator; the prisoner who is interrogated and finally released. The Empire would like to destroy him but in the final phases of the encounter between them fails. Thus the life of the prisoner ends not in martyrdom but in freedom, -9- in release. This is in a. sense an opposite story from that of the crucifixion where tire prisoner is condemned to death and dies. Hero the prisoner is set free and this means that Sacred time has moved forward from the time of the gospels to a different time. The prisoner slides through the fingers of the- Empire. This story is found in the life of John Taverner the fifteenth century English musician who was arrested on suspicion of possessing heretical books out then released "because he is but a musician," as Cardinal Woolsey put it. The Empire has lost the ability to state its case; it cannot close the trap. The later history of this archetype will be that the Empire will lose even more power; eventually it will not even be able to arrest its victim, let alone crucify him. That time has not yet come. At this point the Empire, expressing itself through its police system, is puzzled by its victim; it suspects him of wrong¬ doing but does not know what that wrongdoing is. Tne Empire does not know enough; its information is too limited. So for it the victim is an enigma. (The evolution from Pilate's bewilderment in confronting Jesus can be seen; bewilderment w.ms theme already.) The procurator Felix interrogates the suspect but Cannot determine from what he says what precisely he has done. Time passes. The Empire tries again and again to get information, but fails. This is Kafka's THE CASTLE in reverse. In talking to the suspect, the prisoner, the Procurator begins to suspect that the prisoner hamself does not know what he has done; he himself does not know if: he is guilty, and if guilty, of what. The prisoner cannot tell -10- the procurator what he would like to know, even if the prisoner is willing to- This increases the puzzle. Perhaps the enemy of the Empire is so large and so vague that the prisoner is not the adversary at all, but only a sort of front for it, an extension of it. This, for the Procurator, is a dreadful tnought. The archetype of this is Euripides' THE BACCHAU, in which the King of Tears arrests the stranger only to find that he has a priest of the god dionysus in his prison; the priest as the god bursts the prison and drives the king into insanity such as to Cause him to lose his identity even as a man. The king — or the procurator — can release the prisoner but he himself will suffer great harm; instead of Christ crucified Pilate suffers unbearable loss. Time, which starts with the gospels, has moved forward to what is almost a complete reversal of the image. The arrested and tried god does not die; the interrogator suffers spiritual death or physical injury, and the prisoner goes free. Everything that the prisoner lost is restored to him. This is referred to in the Bible as the end-times day on which everything is restored. It is a sign of the Parousia. The Empire is not glad to know this because it means that God Himself has taken the field; God is entering the battle. This is the broadest outline of the plan of history, unfolded in stages. It is not perceptible in the flux of mundane tine, only in the constants of sacred time. Thus in entering sacred time —be reenacting the sacred myth— one sees the stage that Sacred history has reached, and the constituents that make up sacred or salvific history. This is the final revelation. - 11 - And yet there is a further level of reality disclosed by Sacred time and the realm governed within that time. A kosmos, in the sense that Pythagoras spoke of it, is being completed, selfcompleted, from the flux-process visible in mundane time. This is the noumenal world that Plato and Parmenides spoke of as being in contrast to the sensible (empirical) world; the person lifted into sacred time perceives a priori this ediface that is alive and grow¬ ing, this cosmic organism that is Christ Himself the Head and Lord of Creation. Christ as kosmos — this is the final mystery. A new cosmos within the ruins of the old, for which the old is a stockpile of parts. Christ is progressively mere and more subjecting reality to his rule, which is one of sentient order and harmony, against which in contrast the old universe appears to be mere chaos. Thus the person who correctly performs the mythic rite —and does so with absolute faith— encounters the God whom he worships as world rather than anthropomorphic figure. In the final vision, Christianity becomes indistinguishable from Brahmanism, because in this encounter with the cosmic Christ the worshiper is himself a Christos, a microform of the Risen Lord. And then finally, above even this, which eventually will be presented to God, is the semplice lume that Dante speaks of: One simple flame. God is the book of the universe, whose pages are scattered throughout. The sacred history itself forms a narrative that can be discerned, but it i.s obscure a by the normal flux. Everything is written down and has been written down from the beginning, as the Jews knew from the disclosure of the Torah. Basically, sacred history exists as information; first in terms of temporal sequence; first in order