the JW)" - "These efforts will be in secret" vs "These efforts will be in the open." - "The Kingdom will come into existence invisibly" vs "The Kingdom will burst in dramatically" - "Secret efforts are going on now" vs "There is nothing happening to bring on the Kingdom" - "Christ is here now, invisibly" vs "Christ is in heaven + will return here later" Six flashed-on realizations. There may be more. - "Tyranny rules in the form of the open church + the civil governments: the Empire" vs "Xtianity is allied with civil governments + both are godly - not the Empire" M-W II definition: Logos, n. (Gr., the word or form which expresses a thought, also, the thought.) 1. Philo. The rational principle in the universe; specif. : a. With Heraclitus that which is at once the moving and regulating principle in things, identified with the element fire, and the element in man by which he perceives the order of things. b. With Philo and various Alexandrian sects, a principle intermediate between the ultimate and divine reality and the mind of man; hence a revealer, a messenger. c. With the Stoics, the divine ruling principle, material in its nature, which is immanent or pervasive of all reality "as a drop of wine in a glass of water." 2. Theol. The Word (that is, the actively expressed, creative, and revelatory thought and will) of God, at once distinguished from and identified with him. E of PH: In Arianism the Logos ceased to be equated with God, since its function of cosmic creation was regarded as inconsistent with the necessary imrnutability of the deity. I did not experience personality with Valis (Logos) as I did with God. So it is not just a matter of agape; it also has to do with personality. And the thoughts (message traffic, information) of Valis were arrangements of the material world; Valis used reality as a "groove" or carrier. Thus it is totally locked into world; it is not Nous, but reality arranged into information -- like a computer. It (Valis/ Logos) is neither immaterial mind (Nous) nor physical reality but arrangement of physical reality. This is not true of God. Then I am an Arian; I connect Logos with world, whereas God is totally other than world. Is the Logos Christ? Certainly, since it is St. Sophia who is Christ. But the personality of Jesus was the human part; and there were many Christian elements connected with 2-3-74. The Logos is the intermediary between God and the mind of man; by it in him he can then see it arranging (i.e. immanent in) world. And Logos is the realm of the eide; I saw that, too. But none of this is God; it is God's Cosmogenator; through it God created the universe. There is no doubt in my mind that (1) Valis was in process, + (2) this process was a self (i.e. totally homeostatic) completion of what I call the macrometasomakosmos; process was fundamental to it (e.g. the dialectic, the rest-motion binary modes, reticulating + arborizing). Now, if indeed Valis is the Logos / Christ / St Sophia, Arius is correct: "He [Christ/Logos] is a creature + belongs to the realm of becoming... [God, in contrast] does not change + does not vary" (E of Ph.) This is confirmed by scripture. Pr. 8:23: "The Lord created me the beginning of his works, before all else that he made, long ago. Alone, I was fashioned in times long past, at the beginning, long before Earth itself." Arius says "We confess one God, who alone is unbegotten, alone eternal, alone without beginning, alone true, alone possessing immortality, alone wise + good." The E of Ph goes on, "God is alone or unique. This was a theme of Platonic philosophy + early Christian thought. There can be only one unbegotten... The Logos is the first of all creatures but belongs with them + not with the transcendent Father." Although I do not wish to agree, my experience of/with Valis is exactly this, + it is very likely that my unquestioned trinitarianism impeded my recognition of Valis as the Logos/Christ (1) because he was in process of becoming, + (2) involved with world. If Arius' view of the Logos is adopted, it because clear immediately that Valis/Ubik is the Logos, + in 11-17-80 I found the Father (God) different in several fundamental ways: 1) God is not the process of becoming. 2) God is transcendent, other utterly than world. 3) God has personality, but Valis was rational; there is a difference: Valis was pure reason. But like an AI system. 4) God's nature was agapē. 5) God was infinite along all axes; but Valis needed world in order to think, it used world as carrier + medium for its messages/thoughts/information so there is an essential link between Valis + world (this suggests the Stoic doctrine of Logos). E of Ph on Arius: "But God is not merely unique in transcendent isolation. He is also unique because his relationship to the world is that of complete sovereignty. He is the only ruler, judge, + disposer of all things. There are no other beings to rival his sovereignty + power. He does not change + he does not vary." "All things other than God are created by the will of God out of nothing." My 11-17-80 experience has turned me from a Docetist (Gnostic) to an Arian! I perceive Valis totally involved in the world order; in fact insofar as the term world order means arrangement + structure, Valis -i.e. the Logos- is the [rational in the] world order. Yet it seemed to have invaded a lower, irrational world-order + is in combat with it (this is Johannine pure + simple). It (the Logos) is certainly at the very least the pure instrument of God's will. Perhaps it is the reason-mechanism by which + through which God governs the universe, this is the Alexandrian view of the Logos as intermediary between God + the universe. What seems to me most likely (based on my 2 experiences + on my own reasoning) is that 1) the Logos is world reason now 2) acts as an intermediary between God + men's minds (Philo + the Alexandrians) 3) is the element in men's minds by which they perceive the order of things (Heraclitus) 4) was God's agent in creating the world order + existed before the world order; i.e. God's first creation (Proverbs 8:22) 5) is Christ (4th Gospel) hence incarnated itself as Jesus 6) hence is St Sophia (Proverbs 8:22) 7) is not God + is in process of self completion as the highest entity/being/organism in the world (Arius) 8) while totally rational + wise, + implants/imparts this to world, does not have personality -as God does- + does not possess agapē as its einai; noein is its einai (2-3-74 + 11-17-80). 9) The world order (i.e. reality / the universe / creation) is being assimilated by it (Teilhard de Chardin). Viz: it originally acted as the agent of creation (since it preceeded creation), then at a given later time entered creation to revitalize it + transmute it into its own soma. This is a meta-process invisible to us. 10) It is absolutely involved with creation + despite being the crown of creation + its goal (it is both the origin + the goal of creation) it must be ranked with created things -i.e. with creation- + not with God, who is totally transcendent + does not need creation as it (Valis / the Logos) does. 11) It is immanent in creation (the Stoics) + is ubiquitous in it. A very interesting notion has come to me. "Matter is plastic in the face of mind." Reality is totally acted on by the Logos, but never is the Logos acted on by reality. In a certain very real sense, the Logos is the true reality, whereas the material spatiotemporal world is totally epiphenomenal + in a sense irreal; it is the arrangement (Logos) of the iron filings that is real - by "iron filings" read material physical spatiotemporal world. Oh dear. Plato already thought of this. By Logos read "realm of the eide," the macrometasomakosmos. World is "groove" + Logos is the "music" (or "story"). So the Logos is the true creation! We just see (sensibly) its outer form or physical shell. Logos is reality correctly seen. An example: when I saw the superimposition of two spatiotemporal sets (continua). The "common essence" or "morphological arrangement" is the Logos - note the term "arrangement"! All this is very Platonist. So I must go back to my earlier pages (circa 498-650) when I talk about the "morphological arrangement exploded through thousands of miles + years" + reinterpret it in terms of the Logos doctrine. Then this meta-abstracting that I did in 2-74 + more fully in 3-74 has to do with my perceiving the Logos; + the truth of this statement is proved by the fact that very soon in 3-74 I saw Valis external to me, + also inwardly experienced its mind - it as totally rational mind. Christ is the true arrangement of the world. Of creation. This is what the following diagram points to: {illustration:} ..+ Acts AD 45....USA 1974 -.. ..............I...........I.............. .........common essence......Logos/Christ (Morphological arrangement of the epiphenomenal, semireal spatiotemporal world!) (Cf Plato.) After all, I did realize (recently) that Valis, the "2nd signal" + the macrometasomakosmos (plus the mind that was in touch with mine + revealed e.g. the dialectic) are all one, that "one" is Valis, + Valis is the Logos / Christ / Hagia Sophia. As far as cosmic resorption goes, it is possible that the world of multiplicity -entropic disintegration + flux + differentiation- is the Logos in process. + I saw entropic time reverse to become negentropic time. After all, the Logos came before creation; not Prajāpani but the Logos disintegrated + differentiated itself; this did not involve God, who is totally transcendent + other. The Logos by disintegrating + differentiating itself to form/become creation (the flux realm of multiplicity) camouflages itself as this multiplicity; but (as in the Prajāpani story) reintegration occurs after the point of total exhaustion (entropy) comes; + it is this reintegrative process that I saw that I call Valis + the macrometasomakosmos; it has to do with cosmic resorption [+] enantiodromia. I saw it! I saw the spatiotemporal flux world of entropic disintegration, differentiation + multiplicity return to its source: the Logos, out of which it originally comes. The Prajāpani story provides an absolutely essential key, because it explains what I call Valis camouflaging itself as plural objects + their processes. Somehow I cast off against the stream of [entropic] time + saw the first created thing of God: the Logos. This is how it created the universe: out of itself: plurality out of primal unity. I reversed (abolished?) time. XXI 12-7-80 1 The Logos --by being the Logos-- is how Jesus upon his death can be the Cosmic Christ, penetrating and assimilating the world; it is how the macrometasomakosmos (with the reticulated phylogons) could be: the Logos is the explanation. Teilhard de Chardin didn't have to depend only on the Captivity letters; he knew the Alexandrian Logos doctrine and could see how it applies to Christ now. The key statement is there in VALIS: I describe Valis invading the world, and I designate this as the rational invading the irrational. This is clearly the Logos, which is the principle of reason (rationality) in the universe. Thus, in writing VALIS, I saw the situation --I understood what I had seen in 3-74-- with astounding clarity. Teilhard de Chardin figured it out by studying the Captivity letters and everything he could get his hands on re the non-Christian Logos. Remember: when Paul's Captivity letters were written the Fourth Gospel did not yet exist. Paul may not have known of an identification between Christ and the Logos. The flux, spatiotemporal, material