i.e. Eastern; 11-17-80 was Western + Xtian; both are true, + both are reached by the one route of compassion). So 3-74 represented the final extinction of my individual self + a return to Brahman (God) + it is a culmination of a lifetime of moksa-compassion experiences that finally released me from Karma + Maya; + I saw the God-field. I was led along this route (journey) by God. From moksa to moksa. + it's all in "VR," in the dying dog in the ditch + Emmanuel's anamnesis + recovery of his true identity. Buddha + Schopenhauer: abolishing one's cravings i.e. will; but more profound is the Brahman slayer-slain recognition: "I am that which I slay," which abolishes self on the spot. This is the real insight. Tha "slayer-slain" identification is literally a perception, a realization of a fact, a true real fact; one does not just project one's own feelings onto/into the other (this is empathy); no: one realizes one is [also] the other. This is the crucial epistemological discovery set off by compassion, i.e. compassion leads to knowledge: that one is not oneself truly but - okay. "Tat tvam asi," as Sankara pointed out. + if one is a particular given other (the slain) one is other universally, + the universal self or being is Brahman (or God). This is the Atman-Brahman identification + it is not "just" a feeling, it is understanding: a discovery of the true state of things, esp. of one's own nature + identity + being. To miss the epistemological significance + to simply regard it as a feeling is to miss the point entirely. In all those incidents (cat, beetle, rat, Honor Jackson) I learned/knew something along a progressive continuum, whose payoff was first 2-3-74 + then 11-17-80. A sequence of conversions, guilt to sorrow to compassion to love to God to bliss. The biological individual predatory self-advancing will cannot survive the arcing across between the slayer + the slain (hunter + its prey). + this drive, as Schopenhauer showed, is the basis of our enslavement + delusion; this will must be extinguished by some means; I have outlined the means (art, especially music, esp. "Parsifal," esp. act III, does this, too, this doubling back + suspension or extinction of the will, as Schopenhauer noted). It's not a matter of chalking up merits on a tote board, it's a matter of realization, of understanding of the real situation; if this realization were not epistemologically true, nothing would happen. It's a realization that ... etc. That x, not y, is the case. This is why writing the dying dog scene in "VR" literally put me in an altered state of consciousness, like a powerful drug, it's sort of a mixture of Brahmanism, Buddhism + Xtianity (the last of these evolving out of the humaneness of the Jewish Torah, e.g. toward the weak, animals, the helpless + poor). The true blitz is Brahman, however, as Sankara interprets it. Oh yes; the WWII film footage of the Japanese soldier burning to death. This is major.¹ This "slayer-slain" perception (realization) is not [just] a moral matter but has to do with intelligence, since it involves cognition; this is one key to how Mitleid works its magic but the further key is that God's einai is agapē; 11-17-80. This is the next discovery after the epistemological discovery about world (2-3-74) so there is one step beyond Brahman (i.e. Valis); it is the transcendent loving Father (my sequence is Western; in the East 3-74 would have followed hierarchically after 11-17-80, not come before) ¹ Because it is the root of my tax strike stand, which is the specific jeopardy I put myself in, + specifically where God/Christ/Valis aided (rescued) me, literally. A fact is a fact + it is a fact that the slayer is the slain: his own prey (victim), when he arcs across to it his entire universe ceases to be the same - + himself as well. He is not here + not here now: potentially he is anyone anywhere at any time, which explains why the compassions of my earlier life led to my becoming -in 3-74- someone else at another time + place. My locus in myself as myself was destroyed. The one ingredient of the prodromal stage that I've failed to take into account that ended with 3-74 was my hearing about Lorraine Heins' cancer + my sense of helpless grief; whereupon I lit a perpetual votive candle. I had reached the end of the line in terms of grieving, + I knew it; I couldn't even find out how she was doing. But in a certain very real sense it all happened in 1970 vis-à-vis Nancy, + my writing "Tears"; 2-3-74 was a sort of opening of that package, the pay off. (+ beyond doubt a miracle + a rescue + a theophany.) My view involved two premises - one Western + one Eastern, both equally important 1) "The slayer is the slain" realization + this is "tat tvam asi" + it is a fact, not just a belief; this is knowledge of the truth. 2) The einai of God is agapē, + it is impossible to perform the "tat tvam asi" perceptual act without feeling agapē; each gives rise to the other; they are two sides to the same thing - agapē arising from sorrow-to-compassion-to-agapē which next yields joy because agapē takes you to God. Thus sorrow is converted to joy. (Due to agapē.) Guilt (conscience) to sorrow (contrition) to compassion (a mixture of sorrow + agapē) to pure agapē to God (reality, hence Maya is banished) to bliss (joy). The full person, not just his intellect, is involved in this sequence. It involves the will turning back on itself, as Schopenhauer rightly says + all this is related to aesthetic involvement/perception, which has to do with will-less contemplation: this is the great disinterest which is the extinction of the will. The will being essentially irrational, this sequence is viewed by me as the in-breaking of the rational (disinterest) into the irrational. The God who allows [things, creatures] to be, rather than wills (causes) them to be. Reading over these pages (17/31) a few days later, I am convinced that indeed I have found the lifelong root of 2-3-74 + 11-17-80 in this history of unfolding "slayer-slain" identification-moksas on my part, +, what is more, I homologize Xtianity + Buddhism/Brahman through the common element of compassion - a major accomplishment! 12-26-80 This is why I suspect that the Torah is involved (as in the Hebrew letters decoding the Xerox missive). Am I not in fact talking about + dealing with cabala? I certainly am! The blood of Christ is here as living information; it -his blood- may even be the Torah, the third Torah. This is what I call the plasmate. But the corpus Christi is here, too, + that is what was present when the information about Chrissy was given to me - communicated to me: Christ is the Logos-wisdom. There is some kind of Logos-Sophia soma. + the fact that there is no thinking but rather arrangements of physical information is the big, in fact absolute, clue. Christ can only replace the universe with his cosmic body if he replaces it physically; he must substitute the physical for the physical if he is to regenerate the Kosmos, hence the 4th Gospel says, "In him the Logos was made flesh," the importance of which I am only now beginning to realize. It is creation that he is regenerating, is it not? So he must exist at the substantial level of reality - to the extent that reality is physical in the first place; I mean, more accurately, the reality field. He must become that field at least in terms of its structure. That is, he must exert plenary power over it: sovereign power, as Pantocrator. Yes, this is Christ as Pantocrator, he is not other + transcendent, as the Father is, but is intimately involved in creation, exactly as I depict in "Ubik." This is what Ubik is. Not the Logos but the Logos become Pantocrator, a transformation in its (the Logos') relation to the universe due to the incarnation. Hagia Sophia is to be regarded as having been transcendent to creation prior to the First Advent; this is clear from Pv 8:22 - with the Father. This is what the incarnation -"The Logos made flesh"- is all about; this is the great sacrifice. The Logos made itself subject to its own creation - was killed by it, whereupon it began its work of penetrating creation invisibly from the lowest stratum up. It's like that myth of Heilouwele (sp?) that Eliade relates: upon her death she camouflaged herself as this + that. This also fits in with what I read in the "Gita" about Krishna (e.g. "the dice-player's cunning" etc). But where Krishna's real form is time, Christ's is -so to speak- anti-time as if he combats the old, original order (Krishna here equalling the law laid down at the beginning; what is implied is a dynamic process universe, with Christ combatting + progressively defeating the old, original order personified as time - c.f. Heraclitus. "The infinitely old divinity" etc. This fits the Gnostic model where Christ combats the power of the original creator-creation: i.e. the law - heimarmene. The old oriental-Indian universe has been invaded by a dynamic process that began at a specific time + place in history with a specific act; this fits in with the insights of "Valis": the rational has invaded the irrational which came first. Therefore a dynamic, process, evolving -rather than static- situation is envisioned. This was "God's secret plan, hidden over the ages from the ancient powers but revealed to us now" - to quote Paul. + it is precisely this dynamic evolving process that was disclosed to me, it taking two forms: 1) in human history (the secret Xtians vs the BIP/Empire) 2-74 2) cosmically (Christ defeating the old creation in combat, dismantling + assimilating it to form his own macrometasomakosmos). 3-74 Both (1) + (2) involve a dialectic - one form operating in human history (stegenographic Messianic chiliastic history), the other in terms of the cosmos as a whole.¹ Both are invisible to our eyes, + in both, Christ is the head or psychē. So I received two revelations. ¹ i.e. it is metaphysical + cosmic + both are discussed in "Valis" - viz: "the universe is in the invisible process of turning into the Lord" + "the BIP has been overthrown by the secret Xtians to make way for the PTG." The latter was revealed to me first (2-74). Only later (3-74) was the cosmic, mystical battle disclosed; this came when Valis' mind fused with mine. There is a connection between the two, "Rome is the physical tool of Satan," as the J. Bible puts it. Behind the mundane, secular tyrannical power (the Empire) lies a supernatural power that transcends this world + its history. The two can't be separated. I must shame-facedly admit that although both were revealed to me (although in different ways + at different times) + although I explicitly deal with both in "Valis" I have never before perceived that two revelations + two "regions," so-to-speak, are involved. But they interact. + these twin revelations are in accord with Xtian Messianic, chiliastic thinking, although there are some very important original cosmic, mystical elements in my second revelation (but which accord with the captivity letters of Paul); viz: I am into metaphysical, epistemological, cosmic aspects not generally contemplated (but they do accord with scripture, they are not heretical). I see now that the later revelation which came to me directly from Valis' mind accords with the prior one that blitzed into being in 2-74, upon my seeing the Golden Fish sign; the 2-74 one had to do only with so-to-speak secular history, or political history. But the later one was mystical + cosmic + dealt with