been at least latently (esp in my writing) for decades; with 2-3-74 being restored full identity, powers + memory. Under the duress of the lethal snare in 2-3-74, in the face of imminent death, Dionysos in me (as me!) broke loose, broke his bonds of amnesia + lost his human form, + limitations. Then I am what I call Valis. (As I have always realized was one very real possibility, but I couldn't ever say how this could be.) my (sic) meta-abstraction of 2-74, then, was, very simply, recollection (anamnesis) of my own nature fidentity: that was my realization. + that nature soon ineluctably broke through - the phosphene graphics "trip." A final extraordinary thought. If I as Dionysos (Zeus-Zagreus) put "the Bacchae" + Acts material in "Tears," which I certainly did, then I put the King-Felix cypher in + it probably refers to me + says, "I am here. D-141 am in it referring to myself. - No wonder I was intoxicated + manic in the spring of '74 when my true nature epiphinated. Then 11-17-80 was Zeus talking to me: My Father. Well, it would appear I was right supra when I said that Dionysus is the real author of "Valis." But he is the true author by + large of my whole corpus of works, con‐ stantly moving toward apotheosis. Hence "Valis" is the culmination of my career, not a sharp break, as Gregg Rickman realized. + as Jim Hanes said, "Phil Dick has been seeking God for years in his writing; in "veil[?]" he has found him." Corrolate this with what Gregg Rickman finds in terms of my savior theme. This all sheds a wholly new light on my agapē theme (which is the core of my writing, its axis) + my "human vs android" discrimination - as eschatological judge. This certainly makes my corpus of opi, culminating in "Valis" + its prophecies a remarkable, unitary artifact. I am not Dionysos; I am a shaman under his power. but he is, by + large, + ever increasingly over the years, the actual author of my opus. so years of writing amounts to one continuous + my rising curre of self-awareness, quantum-leap eaking (epiphanizing) in 2-3-74 + "Valis." or Until "Valis" it was latent, but then all at once it is explicit, if properly read + under‐ oding although I do not explicitly say, This is digaysis writing tis"; nonetheless is. The expernational insights in strate." D-148 that one last best gift. I think if he hadn't mentioned the little animals caught in traps It brought back that part of "the Bacchae" that I love so. I have a clear conception, intellectually, of a sort of fusion between the Dionysus of "the Bacchae." Jesus of the Gospels + YHWH, + although + may be mad I am under the profound sense that this one entity resied me + that I have seen him - it has been several times, +, most recently, as what I call (1) void; (2) Valis; (3) "I--[am]." Now I have forgotten. But that I grieve shows all too well what I no longer see. It is, in a sense, a clear measure of my worship, that I suffer the loss so. Surely hell is, as I said to michael bishop, to have known God + now to have lost him. But can I ever lose him?what about my Cartesian analytical proposition + my sense of just the other day (1) that everyone + every‐ thing I ever loved was really God + that, since I can discover him in world - as in "Ubik" I can trace has autographs - I can find them again since "them" is "him" However, having figured that out, + they read "willows" + probably definitative just had a colossal inight about my meta‐ abstraction. It had to do - not with world primarily - but with my own identity (in the sense of ontological nature, not e.g. my name). my nature spanned + embraced Acts + USA 1974, This is why they as world (plural spatiotemporal sets) fused syntonically my nature opened out in time as it did later in space. This is of course not reincarnation; it is an immortal vast non-episodic nature (if it was reincarna im I would not have seen Acts, as I have often noted I encompassed this vast a B-143 then, especially the prophecies, are probably legitimate I would be "the stranger" in "the Bacchae" priest of Dionysos, able to draw on has power when imprisoned (or threatened). So Valis is a God who is here, + who I am associated with + in some respects identical with (at certains times); I have a dual identity, like Jesus: part man, part God, an avatar. In me + as me, Dionysos ("Jesus") walks the Earth. the God who I have seen + long for (as put forth in "Willows") is my father Abba, whom I have seen. Yes, Valis is the Father (as in 11-17-80), but in some real sense I am identical with him; yet also separate. I can therefore know him (1-1780). I know Abba, to a real degue I know his nature; I am little compared with him, + I - ah yes; the AI voice said, "You have been adopted"; I forgot that totally! didn't it have to do with my giving to Covenant House? the night Platt was here; Yes: you have been adopted. (obviously as son + heir of God.) It is probably of little importance what I write now: "Valis" contains the major revelations + prophecies, upon my recovery of my identity looking back on my crushing depression of yesterday I can see that it was "willows" that set it off - "the last gift is the best, the gift of forgetfulness." The book recalled to me what I have forgotten + why I must forget it. paradoxically, by describing it so well, grahame does it recall it to me + abolished. B-144 reality field, as I say, this is not reincarnation; it is my own actual identity in the sense of esse. Thomas + PKD are parts of one integrated whole, which is why Acts + USA 1974 were; the integration was primarity of me, i.e. internal. This would account for my perception of the trans- or supra-temporal constants; my nature is in that "region." Also, this would explain memories of blowing up the BIP with explosives, which cannot have to do with AD70. Hence the ontological significance is primary; the epistemological a mere spinoff. I have been concentrating on world, not on self. The key, missing, term here is: soul immortal soul, precisely in Plato's sence (which he connects with (1) anamnesis + (1) , the recovery of comprehension of the eide. What is con firmed here is Platonism + Neo-Platonism it is quite evident that a fall into forgetfulness is involved. Thus as I've believed since out into when saw my meta-abstraction correctly as as hence the Platonist recovery of the universals I've sensed that Plato + Platonism is the key. + my "one mother 3 times not 3 mothers" is Plato's recovery of the eide (a meta-abstraction not understood even by Aristotle) now, as to the Xtian clements, I have always been involved in Xtian activity, but it is Platonism that is the case (as realize here, his doctrine of the migiations of the immortal soul, incarnated here in bodies). Probably, then, my experience of God is that of Plotinus' again as I've long suspected. So Plato is right; particular have only a derived riality: true world is the side + their inter-retatedness. My true nature + dentity, then, is as an immortal soul living in the world of the eide. So these elements of plan knism: anamnesis, recovery of the eide, realization that one is an immortal soul faller into forget ulness the "mother times not 3 mothers meta-abstraction; + the experience of reality a [?] outside of space time + causality, Plotinus' the One (God) folder 84 - 001 "The incident in which the information about Chrissy's birth defect was transferred to me differed from ordinary reality only in respect to this fact: I was aware of it," that is, that in some sense reality was simulated, and supernatural or super-advanced entities were controlling and informing me for my own good: steering me through a dangerous and deadly situation to safety. If I am right, that due to the pentathol etc. I had simply become aware of the true state of affairs --rather than the true state of affairs differing-- then this has the most colossal implications, more so than if the situation were unique, rather than the awareness on my part unique. My mind was under the power of another mind and my actions under its power likewise. Pretextual causes...as when one is either under hypnosis or in a state of post-hypnotic suggestion. It had to do with the Xerox missive, and I am hampered because I don't know who sent it, why, or what would have happened if I had not contacted Los Angeles. Magic equals advanced technology equals Merlin equals 11-17-80 equals a tutelary spirit. Am I right in thinking that it was reality itself, disclosing --at least to me-- a sentient and volitional side -- it all goes back to my "meta-abstraction" in which I realized --recovered-- the truth, whatever that is. The statement by the AI voice that the Xerox missive was "from an intelligence officer in the Army" tells me that it was an official letter, from the ruling authorities, and not a letter of dissent, of revolution. The AI voice is not drawing any distinctions between different manifestations of officialdom, of authorities; the voice only deals in the Empire versus the secret revolutionary Christians. Viewed this way, the Xerox missive came from the Empire, although the particular branch is not identified. But the information is sufficient. What does the AI voice care which version of officialdom it came from? What do I care? This is not the issue; the issue is officialdom and authority versus dissent. So the statement is fully informative. folder 84 - 002 folder 84 - 002 This would equate the apocalyptic vision with the infinite, which is also the timeless, the eternal, hence the resemblance to Plato's Forms. Finitum capax infiniti. And also Hegal's statement, "The finite is not real" (the obvious converse being, "The infinite is real," but I am saying, We see a little narrow slice, and that is the finite, but without our seeing it, it extends into the infinite; and I saw this that one time, while wasted). (As Spinoza's third attribute to substantia.) No; I think it's conveyed by this: "And the court sat." Daniel? "The books were opened and the court sat" or vice versa; "The court sat and the books were opened." This is the essence of the apocalypse. I looked up the reference in Dn, "The court sat, and the books were opened." This turns out to be the passage in which the Ancient of Days with his white hair like wool is mentioned, and of course this has to do with the dream in TEARS as I've long realized. But now I notice --by studying for the first time the J Bible-- that in this section (Dn 7) there is not only mention of the Ancient of Days, the court and the opening of the books (the J Bible note on the books is, "The book in which men's actions, good and bad, are recorded. The Book of the Predestinate.") but also this: "I gazed into the visions of the night. And I saw, coming on the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man. He came to the one of great age and was led into his presence. On him was conferred sovereignty, glory and kingship, and men of all peoples, nations and languages became his servants. His sovereignty is an external sovereignty which shall never