and reality are the same thing, as the film also showed. So Self + reality are interrelated. Of course it would divide up into 3 realms: past (Inferno), present (Purgatorio) + future (Paradiso); there is always a worse part where you were, the part you're in now (middle) and the better part (future); it's not an arbitrary division. + before the first part, the BIP, lies the stars. Dante's "Comedy" is the best description of the ascent of the soul probably ever written. He places anamnesis as occurring at the top level of purgatorio, just before entering paradiso, which fits my experience. The Soul has finally reached the point where reality is restored to it because memory is restored to it. Ah. My self up to 3-74 was an epiself based on amnesia. Thomas is my true self based on memory (anamnesis) and hence different folder 48 - 013 folder 48 - 013 Nonetheless these characteristics distinguish the 3 realms apart from being merely past, present + future: Of the BIP world, nothing good can be said, it is unmitigatedly bad. The mid realm is a mixture of bad + good elements. The top realm is unmitigatedly good. This suggests that the mid-realm is a fusion of two signals, that there are only two pure realms {note 1}: lower + upper, with the mid-realm compounded of both. Now, upon leaving it, what would you experience? Why, a palpability of two signal sources for the first time; your world which had seemed uniform would turn into set (upper realm) + ground (lower realm). Set would seem divine + you would be fascinated by it; it would shine with beauty. At this point you are freeing yourself from the lower realm, seen as ground - but you can remember when you were located in it + it alone, with no set. Purgatorio is literally pulling apart into its two sources. + then you are rewarded (cf Plotinus) by a vision of the One behind the multiplicity, from which both realms -+ hence the mid-realm too- emanate. {note 1:} The AI voice told me this, + it told me that the upper realm can influence the lower, but not the lower the upper, + that the upper is mind! Thus part of folder 48 - 014 folder 48 - 014 reality (i.e. our reality) is alive: Valis, camouflaged within total reality + combatting the lower realm + assimilating it in an antithetical dialectic. Heaven + hell are enemies + we experience the antithetical interaction of the two as our mixture world. Eventually heaven as sentient entity + realm will conquer + assimilate the lower: it has sent itself in the form of Christ down into the lower (which is why when I remembered the BIP "Tears" world I knew that there was a secret Xtian underground there). {note 1} At first anamnesis abreacted me back to that lowest realm ("Tears"). Well, naturally: restored memory. I had originally been there. So that's where the BIP "Tears" world is that I remember: it is half of -one signal of- our present (I mean my present) mid-realm, the mixed realm. But then I could see the upper realm as separate from the lower, + passed on into it - my "post mortem" experiences. We incorrectly track time in linear sequential form, but actually it is an orthogonal accretional spacial axis. {note 1} + that Christ had been there. folder 48 - 015 folder 48 - 015 We track it like this: Past Present Future -------------------------> a moving point. But actually it is laid down: Future [ one ] paradise future Present [ XXX ] purgatorio, our world Past [ two ] inferno BIP "Tears" {arrow pointing to the middle area of the diagram} mixture Inferno (Rome, Acts "Tears", BIP) lies under our mid-realm + can be retrieved through anamnesis. This views supposes that there is progressive ascending for all souls; in any case ascent is related to time, but not linear time (i.e. time as we experience it: the moving dot of the present - v. "Ubik" for much more accurate model + gnostic/Heidegger concepts of rising + sinking - also v. Bindswanger). This would be individual ascent or descent in one lifetime + would resemble time travel, with rising = the future + sinking = the past. Thus heavenly voices would = from the future + satanic voices = from the past, just as paradiso = the future, + inferno = the past. But not in the linear sense. Parmenides was the first to realize that our world is a two "signal" world; i.e. his forms 1 + 2. folder 48 - 016 I - Form entelechy volition sentience order Future rising growth color freedom Our world: made up of both: the present II - Past sinking death black iron slavery Decay determinism mechanical entropy So the "set" I saw is (doesn't just point to but is) the future. + "ground" is past: i.e. the BIP "Tears" Rome Acts world. The "past" that we normally "remember" without anamnesis is not the true past but sort of a backward extension of the mixed-world present, + of course "the future" is not the actual future at all but a psychological projection of the present; so normally all we have is the moving dot present with imaginary "extension" backward + forward. But anamnesis uncovers, first, the real past, + then unveils the real future [v. p. 822] (along an orthogonal spacial axis of down (past) + up (future) in terms of accretional layers as in "Ubik." (Although it isn't clear in "Ubik" that Ubik is Future. What + when the past is is clear, however; + Ubik fights it. Ubik vs. Decay; i.e. real (i.e. sentient + alive) future vs. past (death, entropy, decay, underneath). So my road to the enlightenment of 2-3-74 came by way of the insights expressed in "Ubik." folder 48 - 017 folder 48 - 017 As far as how reality in itself is built, it's as if the source (Valis, the One) fires the signal like this: {diagram} ]Future ]Present ]Past It's firing both upper + lower realms so-to-speak simultaneously, as if at different color frequencies, so the 3 worlds are not created in a linear time sense (way) at all! This is why "3 Women" so upset me, because it revealed to me what I feared - literally feared; that other realms in space-time are coaxial with this one + not really "before" or "after" in the linear time sense at all. Higher + lower, maybe - but: it's an orthogonal axis along which a given living individual can rise or sink during his lifetime - which would seem to involve a time dysfunction; I repeat: seem to; memory change + hence change in the self would also occur. Viz: if during a given lifetime you rose from the mid-realm to the top realm or fell from the mid-realm to the lower realm, there would be a corresponding change in self + memory (less memory + poorer self if fall; better self + memory if rise) +, as I say, a seeming time dysfunction - i.e. a world shift, which is really you moving on the orthogonal axis. folder 48 - 018 folder 48 - 018 I'll bet you anything that it's rare for a person to pass from one of the three worlds to another during a lifetime, but this is exactly what I did in 2-3-74. Something happened to me during a lifetime that usually occurs between lifetimes; hence my sense both of having died + of coming to life! This is precisely what a Buddha does! + it is a sort of time travel, but not in linear time. Still, the upward motion I made would plunge me into the future, + the future into me - hence the AI voice etc. Time travel, yes; but time as space, + space (i.e. spacial movement) as ascent in terms of two realms (plus the intermingled mixed mid-realm) as the AI voice said. So this isn't a spacial axis we normally understand; it's more like the rising in neo-platonism or "The Comedy." {diagram} A | B My God - if you rose or fell along the AB axis during a lifetime you'd experience - change of personality, altered memories to coincide -render continuity to- the new, different world (level? realm?) you were now in. The new personality + memory would fit the new realm (level) + you'd be puzzled - as if a time dysfunction had occurred, but just affecting you, + for a short while you'd see two worlds superimposed, + have two personalities + sets of memories - due to moving folder 48 - 019 folder 48 - 019 along the AB axis during a lifetime. Surely such a movement during a lifetime would be anomalous + due to intervention by the One. Did I move up or down? Up, because my mood after the "dysfunction" was one of joy, + the month before by anamnesis I remembered a lower realm or level ("the past"). I'm sure it was a rising. An abrupt rising. Waking up; yes; waking up = rising (v. Eliade). + the strident radio points to waking up. + my primal angst fits Heiddeger's analysis of the threshold to authentic being. Rising is proportional to being real. (v. Parmenides.) So I had been in "Tears"! + rose up out of it. There may be many levels distributed throughout the 3 realms, but I think I actually passed from the mid-realm to the upper - which would produce a vast "time" dysfunction; i.e. remolding of self, reality + memory. Since I saw the One (Valis) I certainly rose. I may have actually passed over from the lower to the upper realm during a lifetime - hence vast disturbance of perception of reality, memory, self, time! Here; I'll make a guess. I was born at a high level of the mid- i.e. mixed realm, so some of the lower realm comprised (entered into) my folder 48 - 020 folder 48 - 020 reality, well, I ascended just one level, but that one level involved 1) anamnesis; + 2) the discarding (being freed from) the last hold of the lower realm; i.e. I passed from the top level of purgatorio to the lowest level of the top realm - which is Moksa. I attained the ajna chakra state, + experienced dibba cakkhu + briefly became a Buddha ("through all these events -part one of the book- Siddhartha slept. But now he awakes"). All it took to achieve the Quantum Leap was to choose right vis-a-vis the Xerox missive (which choice rendered me pure - freed of evil; i.e. of the lower realm: I escaped my fate - the determinism of the lower realm). Shiva's ajna eye of discernment: it discerned what the Xerox missive was + what to do with it. A very ancient sense organ that has fallen closed - into disuse, but is latent in us, me. Called forth in me. "Tears" is the lower realm component of our mixed world, + I had been living in it, + in 3-74 it released me so my memory of it was restored paradoxically as it released me; i.e. you get to the garden by way of [seeing] the prison. You don't see the prison until you're released; it's melded into the upper realm, here. Different reality, identity, memory and time (thrust forward: up). folder 48 - 021 So to be enlightened means to shoot forward in time: from Acts ("Tears") to the top level of purgatorio: USA 1974. An apostolic Xtian was saved (via the holy spirit) + so shot forward (upward) in time! To the entrance of heaven: the top level of purgatorio. + then entered heaven (the kingdom). No, it wasn't from apostolic times. It was from a level in purgatorio that partakes more of the lower realm than the one I was moved up to;