final mystery. A new cosmos within the ruins of the old, for which the old is a stockpile of parts. Christ is progressively mere and more subjecting reality to his rule, which is one of sentient order and harmony, against which in contrast the old universe appears to be mere chaos. Thus the person who correctly performs the mythic rite —and does so with absolute faith— encounters the God whom he worships as world rather than anthropomorphic figure. In the final vision, Christianity becomes indistinguishable from Brahmanism, because in this encounter with the cosmic Christ the worshiper is himself a Christos, a microform of the Risen Lord. And then finally, above even this, which eventually will be presented to God, is the semplice lume that Dante speaks of: One simple flame. God is the book of the universe, whose pages are scattered throughout. The sacred history itself forms a narrative that can be discerned, but it i.s obscure a by the normal flux. Everything is written down and has been written down from the beginning, as the Jews knew from the disclosure of the Torah. Basically, sacred history exists as information; first in terms of temporal sequence; first in order of ontology. The mythic ritual is an entry-key Into the sacred narrative. It functions the way an entry-key of a computer functions vis-à-vis a given program. This narrative can be entered from any point in mundanetime by the correct entry-key which in itself tells a story or a part of a story — part of the master narrative (which, as I say, is information out of which reality is generated). What interests me is the apparent fact that there are a number of sacred narratives, not one, so that different entry-keys —which is to say different mythic rites— punch you into different narratives, which is to say different meta—realities. For example, Christianity is only one "narrative" of many; the war between the Empire and its prisoner (who in early chapters is crucified but later on is released unharmed) — this is not the sacred narrative but a sacred narra¬ tive. Christianity then as a sacred history is not the truth but a truth, which can be avoided or punched into, either by design or by accident (I punched into it by accident). Page 16S: Arguments For VALIS Being a Life Form: 1) It did not give rise to reality but later invades it. I.e. reality gave rise to it. 2) It (VALIS is growing us an organism grows, incorporating and subsuming its stockpile environment in dialectical strife. 3) To think, it must arrange and link physical bits to form information. I.e. it is a physical entity. 4) It camouflages itself and: -13 - 5) In the service of this it occludes us. 6) It has infested our communications media. Viz: it uses the world it finds. 7) It is not all of reality (yet). And I have no reason to assume it is omniscient, omnipotent or omnipresent. 8) It exhibits characteristics of a computer; i.e. laws govern it that pertain to thinking systems in general. Even mechanical systems. 9) In a way it is a parasite; e.g. vis-a-vis our communications media and also very possibly us as living, thinking, acting creatures — it may well use us as hosts. Now, I wrote this and then went on to say, "But could this not be mind showing through reality?" and felt I was on the right track ("Matter is plastic in the face of mind" seemed to confirm this). And yet, item (3) perplexes me: 3) To think, it must arrange and link physical bits to form information. I.e. it is a physical entity. Now, here on page 12 of this paper, I come across another and never-before suspected computer-aspect of VALIS: that it contains a number of "sacred histories," which is to say "sacred narratives," not just one; and different mythic rites reperformed key-punch you into entry into particular narratives among the plural narratives; find I called these "programs." Which as I put it means that Christianity is not the truth but only one "sacred narrative," which is to say one sacred history out of a plural number. But how can there be plural histories of the world? How can VALIS contain more than one sacred book (to use Dante’s term)? I punched into Christianity because of the particular mythic rite in reenacted; had I reenacted another mythic rite I would have punched into another "sacred narrative," which is to say program . This thing is an information-porecessing computer or computer-like entity. My reasoning has led me back to Where I was a week ago with the item (3) above. What I have in TEARS is not the truth but just a narrative; but it is a Torah-like narrative it is not the book of the universe/world but a book. It is one out of many. This is extraordinary. I had (last night) solved 3-74; I thought so today. Now I'm back to square one or anyhow Square two. It's a good thing I've been keeping notes. VALIS is running human history programs, several of them (my tracks A, 13 and C); these are parallel Earths and differ from each other, and when in 2-3-74 I saw the world of TEARS I did see an alternate world — as I said in my Metz speech. So the Acts material isn't in TEARS by chance; nor is the John Taverner material (it’s frankly hard to swallow that the John Taverner material is there by chance, in view of the emphasis that Dow land had, Dowland having been born only 17 years after John Taverner died). This is a narrative or an alternate Earth jiu now I think about Thomas and his memories of a cool, moist, highaltitude climate. These are programs being run with different variables being introduced into the narrative (my research on the Torah is highly relevant here). And this whole "dream time" or "ontic time” or "illo tempore" — these just refer to either a meta¬ level of the computer or to the narrative underlying reality — I should Say a narrative, one of many, underlying reality; tne so—to- -15- actual reality (the informational basis) or even to other realities. Alternate realities (i.e. programs). Our flux (what I called "mundane") world is the print-out from the "sacred" which is the narrative oasis, the verbal/written/informational program itself (like the Torah); ah; the Torah is trie basis of Israel's reality. As Acts is for Christians. I've been flimflammed...for example by VALIS theological overkill (mentioning too many saviors). It can run many programs simultaneously, which explains my impression re 3-74 of multiple tracking. Each of us may be tracking several of these programs simultaneously, based on differing "sacred narratives." In 2-3-74 I key-punched an entry into another program than the one I had been in; I may have switched places with the me who was tracking the o the- reality, since before 2-74 I really had no interest in Christianity. As I Said in VALIS, the Golden Fish Sign was for Thomas, not for me; I got it by mistake. The- golden fish sign was a key from a different program in this world, just as TEARS is another program in this world in book form, as information only, not reality. Again a cross-over. I didn’t pick up the underlying stratum of reality in TEARS ; I picked an alternate program. So we have the key to history turning ante a key to history. but now can there be several alternate keys to history unless these are computer programs being run simultaneously? If you have one sacred history you have revelation, but if you have several you have a mystifying discovery which is one puzzle solved but a greater one disclosed. So (to repeat) there are more than one sacred -16- narratives underlying human history, and how can this be unless VALIS is running several alternate programs (worlds), all of which are somehow superimposed, as if on one axis? (These are what I call coaxial worlds.) This points to something very different from one sacred history versus mundane flux reality (the phenomenal world); it is as if Plato discovered several Form-worlds, not one. I really don’t know; maybe Acts (the Acts material in TEARS and the plot of TEARS itself) is the Sacred narrative of this flux world, or maybe it is an alternate world or world’s, but what 1 am sure of is that there are sacred narratives plural and plural flux worlds and they are coaxial in space-time. I saw the ghostly outline of the TEARS landscape in 2-74; I have supposed it to be the remote past but I do not think now that it is the remote past; I think -—as I said in my Metz speech— that it is an alternate world or track, and that I even saw another, a better one (TEARS is worse)...all this giving rise in me to the idea for a novel based on the three realms of Dante's COMMEDlA. Acts is the one I personally am keyed into, and before I ever saw the golden fish sign, as proved by the Acts material in TEARS plus the plot and Jason/John Taverner. In 1970 I wrote out this particular narrative; the John Taverner material coincides —agrees— with the Acts material, and both agree with the plot of TEARS (i.e. you have the same narrative in TEARS three times: (1) Explicitly in the plot. (2) Covert allusions to Acts (where the Same plot occurs). (3) Covert allusions to John Taverner (where the Same plot occurs ) -17- When the John Taverner material is noticed it becomes impossible to regard the presence of the Acts material as acci¬ dental , since all three tell the same story, without variation. Anyone analysing TEARS who discovered the John Taverner material and the Acts material would assume that I had included them deliberately. It might be a coincidence that either (2) or (3) was there by coincidence but not both. Clearly, there is an Urstory, which I call a "sacred narrative," the informational basis of reality; or: it is an alternate reality seeping through. Now, one could say that unconsciously I knew the Book of Acts having read it at an earlier time and forgotten it consciously, but I certainly did not know about John Taverner who died circa 1530 — the same year that the word Jehovah was invented, by the way. And then to the three strands of the narrative in TEARS add the fact that in 2-74 when I saw the golden fish sign I saw the ghostly outlines of that world all around me. And I did not have TEARS on my mind. I am going to have to figure out if this ghostly outline was of an alternate world —and narrative— or the sacred informa¬ tional basis of this world...but I already have the answer, inasmuch as I have realized (supra) that there is no Sacred narrative infor¬ mational basis of this world, since there are Sacred narratives plural, and different reperformances of sacred rites key-punch entry into different ones. Christ; this is driving me up the wall. So either I am multiple tracking in that I am tracking two alternate programs or else I am tracking the flux, world (mundane — 18 — world) and the noumenal world of the sacred narrative, the infor¬ mation basis of our reality in illo tempore, as Eliade puts it. I guess I have to decide which. Well, the presence of Thomas suggests —not that I am tracking an alter nut., world—— but that I am tracking a world in illo tempore, because Thomas’ identity and memory-span is the phylogenic type that corrolat.es with sacred space-time; he remembered back thousands of years, and this is not an alternate world but the drear., time world of which TEARS is a replication in narrative form: phylogenic history, so to speak. We are talking about Rome and