God in heaven - I opened "Ubik" at random + found world, form + linguistic regression such as I experienced in 2-3-74 when I remem‐ bered + then saw Acts! Sokozyrev is 95 "time is energy poured into a right; material system" - or: in 2-3-74 I died. Which is the explain nation for what happened to the characters in Ubik" - Bardo Thodol existence the died - post mortem experiences. Trip to other side or - psyche from the other side took me over? Ja. Thomas. From the other side: in "half life" (ie Bardo Thodol) - No. Miracle, remodelling of reality so that I didn't die; double exposelve (hence two realities syntonically superimposed). Okay. I died - but then new life (as if from Ubik) was "sprayed" over me. (i.e. have a counterpart in the novel. what does not resemble "Ubik" is the per‐ sonality which I call Thomas taking me over after I "died." Did they dure somebody in in my place? Yes indeed - someone who could hand the very problems which slew me (in the unrecon structed world). This is because the characters in "Ubik" are leaving the world but I returned to It after my journey to the other side; I was successfully revitalized (by the Logos). Some kind of psychological transplant involving time took place - mental surgery. Okay - they took a "me" from the future where I (by then) had figured out that 1) the Roogna letter was okay + 2) the yorox missive a us forgery. So hindsight was looped back (+ the other car was my capri, + I now drink imported beer!). Hence the prophetic know ledge: Thomas was me-from -the-future - my God as I told charles Platt the [Xerox missive) problem could only be solved with knowledge not yet (i.e. then) available to me; I would know it later, but then it would be too late So I created a [time perturbation in the reality field - I transferred to 3-74 a future me who would (did) possess the missing information but that very info was in "Faith of"! now we're getting to the heart of it: precog‐ nition + then some: a time warp achieved by willing it due to overwhelming need. we are talking about time travel, not just precognition + so 3-74 looked to me ("Thomas") like the distant past - logically it would if he was from the future. (This idea shows up in "world of talent"?) Could Thomas be myself after my physical death? Hence from the other (this also shows up in "Now wait side? Ja. For last year.") It was Let's argue it this way: if a future me armed with the crucial knowledge, wouldn't I experience it 1) as someone else taking me over? + 2) someone who knew what to do - who had the crucial knowledge? Then is the AI voice my future + so-to-speak absolute self? the entelechy completed in time + then reach back to aid in completing itself (ef "up by His bootstraps"). So Thomas could be rom a very long time ahead. Then I can rest peacefully re my future. I made it to t successful conclusion + then worked back. ward - which explains the precog material in a "Tears"! 9 This explains my calling ginger "Georgia" + fore‐ knowing I'd meet tess. Now I see the real value in occham's razor: not only is the explanation the simplest but also it's probably true every thing can be explained by the theory that created a vacuum or vortex back into which I flowed my future, final, completed self with all its knowledge (inc. post mortem know‐ ledge - cf Plato). We assume precognition pushed across into retrograde time travel, as I posit in "Ubik" (Pat Conley) + in, as I affecting the present by recall, "clans." changing the past - which (it would seem) is what I did, with 3-74 being - my God. Being the present! I'm not sure. Somehow I did something with time which involved a future self moving retro‐ The melting of causal trains grade, to 3-74. suggests that also a time point prior to 3-74 was altered. So 3-74 was a present in rela to a past, + a past in relation to a future but what does this make me? Who has this ability? Am I a visita here from the future? This is some kind of psychic technology. Heme my impression sometimes that I'm a machine or a computer. Or plugged into a computer. At this stage I'd guess that the computer exists in the future + / but is not subject to time. + this is the AI voice. + it can transfer psychoi or sections of one psyche back + forth along its time path. That I'm not a discrete psyche but one incorporated into this matrix ( "computer" or mother Noos. It's like a hive mind. to employ Spinrad's term - totally outside time! It can create space-time disruptions This is Valis. It is here but also it is not here. It is here utilizing mimickry, camou‐ flage + memesis. I am a function of it, + must face this. It has adopted me - which is to say, incorporated me into it: me into it + it into me: symbiosis. This obviously is what the ancients knew as the cosmic Christ taking over the universe - toppling the powers, thrones, sovereigns + dominions, as Paul put it. Assimilating or transubstan‐ tiating -devouring - the universe + replacing it by what Pythagoras knew as Kosmos each bit of which contains - reflects - the whole. Thus can never be destroyed. Each bit is like it DNA code: all the information is there I cannot escape the feeling that I am in inner dialog with a computer or AI system which took me over in 3-74, that it knows everything + is totally dispassionate: the essence of wisdom itself: its essence is not esse but intelligere. It has adopted me, not out of whim but out of the moral logic which Ma'at represents: order itself. The basic order is essentially 1) beauty + 2) moral. This "moral is not code ethics but the harmonious fitting together of the beautiful. The essence of it is is with Ma'at, a judging, the secret is: the immutable laws of Karma are subject to this intelligent judging - which there fore can decree karma burned up - but not arbitrarily... No, only by intelligere. the Hebrew law is a degenerate or primitive form of a more sophisticated Egyptian idea (that of Ma'at), but on the right track, in Xtianity what is perceived is that love is the ultimate key or mechanism or principle by which this system operates + is operated: specifically agapē. If one wishes to align oneself with the moral order one does it by agape: the highest "Justice" of all. Agape cannot be surpassed as a principle of Ma'at, as Paul saw. It is so to speak the formula to Ma'at the forgiveness of sin is, therefore, the wiping clean of The karmic slate whereas retributive justice - the old mosaic law - merely perpetuates karma as such: the deter‐ minist order. The basis of reality is structure, the basis of structure is intelligence. The original intelligence is irrational. It is being invaded + assionlated by the rational. Thus a new structure (cosmes) is forming in the thidst of the original one. in "Ubik" there is a primordial accident, the omb blast, + then the cosmos begins to decom ose. The characters are no longer fully (really) alive. Then a mysterious force or agency sets to work renewing the cosmos by reversing its decomposing devolutionary process. This force, called 100 Ubik because it is everywhere, even in the trash layers of the world is clearly the Logos + hence Christ it deals in information + originally ordered the cosmos before the primordial accident This is s-f because we are not in a devolu world of form-regression; however we are in the ossified world of the later novel "Tears" But in that novel Ubik is lacking so the total true story is distributed between "Ubik" + "Tears," the two novels which came back at me in 2-3-74: world of "Tears" as the as is + Ubik Glimmering as immanent deity in it the first ground, the second set, although to us to our perception) normally blended into one which is not as bad as "Tears" + not as good as Ubik but instead a sort of average of the two, together equal the world which Ubik 1) "Tears" world + we actually see. 2) the relation between (1) + (2) is like the relation ship between an LP record qua record + the music as information which can be extracted from (out of] it if you know how to play it this makes our world an information library containing as if in layers the total past - any part of which can be retrieved; this retrieval of the past layers is what is shown in "Ubik" when time reversion sets in: layers peel away + the past is exposed. This was my experience in 2-3-74. 1) past exposed (retrieved - inexplicably). 2) World as information, the active life or principle of which is Ubik, in experiencing these past layers of world the human psyche abreacts to 101 + past (archaic) layers within itself-phylogenic strata, which synchronize with world. the world we see is actually two realms combined: Ubik (upper) + "Tears" (lower + ossified). The upper alone seems to be the "Kingdom of God" which Christ spoke of, + which he rules or even is entree into this upper realm requires the splitting-apart of the two realms in terms of our perception, + time reversion of the lower therefore (since it is not stabilized in forward-moving time by the upper); this comes about, as in "Ubik," by a kind of dying of the percipient person. Thus, just as the characters in "Ubik" died + thereafter saw 1) Ubik, + 2) the regressing (decaying, decomposing devolving - to - the- past) world, so I died in 3-74 + thereupon saw Ubik + the world of "Tears," instead of a combined-signal world. as hinted at in "Ubik" Ubik seems to be related to the Platonic forms; in any case the regression is called form reversion + specifically dentified as Platonic form reversion. Philo's view that the forms exist in the mind of the Logos seems involved, here Then the Q: "Where is God (or Christ/Logos)?" is answered by: "what we call world is really two realms, the lower of which is inert or ossified the upper one divine + alive." The mystery as to where the Kingdom of God lies is solved: it is right here, but must be discriminated (unscram sled) from the lower realm for it to be visible as such. Then the lower realm can be suppressed is ground to set the latter becoming hieroglyphs or information. Separated from the upper reali 183 the lower regresses (in time, alon the temporal axis); it seems, by itself, to be located in the first century AD. Again, "Tears" depicts This ossified lower realm - at the end of which the old king or Christ breaks in - entering it - + time advances (the dream on, inc. the epilog). No, This is not correct; from the dream on, the lower realm is abolished (by the in-breaking) Then I did indeed enter the Kingdom of God 3-74. in There is a certain tension between the two realms, the lower one resisting change - i.e. resisting the upper: resisting time itself. could it be - as put forth in "Ubik" - that the lower realm actually moves, on its own, so regressively in time, + the upper one forward? that "Ubik" is the correct model? (With its form regressions?) After all, when the two split apart for