functional Fuck up - except from my standpoint. A programming was over‐ ridden miscuing. I wasn't supposed to do what a I did This is why I was so anxiety stricken; the issue was, could I do it; the slave personality to the pentathol. had ceased to be slave - due At This point I'd guess I was - had been - under Pigspurt discipline without knowing it. The pentathol impaired the repression - dissociation: the latent personality began to break through like in a psychosis; hence my extreme anxiety. I did not act in a dissociated way when I contacted the Bureau; I knew what I was doing - but I was fighting off Thomas, or rather I was fighting off my programming which now was conscious - not kept out of awareness. I was aware of my dissociated behavior: non amnesia: with dissociated behavior there is amnesia. This was all being acted out within the field of aware The suggestion here is that prior to 2-74 ness. Thomas had been in control from time to time but that I always had amnesia afterward; however, the pentathol abolished the compart th mentalization + true dissociation. So this was the first time that Thomas had come out, not but the first time while I remained conscious. Hence the view of USA 1974 as BIP, + the memories of blowing up buildings. Thomas' view expressed in "Tears") + memories. Thomas knows a foreign language replete with Greek-based scientific terms. He is shrewd + an ctivist Q: Is the AI voice his thoughts? They only occur in hypnagogic states. So - yes There is another - but related - possibility homas (Pigspurt) had put cypher in "Tears" + new it - + anticipated trouble, especially when e learned that the army had bought it immediately o he had to come out + take control (or he wisher 30 the pentathol was his opportunity; he was to. trying to come out consciousy - I mean, come out at a conscious level. He anticipated trouble, + recognized the Xerox missive for what It was: A G2 forgery. Since I did not know about the cypher in "Tears" I would not be He may have anticipated expecting the trap, that the encyphered message would be broken. it may not have been very encyphered. (E.g. The mickey quinn stuff) a message to rise up world wide revolution. against the government. -when Thomas thinks "army" he may or mean the great red army or what if Thomas is "an intelligence officer in the army"? Not who the missive was from but + the (mry?) override + decision to send to whom. to the Bureau was a ruthless but necessary it sacrifice just in case (two cases: 1) intercept or 2) in itself a forgery - or, worse, + more likely as my later broken- into-mailboy dream suggests, incriminating material planted on me. A set up. Who was willing to sacrifice whom to save himself (in my case) or herself, in the sender's case. Suppose we were both known; she was - had been - overrun. Cooperating with U.S. To save her own hide. Sacrifice me, but I wasn't willing to be sacrificed (self-preservation, eromas is not a wimp). My job was done; I was expendable to Pigspurt but this won't explain such things as the St. Sophia prophecy. Then Xtian world revolution ed by Christ? i wait a minute. On the radio acting t bring me out of a hypnotized state; to wake me +/or Thomas - only (or probably only supernatural agencies could make use of the radio for that, not Pigspuri is disclosed is 1) why the rader t Wh 307 had that peculiar strident sound - what benign purpose it served + 2) that I had been in a very real + literal sense asleep. So then what we conceive of as a normal state (of consciousness) is a kind of sleep. Pigspurt is not, as foren initially thought, pointed to is Thomas my true waking personality? are we - no; Thomas was being woken up: first by the Fish sign + their by the radio. + this radio element certainly suggests it was deliberate, by some agency or entity. The Fish sign, pentathol + radis all fit a pattern of disinhibiting calculatedly. As I woke up I would hear the rades that way; my brain, not the radio, would do it. I suppose I just simplify it all + say, Thomas is my tutelary spirit, who took me over - so to speak was awakened - in/for the crisis of 3-74 the radio voice suggests that he -or she - is within me, It is an immortal divine not from outside. person, spanning millerria. e we are ruled by another life form - what I call the plasmate. It is benign. It uses us, to replicate itself, as hosts. It has passed from one of us to the next, like a contagion, to night the plasmate in me exchanged informa to 368 mingled information + themselves via the optic conduit our reality is faked. It revealed this by repeating itself ("MITHC" + "Faith" showing up again in 2-3-74). This required a correction, since it was a dysfunction; The correction was what I call Valis, it like lines in a book being pasted up was wrong. Time was not flowing forward properly. I saw, literally, another universe (to this one) behind her eyes: Galactic nebulae + vast spaces: a mirror reflecting the universe in me: mind each of us lives in a universe which is projection of the one in him, Everything in 2-3-74 is based on (+ can be explained by 1) it had happened before; + 2) I flashed on it: that it had happened before: I remembered when I saw the Fish sign: that is what I remembered. So they had to the ever the dysfunction - it was a crisis for et the mechanism which controls our reality. So the plasmate came forward in me + took over overtly, + I saw as it sees. Valis was the repair. The pentathol caused me to remember. If I hadn't remembered, it wouldn't have been So serious, but I had written about it, so they had to cancel the Xerox missive + its effects, because it was in "Faith" + if I was busted someone besides me would notice. Tears was serious enough, but there the writing was So it seem Okay it B ul 307 It is very serious when a writer writes in the 60s something that happens in the '70s. joint" was my first noticing such dys function; I was on the right track. time dysfunctions. They didn't want to arm me with proof of my epistemological contentions; i.e. faked reality. This is what it points to: simulated reality. Brains in cryonic suspension. Each a universe, a micro universe which is also macro; hence I saw the vast spaces, as they really were, in 3-74. Each micro universe is a full macro one + each of us brains is a full fledged universe, as I saw in Lindas eyes. Leibnitz, Brund Paracelsus. They interact in terms of coupling of the DNA (as Schopenhaur writes about). Each meeting of mother + father produces a totally hew universe, a human being is a universes way of producing a new + different universe This mystery which was revealed to me tonight of universes reproducing themselves, is the greatest mystery of all which has been revealed to me, + I hink I was quite by accident. I don't think they intended to reveal that to me. No - I understands Linda is the first "Star eed "besides me that I've met - viz: under the control of the plasmate. The plasmate in me rade contact with it in hers 2 The memories would have to have these esp. due to an actual qualities: remembered event ) occurring 1) be very archaic 2) have been forgotten (+ recovered suddenly, 3) What they involve would have to exist now. (see #2) so something too far in the past to be normally remembered would have to suddenly come into existence now. 4) regarding the writing, it would have to be found to contain depictions of very archaic events, too far in the past for normal memory, + that world would have to now come into existence) which involves contradictions (i.e. if it is very archaic, how can it come into existence now? How can the distant past come How can an event into being in the future? I future + past? Esp. distant past? be AD 45 CAD 1970. 1974 s Future present past e So there are several things that don't make 1) how can something so archaic exist in sense. the person's memory in the first place? + 2) how can it be in the present (which is to say future)? Time has ooped around. This is a dysfunction. What does fakery. So the anamnesis paradoxi I point to? cally involves the present as pattern recognition. his is what the anamnesis is all about: some event in the present (i.e. it is recurring). So it is the Acts material in "Tears," not much the "MITHC" + "Faith" material which is o to important, because the Acts material carries a date. + it was it that I saw in 2-3-74 as world. now tie into this the element of s waking up, experienced as projected strident sounds as in hypnotic suggestion to wake up where something seems to wake you but in fact doesn't; you are simply responding to instruction to be woken. (on cue.) Where‐ upon you will do certain things (post hypnotic suggestion. + to explain - to your self why you are doing them you will be made to see + to believe certain things which "explain" why you are doing what you do but really don't. This is the pretextual framework always generated by post hypnotic suggestion - e.g. "OCCP microwaves. God. what you have to do is examine the Acts done + ask, who benefits?" Well, who benefitted by my sending the Xerox missive to the Bureau? A: the Bureau least of all the OCCP. "AI voke" becomes then spurious rationale introjected control voice - voice which originally hypnotized me + is remembered. A woman. deduce that it was Christ in 3-74 because ho else would help a miserable thing like me I deduce this from "the man who knew... i.e in "Valis" in dealing with Thomas thinking "Somebody else is in my head + he's not living in this century" I adduce the following only to lay it down: "No he's living now. Living in ancient Rome now... it means my body is either in two space-time continua simaltaneously, or else my body is nowhere i or it all. what I know now vie i 31 that part is that the shrilling radio is indica of the person (me) waking from a hypnotized state. Thomas' being awakened can either be rewed as a malfunction or as a Xtian technique by which we are "born again": viz: brought to actual con‐ sciousness - where upon we discover that our body is in more than one time + place, which is to say, our world is irreal, + I am back to my recent concept that it's our own very old + for‐ gotten memories fed back to us as world. We are obviously in the power under the control - of the 3-eyed cybory people, who study us: they are on the other side of the glass, in-breaking in the uncanny one way which leve discusses. Xtians are knowing invaders whove sneaked in here to wake us up + make us aware of our enslavement (als ob in cold-pac). Our real abode is a prison; ergo we are prisoners kept in deep sleep. "Born from above" means waking up (as witness the shrilling radio). 1) We lie asleep in an