thinking of is folder 21 - 078 folder 21 - 078 an attempt to [find material to] discredit me, which is the theory I present in the Aquarian. What makes me think of this is the account in "Cosmic Trigger" of the guy getting heroin sent to him through the mail by the DEA + syndicate + then busted - to discredit him vis-a-vis any testimony he might give re the civil rights leaders' assassinations. + there fits in with this the Xerox missive later in '74 (+ the response being the supernormal Sibyl entity taking me over; factoring out as Sibyl entity pitted against the conspirators in my case, + against the whole Nixon tyranny. "Cosmic Trigger" hints at some connection between the superior intelligences and the assassinations/conspirators, which is exactly my experience. Something sent in the mail to discredit you - they find you in possession of it. On 3/20/74 the higher intelligence knew that time was of the essence in getting the Xerox missive out of my apartment (but perhaps only secondarily to the Bureau). + now the AI voice says "an intelligence officer in the [US] army sent it." ___ Our universe is a 2-source hologram, but we are in it, not external standpoints to it (i.e. we are participants, not observers), so the delusional power directly affects us, not just indirectly via world (as if we were watching a movie + took it to be real; Plato missed this participatory quality). Then what, if anything, really exists? Do we have bodies? Are we anywhere? What I saw as ultimate reality wasn't Acts - + "Thomas" in and as me, but the info processing, the info itself, folder 21 - 079 folder 21 - 079 + the living macrobrain. We are stations or coils which contain phylogenic memory (supratemporal). Everything is nothing but the info (Logos) + brain (Brahman); apparently each of us is given an inner-outer self-world arbitrarily locked into "space" + "time" which are just ways of ordering the bits impinging on us. We don't even have the power to order them into this time or that space; it is programmed for us but there is change (or more accurately "looking differents") to promote the similitude of time + space. But deep within each of us (it is correct to speak of pluriforms) there is a micro brain as little analog of the unitary macrobrain - this is the great "Tat Tvam Asi" of Brahmanism, there are degrees of awareness, but even these are programmed (being deprogrammed is programmed - the macrobrain never loses control of any station of itself). It would seem that the brain has a wake-sleep cycle. Right now it is asleep, but waking up. It is aware that it is waking up. This is expressed in our worlds as transformation from the lowpoint (age of iron, defined by deterministic mechanical immutable causality) to the age of gold (volitional sentience; each of us remembering + being conscious of our actual state: participation in the macrobrain of which we each are a microform). In the age of gold we get to be awake + join in ratiocination voluntarily - this is the breaking of "astral determinism." There is a Salvidor Salvandus which is a sort of mobile agent [Note] of the brain which signals us one by one to wake up. The entire authority (power) to accomplish this resides in it, not in us. [Note] + voice of the brain's folder 21 - 080 folder 21 - 080 There is a level above that of the macrobrain; it is loving void, non-functional; no info nor info-processing is there. This is the noos of the brain + does not exist. We go there when we are through with our functioning as stations of the brain; that is our true reward. Until then we are born again + again (or seem to be - actually we just keep on functioning within the timeless brain). (+ are given a succession of selves and worlds.) (All counterfeit - although in all fairness I should note that their counterfeiting is necessary, or we'd die of sensory deprivation.) (It is sensory deprivation that allows us to come to awareness of our true state.) (That + the emergency terror of being close to death.) Xenophanes + Parmenides, between them, had it pretty well figured out - they + the Hindu thinkers. __ I happened to read the E of Ph article on Brahmanism, + find under "epistemology" the principle of parsimony applied to the Q. of whether there is an external universe separate from the sense impressions (impinging data) of it. The argument runs that since the "external universe" could arises within the percept system itself (as in dreams) or God could cause us to merely think we experienced a separate external universe, + that folder 21 - 081 no sense-datum + an external datum can be distinguished from each other, the notion of an external universe is superfluous + violates the principle of parsimony. For me, however, I achieved saintliness and the "higher truth," that there is only Brahman + Atman (the macrobrain, which push-pull fires world + self back + forth) so for me it isn't a logical Q. but rather one of revelation (heightened experience/perception). Yes, God (i.e. Brahman) does cause us to think we experience world; we do in fact experience it, but it is a participatory two part illusion: self (ego) + world locked together + rigidly determined. What we call "evil" or "disorder" is simply the perception that reality is not so arranged as to (1) help us individually; or (2) make sense to us. But reality is not for our individual benefit but for the macrobrain's; its interests are never subordinated to ours. This has to be so, since we are portions of it. If its interests were sacrificed, ultimately we -all existence- would die. "I am the breath of my creator, + as he breathes [in and out] I live." Basically, the macrobrain controls us this way: External signal (stimulus) {rightward arrow} (Self) {leftward arrow} DNA response The self (ego) is caught in the middle, of a transaction between the inner DNA + the outer stimuli which are rigidly coordinated folder 21 - 082 folder 21 - 082 by the macrobrain. It is the total macrobrain signalling to itself. Best to kick back, relax, + enjoy it - since we're asleep (+ robots) anyhow. This is what is known as Karma or astral determinism, this sleep state. But the macrobrain is evolving toward consciousness. ___ The transfer to my head of the info about Christopher was typical -not atypical- of what the macrobrain continually does; only in this case I was aware of it doing it. But info processing, transfer, etc. is precisely what it does. Zebra is the macrobrain. Because of my heightened perception in 3-74 I was aware consciously, not subliminally, of the info transfer. So that "beam of pink light bearing info" is proof that my vision + concept that we're part of a vast brain is accurate. So the transfer was not an anomaly; nor did it indicate the presence of an entity other than the brain. This is what it does normally. Then how does Zebra differ from the brain? Isn't volitional (sentient) overrule inherent in the structure itself? If the Hindu epistemological position folder 21 - 083 folder 21 - 083 cited above is brought into play either 1) I melted the causal trains, + Zebra is a projection of my psyche 2) or I just saw Brahman qua world - i.e. saw world properly as sentient + volitional (the macrobrain). What happened to the invader aspect of Zebra, a cornerstone of my Exegesis? The upper + lower realms - are they the "two levels of truth" of Hinduism? Two ways of perceiving on my part? A revelation, not an invasion? The answer is that world ("reality") is not real, but Zebra is. This must be faced. What Zebra modulated is hologrammatic. The hologram was invaded in a sense - but in terms of my perception of it only. I was seeing the hologram ("world") replaced by what is actually there: macrobrain, which is alive. Thus an invasion did take place, but it was one of hierarchical order of reality, with the upper realm sentient, alive + purposeful, + the lower not only merely causal but not real. Zebra to world is spider to web - Zebra as world-weaver, in its own artifact. So in a sense God (Brahman) was impinging directly on my senses, since my ego + world are interwoven: a single irreality. Then what I've overlooked is that Zebra is not entirely outside me - separate from me, but partly within my own percept system. folder 21 - 084 folder 21 - 084 It can even be argued that the microbrain in me (atman) was involved in the sentient reweaving (but not solely involved). The weaver (Zebra) was impersonal and not-me. But to locate it externally - the internal-external dualism may have been transcended by mind embracing both. + what has become of "Geworfenheit"? I was in a sense rewoven. 1) What I saw was alive. 2) It was in but not in the world; the world turned (?) into it - or it turned into the world. World was a state or condition it took (that is closer to it: it was prior to world in some sense; world had reverted back from its dead state to its living. It had resumed volitional functioning. Like waking up? As analog to my atman waking up? It stirred, not was stirred. No - Zebra invaded + overrode. Entered its own artifact. Was Zebra smaller than world? No. Larger. + this was not panpsychism. World became plastic in the face (impinging) of mind. Mind exerted direct pressure on it (+ on me, e.g. in the pink beam firing into me). Zebra abolished world qua world. What if Zebra + world are regarded as two modes of one being? Zebra equals awake and world is the same thing asleep. Actually, I phrased it correctly initially above: "the world turned into it" not "it turned into the world." I saw world first; then it became volitional. Yes, world reverted back from its dead state or sleeping state: it unfroze. As if world were a temporary state, + it resumed its true one - ceased to pose (or assume) the aspect of causal world. That makes of world a pose or fiction - folder 21 - 085 folder 21 - 085 ah - I have it. The living reality played dead to blend in: camouflage. That was and is my key term: camouflage, so that it looked like world + couldn't be told from it. Mimickry, mimesis, playing dead, to blend in; yes - indistinguishable from world. No way our senses could do a set-ground discrimination. I was only aware of it by its activity: when it acted; otherwise, when blending, even in my heightened state I couldn't have discerned it. So there is no way to say how much of world it has replaced - i.e. what percent + which parts are world + which parts it. This is not panpsychism + maybe not immanent deity, but a UTI systematically replacing ("transsubstantiating progressively) world. I have no reason to believe it created world in the first place - no; it appeared to have invaded world, + by playing dead could not be told from it; not until it acted. Like a vast body. Of an organism. It was as if certain parts of world (reality) stirred: + all which stirred was a single organism distributed here + there, but unitary. It was energy -plasmatic- which could appear hypostatized as matter by just posing as things (matter). It is not a thing (matter); but when at rest appears to our senses indistinguishable from matter, as if it slows down. It deliberately slows itself down to the pace,