"Tears" although without the Acts grid you can't discern it. What "Tears" adds is a distinctly soviet element (e.g. the 5 marshals). (FLC, micken quinn, etc). (Specifically it is set in contemporary america.) (There has been a Soviet takeover.) The revolution by the cordinite underground in "Frolix 8" becomes successful in "Tears" - has taken power. 4655 Taverner i.e. the underground [Felix Buckman s (represented by Paul) Paul Paul winds up as the state, at the point that Jaso Taverner ceases to be Paul Buckman) + Felix Buckman becomes back on to Felix not underground Paul; i.e. the revolution not Paul not Paul has successfully taken (represented as/by Paul) place, + the revolutionaries the start are in power who were not in power at So this book does not entirely deal at the end. with an underground, but rather an underground which winds up in the seat of authority - associated with 5 marshals + forced labor camps, i.e. a Soviet ie ized america. Message, then: the revolution has been successful. Now, if we identify the revolutionaries as Pigspurt s Pigspurt, we are depicting as take-over of America we see it happen during the book. This is rather a serious message + if decoded (via the Acts grid) might well earn me a probe (contact) from "an intel ligence officer in the army"; the Q is, which army? in short, not (just) an underground is depicted via the Acts grid, but an underground which by the end of the book is in power, instead of opposed to those in power. Now, shall we re-evaluate such items as "miokey quian"? In short, he who symbolizes authority (Felix Buckman) is at the end converted to the under‐ ground revolutionary cause. The only Q. is, what it This cause? Pigspurt? Eti? True Xtian? I think the Xtian element is a sequence analyzer grid. Therefore - doesn't the state wither away in the epilog? Millenialist Pigspurt! After the revolution. So "Tears" depicts a successful revolution after which the state withers away. So Buckman's conversion on the road via the may seem to be to Xtianity Acts grid - but one layer below that it I 466 may really be Pigspurt. 1) dream: psychological. Which is really. 2) Paul's conversion (Xtian) which is really 3) = Pigspurt. Bottom line. (2) i.e. Buckman has joined the underground, which means the underground has seized power. In tems of myth archetypes, the old King is killed (!) + power passes to the new king (read: regeime). Maybe Valis, the supernatural intelligence guiding - engineering all this is Hegel's sentient spirit of history. Historical necessity as a volitional, teleological entity as if history is alive + can think - i.e. the living, sentient dialectic! Put another way, the real mind is not ontogenic but phylogenic or racial! Wow! It all mankind is me makes sense! individual who continually learns" - the mind (Valis) of the human pascal. species workely itself out in + as history! in terms of historical dialectic + neces‐ sity, + this is what overpowered me + induced waking up + anamnesis! + this is what "Tears" depicts! Something akin to DNA long-term programming over 1000s of years, with a memory stretching over 1000s of years) I think I've hit malf This is 487 vast collective consciousness, not unconscious, it's not God it's our species. + Pigspurt is the vanguard of it in this century (as it clains). But Xtianity once was! So the two merge when viewed over a 2000 year period! The arene is history, not genetic. So I wasn't trained by Pigspurt, I am, organically, historically, Pigspurt, from within (akin to DNA programming + disinhibiting + firing of behavior in terms of historical actions), So it's not just phylogenic memory but the awakening to consciousness in me of phylogenic mind! (Valis.) The Empire is the fossil epitome of the ancient past; what is desired now is cultural pluralism; diversity This would account for me experienc the [Hegelian] dialectic! There's my proof that I'm on the right track. So not memory of the distant past as past but as part of the present, because this phylo‐ genic mind's present-slot is 1000s of years wide; hence the superimposition I saw. Now, to reappraise "Tears." It isn't code; It's the way the phylogenic mind sees world: The 2000 present- slot. A vast panorana of time + space with the dialectic constants of the revolutionaries + The Empire visible, with the winning form mer 468 So it's a view of past (Rome) present (USA) + a kind of totalitarian soviet-like police state of the future! Spain in the 30s exemplifies it: all the - well both the constants appeared in clear form there. So I am + yet am not Pigspurt; something more, of longer duration, is involved. But it includes Pigspurt, which is what confused me. Pigspurt subsumed within a broader historical frame is t It is not really such a big jump to go from phylogenic memories (mines to phylogenic self which identifies Thomas as - not a former selfbut that very same phylogenic self. but what then, is Valis? Suppose there is an adventitious central control which projects us as if we're receptor matrices which are programmed i When I say "a phylogenic self exists" I don't mean merely along the genetic line of a given individual but that the species has a conscious mind spanning thousands of years + many places. It governs individual humans subliminally, working through them without their knowing it, It keeps a constant flow of message traffic buried in the media of conscious human minds. So it is a macro-brain + individuals are Its neurons. The plasmate is its thinking I fly to an abrupt insight: Christ is this phylogenic mind; he - it - came into existence at a given historical time + place. He - it - is camouflaged within the species as an invader. He represents a specific stage of evolution. This phylogenic mind is immortal + is dis f the whole planer tributed ove 469 I've cracked the secret of 2-3-74 + the secret (i.e. the meaning) of Christ + Xtianity "It governs us subliminally" - this is the inner-outer programming! The synchroniza tion. The "linking" that I saw is the way neurons in a brain connect: link relink in ever new another sequence, etc., creating information in a constant flow; it is a macro-brain. In 3-74 the epiphany in me was so it could deal directly with the situation, not just in a subliminal manner. There any possibility that the Xerox missive is was information for the macro-brain in me, + not for me? That it can never be made to make sense in terms of me? But I know what information it extracted: "Olive Holt." The phylogenic mind took that piece of information + transferred it to the right place. It was all beyond me e What can I be sure of? 1) There appears to be an intelligent macro-entity 2) that behaves - not so much like a mind - but like a brain. 3) it seems to have penetrated the human race + 4) may be a phylogenic human entity. 5) but it seems to exist in reality in camouflaged form. 6) It has no body of its own but, instead, organizes ordinary objects (+ people) into a coherent structure: so it is there + not there; It is what it does (i.e. it can only be known by its behavior; it doesn't possess ontology. No analy sis of its intrinsic nature will reveal anything because intrinsically it is-not. Yet it is immanent. neurons link up this way. The messages are not within our messages but come into existence as linkages are made. E.g. "King" is the last word of the dream insertion; "Felix" the first word of the now text heam 470 The two-mode system (passive - active) suggests a brain (on-off binary system). However complex The message it is based on what we know as Leibnitz' binary system: 0-1. shut-open. Or: linked - unlinked. when a linkage is made it comes forward as set, to be read. This is the plasmate - yes! a flow of energy like the electric flow between neurons. The connections are electrical or like electrical; you can see the message because you can see the flow: it delineates set (color - a frequence of light?). This is brain like. If this entity enters you, what you experience is bombardment (flow) of information - in color a This could be neural site stimulation, or - disinhibition of intrinsic information (memory). It's a brain, all right; or rather it is able to turn whatever it comes across into a brain by this linking by means of the plasmate. I think it is the species mind (phylogenic); after all, I picked up its thousands of years of memory over many places (+ obvious through many people). Of course; its neurons fire at other objects in order to link up with them; + i f we saw the receiving object as it was fired at we'd see it "bend" - it'd be modulated or warped away from plumb. Then 1) it entered me + 2) fired, from me, + created Valis around me; I generated Valis via a field, but it wasn't me (PKD) it was the phylogenic mind in/as me. I was seeing Valis back ward, which I've long suspected (i.e. that somehow I generated the field). pret realit is Valis it 471 the key term is pathways. All it needs is color (frequencies of light). If it establishes that it will use a particular light frequency then it can read back its own messages by extracting everything at that light frequency. (it may not be light; I may not have been seeing light with my "ajna eye" - but it is the "ajna eye" which decodes that frequency out of the range (spectrum). This is the function of the "ajna eye." Okay - it could discern the dream section as interpolated, so it knew that "King" was the last word of the interpolation, + "Felix" the first word of the text, so it could link king to Felix + derive King Felix. But how could it see the interpolation as such? Knowledge of the text? Okay - know‐ ledge that it was an interpolation, + that what you do is take the last word of the interpolation + link it to the first following word. I is a real anic acts Acts is at a different time than the dream material. It is newer. The text seen in 3-D which involves a hyperparallaxis. Again the key is time: specifically time converted into space; since the dream section is older it is spacially nearer or farther than the Acts material surrounding it. So the plasmate linkages are across time (as I've long suspected) but time converted into space. (e.g. the Fish necklace. Those are linkages across time but spacially linked; so the brain is distributed across time-as-space - so my seeing the world of Acts superimposed on USA 1974 was (3 a normal experience within the time-as-space functioning of the brain (avicenna: God does not experience time as men do"). This might be the primary cause of our inabi lity to see the brain: that we are caught in time in a point-present. "Memory (anamnesis]," then really means experiencing time as space, which is why I got out of synch with time + responded to stimuli before they occurred I didn't just remember Acts; I experienced saw) it. Why do I keep overlooking this dif‐ t ference? + the BIP is a complex (ossified) in the brain, + must be dissolved ("phagocytosis"). being a complex it is transtemporal (i.e. a constant; this is why we call it a complex; + it warps other thoughts to it; not just to it but assimilates them to its template, which is what a complex does: sets up an overvalence a