recon stitution of itself, viz: the Mens Dei contains an intelligible archetypal eidos (idea) of itself as a map of itself; this is Christ + the mens Dei could "more" that self-map to whenever + wherever it wanted by means of eide relating to the spatiotemporal locating of the map originally. "Whopever has seen me has seen the Father" among the intelligible archetypal ideas (eide) in the Mens Dei is one of itself. This is because God is self-aware - a phenomenon I considered sometime ago; it has to be thus: it must know itself. It would only have to introduce the self map once -at any one place-+-time whereupon it could be retrieved any place + any time by means of the proper eidos. The proper 16 eidos would trigger off retrieval through a mode locus of the mens Dei (e.g. a given human mind). The two spatiotemporal sets become blended/mingled through the "common + the micro-form ("map") of the divine totality is thereby present intact in both + can act in the other set (from the one it was introduced into). But (I realizes For this to work it would require the given human mode locus to suddenly see (apperceive) as God does. There would be no way to avoid this in the transfer of the micro-form self-map of the total divine. Christ is the one "element" in the world that the world has no power over. Therefore There is a logical reason why, of all the things I have ever seen, the Xtian fish sign accomplished what in fact it accomplished: the abolition of the seeming reality of the spatio temporal world. The Acts lens/grid! Doesn't this support Malebranche? This is exactly what he is talking about- QE.D. By which I saw e.g. Xtian apocalyptic history. (Not to mention the plasmate, the set/ground cypher, Valis, the 345 doorway - + Valis' mind was in my mind. Oh + Acts itself as world. the specific element of Xtianity fute in with Malebranche who was, after all, a catholes priest: + he based his system on Paul. Who was a friend of like who wote Acts. 7 The Acts lens/grid" is my way of explaining malabranche's "vision in God," +, in remembering this -my concept of "the Acts lens/grid" - I believe I can be certain that Malebranche's system is the one I want; I am using My own terms to express what he so I could all much better expresses. express by my "Acts lens/grid" was say what happened, not how (i.e. how this Acts lens/grid" worked - except I was very close; I knew it was inserted in my mind - presumably by God or Christ-the (also it between me + reality "Acts lens/grid" is related, as I realized, to an a priori apperception of world! Here enters my concept of "the [missing] second signal"! But: there was not only feature enhancement but contour sup‐ pression This is a solemn moment when I link up Malebranche's "vision in God" [of the intelligible archetypal ideas] with the "Acts lens/grid," a priori apperception of reality, + "the second signal" normally missing that both enhances + suppresses, so that feature extraction occurs; this "feature" as is obviously intelligible archetypal idea, to which he referred. It is evident at this point that the apperception of reality obtained by "the Acts lens/grid" is more correct than 18 What is normally seen. The archetypal ideas are stronger; thereis, as I have often said, much greater conceptualizing bstracting - here I bring in my + identification of Malebranche's "intell‐ legible archetypal ideas" + Plato's eide. This is the basis of reality + it is conceptual (for example, it is outside time + space + does not perish) (Hence it can correctly be said to be more real than the flux epiphenomena) Let me once again consider the EB article on Messianic movements: the iron Empire, the 5th Kingdom + the return of the Messiah. + let me consider what "Tears" contains: Acts material, the dream, the cypher, + the BIP (which is overthrown). plus elliptical references to "the Bacchae" which I connect with Christ. My whole Did I experience is tied in with "Tears." not do eleven drafts of "Tears," working the dream part over + over again, word by word? which I never do! The realization about the Acts lens/grid finally convinces me. What is necessary is an overview that extends from 1970 the writing of "Tears" (esp. the dream) + to 11-17-80 + the theophany of the tran‐ eleven years. With scendent Xtian God the overview that I have now, thanks to I can feel confident that Malebranche, is I fairly accurately + fully understand all that has happened to me in its entirety. Eleven years? Far more than saving me from the Xerox missive trap is involved; it begins with "Tears" + goes all the way to "the Divine invasion" It is God + it is speci‐ fically the Christian God who of course is YHWH (hence the Hebrew letters that I saw that morning). The Cosmological Mysticism of St. Paul is a main part of it, which narrows the solution down + clearly defines it, I now view the publishing of "Valis" in the form that it is as a great victory over vast odds. an a prior knowledge of the eide -more precisely the intel ligible archetypal ideas (used is possible because In creation). they are innate. Why + how? They are on the order of geometrical forms: also innate This opens up a whole new line of thought. Male‐ branche is right, not passive empirical perception of reality is involved, but rather, a priori knowledge of eide, which are fused with spatiotemporal empirical perception to reveal common essences outside of the s space + time in/as reality true reality. But these eide didn't get into the mind due to a prenatal existence; not anam‐ nesis consists in something else, like memory but not lineartime memory of the past it is comprehension: meta-abstracting a due to an innate a priori know ledge. The explanation is: exter‐ nal reality is constructed in of the basis a priori knowable 11 archetypes used as the basis for the myriad things of creation One might just as readily ask "How can knowledge of a triangle properties of the triangle itself, of it/ = 2 be a priori + innate?" Here is the real Q. + also the A Perhaps "ubique" is the answer perhaps one can only give a circular anower; they are knowable a priori, what is found in the mind is; it turns out the basis for reality, just as the Golden rectagle is the basis for the Parthanon. It is a concep‐ tualized understanding of flux + multiplicity. It is a higher faculty of the mind, to see this "common essence" in shifting Flux. Perhaps on some level the individual human mind par‐ ticipates in God's mind, + it is at that level, the level of these archetypes that plural minds becomed one mind, multiplicity in both of Spinoza unity becomes This is precisely tributes. a 12 to things: what does three 1) turns bewildering multipli‐ city into a limited number of archetypes (eide) that are permanent 2) links the inner (a priori) ter ou world with the (reality) 3) Joins the individual human mind with God's. result. one inner-outer continuum made up of a finite number of recurring intelligible arche typal ideas in a common mind transcending individuality + spatiotemporality... through (by means of) the ubique of these archetypes, as if they are self-causing, everywhere the same at all times - which destroys a space, time causation + individual self. Because this finite number of intelligible archetypal ideas No distinction is ubiquitous, outer between the inner + exist. 13 realities, self + world; in Wittgenstems sense, the inner analog to has become a perfect model of the outer world (by perceiving world in terms of the supra-spatiotemporal eide underlying the flux multipli city. Again, this involves a vast leap in meta-abstracting due to an initial shread guess. ("uncanny hunch as to the truth. If the external world of flux is really a finite number of eternal recurrent a priori archetypes it can be known absolutely + outside of space, This is time causation + change indeed what Plato was talking about as But Malabranche makes anamnesis clear why there is such an enormous effect in this "anamnesis": external hence reality is actually invisible + we know it only through ideas impressed on dim, indistinct sense-data anyhow! only now (upon anamnesis). These [correct] ideas gain the upper hand, conceptualization replaces a rather passive perception. The organizing ideas (always latently there) are now apperceived distinctly + clearly, as s 14 the true basis of reality; not as just a way (mechanism) (means) of organizing reality, like the categories of space time + causation. But constituting the actual external s basis of world as a finite number of eternal constants; thus the eide pass over from categories by which the percipient organizes (hypo statizes) sense data to what they in fact actually are: the true a fortion basis of external reality independent of the parcipient, which as a basis, obliterates space + time + causation as the supposed basis (of actual external reality). the key is that these a priori eternal archetypes (which are categories of organization by the percipient) are discovered in external reality by a process described by Plato, Plotinus + Malebranche, + replace the more primitive less accurate categories of space, time + causation; thus flux reality is brought under the organ rational control of ubiquitous a priori categories, which are the same at all times + places + are uncaused the supreme on is the Golden rectangle based on the Fibonacci consta 15 There is no way one can doubt that This is the anamnesis + "prenatal memory of the universals" that Plato was talking about, but he had the wrong reasons, my explicates the real reasons: what we suppose to be empirical perception of the external world is primarily a perception of these intelligible archetypal ideas or fide anyhow, mixed in with space, time + causation, what has happened is that a meta-abstraction has occurred - quantum-leap in degree - in which the eide are discovered to be in external reality, so external reality is assimilated + homologized to a priori truths, at the expent of space, time + causation. Now a partly intelligible external world is totally intelligible as if a i decoding gridttens were in place in the percipient. It is as if the percipient has raised into con‐ sciousness his normally uncon‐ scious use of these eide as ordering categories for perception of external thi reality I 10 sense it is a psychological event related to enlarging conscious ness. Also, it shold be pointed out that the eide as ordering categories are incompatable with space, time + causation as ordering categories. Q I figured out why they are a priori knowable (i.e. innate). not because they are logical but because God used them as the timeless archetypes for creation so they pertain + are discoverable everywhere (natura naturens). Hence they showed up in "Tears" c Malebranche, then, is right. we normally see them but are unaware of seeing them (or via them); if we should realize consciously what we are doing + that they exist, then a vas blitz occurs in our mind, like the alchemical wedding, it's like Platonis alchemy. By their very natural (i.e. eternal + ubiquitous) (+ self-causing) they abolish time (eternal) stace (ubiquitous) + causation (self-causing). normal perception, then, is a sort of compromise, a mixture. 17 the intelligible archetypal ideas used in creation represent order, i.e. the very einai of creation (hen "creation" equals "order" or "Form"); in contrast the flux world represents chaos - which is still with us, Plato says in "The Timaeus according to corn‐ ford. Thus when we perceive the flux world we perceive not