am positive. In fact, this is the only reason I know about it: in order to use my writing as a carrier for their information they had to install a subliminal control in me, + when this control ("Thomas") surfaced in me in 3-74 to protect me (I was endangered due to the cypher "Thomas" had put in "Tears") I saw reality through its decoder grid (Acts) + could do a set-ground discrimination of its info traffic. It seems to be a big computer camouflaged here, a sort of giant brain. This has nothing to do with God; this has to do with controlling world history or attempting to control world history. By high technology. Imagine: using the Bible as a encoding-decoding grid! How clever - since biblical material floats around everywhere, all the time ("the most widely printed book ever published"). This is its cover + its carrier; hence the Acts material in "Tears"! This is my objective proof. + it also proves that I wasn't just hypnotized by the pentathol + the Golden Fish sign. "Thomas" is real + he has been in me some time. XXIII reverence. But at this final Moksa-stage of discovery - a surprise awaits. The intelligence now uncovered is superior to our own; is in fact ultimate. But this is neither panpsychism mor pantheism; it is a process. (Of the mindification of reality.) Something outside reality is using it as an interface or carrier.) Recent insertion (12-31-80). Recall my supra notes regarding an inner (in the percipient) lens/grid template that is a projected form, + deflections from this form can be seen whereby Valis -which is a deflection- is discerned. New idea: what if this template is like Plato's eidos - of, say, a perfect circle contrasted to given actual circles? Then perception -awareness- of Valis is connected with the permanent unchanging real world (to Plato only the Form world was real). What I call the decoding grid/lens is in effect this real [Form] world; but the grid/lens is Acts. + isn't Acts a constant, supra-spatio-temporal (i.e. applicable at all times + places)? + is this not a definition of the Form world (vide "Valis" + the notion of the BIP as a past, present + future constant, only perceptible when there is a lamination of the 3)? Why, this is precisely what is involved in : {Illustration: Two poles "+ USA 1974" and "- Rome AD 70" i.e. "Flux" connected to "Common essence" i.e. "Platonic Form"} I have just now rediscovered the Platonic metaphysical basis of 2-3-74; this (again) explains the anamnesis. {...}ut herein I am seeing the spatio{...} sets derived out of the transtemporal {...} constant rather than feeding into {...}. This is pure Platonism! + my whole {...} experience is once again shown to be {...}. I just remembered the E of Ph article on universals + how (Plato says) our knowledge {...} The human soul has prenatal knowledge of universals + of their mutual relations, + postnatal experience of the ordinary world serves, or may serve, to revive this knowledge in suitable circumstances. Thus, experience ... acts as a stimulus to remind us of what we already know but have hitherto in this life forgotten ... which Plato called anamnesis (usually translated as 'recollection' but less misleadingly interpreted in this context as 'recovery'). Now we are getting somewhere. The Acts {...} lens/grid is -or is from- the permanent {eide} Form world, + by means of it, Valis is {...}tible. In my earlier notes (designated packet {...}) I infer -speculate- that the Golden Fish {sign} ripped off a huge packet of information {alread}y in me but merely latent. When I wrote {my} notes I failed to identify this as precisely {what} Plato means by anamnesis, + knowledge {re}collection. Now, for Plato this knowledge {is pre}natal, a possibility I overlooked in my {X}XIII notes (herewith included). I am now {of} the convinced opinion that Valis did not [ja}m me with all this information about Attic history during this lifetime, but in fact (to the contrary) exactly what XXIII You have to perceive internally what the straight line is that Valis is a deviation from, otherwise it is impossible to discern a deviation (i.e. "deviation" is a meaningless term without the "straight line" that it is a deviation from. That straight line is not mapped out in sensible reality but in the vision, the percept system, of the percipient). So the perception of Valis involves these propositions: 1) The term Valis does not refer to something but to effects that something exerts. 2) Perception of that exertion as a deviation or perturbation requires a template of perception by which the deviation is measured against a non-deviation. 3) This template is a portion of a vaster template or Gestalt, + is the inferential or missing part analogically implied by the contours that are sensible. 4) So a double inference is involved in postulating the "something" of propostion (1); viz: the something cannot directly be observed, only its influence; that influence can only be observed if a template exists that defines the line from which there is a deflection, + this portion of the template is itself only [analogically] inferential from the contour-portions that are directly sensible. Double inference: the straight line is inferential, + then when a deviation or deflection is "seen" it in itself is not something but only serves as a basis by which to infer the existence of something. So the reasoning is: 1) From several (i.e. plural) discrete constituents to Gestalt 2) Not all of the Gestalt is sensible, some portions must be analogically inferred. 3) This inference supplies a contour. 4) A deflection from this contour is observed. This is Valis. 5) This deflection points to -but in itself isn't- something real, but since it is known by a sequence of inferences, nothing about its intrinsic nature can be known. Theoretically, the deflection could be ex nihilo: self-caused. Further, theoretically (+ very possibly) the inferential part of the contour may not be correct; it is known only analogically, not logically. Third, the entire Gestalt may be erroneous in the first place! After all, it originates in the percipient's mind. Ergo, that which Valis points to is very very shakily known. Nonetheless, this is how we learn about things not directly accessible to the senses; these things must (if they are to be known at all) register through a series of interfaces. What now interests me is that I can readily (given the above) explain our normal "occlusion." We simply lack the template - the right hemisphere Gestalt, the Acts lens/grid. Consider "Tears." Look how the Acts lens/grid functions there. But as I say, the fact that Acts is the lens/grid does not prove that Xtianity is the case; the ubiquity of Biblical material could account for its use. I still sense ultra sophisticated technology + camouflage. Look: I really did not learn anything from seeing the Golden Fish sign; it was all there in me already. I said in recent earlier notes that I am beginning to think that the 2-74 disinhibition was totally accidental due mostly to the Pentathol - +, further, I was not supposed to know consciously what I knew unconsciously, i.e. in my right hemisphere. Either I opt for total deity +/or total technology controlling everything + responsible for everything (this would have to be God) or finite technology not controlling everything, in which case there can + would be accidents, 2-74 being an example. If the 2-74 disinhibition was purposeful, God would have to be involved, because either omniscience or omnipotence would be required (Pentathol, Fish sign, knowledge of the results). This is possible but I now shy away from this view, because we would not be talking about technology, then, but divine miracle. I was sure last night that it all coming into my consciousness in 2-3-74 was accidental, + I was not supposed to know + not supposed to publish it all (e.g. in "Valis"). What I am going on is God's statement that he allows, so as not to infringe on a person's einai. Yet the use that I conceive myself to have been put vis-á-vis my writing is a clear infringement on my freedom - as is the very system of engramming that I perceived Valis employing. Damn - this is the only way Valis can communicate: using our own media, etc; Valis can't think or talk. Wait - the Gestalt (lens/grid) does not [just] make it possible to discern Valis; it makes it possible to see the set-ground information emanating from Valis; so again we are back to a/the communications network, which is possibly Valis' prime job. The creation of messages by means of juxtapositional linking, etc. Are our media made use of because they consist of info or because they spread info? Here, the Bible material works on a hologram 3-D basis: depths, spatial levels. Could it be that Valis does think, by the physical arranging of physical information? Then it needs our communications media for it to function. This isn't the will of God! This is all going on as what I call Valis' information metabolism. We're back to an information life form. It comes into existence only in the interface (arrangement of physical objects) that it controls. Controls. Does it control the world, then? If the grid/lens exists for the primary purpose of decyphering Valis' information then what we have is a titanic conspiracy involving human societies + human history. On the other hand, what the grid/lens seems primarily to reveal is the true nature of history + the world arena. The combat between the Zoroastrian, 4th Gospel, Qumrān light + dark forces, + this is not a conspiracy; this is simply the true state of affairs down through 1000s of years. (You know, this is virtually a middle ground between secular conspiracies -politics + secret societies- vs purely theological matters - God vs Satan. It is world -real + secular + physical forces- but they are the armies or forces of supernatural beings. + the victory represents both a victory of certain humans + human groups + the supernatural being behind them - versus opponents. + this is what the grid primary reveals: world as stage in which two supernatural entities contend by means of humans + human history. In human history + as human history (this is quite Zoroastrian. It begins with Zoroaster; here it first enters the world conceptually; this dialectic is conceived as the true history of the world, in fact the true use of the world). The grid discloses: 1) True history: the dialectical combat down through the ages, + the goal of the forces of light. 2) Information. 3) Valis. Who/which is somehow connected with generating + transmitting -spreading- this information. Thus (I realize) Valis + the information cannot be separated. Literally. Valis does not have a mind; it only generates + transmits (moves, distributes) information, +, apparently, the information only comes into existence due to Valis. Is it possible that Valis has as a primary task or as the primary task (my God) awakening people as I was awakened in 2-3-74 to this titanic dialectical combat - i.e. war going on here, century after century? In which case 2-74 was not an accident, + may have required years of programming into my mind the many discrete constituents that jelled in 2-74 when I saw the Golden Fish sign? It may have to build it up piece by piece - did I not discern how it had engrammed me on the Fish sign over a period of decades - many separate accretions of engramming were required for the actual event to pay off; I had forgotten this last night when I reasoned that I got disinhibited by accident! What I call the Acts grid/lens may, then, be the outcome of years of work in which constituent after constituent is added to the person's mind, building up a total integrated