thoughts because for one thing (to repeat) it was no longer matter, no longer physical in the usual sense. So matter ceased to be matter. Okay, did mind cease to be mind? Yes. It turned into - All I can think of is Pythagoras' special use of the term Kosmos_. "The harmonious fitting together of the beautiful." But nonetheless glyphs - still information. (of this, Pythagoras does not speak.) I can only think of the final canto in "The Commedia" about the book. It was a three-dimensional structure that was (at the same time) a book. or like a musical score. _It was a way of encoding information in a structure or is a structure_. Time consists of accretional layers & there was no locus [lens-system] viewpoint. It constantly changed (became more complex, which is to say, more information-rich). Information as reality - Yes. Matter turned into one vast intricate structure that was information & by being "played" yielded up everything, viewed from every subjective viewpoint, that had ever been or ever would be. It was played by being perceived. (open lids.) Yes; playback came through awareness of it. Just seeing matter - there is no life to it, hence no sentient movement which is the activity which is information. We are seeing folder 49 - 084 folder 49 - 084 only the carrier! as in frequency. The info is missing, & mind alone has not the Beauty of the geometric forms! That is, the _attribute_ mind : only when the two attributes Mens & Natura are perceived together does the Beauty appear : form, proportion, color, ratio, harmony, motion, shape. The thoughts must be _seen_ for their true value (which is Beauty) to be discerned. Consider the information [word] cat & an actual cat. How beautiful is a LP of the Beethoven 9th compared to _hearing_ the 9th? No wonder I thought of my experience as postmortem. While alive I "saw the God whom we see when we die," as the French newspaper wrote. Could this be indeed the Kingdom of God that Jesus spoke of? Finding a way to see the other attribute of substantia? the information (mind thinking) for which matter is the carrier (medium/system)? How did I do it? _Did_ I do it? Or is it done to/for you? I think it is possible I saw a third attribute of substantia, what I called the "plasmate." Which was like energy but with a parallaxis - in 3-D, & like electricity (St. Elmo's Fire, an aurora, etc). Connected with time which had become depth as well as color. This was connected with information; okay : time as information or as a vehicle for information. Yes, this perception of multiple attributes view of substantia would explain how you come enter the Kingdom of God while folder 49 - 085 folder 49 - 085 alive, since you are already in it but only see matter (carrier). 1) matter 2) mind (as info) (& sentience) 3) energy 4) Platonic archetypes (e.g. Geometric forms) 5) time in terms of depth (set) & color. 6) something to do with high speed motion in terms of accretional layers. This may be the same as (4), since it may be what I call the "Platonic form axis." Then does "Ubik" present a world in which more than one attribute, matter, which we normally see only, is perceptible? & it's postmortem : in particular, info (mind) enters the world of matter. & also the Platonic form axis. & Ubik = info = negative ions (energy). 7) the dialectic (binary pulsation). It is of great theoretical importance that the Theophany that I experienced points to Spinoza's view of God as the correct one (not to speak of the proof that God exists). _If_ it was a genuine Theophany, it (1) verifies the existence of God; & (2) verifies Spinoza's "Deus sine Natura." I was led to (2) by a profound insight into monotheism : & that my Theophany - the characteristics of it - support an absolute monotheism. Playing the information is events in the universe. e.g. "King Felix" as info will become the event it is the info analog for. folder 49 - 086 "King Felix" is like a short section of an LP groove. The mind of God plays the information, & world occurs - world in _process_. What strikes me as most fascinating is that when you add the aspect mind to matter you get a third thing which is neither material thoughts (but almost is) & not matter that thinks (but almost is); viz : mind becomes something other than mind, & matter something other than matter. It is unitary (like mind) & flexible - it ceases to be - yes; it ceases to be matter as we understand matter. No one would confuse it with matter. It is like a picture, a work of art : plastic & alive but most of all it communicates in that it is aware of you & it can be read. A book can be read, a tv screen can be viewed, but they are not aware of you. Yet it has no physiognomic quality. It is aware without sense organs. You are _in_ it. Valis was not this : Diagram : Multiple arrows pointing up towards the air adjacent to rectangle with "me as observer" written inside, & i.e. valence away from plumb in the external world But rather : Diagram : Multiple arrows pointing up, enclosed in rectangle, as if plugged in, with their stems touching a rectangle marked "Source", with one arrow coming out touching another box with "me" written atop it, & experienced as mind (e.g. the dialectic, etc) i.e. Thomas controlling my motor centers. folder 49 - 087 folder 49 - 087 The taking control of my motor centers was the same as valence away from plumb in the outer world : "Pretextual Cause," & the mind in the outer world was the mind I found myself in fusion with; viz. - Diagram : Large ellipse with "Outer world" written on inside left, "Me" written on inside right. Smaller circle underneath labelled "Source Mind" with two arrows leading out from it and into words written in the ellipse. To the right of diagram written : A Continuum A Unity _My_ plumb was "Valences" & I inwardly experienced an invasion by the mind that invaded (1) the outer world & took control of it - Pretextual Cause. Info came at me from outside & inside me because world & I were a continuum which this mind invaded, & took control of. If objects & causal processes could think they would have been in the same surprised state I was in when my motor centers were taken over. Also, I experienced the mind involved (dialectic, linking, accretional layers, engramming, etc). Then was it an invasion? Does my experience, then, still bear out Spinoza, or was there an _invasion_ of me & world, as I originally conceived of? folder 49 - 088 folder 49 - 088 The mind involved had complete control over me & reality, & had engrammed me for decades. Was it an epiphany, not an invasion? & was it localized? Tess saw & felt nothing. I know something about that mind : it was afraid of the Romans, & spoke Koine Greek! Incredible as it may seem I never grasped until now that the entry of the mind into mine & the takeover of my motor centers was the same as what I was seeing outside me that I called Valis; viz : the "Mindification" & "Modulating" of objects & causal processes. So, then, was I not seeing something normal but hidden from us? Did Valis invade in camouflaged form, as I originally surmised? But including me? It broke the "twin synched tapes" power over me: my programming ("The Law"). That was its purpose. Well, it is Christ who does that. My inner self was the core locus of the invasion. The "Messenger" dream! Bilking the karma machine, by withholding the info it acts on - needs for it to act at all. & this would account for the Acts material in "Tears." & it did all start off with The Golden Fish Sign & my revelation about the True Secret Xtians. folder 49 - 089 folder 49 - 089 So another aspect (mind) was not just seen; it entered & took over, me & the external world both. Well, then, much more than perception of reality as it truly is was involved: I & the reality around me were, like a field, invaded & taken over, so my original sense of Valis as a camouflaged invader was correct. Now, what kind of mind can take over not just a person but the reality around him as well? What was really contained in my 2-74 insight? (since everything stems from it.) 1) the True Xtians are illegal. 2) This is a political matter having to do with Governments, rulers, societies, history. 3) They are not in power. If they were in power they would not have to be illegal. 4) They may not have _ever_ been in power, or they may have once been & then defeated. 5) Since they represent the true God, the true God is not in power. Either he never has been or he was & then was defeated. 6) Therefore we are in a prison. 7) We are slaves. 8) Then the Empire exists. What Empire? 9) This is what the 30 Years War was about; the Dutch were the first to fight Free of the Empire. Nonetheless the Empire still governs virtually ubiquitously. 10) The situation is dire & has been for a longtime. But there is hope (of illegal political folder 49 - 090 folder 49 - 090 action by the Secret Xtians. 11) This is what "Tears" is about (hence acts - realized later). "Tears" is true. 12) What we see is not what is there. We do not see "Tears" but "Tears" is nonetheless there. 13) "The Aufklarung" was essentially a victory by Secret Societies. & they know the true situation. The Aufklarung had & has now enemies more powerful than it : the Empire. So there is a secret within a secret. The Empire is a secret (its existence & its power, that it rules) & secondly the secret illegal Xtians pitted against it. So the discovery of the secret illegal Xtians instantly causes me one to grasp that, if _they_ exist illegally, something evil that is stronger _is in power, & right here_! Thus to know Part B of the secret situation - the illegal Xtians - is to instantly know by inference - relentless inference - Part A. the grim tyranny. Whereas if you know Part A you could not (conversely) deduce Part B. So Part B tells you Part A, but Part A does not disclose Part B. So Part B is the greater secret. By knowing Part B you know the _whole_ situation. Wait - I think I know what it is, B - Part B - is by its definition secret ("illegal secret Xtian underground"). Most secret illegal undergrounds _are_ secret folder 49 - 091 But how could Part A be secret to us? _We live here_! Wouldn't we know if we were ruled by a enslaving tyrannical Empire? How could that - A - be secret from us? Obviously the testimony of our senses cannot be relied on. What we see is not the case. This is unbelievable, but A follows inexorably from B. So a totally different world - total world - is disclosed by B. (I'm thinking of John Clavin's analysis of our cognitive & perceptual occlusion.) (Cf "Scanner.") & this is precisely what happened to me following 2-74; the real world broke in. & : the part of me that is tracking that world! (Thomas.) I mean, I am simultaneously living in the irreal world as PKD & in the real