derives its understanding of the form of a bit by studying (knowing) the nature of the bit. Here is the "plantation" concept, the universe as God's plantation. So I saw the workings of an information-processing meta-system; but the information consists of things, of objects, which are "moved" around within the system according to how Valis classifies them. Valis, I would think, must constantly analyze and conceptually arrange things. "This thing goes here," it decides, and places it "here," with its proper phylogon; thus ontogons become accretional layers for phylogons; this is the rest-motion transform. Rest equals still ontogon. Motion is when the thing has reached essential intactness and is transferred conceptually by Valis. I saw these phylogons (forms) as the phosphene colors, exactly as Plato theorized. folder 82 - 102 folder 82 - 102 -1- 4-3-80 Q: How do you solve a problem that can only be solved on the basis of information knowable only after the problem situation is over (i.e. later. After you fail. I.e. when it doesn't matter any longer)? A: By warping reality (by projecting a field from your brain onto it) so that TIME RUNS BACKWARD. Thereby information flows to you from the future. It comes at you from later. Causality is disturbed. Effects precede cause. This is the only way you can get now the information you need (viz: it exists only in the future, days, weeks, months or years later) to solve the problem, a problem that will determine whether you live or die (you live if you solve it; you die if you don't). So you warp time/causality; information thereupon flows back at you from the future, but it is limited to what you will eventually know; i.e. you will not obtain information you will never know. When time and causality are made to run backward, and your brain-field is imposed on the environment around you, external reality looks sentient, volitional and purposeful. You can will perturbations in the reality field, such as in causality, in time, events, sequences, etc. What you see are neural circuits and especially information -- which is what you are on the track of. Like a film of an explosion run backward; that's how reality looks; so you see instead of efficient cause -- you see what seems to be final cause: teleology. You are seeing the universe backward. Whether this is more correct or less correct than forward moving linear time I can't say. But it does yield up enormous amounts of information that otherwise would be known only in the form of useless hindsight. folder 82 - 103 folder 82 - 103 -2- 4-3-80 By making time run backward you thereby have a memory (literally) of the future. The normal future has become the past, and in it (now, as it exists qua world, time and causality around you) are trace layers or bits of information from farther and farther parts of the future time stream, just as in normal forward-flowing linear time at any given moment there are bits, traces, accretions or layers from farther and farther in the past. Thus if you can get time and causality to flow backward (run backward) at all, even for a few days, you will have available as information the entirety of the future, just as the past normally stretches out behind you, receding but elongated. I have said for years: THE XEROX MISSIVE PUZZLE COULD ONLY BE SOLVED BY INFORMATION AVAILABLE AFTER THE PROBLEM WAS SOLVED/NOT SOLVED. Recently I said: IN 3-74 I SAW TIME RUN BACKWARD. Now I put these two propositions together; I myself caused the latter in order to obtain the former (I caused time to run backward to obtain this future information). I did obtain it and thus I did solve the Xerox missive problem. That was the only way it could be solved: if I could get time (and as a byproduct causality) to run backward. That cause and effect got out of synch (e.g. I reacted to stimuli before they occurred) was just a byproduct, a symptom of what was happening. It served no purpose, this disruption of causality. What I was seeking (drawing toward me) was information -- lying ahead on the linear time axis. This was more than precognition, but related to it; mere precognition became an actual warping of the reality field by a superimposition/projection of my own brain. folder 82 - 104 folder 82 - 104 That I genuinely warped reality (time, causality) and that it wasn't just a change in how reality "looked" to me --my view of it in the customary sense of the word-- is: I GOT THE INFORMATION. SO I REALLY WAS EITHER MOVING RETROGRADE IN TIME, OR I GOT TIME TO MOVE RETROGRADE AROUND ME. It was an act of mental will. A bending, a warping, of the objective ontological category of time. Thus starting in 2-74 I myself created the disruptions that I attributed to the Soviet psychotronic experiments. All the information that came to me either came from the future or from deep layers in my own mind (probably from my mind in the future based on what I would know during the following years): anyhow, the disturbances around me that I perceived were caused by paranormal powers in me, striving to affect time, to speed up, overtake it thereby causing it to run in reverse in relation to me. I have it. My normal (sic) precognition prewarned me of the problem shaping up (the Xerox missive), thus making me growingly apprehensive. But my normal precognition did not give me the SOLUTION to the problem; something more than precognition was needed. This explains the rehashing of the problem in PENULTIMATE TRUTH, "Faith of Our Fathers," MITHC, etc. I had to reach beyond passive precognition, the intuitive hunch syndrome, and actively draw/yank information to me deliberately, willfully and selectively, and over a very long stretch of future time. The precog faculty had to come under the direction of my will. It could not therefore be confined to the subliminal area of mental functioning; thereupon my psyche turned inside out. folder 82 - 105 folder 82 - 105 -1- 4-4-80 Comments on 1-30-80 piece "Upon reading the TAO OF PHYSICS." This would confirm the view I advance in my novels, especially my ten-volume meta-novel, that for every person there is a different universe which is the result of a mutual participation between him and the macrocosm, a field that is a sysygy between them. My recent thoughts, when turned toward Capra's book, make me think that because of the enormous (in fact lethal) stress on me in 3-74 I fed tremendous energy into this joint field (mutual reality produced by the two of me: myself and the macrocosm, the two together being what I call Valis). Thus the percent of material projected from my mind came to be the dominant part of the mutual field. The normal, customary balance was radically altered, due to my expression of intense will. This explains all the material in Valis derived from my mind: UBIK, TEARS and now, I discover, my childhood images derived from the book SILVER PENNIES. To quote the 1-30-80 paper: "I wasn't seeing it and I wasn't seeing a projection of my own brain. What I was seeing was a combination of and interaction between my brain and it, so that to some extent a unique local field came into existence; viz: I didn't observe Valis but participated actively. Valis, then, is not it and not me, but rather it and me." But the weight transferred to material coming from me; the amping up of the field took place from my side or pole. The not-me (macrocosm) didn't amp up; I did. Hence my reality TOOK ON MORE ASPECTS OF MATERIAL FROM MY UNCONSCIOUS; IT RESEMBLED MY MIND MUCH MORE THAN NORMAL. Hence the "obliging" quality. Also, as I state in the 1-30-80 paper, this means I had an unusual amount of control folder 82 - 106 -2- 4-4-80 over the field of mutual interaction, which (as I say) resembles the psychotic idea that by thinking about it you can change reality. As I say in my recent notes on seeing time run backward, and apparently causing this myself, I altered my reality drastically in terms of time and causality. Thus my acosmism is correct; what we have that we call "reality" is always this unique local field of mutual interaction, and in a strictly ontological sense it is not real, but is built up largely on the individual's perceptions (i.e. based on his own mind, a projection of his own brain map). That in a crisis he could take advantage of this in order deliberately to modify his reality -- who has thought of that? i.e. the practical application of this theory of projection and interaction and uniqueness. And it worked; I was successful. Here's a major point: to the extent that you projected your reality you would be falsifying it; from an ontological basis there would be a loss; emistemologically speaking you would talk about contamination and an occlusion of the possibility of knowing the real world, i.e. the world in itself as it is. But from a utilitarian pragmatic practical standpoint, this "contamination would be valuable, since, if you could gain control over your unconscious mechanism of projection, you could thereby control --determine-- what made up your world or a good deal of your world. So whereas epistemologically speaking you would have to talk about subjective or even spurious worlds, from the standpoint of biological survival there would be a distinct advantage to (1) this being the case; (2) you knowing it; and (3) you using this knowledge to control --govern consciously-- your projections and hence volitionally shape your world. folder 82 - 107 folder 82 - 107 -3- 4-4-80 What in essence you would be doing is getting mastery over your own "karma." It would amount to the height of emancipation and enlightenment to (1) know these things about how your world comes into existence, what it is made up of and who creates it; and (2) then take conscious control. What is lost in terms of epistemology (i.e. you can never know the world-in-itself) is more than made up for by the biological survival advantages. Okay: our normal reality is a two-source field (one source being the unique individual, the other the macrocosm). In 3-74 I upset the normal balance and interaction because, due to lethal stress and the need to problem solve, I amped up my component of the unified field. This produced massive disturbances (in time and in causality especially) that I call Valis. In doing this --plus having correctly analyzed what happened, what I did-- I proved the contention of my ten volume meta-novel: that each of us lives in some kind of simulated reality, "simulated" in the sense that from a strict ontological standpoint (i.e. measured against absolute or objective reality, the Dinge-an-sich) it isn't real -- specifically, it or some of it (with Valis most of it) is generated by the person himself. So seeing Valis did not represent a breaking through, on my part, to absolute reality; it amounted to a demonstration of the radical subjectivety and uniqueness of our worlds, our plural worlds. I did not see things as they actually are, but I verified the idios kosmos vs the koinos of Heraclitus that I am devoted to as a principle. Hence Tessa did not see Valis. Valis was a special way in which I interacted with the macrocosm, one in which the resultant field was highly charged with my own will, sentience and volition. folder 82 - 108 folder 82 - 108 -4- 4-4-80 I even caused time in my idios kosmos to slow down and then run backward. In order to get information available only in the future. The initial breakthrough in confirming my subjective plural worlds participant-observer-field theory came when, under pentathol (and later) I saw