in this world. Otherwise, would the bond, the fetters, immediately break? It only has power if we regard it as real - i.e. the world as real. I'm not sure Eliade sees this. The Pan-India theorists certainly saw this (but the Greeks did not; the Gnostics sure saw it!) It seems to me that the Karma-breaking experience of anamnesis would lead to acosmism. Also, the real home (Pleroma) is remembered - +, as in my case, the [Gnostic] messenger / savior is encountered + seen (correctly) as responsible for the Karma-breaking. Most important, the person recovers his Godhead identity (self), + this Eliade does not deal with. The authentic self is experienced as greater + more real than the world, + not of it. Thus the proto-story is made available to the person: the original home, the fall, the previous life or lives - the vast true self, + the messenger / savior. The vast expanses of space + time all of which are present. (I.e. Acts was not in the past, but superimposed on USA 1974 outside as was "Thomas" on me inside). Speaking of Indian thought, Eliade writes: "Ignorance - which in the last analysis is ignorance of oneself - can be thought of as a forgetting of the true self (atman): wisdom, which by tearing the veil of maya or ignorance makes liberation possible, is an awakening." + atman is Brahman - + for a long time I saw that the reality which I apprehended in place of the illusory world was exactly as Brahman is de- folder 21 - 059 folder 21 - 059 picted to be: a ubiquitous mind which is the universe, is everything + everywhere; all that is real is Brahman, + Brahman is all that is real; i.e. if it isn't Brahman it isn't real - this is the "volvox" or "omniworld sphere" or "macrobrain" or "abyss" which I saw + write about + I -my real self- returned to it + had been exhaled from it in the first place - palintropos harmonie: inhalation + exhalation. (Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva.) (I am now in the "Shiva" part of my personal cycle: to be destroyed as a separate entity + to return, which is what I yearn for.) (In Gnostic terms I descended, lived here, was caused to remember by the savior, + can now re-ascend.) Of all that grows there is a flower - one. Its life expires; mine has begun. Its worth is greater than my own. It has its friends; I am alone. I brought this deadness on me; what has come I willed. Its cup is empty; mine is filled. ___ I dreamed: I am the fish whose flesh is eaten, + because I am fat, it is good. (Bob Silverberg ate me.) This fits in with the dream I had in 1974 of the great white fish whom we ate, + who suffered. But offered itself to us. ___ Voice: "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." folder 21 - 060 folder 21 - 060 Then no time has in fact passed - which I realized in 2-74. Voice: "This is also why he smashes things." The creator James-James is meant in both cases. To make time seem real - but in 2-74 I discovered it's not real. "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." This is why Rome C AD 45 + USA 1974 are syntonic - can be superimposed. Otherwise, there is no possible way - + no way, upon seeing it, to comprehend it. Here is the answer. "Appear" time has passed. See? He is fucking counterfeiting eternity - trying to duplicate it, as an end in itself. It is a fraud. + here (in the quote) is how it's done. (I.e. to make things "look different." The E of Ph article on time says, "All we really know is not that there is time or what time is, but that there is change." (But actualy it's just shifting aspects - like perspectives of one thing. folder 21 - 061 Like taking different camera-angle shots of the same object: {illustration: a turning "object" on the right, and "dif. shots" taken from the left} We must be moving along some kind of axis, but always viewing one unchanging thing. It stays the same but our perspective permutates. {Note} ____ Siddhartha sleeps '' awakes (dances) } Brahman! ____ Memory returned to me in 2-3-74 + things looked the same, not different. The voice didn't say, "made things different" but "look different." Merely look. It is a seeming change. Permutations of seeming, of appearance. But it's counterfeit. The "things" are really a constant (e.g. the Empire). The goal: to make it appear (sic) that time has passed, but no time has passed. (v. "Stigmata" + the counterfeit worlds in which no time passes.) He ("James-James") has the power to cause things to look different (that is, their appearance changes. It's like a movie in which the illusion of motion is created artificially. Here, there is a flow of change -of looking different- from which we falsely (are induced to) assume the passage of time, but for me in 2-74 I remembered that it still is c.AD 45. {Note:} This is not necessarily true, about this axis. There may be no axis + no motion, just a progression of lookings different. Our brains are signalled as to these appearance changes with the result that we see what looks like USA 1974 but is not. The situation is worse than I folder 21 - 062 folder 21 - 062 had thought. I don't know if even Gnosticism covers it. "Thomas" is not a former life but my actual life now. [Note] It covers the standard amount of years (of a normal human lifetime). What happened in 3-74 is that I woke up to reality. But it has these counterfeit accretional layers over it. Our sense of time -of the passage of time- is the result of our scanning the changes of appearance; we record the changes along a linear memory-strip, sequentially (digitally). We derive the idea of time from sequential memory (of permutation or fluctuation): it is linearized in our brains. Our brains are so constructed as to linearize sequences so sequential seeming (i.e. aspect) permutations of an actually supratemporal constant trick our brains into this linearization (sense of actual passage of actual time). We derive our sense of how much time (whatever that may be) from the rate of change; therefore if change could be speeded up to towards infinity, thousands of years (sic) could be compressed into an actual month (or so). Use of LSD has brought this to our attention. This makes me think of the furious rate of permutation of the phosphene "graphics." Was the entire remainder of the "Karmic" tape run? It could be -have been- hundreds or thousands of years of tape - "burned up" + hence abolished. However much remained. Well, in that case I'm spared living all my future lives. [Note] "Ignorance can be thought of as forgetting the true self." - Eliade folder 21 - 063 folder 21 - 063 So rapid-firing aspect changes give the deliberately misleading impression of time-passage. All that is necessary is to cause things to look different (i.e. in sequence). This accounts for the perplexing syntonic quality of the two space-time continua which simply cannot be explained if there is true change + true time. The goal is to simulate time [passage]. Why? To give the spurious impression that the Second Advent did not occur. "...so it'd appear time has passed." The basic lie, then, is not the "reality" but the impression vis-a-vis time that that "reality" gives; i.e. century after century of [what is really false] time. Meanwhile, like in "Stigmata," we are prisoners of the master magician to do with as he wishes - except for the in-breaking (as in "Ubik") of salvific messages + aid (specifically aid which extricates - a primary form would be the awakening of us to our true situation + true selves (our true selves are inhabitants of Rome c. AD 45, i.e. Acts)). (+ Acts is our true world.) True self + true world can't be separated nor can false self + false world. In the age of iron Siddhartha (Brahman) sleeps, we sleep also. As we awake, he awakes; we're him. (He is us.) But the age of iron does not progress into the age of gold sequentially; rather, the landscape of the age of iron wakes up + is transmuted into gold along its extent (orthogonally), like a sort of brain whose stations turn from dark to light the new heaven and the new earth replace the old (are substituted for). The phosphene activity would be what I call the inner tape (ego) firing into a void, totally out of synch with the outer tape (world) which continued at its normal rate, thus it used itself up. folder 21 - 064 folder 21 - 064 I must keep in mind that this happened after I experienced anamnesis the month before (i.e. woke up briefly - that was the day I received the Sodium Pentathol). The Bardo Thodol lights/colors came before the phosphenes: the between lives period. So it was already running ahead. Yes, I was programmed to die soon after March 1974, but the 2-74 anamnesis interrupted that. Meanwhile, I was left with a world which I was not inner-out synch-locked into. Meanwhile, full memory returned - of Acts, + of my celestial self + life, + I could see the savior/messenger who now attacked the outer "tape" -i.e. causal trains- i.e. external world, since the menace to me emanated there (the Xerox missive + various illnesses). Nothing I have ever seen was as startling as to see Zebra melting causal trains, reality itself. So once the inner tape had been run out at fast forward the outer tape was attacked. However, this left me rudderless in the world. During the interim period "Thomas" ran things - he seems to have sprung up from deep inside me, released + restored by virtue of anamnesis. Possessing the wisdom he possessed, he did not need to be driven by a tape. Yet I am advised not to think of this as an override, but as the culmination of a long process: "You were doomed to be saved. There was no other possibility. Determinism determined determinism to end." The tape consumed itself - it programmed itself to switch to unsynched fast forward + so play out all future lives in a matter of eight hours. It was planned from the beginning to meet the Xerox missive with Thomas, not with the tape. Mind confronted the Xerox missive, as if it (mind) had trapped the trapper, had lured it premeditatively. folder 21 - 065 folder 21 - 065 The thing is, I would never have seen (or used) the Xerox missive as an opportunity on my behalf. This was impossible since I did not know who had sent it - could not know: it was masterfully disguised - in fact perfectly. No internal evidence gave any clue to its source + hence its meaning or intent: i.e. what it was. I am now told that it was a US Army forgery, + so the meaning + intent can be inferred unerringly - + what response (out of all possible ones) would benefit me (in the normal spectrum none would have). Since lying is impossible by the divine, I had to be sincere in what I wrote the Bureau. Therefore I could not know at the time what I know now. (Even then I recognized my occlusion as necessary but did not know why.) Had I known, I would have had to engage in artful duplicity, which the divine ruled out. It waited years to tell me, when knowledge was academic. Since it was a U.S. forgery, it was to my