+ I asked myself, "would he be additional substantial/material trace bits?" + I realized, "no, as a tug, a perturbation - the iron filings + magnetic field perturbation" - [Note] Because that is where he is {folder 01 - 139} the eide are not material, not physical; so the only way they (he) could show up would be as a tug; + this would render the plural objects + their processes as a field perturbed as a unitary whole - I visualized it so clearly. Since he is not real in the spatiotemporal sense, + yet he is here not there, in this world, immediately at hand; I understood it for a moment so clearly - + it was exactly what I saw in 3-74 that I called Valis. It is the only evidence we would have. & he is ubiquitous. After all, he is here inducing enantiodromia into the world-process. So certain moves show up at critical instants that overrule the normal world-process. Like short bursts of radiation critically aimed. This would be a tug indeed, a refabricating. Valence. An entry by him into time + space: in short, a perturbation of the reality field. So I arrive at the conclusion to this exegesis + it is where I started: Valis is [the Cosmic] Christ; but to understand this I had to reject all other possibilities one by one over a 6 1/2 year period; +, most important of all, I had to study Plato's metaphysics thoroughly + rejoin it to its other half: Christianity, the anamnesis of the Eucharist, arising out of Orphism, from which Plato's metaphysics came. {folder 01 - 140} --- [A newspaper clipping:] What is real? Are iron filings real? They can be seen and touched, measured for weight and length. But suppose you scatter them over a sheet of paper and place a magnet under the paper. Is the arrangement of the filings real? You cannot see or touch the arrangement, only the arranged bits of iron. To account for this phenomenon, we speak of a magnetic field. Is the magnetic field real? Physical scientists of the 19th century accepted as real forces that could not be grasped by the organs of sense. These postulated forces accounted for phenomena, for effects, that could be sensed. It is fair to say that scientists considered these forces the ultimate reality. The measured effects were mere appearance. Is this the hard-core materialism of the 19th century physics to which Harold J. Morowitz refers? Paul Cornyetz New York, N.Y. --- Perhaps when I apprehened what I call Valis I did some kind of set-ground reversal. If what I - what we all - normally see is substantial reality -"the iron filings"- this would be set, + the arrangement (or perturbation) would be ground + hence not seen (conceived as nothing). But in a reversal of set-ground you would see the arrangement - "the magnetic field"; + this would be a perturbation not of itself, not of the field, but of the normal set [Note], the physical constituents + their regular causal processes. To repeat: the perturbation is of physical reality ("the iron filings") - "the reality field" by Valis: as the above item states, regarded as "the ultimate reality". "The measured effects were mere appearances". The solution [Note] But arrangement is perturbed. {folder 01 - 141} is to de-substantialize physical reality + regard it as a field - as the AI voice says. Well, then there is more information in this statement by the AI voice than I had realized. I've been totally concentrating on "perturbation". But what if physical, material, substantial reality is not physical, material + substantial? "Field" does not merely imply something unitary. The pattern in the iron filings is not the magnetic field but the effects of the magnetic field. Without the iron filings you wouldn't know there was a field. Reality is not acted on by a field; reality is a field. Well, it just goes back to what I already said; we don't see Valis; we see a field - which we call reality + there is an irregularity in that field. MW II "Field. Physics. A region or space traversed by lines of force; the region throughout which the force exerted by a body or by etc is detectable." This is quite clear. What we call reality is a "region throughout which the force exerted by a 'body' etc is detectable". Valis is that "body" etc exerting detectable force, + that force is detectable by a perturbation in reality as a field. So: something lies outside of reality acting on it. By "reality" I understand that the physical spatiotemporal universe is meant. Reality, then, is just a region on which the truly real acts + is detectable. To quote from "Valis": "my body is either in two places or else it is nowhere." {folder 01 - 142} IV ________ I just realized, I've answered the question that bothered me for so long: where is the macrometasomakosmos? This has puzzled me from the start; I saw it but I couldn't figure out where it is + why we can't see it. This was a major problem. Structure is arrangement. The ripple of wind in the weeds of the alley arranges the weeds; it is what a magnetic field does to iron filings. This arrangement is [due to] the tug I call Valis. Pythagoras said that structure (arrangement), not something substantial, some substance, was the basis of reality, + everything else is epiphenomenal. So this ripple in the weeds is the basic structure, + I seek God in that arrangement; in that sense He is in the weeds: as the magnetic field arranges the iron filings. Not the things arranged, but the arrangement itself - this is the metakosmos: Christ. These arrangements, starting out as ripples in the weeds, eventually become colossal patterns that link up much of reality, +, finally, all reality into an integrated structure. But we can see the origins in the ripple-pattern in the weeds, if we know how to look. That I look for the ultimately {folder 01 - 143} real in the arrangement of that which in itself is substantial but only semireal, enables me to fathom the mystery of Valis, of what I saw in 3-74 that I used to call "pretextual cause" + "valence away from plumb", but later "tug" based on the AI voice speaking of it as "a perturbation [in the reality field]"; the divine is not the reality field (objects + their normal processes) but the perturbation or arrangement finally deserving the term structure. This set-ground reversal on my part is of critical importance in my apperception of the divine. Now, looking back to what I saw in 3-74 that I called Valis, + envisioning the arrangement that a magnetic field causes in iron filings sprinkled on a piece of paper - well, that letter in "Psychology Today" shows I am on the right track. This is an extraordinary + highly sophisticated view on how (if at all) the divine can be apprehended in terms of reality; it is not apprehended as reality ("the reality field") but by the "perturbation" it causes in that reality [field], a perturbation that is not in itself divinity but rather is the discernible tracing of the force that in itself - unknowable to us - is divinity. We cannot know {folder 01 - 144} it directly, in itself, but only as + in the perturbation it sets up in reality (the reality field). Thus: it itself lies outside reality - but physics works with such entities all the time, + these perturbations are routinely accepted as valid signs of something that is not "real" but that exists. The metaphysical, then, is known by the tug it exerts on the physical ("Matter is plastic in the face of mind"). (So apparently Valis in itself is Nous.) (But we can never know what it is in itself. However, its existence is not just a matter of mystical or theological speculation; no: it is in the same vector of experience as a magnetic flux or field, a genuine force - what I call tug. The AI voice's term "reality field" is crucial because it ratifies my impression that the tug emanates not from within reality or from another part of reality, but from outside reality itself. Tim may have been right when he conjectured that the 1:.618034 ratio "is one of the names [i.e. manifestations] of God". A prime example of the reality of arrangement is information. Thus it is natural that Valis should make its presence felt by perturbing (riding + cooking) our info media. {folder 01 - 145} V key to irreality, although this may be because (as I speculated earlier) world is actually ordered morphologically + not in time + space; anamnesis, then, is recovery of this information/knowledge: Plato may still turn out to be right. In cosmic resorption, the return to cosmogenesis, Valis becomes visible as a volitional, controlling, living mind, organizing the multiplicity into a unitary Kosmos - a reversal of the explosion of the Fall. This is a revitalizing alchemical process, negentropic; so it is good if time runs backward; thereby the work of time in which things wear out (die + disappear) is reversed. Is it possible that this occurred in 2-3-74? "Time slowed, stopped, + then ran backward [Note]", as I said to Karen Taylor. This coupled with my waking up + performing the heroic deed; so the "dissociated actions" vis-a-vis the Xerox Missive were indeed effect with the cause lying in the future. As I say, this makes Thomas a future self, not a past self. But Thomas is from the time + place of Acts. Therefore Acts is in the future. [Note] But this "backward" is really forward! Implosion to form a unitary Kosmos! So my "retrograde" movement in time (the reverse of how we consciously normally experience it) is correct - is actually forward. 1928 to 1974 is wrongly {folder 01 - 146} experienced; but unconsciously I am experiencing it properly: 1974 to 1928. I have been missing this point: 1928 to 1974 is wrongly experienced; true time moves 1974 to 1928. + this is the way Thomas experiences it. My hidden life (Thomas) is experiencing it correctly: retrograde to what I/we consciously experience. Then the right hemisphere of the brain contains memories of the future. I figured this out a long time ago, but what I didn't figure out is: the other way (1974 to 1928) is the correct way because then Valis / the Metasoma is disclosed: purposeful negentropic + alive. Aristotle's unmoved mover. Let's start over. Premise: If time ran backward you'd get all the effects (phenomena) I observed in 3-74. Okay. But I'm saying, when time runs backward you see the universe correctly. You see purpose, intelligence, volition, the careful constructing of a unitary metakosmos out of chaos - What I'm really beginning to suppose is that there are two timestreams: the one we normally (consciously) plug into, + a retrograde one, + that processes when viewed from the latter thereupon make more sense. + although we are not consciously aware of it, we also operate (i.e. unconsciously) in this retrograde -+ correct- time flow. So many events that happen to us + our actions -our own actions- only make sense vis-a-vis this reverse time [flow.] {folder 01 - 147} But time does not move. This "reverse time flow" is a way of speaking about our experience of the flux (change) process. That's the clue! There is no such thing as a time flow, forward or backward. It's a way we have of organizing reality. My anamnesis [now I have it!] - my anamnesis [Note] of 2-74 caused me to stop processing (? would experiencing be a better word? Organizing?) time in the normal way. I began to process it backward - + because of this saw a totally (or somewhat) different universe, inc.