believe is important. is this a biosphere? - + keeping Valis hidden - is deceiving us important. Why? This points to "Maze" + the deceptive oos forgotten memories fed back reality situation!! Then we are asleep ("Ubik" "Maze") + I did wake up, + Valis' valences are intrusions into an otherwise closed [biosphere-like?] system. Other wise why the depection - or veiling? Why does it Valis not communicate openly with us? does with me. It awake me. But - my books ("Ubik" "Maze" "Frolex 8" "Tears" "Scanner") were skimming the occlusion + delusion away + bringing me closer + closer to remembering. in "Ubik" they don't see Ubik until they pass into a postmortem world - nor did I see Valis until I died. Every time the feedback signal is circulated it reinforces the delusion But I introduced a negative skeptic ism. It got feeback + doubled, so the thing was "skimmed" or vitiated rother than reinforced when it came around again! + it will continue to (1950s recirculated in 3-74 do sol 1 Sure enough, the 2 elements ([one?] from "MTHC" and the other from "Faith") are doubts. Tagomi in the park doubts the reality of his world. Tanya Lee skins the 2 party papers to be fakes! When anamnesis occurs in 2-74 it seemed like memories of 2000 years ago, but probably it was really only a decade - there is no such thing as time; "he causes things to look different so it'd appears time has passed." Or, put another way, 1963 was 2000 years earlier than 1974! (Or time is not what it pretends to be.) So at 2-74 what I remembered was really "MITHC." Circa 1963! But it seemed very ancient! The answer lies precisely here. IF 1963 is 2000 years earlier than 1974 - what does this mean? It's like time is on acid. Maybe 2000 years have passed since 1963! I didn't just remember 1963; I returned to 1963, & it was (or seemed) 2000 years ago. So memory contents just 10 linear years old will serve fine as very archaic [forgotten] memories, to be i fed back. We don't really remember back 10 years; we have ... spurious memories, + since we have nothing to compare them to we have no literion to see they're spurious - unless real, memory breaks through, as it did for me in 2-74! we are occluded + deceived. We are in a "Ubik" - "maze" situation. + I fed a reality-vitiating agent ins starting with "Joint" which later fed back. Doubled = fied on itself. If you fee 1963 back into the circuit at 1974 it'd seem (if recognized) like 2000 years ago. (time dysfunction) why? Why would it seem so archaic? If I can answer this I've lot it, all, If "Acts 70 AD" is really 1959/1967 Then Thomas is a me of just 10-15 years ago. 4:30 am insight; we are deceived, but no one does it to us. Our own brains recirculate forgotten memories in/as a feedback loop. Thus locking us in - locking that brain in - more + more to selfdelusion. The holy power desires to wake us, not to occlude us. Why do we recirculate memories as world? Maybe to maintain a continuity of selfidentity. We are not masters in our own houses s I think the vitiating factor was introduced not at this pass (time around) but previously, which explains why actual future memories 432 show up in my writing. In 1959 when I wrote "Joint" I was already in a world of recirculating memories which explains the material in "MITHC" "Faith" "Ubik" "Maze" "Tears" "Scanner." Hence I not only wrote about the Xerox missive in "MITHC" + "Faith" but knew the exact day it was coming. I was already in a world of recirculated memories this time proof? My epistemological skepticism going back to "Exhibit piece" + "Eye" you know, a clever brain could make use of the fact of this feedback recirculation to exercise a little self-protecting precognition. i Q: Why are so many - very many - of the elements of 2-3-74 found in my corpus of writing: projected A: the "world" that I inhabited in 3-74 was a mind. it was my own unconscious; i.e. it was a mind in me that was not my conscious ego Fine. Granted. But I say, that mind was cosmic + divine + not a merely human mind, much less unconscious. Therefore there is a cosmic divine mind in me, which generated the writing + was the "world" I inhabited in 3-74. therefore the basis of my mind, first experienced by me in 3-74 is deity. I will admit to projection. What I will not admit to is mere subcon‐ scious. This was Hagia Sophia herself - projected as "w i orld. was set is if holy. It was beautiful. It was thousands of years old. So I am willing to locate Valis + all else of 3-74 as being in me (projected). But this was God-consciousness which woke up. Then - who/what am I? When stoned I always write with total certitude "Ich bin der retter. I have even more to gain by locating Valis in myself than locating it/him/her in the outer world. It mirrored back to me take the story my own writing. t old in "Tears" - the stranger who is a priest of Dionysos, + Dionysos is summoned. This was apotheosis. I sat down on the judg‐ ment seat. - it was at - + I went across to + The next world, my unconscious is in the next world? I've got it all figured out. Now I can quit. iz: if you believe in the Xtian universe - really believe - a miracle (truly) occurs: that much vaster universe with the elements with which it is populated eplaces the regular smaller universe. How can this be? dlid something people made up become real? + ) So how? 2) or was it really already real: + we of Either alternate couldn't see it? If so, why not t is impossible. You must become like a child at a vide at an amusement part - + the miracle occurs. This 434 is what happened to me in 2-74: I believed (i.e. had faith) + that universe + everything in it became truly real - a universe vastly richer + more beautified + awesome the bells, the immense space. Aphrodite the geometric forms. The hiero‐ clyphs of God. Valis itself, Thomas in me, the I voice, the healing, the transformation of the t animals. This added up to another universe the Kingdom of God. Those sacardotal constituents which are symbols ceased to be symbols [Note] + became a world. There is a relationship to a psychedelic trip but her crucial differences. Mostly, the Holy presence was there. Everywhere It was as if a picture had turned into a holo‐ gram, + you entered the hologram + it was real. So (to sum oup) faith is the key to the King dom. But not relative or degree, but an absolute faith which is a sweeping realization, an under‐ standing, that 54280. my ideas not just as objects extensive in space but woven into the fabric of the world, as if sent out as signals + returning objectified How can this be? Has a macromind taken them over + woven them into its own world, corporated them into its own self? Did I not see Valis pillaging the antecedent universe as a stockpile, deftly assembling pieces into itself? did it find a use for my (some of my) ideas? I made them its own? ➀ Pointing to another world: as with Wittgen stem, analogic pictures of it. But world is supposed to tive rise to analogic pictures in our mind, not "nalogic pictures give rise to world. World based the sacraments, rather than vice versa but int 435 precisely the miracle of transubstantia p 2) Blood + body. 3) the 1) Christ. two species of the eucharist symbolize Christ. are analogs for.) 4) the host becomes Christ (but only ontologically; the accidents remain unchang ed). So (1) to (4); + (4) - (1). Have not I always identified Valis with/as the greatest of all sacardotal miracles transub‐ stantiation? But the Christ was is there is not "the flesh which hung on the cross" but, perhaps, the cosmic (resurrected) Christ - as universe greater than the mundane universe? It is not The man Jesus who is there. After all Christ ‐ God = the Holy Spirit. So out of some wine + a wafer the vastness that is God is - generated? No - it is a doorway into another - greater - universe. (Of Spinoza.) Combine the eucharist + Spinoza's concept of God. my perception (concept) of a Christian universe may be a new idea. It arises out of my subjective -but-real plural universes idea (e.g. "Eye" "Tears," etc). It may - as an idea - be the ultimate payoff of my plural universe ideas going back to the fifties - as idea (now) + as experience (2-3-74). I may (in 2-3-74) (+ now as a concept) have broken through to ultimate world + ultimate explanation of the essence of Xtianity. Who else has ever explained the true role of the eucharist as a way of shedding one [smaller] universe it does entering another ala "Tears" + make use of the inner space idea of Paracelsus but that wasn't specifically Xtian - an 436 alternate universe as with Tagoms in the park. We are normally not in the largest, richest or most real of the possible universes. Christ is the narrow gate to this vaster universe (the sole gate? Cf the Buddha) could one say it is the real universe, + this one false, lik those in "Eye"? Koinos vs idios? + of course this is what Jesus meant by "the Kingdom of God" another (better) universe. Science fictin provides us with a new way of under‐ standing this: paralled alternate worlds. The alternate universe theory fits in with Thomas although I can't see quite how. I would have to speculate: he is me in that alternate universe, + I was able to cross over to it by becoming him since that is where he exists. But in 3-74 he fell himself to be in the wrong crimate; okay - he came (?) here. I don't know. He was summoned by the fish sign + broke through this way, + I saw the world as he sees it; I was there; he was (came) here, retaining his worldview. That must be it My God - it's (his world - universe) is "Tears," a police state where Xtianity is illegal + a revolutionary secret organization. (Cf Tagom; in the park.) So I am yoked to someone - myself - in an alternate universe, as I said at metz + from "Tears" I know what it's like. This explains look - -74 why in 2-3-7 en on 437 elements of my own writing as true; I derived them initially from Thomas' universe in the first place! They bled through to me + so did Thomas. I think it's a soviet us - vide the 5 marshals, etc. Thomas lives in a Pigspurt world but is a secret Xtian. Hence his aversion to the Xerox missive + his understanding of it. the Xerox missive spans both universes! It is one common element. This would explain why t I suspected OCCP psychotronics, + also exper ienced Xtian elements. 2 components, mutually exclusive, make up that universe. OCCP, their (or There) is the Empire! So two primary elements from Thomas' universe came down the pope in my universe in rapid succession. 1) The Xtian secret sign (fish) 2) OCCP documents. the combination was too much for the partition of the two psychoi. This explains my acosmism - much of "me" was in another universe. Hence "Joint" all the way through to "Scanner." Then