which is right hemisphere! To repeat: dominant, + to the greatest extent she'd ever seen. So my left hemisphere thinking function cut in: analysis. Well, then, it would be as if a child seeing the world for the first time could reason about it with an adult's thinking capacity. + it's connected to the unconscious + the archetypes. So in dreams its ratiocination appears as writing, + now (+ formerly) it is heard as the AI voice. Then it analyzed the Xerox missive situation subliminally. folder 48 - 035 folder 48 - 035 It broke that down, too. + in hypnagogic states I transliminate its thinking. Hence my anima is the spirit of reason (St. Sophia). She is not moody but incisive. Of course: the Sibyl. My anima as ancient wise woman. The ajna eye analyzes: breaks down the situation: sees shrewdly into it. So in apprehending reality she sees into it + deconstructs it with ruthless concentrated analysis: + discerns Valis hidden by camouflage; she extracts Valis out of total reality, rather than Gestalting all reality into one; Valis is separated from the rest of reality, pitilessly. There is Valis + not-Valis. Valis is contrasted to its environment.{Note} Then 3-74 was a psychosis: an invasion by the unconscious of the fragile consciousness + an overwhelming of it; but the rational faculty was in the unconscious! The judging, analytic, thinking faculty. This explains why I felt myself to be female. She was surprised to see Valis, but she had logically figured out that it must exist - i.e. Ubik. {Note:} + this explains her seeing the set/ground discrimination, the plasmate; it is an analytical function, not synthetic. The written pages are digital thinking, not analogic. + the speech center is normally in the left brain, so she speaks (the AI voice). No wonder I had the impression that I was hooked up to a computer! folder 48 - 036 Yes! Perception of Valis was not a Gestalting (synthesis) but a discrimination. A breaking down of reality into set (Valis) + ground - in which Valis was camouflaged; otherwise what does "camouflage" mean? If Valis is all. One could say I saw reality vs non- or less-reality, which normally are blended so as to appear as homogenous (i.e. one). I mean, a person does not normally see reality deconstructed into set vs ground. So what appears to be a Gestalting process is actually a discrimination, a separation (de-Gestalting). Has anyone ever done this with reality before? She was using a slot-present, not point-present, from her vantage point of thousands of years. Valis got factored out like or as a constant amid the flux (epiphenomena). Could it be said that her time-rate synchronized naturally with Valis'? Certainly she possesses ultra memory - phylogenic memory. If (as it would appear) she is my anima, then I am backed up by powerful forces: a composite of the Sibyl, Athena, + St. Sophia + Diana. (+ the Fairy Queen.) So she detects a highly intelligent macro life form camouflaged in our reality, + she + it exchange information. + she sees its "blood" which are messages; then Valis is the dominent life form + she the true [phylogenic] human! Not me as ontogenic epiphenomenon. folder 48 - 037 folder 48 - 037 She is in syzygy with Valis, not with me - no. She is daughter to it. "His first creation: his darling + delight"! Well, I am very happy to think of the woman (Sibyl, AI Voice) as part of myself. (Recognize it as a hallucination from my unconscious: my anima, + not emanating adventitiously.) I gain by this introjection of what I've previously been projecting because I love + respect - in fact venerate if not outright worship - her. If she is part of me, I can take more pride in what I am. I just wish I could hear her more often; in fact take me over again. I would prefer it if she were running things, since she is so shrewd. Could she have "been" Valis via an observer-participant-universe situation, as a sort of inner-outer field? Did she "warp from plumb"? + did the info about Chrissy come from her "projected"? The border between me + not-me had dissolved in an oceanic mystical-psychotic-psychotomimetic state. But (in my opinion) this was the correct way to experience myself + world, as a sentient volitional field. No; I think that for some reason or reasons she was able to distinguish the divine within the mundane, which is a seeing into the next realm (although perhaps in a Neoplatonist sense) + the nature of this divine power/entity is given in "Ubik" very clearly, folder 48 - 038 folder 48 - 038 in particular how it relates to this world (not quite transcendent + not quite immanent, but exactly as it shows up in "Ubik": intruding one way - i.e. into this our world with controlling interventive power, decisive, sentient power + an ability to become whatever objects + processes of our world it wishes by mimickry + camouflage, a sort of assimilation or transubstantiation). + she could see this. In the final analysis it is a sort of body + blood, so perhaps the risen cosmic Christ of JN1:1. I forget; I know how she saw: via time as a spacial axis: a parallaxis according to age. This implies that we are "cubed," as in a hologram, which she can see properly: entirely in terms of space. "Time" is successive accretional layers in the cube, + Valis is in the cube from outside it + thus distinguishable if time is viewed properly: Valis no longer blends because it is a constant through all the accretional successive layers. They swim by + it remains, so it is real in a way they are not. It has no relationship whatsoever with the temporal axis, being always there - i.e. here. But as the successive accretional "transparencies" folder 48 - 039 folder 48 - 039 float past in the cube Valis moves; they, the flux, are fixed, like frames in a movie film - oddly, the flux does not really move (v. the phosphene graphics) whereas Valis, the constant, does move, as the frames (stills) (slides) pass by. She saw this. I think it surprised her. She knew it was God. Her father. Fantastic guess as to what Valis was: the final stage -i.e. mature adult- life form, fully evolved, having moved retrograde in time to preside at its own birth -or a birth stage- in 2-3-74. So she + Valis are the same life form, one at the beginning, the other (Valis) at the culmination (end of the evolutionary process). Anamnesis of the BIP world is memory of a former, lower stage in her growth. I myself am an epiphenomenon of her. A host or a larval stage; but in 3-74 she became the moth + flew away. {text in the margin:} MacFadden-Bartell Books 1966 SF Book Club Jan 1965 Manor Books 1974 Jonathan Cape 1964 __ Hypnagogic: repeat of "+ [he] is alive" heard, + this seen on page: YHWH - small letters in intertwined luminous gold + red, like the plasmate, + raised - like a glowing scarab. Synchronized with the word "he." Then the God who is instilling knowledge directly in me in none less than YHWH. + it folder 48 - 040 folder 48 - 040 is he who "is alive" - the Living God who must work outside the churches + restores the lost (deliberately destroyed by Satan) worship; he deals directly with those such as me. He is in-breaking. {Note} The AI voice: The still, small voice that Elijah heard. {Note:} He invades (so to speak) an evil world; so he is transcendent. + yet paradoxically he is near at hand. This is a mystery; I think the solution is: we err because we think in terms of spacial distance rather than in hierarchical levels. Such as Plotinus spoke of. Now if we take "The work is completed. The final world is here. He has been transplanted + is alive" + the dream that Satan took over the churches secretly long ago + destroyed the true Xtians + their sacraments + rites, + now God is instilling knowledge of those sacraments + rites directly in people now, here + there, outside the churches, thus restoring in effect the lost true Xtianity, + that the "[he] is alive" refers to or is by the authority of YHWH himself - look what you have as a composite picture! Ach - "He is alive" refers to the living nature of the worship, the true worship which was deliberately pushed out of the churches by Satan long ago: the worship of the true God, not the impostor. "He is alive" - "YHWH" means: knowledge of + worship of the true God cannot be destroyed; he lives, + his worship lives in those he reaches down to. folder 48 - 041 He can re-establish his church/worship hence living presence in this world, despite the evil power, the lie which pushed out the true Xtians long ago. The ultimate news is, "He -YHWH- is alive" - i.e. alive in this world; i.e. has been transplanted (to this world!!) He enters this world + is now already present here as he was of old - e.g. in Elijah's time. The presence (Shekhina?) has returned. "He is alive" does not signify "das leblose Einsamkeit" but Emmanuel: God with us. The ring around us, as represented by metal prison walls, have failed to isolate us from him + exclude him + his faithful from this world; he is linked to his faithful whom he has chosen. But it is implied that for a very long period of time extending back to Acts his worship + presence were deliberately excluded here in this world (otherwise "He has been transplanted" would have no meaning). "He is alive" is news. It does not reiterate what we already know. It tells us that something has happened; viz: "The work is completed." + he is picking people here + there who (one could reasonably suppose) are not in the power of Satan, or if they are, he (YHWH) has broken that power + claimed them for his own, to whom he speaks directly. The tetragrammaton shone like a polished precious jewel + metals + pure color + fluid light interwoven like strands. folder 48 - 042 folder 48 - 042 I know that St. Sophia, the Buddha, Siddhartha + Apollo have been mentioned. So the stamp of the divine has been there from almost the start. + yet to see the tetragrammaton + have it connected (synchronized) with the audio "he" in "he is alive" seems different + unique to me, + a matter of a higher -the highest- order. I guess to me the fact is that none of these other names allude to God in the sense that YHWH does. It is as if the others are attributes or cultural (i.e. man-made) hypostases, + YHWH is YHWH; viz: there is no God but God, i.e. the God who "is what he is," the tetragrammaton. The others are names humans give to God; YHWH is the name by which God referred to himself when he conversed with Moses; it tells who he is. It is (v. the E.B.) his personal name and means "He brings into existence what is." I used to doubt the creator aspect of the deity, + leaned toward Aristotle's teleological cause prime mover, but not after seeing the Altman film "3 women." That produced a terrifying Moksa (Satori) in me. Actually, what I understood (more precisely) was the idea that creation + all things, creatures + events in it are ideas in God's mind + so on their own have no existence; what esse they have they are loaned by God, who alone exists. This petrified me when I understood "creator" in that sense. This prepared the way for