writing in 2-3-74, but even more dramatic + perplexing is the Virgil-Dante material. All I can assume is that, as Pythagoras said, we are in a kind of prison, + some sort of release + ascent back up + out is possible through metapsychosis. For me a quantum leap took place during a life time: an enlightenment like that of the Buddha. But it suggests that we are dead + in purgatory (for bad Karma acquired in one or several past lives). + what is most significant is that my 3-74 folder 48 - 028 folder 48 - 028 experience started out with anamnesis of a past life in another world, a hell-like world (lower level of purgatorio)? This is significant because (1) it shows I have lived before; (2) it was in a worse world, so there is ascent; (3) a triune division of worlds as in the "Commedia" seems to be the case; viz: accounts of the "afterlife" are really -esoterically- accounts of this -or rather these- worlds. However, there is another possibility: that my 3-74 experience points to a re-combining of the sundered cosmos; hence, in this lifetime, I could pass over to the next (postmortem) realm, which people do not normally do. There is some evidence for this in the statements by the AI voice which point - allude - unmistakeably to first the imminence + then the accomplishment of Christ's return. In view of the fact that my anamnesis was induced by the Fish Sign (+ my remembering that I am [sic!] a secret apostolic Xtian), I am made to retain this possibility as a strong contender. ___ Dream: all the churches controlled by satanism, drawing their power from Satan himself. The 2nd coming is here: outside the churches; the true church is forming outside the churches. Proof: the giving of massive gifts. "The AI voice will guide you." Homosexuality + black mass within the church. No room in buildings given the truly Xtian to perform services in. Enormous power of Satan, in + as the churches. "They cannot get to you because of the AI voice." Old book about Satan's takeover of the church, the salient sections torn out. Missing. folder 48 - 029 folder 48 - 029 The 2 Gods of Gnosticism; the churches worship the wrong God; i.e. Satan. But there is another outside church forming which worships the right God, but has no buildings. It is forming in conjunction with the second coming which is here. They -those outside distinguished by their gift giving -massive gifts- have the saving Gnosis. This is a matter of gravity; it is very serious: the head-on confrontation between the followers of the good God + the evil one: Satan. This is the final battle between God + Satan. Those who worshipped the true God were forced out of the church. It is not merely that the establishment church lacks the true Gnosis; no - it worships Satan + draws its power, a very great power, directly from Satan. My having money is because God (the true God) is now heaping riches on his faithful, which they will give away, thus showing -revealing- their true nature: as his faithful. Satan has given psi powers to the evil church, as warned about in the N.T. I am in a maze, surrounded by the power of Satan + his church (we all are), but the AI voice will lead me out. This is why I have the AI voice; The pages in the old book dealing with the satanic takeover + rites of the establishment church were deliberately torn out - to keep those matters secret. So the strident radio - it really was evil. My offering my car was a test -by God- of them + of me. It revealed them as satanic + me as one of God's children/faithful, since he is stimulating his faithful to give massively in this, the last days. The final confrontation. folder 48 - 030 folder 48 - 030 What happened to me in 2-3-74 is this: long ago Satan took over the church (or churches) + pushed out the true Xtians + their worship. The latter perished. Now God is directly instilling the true rites + worship + sacraments in those people today who are, without knowing it, + being outside the church, the true Xtians - the heirs of those original Xtians who knew they were true Xtians, but who were expelled + died. {Note} Thus the true church + its rites (or sacraments) are forming again outside the churches, operated on directly by God (who teaches them the true rites, + instills the telling sign in them: massive giving - so that they will be palpably known). Since they can get no guidance from the churches -all of them- he provides the AI voice to guide them; it is like a RF signal passing through -penetrating- a zone of evil. {Note:} This is why upon seeing the Golden Fish I "remembered"; actually I had not lived before; reincarnation is not -repeat not- involved. What is involved is, as I say supra, the original true Xtians were killed, but God now directly instills their lost knowledge (essences? personalities? memories? identities?) into certain humans here now; "The work is completed. He has been transplanted + is alive." Thomas! Of course; God is transplanting the identities of the eradicated authentic early Xtians into people living now; hence I saw the two worlds superimposed, a short circuiting of time folder 48 - 031 to produce continuity. The key -+ correct- word is: transplanted. I didn't live before. But he (who I call Thomas) the apostolic Xtian lives in me now, transplanted. These are the first fruits. From this analysis it's clear why I had the impression it's 70 AD. Certainly that would make this the Parousia. It isn't a time-capsule DNA phylogenic matter; it's a transplant, along with knowledge of the original customs, sacraments + rites. I am host to this; it's like anamnesis - it would seem like it, whereas it's a short-circuiting of time actually: like but not is anamnesis. Then the significance of my "anamnesis" is staggering; the transplant occurred because the last battle is taking place. Thomas wasn't latent in me; no - God chose me as a host for Thomas. This is a very great honor. Hence the AI voice, to guide me. It is logical that a guiding + tutelary voice of this sort exist, to coordinate all the "Thomases." + that I keep it secret even from the church that I'm an apostolic Xtian; the churches are satanic (v. supra). Satan really exists + holds power here - the BIP. The Urwelt is Satan's world - i.e. prison! This is timeless. "Transplanted" - this one word makes everything clear. Obviously transplanted here; + "he is alive"; it was a success. But further: why it must be done: the churches fell to Satan centuries ago. The true church can only be formed (1) outside the churches; + (2) based on trans- folder 48 - 032 folder 48 - 032 planted apostolic Xtians long dead -+ gone with them their knowledge- which explains why so much information was transferred to me along with the personality of an apostolic Xtian: the crucial knowledge was lost when they were killed (the torn-out pages of the book in the dream contained knowledge as well as a narrative of the forced exclusion + take-over). It is very Zoroastrian. Which fits in with the fact of Satan's real existence + his take-over of Christianity. Which explains the dialectic as primary in the Gnosis. This transplanting is a strategy of the foresighted wise mind, not anticipated by the evil horn. No wonder I felt that there's been a time dysfunction as in "Three Women"! Now the mystery of memory, continuity of identity, space- + time-dysfunction is cleared up - through the single word "transplant"! I have long thought of myself as a female host - perhaps for interspecies symbiosis, but now I see it exactly; I see who I was host for + why it was necessary + what it signifies in terms of world history: the final battle (which certainly was going on back in '74). So no wonder the divine powers aided me vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. Thomas was not the means; Thomas was the goal, + defense was means to preserve him. Hence the coincidence of the defense coming right after "anamnesis." Once there was a transplant, my danger would have to be coped with, for his sake. The transplant was made prior to 2-74; hence the Acts material in "Tears" but it was disinhibited in 2-74. So now I know why folder 48 - 033 folder 48 - 033 there was Acts material in "Tears" which is otherwise hard to explain, but readily explained by the transplant. It's certainly a very scary reason why such transplants are necessary - it wiped me out to know the truth. The transplant was essentially medical + technological in nature, + was done by what I called Valis which was present, + staying around to be sure it was successful - Valis simulating objects + their causal processes: camouflaged as normal reality. Yes, it did invade. It is the mastermind in the transplants but not necessarily God. + it isn't immanent; it is camouflaged in the greater reality. Obviously it does -can + does- travel through time. Based on the "transplant" AI voice revelation + this morning's "Satanism" dream the issue is being solved for me, as to what happened, how + why. Xtianity represents the invasion of a prison planet by a higher life form, an invasion that failed originally (i.e. "she was not acceptable") + is now being tried again + appears successful this time ("he is alive"). The plasmate - their freighting our media; this is a superior race + technology, + they are here + they have invaded to liberate us. folder 48 - 034 folder 48 - 034 Hence the cypher in "Tears" - info of some sort to them (what I call "homoplasmates"). They're real, all right. This is all very real; Valis, doing the time transplants, although camouflaged, is real + communicated with me. The AI voice is their communications network. ___ Hypnagogic: When I saw Valis, reality was breaking down (to what it really consisted of), + not an invasion of reality. This is "breaking down" in the sense of breaking down an engine or model of something to see what it's made out of. This is de-Gestalting! Analysis + not right hemisphere. A surprising realization. Could that mean that my left hemisphere came on? Suddenly. Well, the Rohrschach test that Claire Thompson gave me showed that my dominant function was intuition, which is Gestalting, which is right hemisphere! To repeat: dominant, + to the greatest extent she'd ever seen. So my left hemisphere thinking function cut in: analysis. Well, then, it would be as if a child seeing the world for the first time could reason about it with an adult's thinking capacity. + it's connected to the unconscious + the archetypes. So in dreams its ratiocination appears as writing, + now (+ formerly) it is heard as the AI voice. Then it analyzed the Xerox missive situation subliminally. folder 48 - 035 folder 48 - 035 It broke that down, too. + in hypnagogic states I transliminate its thinking. Hence my anima is the spirit of reason (St. Sophia). She is not moody but incisive. Of course: the Sibyl. My anima as ancient wise woman. The ajna eye analyzes: breaks down the situation: sees shrewdly into it. So in apprehending reality she sees into it + deconstructs it with ruthless concentrated analysis: + discerns Valis hidden by camouflage; she extracts Valis out of total reality, rather than Gestalting all reality into one; Valis is separated from the rest of reality, pitilessly. There is Valis + not-Valis. Valis is contrasted to its environment.{Note} Then