else could restore me to Eden but the Holy Spirit? but (see supra diagram) this does not exclude God + Christ. The Acts material (grid) in "Tears" is more important than I realized; it does not just locate at that time (ist century CE) + place Rome or syria) but is specifically Xtian: the nfant church + conversion to Xtianity due to a vision of Christ. + in 2-74 I saw Xtians. specifically (+ the Fish sign is Xtian) Wait. The Acts material in "Tears" developed was developed independent of the Fish sign Four years before it! I never have grasped he significance of that! It means that the dis t inhibition by the Fish sign wasn't just the power of suggestion due to the pentathil! + also 502 It makes me conjecture again that the Fish sign was purposefully shown me! i.e. in conjunction with the publishing of "Tears"! Viewing it this way, it seems evident that the level in me or mind in me which wrote the Acts material into "Tears was brought to the surface - released - by seeing the Fish sign. This makes a case for apotheosis + fits in with my writing "ich bin die Retter" every time I'm loaded. Add to this the two psychoi plot of "Scanner" - the aspect of the Golden Fish sign + what she said is contained in that of the Xtians being early, which to my mind equalled hidden + illegal which linked me to them in my posture vis-a-vis the state. This was borne out in my equating the authorities, who I feared, with/as Romans. The most important thing I saw in 3-74 (out side of Valis) was the common traffic (the plasmate) because of what it implies. I.e. from someone, to some‐ one, + a way of doing it. If, theoretically you were to stumble onto something, what could have greater implications? The next question is (if you start with the steganographic traffic) did I get any glimpse as to from who + to who? The Acts grid says underground; this fits with the traffic. I never realized this before. Traffic underground. They imply each other. Valis as a "Strawberry Fields. use of exoteric con stituents entirely combining 503 The information has to be alive. or passes through a volitional (i.e. sentient) "gate. (i.e. slit/choice: repress-onhance) the clearest evidence of Valis had to do with information (re Chrissy's birth defect). But if it can transfer information directly to human minds (i.e. telepathically) it wouldn't need the common traffic using human media. of course - if/when it employs + celepathy, as with the info about Chrissy's birth defect, it reveals its e the use of - manipulation of i existence normal information constituents totally Then am t cloaks it, more camouflage e h h is to assume that the underground t I I unaware of its own identity? That the traffic directs (controls) it. Subliminally? There is a two-layer structure to the psyche of each member of the under‐ ground? A mask-psyche it each person that camouflages (even to the person himself) his real psyche? These are not competing psyches but an outer mask one an inner real one: the members of the inderground do not themselves know they re in the underground or that there is an inderground or the traffic, directed at them. v. Hal: "There's Phil Dick, + Phil Dick, etc. doesn't know about of I Thomas, then, is the (my) (sic) real psyche I am a camouflage psyche. Then + eas 04 figure out how the steganographic Acts to material got into "Tears. Thomas is a member of the underground, has been for years, + this system, where a mask psyche covers - + doesn't know - is The way all those in the underground work. the Xerox missive threat in 3-74, however required Thomas to surface. This is why I was told by the AI voice not to tell anyone that I'm a "secret Xtian." + this explains the AI voice; it is my + real psyche. I am only a front. Thus the material not just in "Tears" but e.g. in "Joint It is almost surely right hemisphere. + "Ubik." So I wasn't contacted by the underground (in 2-74); I (although not really me) has been in it all my life. This is what made the authorities suspicious of me, but they didn't grasp the situation i accurately still, they did find something in the writing - esp "Tears." (+ "Frolix 8.") Well, this certainly explains it all; why I'd say I was a machine; the waking up; the taking-over of my motor centers - it all falls into place. no wonder Hal suggested putting code in my writing "to reach the right people" - + in 3-74 a saw it, in "Tears." Thomas had been com‐ municating with others like me (in the under‐ the ground) for years [through/in my writing]. civil authorities found the material but couldn't figure out what was going on suspected CP. looks like I've solved it! 835 the proof that Thomas was in me before 3-74 lies in e.g. "Tears" - so it's apotheosis, not enthusiasmos, except that it (i.e. Thomas) isn't theos but a human: a member of the underground. The vast vision of space + time, the BIP + the fight over 2000 years of time for freedom, is Thomas' vision of history. I think he dates back to pentercost, + lives again + again (anamnesis). The Holy Spirit at the time + place of Acts set up an immortal church; i.e. its members are eternally reborn. In 2-3-74 Thomas simply engulfed me, but I didn't remember; no - he simply flooded over me. The memories are his, not mine. For him, they've been there all my life. He had not for‐ gotten. Nor, paradoxically, had I; I had nothing to forget, or remember; I am his facade, his conventional cover. No wonder he/I/we had the double superimpor sition. He is indeed a phylogenic self with phylogenic memory. + I am only ontogenic It is Xtian. + Valis + the plasmate are the body + blood of the risen Lord. I was on the road to solving it when - + only when - I figured out how the Acts functioned as a sequence material in "Tears" analyzer, + what it revealed, I have, then, found the true, secret church, + Thomas (who is not me but with - beside - me) is as much a part of it as anyone it. 506 t This is how the true secret church can be (1) true (its members are phylogenic - i.e. they go back to Pentercost -) + (2) secret: each is masked by a cover personality such as me who knows nothing the underground didn't contact me in 2-3-74; Thomas has been in me, without my knowing it, from the start. The role which the Holy Spirit plays is that it at the time of these Acts brought into existenc immortal phylogenic true Xtians who are so to-speak Christs + the Spirit sanctified them + restored them to their original pre-fallen statuss articles: 1) Thomas did not enter me in 2-3-74 but was already there. Proof: the Acts material in "Tears" + my having heard the "AI" voice as long ago as high school. 2) Thomas is a human being, not God. Proof: his very human (+ great) fear of the Romans + the elamentery errors he made re the dog + cat etc. 3) Although not known to me, he could influen my actions. Proof: the Acts material in "Tears" 4) if Thomas could put steganographic materia in my books without my knowing it. Other "Thomases could extract it without their conscious psyche knowing it. Proof: a priori logic. 3) conclusion; Thomas is part of the secret church 1807 since he remembers back to Acts, he is long-lived, i.e. immortal. Therefore so are the others, the Acts grid reveals the existence of the secret Xtian church (underground); it is composed of those early Xtians sanctified + restored to their original state (status) by The Holy Spirit. They use our media to com‐ municate back + forth 1) unknown to other [ontogenic] humans + 2) their own left hem isphere hosts. Collectively, they influence they are in touch with the human history. body + blood of the Cosmic Christ (Valis + the plasmate). It is probably he who in the final analysis informs them their ultimate task is to establish the millenial Kingdom; it is with this in view that they have operated in history. Regarding that they are preparing for the second advent. they may well be pluriforms of the Holy Spirit (e.g. vis-a-vis the Hussites). It may be that the mechanism of their phylogenic immor tality is the Holy Spirit which escapes each body at its death + selects another later one to reside in, thus perpetuating the human mind involved indefinitely. It is possible that this mind is accretional I hope so, because if it is, I am perpetuated, along with it. it's accretional, all right. It knew about bichlorides! + it remembered blowing up buildings (the gray beggars)! The cypher + Acts material qua material I points to an underground. intrinsicallen 2) the material decoded refers to an under ("Secret church the true ground + identifies it a 508 of course. The Acts material does not tell the underground that there is a secret Xtian underground; it just notifies those who compose it to look for the two-word linked cypher. + just as I wrote + read "Tears" without seeing the cypher, the mask psyches will read it I without seeing it s cypher dream 2 Acts materia 4 parallaxis layers n overt future world in "Tears" No, no; it's all wrong, it's all stupid what it is is he took his friend's place. He gave up his life for his friend. What I saw in terms of Pinky. Christ died for me. He took my place in 3-74 + gave up his life to save me. When the [death] blow came, he, not I, was there to receive it + deal with it: "Thomas. It's that simple. There is no more that I need to know. Except that God adopted me as his son + hen. He was afraid; he didn't want the Romans" to know he was there. my post mortem experiences show that he did die; "I died in Christ + was reborn in Fate (death) was defeated the Holy Spirit" by what might be called a trick; he (Christ) offered himself as bait + the powers of darkness took the bait + were goffed by the hook of divinity concealed in the bait of humanity 508 This was not a last-minite decision; it was planned from the beginning. I am going back to defining Valis in terms of Aristotle's unmoved mover "who inspires - stimulates - goal-seeking activity"; i.e. teleology. suppose by "sins" "Christ died for my sins. you read "Karmic dept" - the inherited totality of the determinism - astral determin ism - that I had accrued throughout my entire life. It had, in 3-74, all caught up with me The consequences, for me, of all I'd done now brought me to death. + he did not just assume the consequences of my sins + die in my place, but in so dying he gave me renewed life, a new kind of life, like that of before the Fall. So what is or seems to that someone be, initially, a negative thing, must die (yourself or Christ) in fact becomes the opportunity for a spiritual rebirth in which the person's status is fundamentally improved: his original state is restored viz: A nonoccluded original state I original state I which is occluded state h exactly what I experienced) death "I am no 3 longer blind! i.e. condition one does not otherwise exist in the present life. This is called "the original state" because