(0) when it switches back on to 1 the "frame" (1) is different (in terms of internal arrangement (adjustment, mutual adjustment, interaction/interconnection). Boehme: yes -- no. Hartshorne 0 -- 1. Quantitative (0-1) to qualitative (info). While it's off, reality ceases to be. When it comes back on it is slightly different. It (the system) doesn't transmit a zero bit; it (the system) ceases to be. This is when it makes a tentative move which it then cancels in favor of a better move; at every junction (trillionth of a second, flicker rate) it discards an inferior move in favor of a better one; hence Leibnitz's view that "this is the best of all possible worlds." This is how a computer works. The zero position is the void; hence when I conceive of God as VALIS I am only getting the 1; I need also the void, the zero. To comprehend/apperceive/envision the void is to envision the other phase (zero phase) of the flicker binary pulsation, the sum of the two phases being the totality. Thus the Muslims are correct; the universe is destroyed "every day" (actually every trillionth of a second) "and recreated." But what is interesting to me is that the way I conceive of this, all its decisions are made during the "spaces" that we are totally unaware of. It comes back on, back into being, back to the 1 phase when it has tried out a faulty solution and has substituted a better (the best?) instead, which is the next "time frame." Thus its decision-making processes (and its nonbeing phase) lie outside our awareness. The initial false move it tries out during its zero phase is Boehme's no; and the 1 or on phase is Boehme's yes so my envisioning is essentially Boehme's, updated in terms of computers and information-processing systems. folder 84 - 008 folder 84 - 008 Here is the puzzle of VALIS. In VALIS I say, I know a madman who imagines that he saw Christ; and I am that madman. But if I know that I am a madman I know that in fact I did not see Christ. Therefore I assert nothing about Christ. Or do I? Who can solve this puzzle? I say in fact only that I am mad. But if I say only that, then I have made no mad claim; I do not, then, say that I saw Christ. Therefore I am not mad. And the regress begins again and continues forever. The reader must know on his own what has really been said, what has actually been asserted. There is no answer to this puzzle. Something has been asserted, but what is it? Has an assertion been made? Does it have to do with Christ or only with myself? This paradox was known in antiquity; the pre-Socratics propounded it. A man says, truthfully, "All Cretans are liars." When an inquiry is made as to who this man is, it is determined that he was born in Crete. What, then, has he asserted? Anything at all? Is this the semblance of knowledge or a form --a strange form-- of knowledge itself? There is no answer to this puzzle. Or is there? Zeno, the Sophists in general, saw paradox as a way of conveying knowledge -- paradox, in fact, as a way of arriving at conclusions. This is known, too, in Zen Buddhism. It sometimes causes a strange jolt or leap in the person's mind; something happens, an abrupt comprehension, as if out of nowhere, called satori. The paradox does not tell; it points. It is a sign, not the thing pointed to. That which is pointed to must arise ex nihilo in the mind of the person. The paradox, the koan tells him nothing; rather, it wakes him up, like a blow. This only makes sense if you assume something very strange: we are asleep but do not know it. At least not until we wake up. folder 84 - 009 folder 84 - 009 12-16-80 1 I just had this insight. However vivid it was, 11-17-80 was a _subjective_ experience, however veridical it might be. On the other hand, 3-74 was _objective._ Really, it was. This again leads me back to Brahman or to Hinduism. The GITA, anyhow. 11-17-80 was a mystical encounter with the Godhead, but 3-74 was a _theophany._ 3-74 revealed God in or God as world. This is very important for any conception one has of world (and of course of God; but look what it tells you about world. On the other hand, 11-17-80 tells you nothing about world, and, as Wittgenstein says, "Die Welt ist alles dasz das Fall ist." As I look about me I think of the tenth section of the GITA and what Lord Krishna says about what he is, the many things in world that he is. "The cunning of the dice player. The letter A." Etc. Also 3-74 points to the fact that although I can't see it --i.e. him-- I am here with God -- as in UBIK. I'm afraid that parts X and XI of the GITA remind me too much of Valis to be ignored. To repeat, 11-17-80 was a mystical experience and it took place during an altered state of consciousness on my part. But in 3-74 I _saw_ God empirically as well as experiencing him a priori. Thus, as I say, this was a theophany. It wasn't just a , "I talked to God" situation. And it lasted for months. I saw God and he was here and there in the world; not as the world, but distinguishable from it as set to ground. Exactly as Krishna says in chapter ten of the GITA. And the world did not (as such) exist, i.e. the spatiotemporal world; that was how my experience began, with that perception. This is Brahmanism or at least Pan-Indian. Certainly 11-17-80 is a much more common experience, at least in the West; but 3-74 represents moksa, and, as I say, it is a genuine theophany. I felt that Valis had (at an earlier time) invaded our world; hence what I saw disclosed was an in-breaking of God who is now here. This might be my solution to the Eastern-Western dilemma. God is here in world (an Eastern view) but he is not world; he broke into world (the Western concept of God's in-breaking, which is apocalyptic thought). 2-3-74 had vast epistemological and meta-physical implications, but 11-17-80 did not. Here's a theory: in 3-74 I saw God more as he is, but in 11-17-80 he assumed an anthropomorphic form, and attributes, in order to communicate with me. folder 84 - 010 folder 84 - 010 1-1-81 So you have the granting of the apocalyptic vision of reality to someone persecuted for (if I may be so bold) doing the Lord's work. But this vision was granted to me --not regarding Scripture-- but regarding world; therefore I saw the Iron Prison, and I saw the secret Christians attacking it. Then later I saw Valis who is God or Christ here camouflaged, having invaded this world; this cannot normally be seen; only through the eyes of the Spirit of God can it be seen: God must cause it to occur. The vision informed me that I was not alone and that victory would eventually occur; God has taken control of history (actually when I had the vision in 3-74 this had not yet occurred; it took place in August of that year). So there was a promise and it was soon fulfilled. The apocalyptic vision collapsed time into itself so that two thousand years of history lay before me as and in the present, an extraordinary sight; present reality included all its past forms, as in UBIK where there is reversion along the form axes. The present contained the past, and this past was disclosed, and, by virtue of this, the supra-temporal constants: the Black Iron Prison and the secret revolutionary Christians conspiring against it. Also, in addition to this vision, God intervened to act vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. The combination of the two is Christian miracle and Divine Providence; hence the Hebrew letters decoding the Xerox missive: this pointed to the God of Abraham, specifically. And then the theophany in 11-17-80 disclosed his agape nature, so there can be no doubt that it is the Christian God whom Christ called "Abba." The apocalyptic vision is a vision of God in-breaking to take control of history and defeat his enemies, the powers of evil; and it is in this struggle (as I was shown) that I am and was involved. The vision is both a reward and a promise, on the part of God. folder 84 - 011 Heuristics, the problem-solving procedure that involves conceiving a hypothetical answer to a problem at the outset of an inquiry for purposes of giving guidance or direction to the inquiry. It consists of (1) developing a conception of what one expects to discover, (2) using that conception to guide one in seeking, selecting, and assigning meaning to facts, and (3) continually developing new, more adequate conceptions as the discovery and interpretation of facts proceeds. Advocates of the procedure contend that all scientific knowledge is acquired in this manner and that all knowledge is relative, tentative, dubitable, and ever subject to change, there being no end to the heuristic process." COMMENT: This is a negative feedback loop familiar in electronic circuitry; the output signal is fed back into the input signal and modifies it, with the result that a very rapid series of self-controlling, self-regulating (that is, homeostatic) corrections is set up that amounts to high-velocity reprogramming. As the solution improves as output, it being backfed into the circuit's input, the self-correction occurs so fast that for all intents and purposes there is an ex nihilo problem-solving taking place in which that (solution) which is to be found (as the goal of the process) exists at the start of the process. "(They) pointed out the indispensibility in creative human thinking, as in its computer simulations, of what they call 'heuristics.' A large number of possibilities may have to be examined, but the search is organized heuristically in such a way that the directions most likely to lead to success are explored first. Means of ensuring that a solution will occur within a reasonable time, certainly much faster than by random hunting, include adoption of successive subgoals and working backward from the final goal (the formula to be proved, the state of affairs to be brought about)." COMMENT: "...working backward from the final goal." In other words, retrograde reasoning. For every conscious line of thought (problem-solving) that goes in the normal direction (from cause to effect) there is an obscured, provisional effect-to-cause retrograde line of thought, or in fact many of them, with each abolished as soon as the goal is better formulated; thus only the ultimate goal reaches consciousness; that is, the final goal arrived at. By its nature, then, heuristic problem-solving procedure in human minds will consist of mainly unconscious or subliminal processes lying outside the awareness of the person. All he will know is that somehow as if ex nihilo that which is to be proved or found is there in his mind as premise; there for input, not solution. This means that the heuristic processes have already occurred, and what reasoning he now employs is ex post facto; the problem has already been solved. folder 90 - 001 XXXIII N.B. This system basically envisions A.N. Whitehead's definition of God as, "A principle in or as the universe constantly selecting the good; that is, an active, intelligent principle of selection" (paraphrase). In fact I am essentially defining God functionally, in that precise way: a selecting mechanism; it perpetually selects. Enclosed a carbon of what may be a resolution of my seven years of attempting to construct a model of reality; by "reality" I mean God in or God and the universe; what Erigena called