the cause (motive) of his creating reality; by his wisdom he orders (arranges) it, structures it -this is his Logos or plan- + having ordered (arranged/structured) it he knows its nature + his own nature, + therefore is able to disclose -reveal- it. + he reveals/discloses it to us out of his love for us, to aid (parakalein) us - which returns us to love: where we started. So perhaps it is a trinity. Made one -a unity- by love! Love leads to creation, then the wise ordering of creation, its internal structure (i.e. the how), + love leads to disclosure of the truth to the creatures that make up creation so that they are led back to their source: God. 1 / Create / Power 2 / Structure / Wisdom 3 / Reveal / Love The disclosure by the spirit leads to the ecstasy of the finite creature as/when it is led back to its infinite source + at the same time discovers -is shown- its own nature; hence the initial state (i.e. creation) is love; + the end-state (ecstasy) is also love. + the Logos incarnated itself as a human -debased + sacrificed itself- out of love for us. So love is the common theme unifying the 3 persons of the trinity into one entity. Love => creation => ordering (arranging/structuring) => disclosure/revelation => ecstasy (i.e. love) => creation etc : a complete circle: Father love to Son wisdom to Spirit disclosure to Father ecstasy of reunion with the source (love) forever. There is a point in the cycle when love is less an element than other elements (as in the Spirit's disclosure of (1) history + its true story; followed by (2) the real presence of Christ: this has to do with knowledge (1) + then the experience of pure reason (2)). But the cycle leads ultimately back to love: in the re-encounter by the creature with God who gave rise to the creature in the first place + is its source. The end of the cycle of revelation + knowledge is the moment of supreme ecstatic love, which began it all; then perhaps this conclusion is the goal of it all: God creates the creature + sends it forth forgetful + separate + ignorant to call it back to him in the end, because it is out of this end that the supreme moment of love occurs. Now, there is no way I'm going to be able to convey this moment in words. For one thing, Paul + 1JN already say it, + so well that it can't be matched (except insofar as I know by Dante). I looked up the E.B. micro-article on the Logos. There is no doubt whatsoever that Valis is the Logos - is the Logos (which is extraordinary, that I experienced the Logos, it is Ubik; it is all the world-governing structural, arranging, dismantling + assimilating macrometasomakosmos that I saw), but it is different from God, which can be seen -this distinction can be seen in the Logos article- very readily once you have experienced God (in contrast). However - okay; the E.B. article identifies it both with Greek world reason + with Wisdom of the O.T. However, it is the via ad Deum for men because it is God's link with the cosmos. The E.B. micro-entry on HO LOGOS: LOGOS (Greek: "word, reason," or "plan"), a term used in Greek philosophy and theology to express the divine reason implicit in and ordering the cosmos, giving it form and meaning...it became particularly significant in Christian writings...to describe or define the role of Jesus Christ as the principle of God active in the creation and continuous structuring of the cosmos and in revealing the divine plan of salvation to man. Stoics...defined the logos as an active and spiritual principle that permeated all reality. They called the logos providence, nature, god, and the soul of the universe...Philo of Alexandria...taught that the logos was the intermediary between God and the cosmos, being both the agent of creation and the agent through which the human mind can apprehend and comprehend God. According to Philo and the Middle Platonists...the logos was both immanent in the world and at the same time the transcendent divine mind. In the first chapter of John, Jesus Christ is identified "as the Word (logos) incarnated or made flesh." This identification of Jesus with the logos is based on O.T. concepts of revelation, such as occurs in the frequently used phrase "the word of the Lord" --which connoted ideas of God's activity and power-- and the Jewish view that Wisdom is the divine agent that draws man to God and is identified with the word of God, as well as on Greek philosophical concepts... It can clearly be seen from this that Valis is the logos, in Philo's sense, the Stoics' sense and as St. John using it regarding Christ (it also verifies that St. John is right; Jesus was the Logos, and he also was Hagia Sophia, as the E.B. article points out). I should not chide myself for taking this agent of creation "which is both immanent in the world and at the same time the transcendent divine mind" to be God. But look: The Stoics taught "that the logos was the intermediary between God and the cosmos, being both the agent of creation and..." etc. Ubik and Valis are the same and they are the Logos, as I say in the final—chapter opening in UBIK. I just feel very sad, really grief-stricken, that it took me so many years to fully realize and admit and accept that Ubik and Valis are the Logos. Only when I knew God Himself could I turn back then to understand 2-3-74 and what I had written in UBIK. Will Durant on HO LOGOS: To create the world by giving form to matter, and to establish relations with man, God used a host of intermediary beings, called angels by the Jews, daimones by the Greeks, and Ideas by Plato. These, say Philo, may popularly be conceived as persons, though really they exist only in the Divine Mind, as thoughts and powers of God. Together these powers constitute what the Stoics called the Logos, or Divine Reason creating and guiding the world. Fluctuating between philosophy and theology, between ideas and personifications, Philo sometimes thinks of the Logos as a person; in a poetic moment he calls the Logos "the first-begotten of God," son of God by the virgin Wisdom, and says that through the Logos God has revealed himself to man. Since the soul is a part of God, it can through reason rise to a mystic vision not quite of God, but of the Logos. Perhaps, if we could free ourselves from the taint of matter and sense, and by ascetic exercises and long contemplation become for a moment pure spirit, we might for an ecstatic {Note} moment see God himself. Philo’s Logos was one of the most influential ideas in the history of thought. Its antecedents in Heraclitus, Plato and the Stoics are obvious; presumably he knew the recent Jewish literature than had made a distinct person of the Wisdom of God as creator of the world; and he must have been impressed by those lines in Proverbs 6:22 where Wisdom says, 'The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. I was set up from everlasting...or ever the earth was.” The rabbis...suspected the Logos doctrine as a retreat from monotheism... {Note:} I cannot help noting the use of this word, which I used myself. ...Plato had set a theme by picturing the Ideas of God as the patterns on which all things were formed; the Stoics had combined these Ideas into the Logos Spermatikos or fertilizing wisdom of God; the Neo—Pythagoreans had made the Ideas a divine person; and Philo had turned them into the Logos or Reason of God, a second divine principle, through which God created, and communicated with, the world. Italics mine. "A second divine principle," which I took to be God when I encountered it in 2-3-74 (and wrote about in UBIK). I was still a step away from God; this was the intermediary between us and God. E of PH on Philo: But to Plato, in the Timaeus, besides the eternal God, there were also eternal ideas. Philo had no objection to the existence of eternal ideas as such, but he could not accept the eternity of the ideas, for, according to his scriptural belief, God alone is eternal. Philo reconciled the Timaeus with the scriptural tradition by endowing the ideas with a twofold stage of existence: first, from eternity they existed as thoughts of God; then, prior to the creation of the world they were created by God as real beings. The ideas, which in Plato are always spoken of as mere aggregation, are integrated by Philo into what he terms "an intelligible world," an expression that does not occur in extant Greek philosophic writings before him. Then, following a statement by Aristotle that the "thinking soul" (that is, nous), "is the place of forms," (that is, ideas), Philo places the intelligibile world of ideas in a nous, which, under the influence of scriptural vocabulary , he surnamed Logos. Accordingly, he speaks also of the Logos as having the afrementioned two stages of existence. My comment: I saw the macrometasomakosmos containing the reticulated and arborizing phylogons; these I recognized as Plato's forms. Again, Valis --who is the macrometasomakosmos-- would seem to be the Logos. "...In the case of the direct way, both the knowledge of the world and of the existence of God derived therefrom are flashed upon the mind suddenly and simultaneously by divine inspiration... He presents prophetic knowledge...described as anamnesis by Plato...an example of prophetic knowledge due to God's exercise of his providence over individuals is..." etc. Philo's views were not shot down until Spinoza. Again, it is evident that Valis is the Logos and Hagia Sophia and Christ. The E of PH says that Philo may have gotten his Logos idea from the Jewish tradition about God's Wisdom hypostatized as an intermediary between God and the world (or man). "Wisdom begins to take on the aspect of a being intermediate between God and man. But sometimes he used it for a cosmological principle equated with the image or work of God but distinct from God himself and so intermediate between God and the world." E of PH on Philo. It came to me in a flash: in 2-74 I had further, more-detailed revelations: - "The Kingdom will be established on Earth" vs "The Kingdom will exist in the afterlife" - "We will have to establish it" vs "God will establish it without our efforts (view held by the JW)" - "These efforts will be in secret" vs "These efforts will be in the open." - "The Kingdom will come into existence invisibly" vs "The Kingdom will burst in dramatically" - "Secret efforts are going on now" vs "There is nothing happening to bring on the Kingdom" - "Christ is here now, invisibly" vs "Christ is in heaven + will return here later" Six flashed-on realizations. There may be more. - "Tyranny rules in the form of the open church + the civil governments: the Empire" vs "Xtianity is allied with civil governments + both are godly - not the Empire" M-W II definition: Logos, n. (Gr., the word or form which expresses a thought, also, the thought.) 1. Philo. The rational principle in the universe; specif. : a. With Heraclitus that which is at once the moving and regulating principle in things, identified with the element fire, and the element in man by which he perceives the order of things. b. With Philo and various Alexandrian sects, a principle intermediate between the ultimate and divine reality and the mind of man; hence a revealer, a messenger. c. With the Stoics, the divine ruling principle, material in its