two principles contend." Recently I have forgot my own tractate. My experience with the dialectic agrees with the formulation in the tractate + hence in "Valis." It is stipulated as basic. [Blood clans (?)] 16.500 14.000 38000 38500 ___ The ability of Valis to assume the particular form most syntonic to me - the form of Ubik - is connected with its basic mimicking ability which I have already written about. It never occurred to me that Zebra as a form was just another mimicking until the last couple of days when I realized that it conformed in all respects to my conception of the deity (the Logos) as I [naturally] put forth in "Ubik." This folder 08 - 010 folder 08 - 010 realization undermines the probity of my reams of description of Zebra; I have only described what my own head construes the deity to be like - a self-portrait; albeit a modern, complex + sophisticated apprehension of the deity, it is quite subjective + quite culturally determined. (I.e. a cybernetics-biological model.) As shown in "Ubik" I conceive of God as isomorphic to my own brain; thus I encountered a macro-brain arranging reality into information, a projection on my part. It was a macro-mirror. My brain to Ubik to Zebra. Mimickry. It analyzed my preconceptions - what I'd expect. "Ubik" isn't the sole source; "Ubik" just demonstrates my conception. Even if I hadn't written "Ubik" the conception would be there; everyone has a conception of the deity. I don't feel it duped me; I think it had to take some form, + it took the one I'd expect + like - it took this form for these reasons. My realization of its mimickry ability should have made me think of this possibility before now. But then does not this mean that Zebra is the deity, inasmuch as it took the form which I conceive the deity as taking? Or at least, it is reasonable to suppose it is the deity. I can say that "I now realize that what I saw -Zebra- perfectly fits my deepest + most profound conception -down to all fine details- of the deity. What could 1) know my conception; + 2) assume it, but the deity? So actually these realizations bolster the argument that what I experienced was the deity, rather than undermine it. folder 08 - 011 {illustration: text boxes with arrows from box 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to 5, and also an arrow from box 2 to 5} 1 My conception of the deity 2 expressed in "Ubik" 3 Zebra 4 Fed back to me as a real experience by God 5 "Valis" { amplified + better articulated presentation So Zebra is a macro feed back circuit re my micro-conception as expressed in "Ubik" especially, but not limited to "Ubik." Does this verify the Hermetic "above as below" cosmology? Bruno's Mirror? Or is this a case where an assumption (that Ubik exists) serves as a hypothesis which gets tested due to its very formulation (+ publishing thereof?) - if it's correct, a response comes; if not then not. In this case the hypothesis is confirmed by the response, because undoubtedly Zebra's epiphany is a response. Somehow this resembles my concept of the self-perpetuating dialectic. A correct hypothesis will be responded to - as if automatically, since such a response is included in the conceptual formulation. There's, then, an "up by his bootstraps" element in the fact of Zebra's epiphany. If you even just happen to formulate properly you can be certain of the epiphany-response! It's [like] asking the right question; that's all that's needed. This takes me back to my idea of our [simulated] reality being a teaching machine, of which you must discern what question to ask of it. This means that in folder 08 - 012 folder 08 - 012 the 3-decade evolution of my epistemological investigation I asked the right question (or put forth the correct formulation, apparently best-put forth in "Ubik"). So I see Zebra's resemblance to Ubik as a subtle but vigorous confirmation of my formulation of Ubik, + the nature of our reality, our situation, put forth in "Ubik". Even if the entity which responded tailored its Gestalt to fit my Ubik formulation: even totally tailored (it can't be totally. The ability to do this tailoring is a major part of my formulation; vide "Ubik", etc). I suspect that an analysis of my formulation of the nature of Ubik would disclose a presentation of the mimickry ability, since ubiquity is stipulated - ubiquity + invisibility, hence memesis or mimickry is implied if not overtly stated. So its taking the form it took toward me leads me back to a recognition of what must be a fundamental quality of it: its mimicking ability. This is an exciting realization. I have been right to conceive this as basic to it: camouflage. Then it is (in some sense) an invader, probably: from outside the program or simulated reality, as Ubik is in "Ubik." (This was primary with Ubik, this invasion of our simulated world.) So the insight that the form which Zebra took was a calculated simulation of Ubik only refers me back to my previous insight of the camouflage capacity of the entity - camouflaged here in our world, perceiving but unperceived. It was in me, manipulating (?) or [...] folder 08 - 013 folder 08 - 013 What I saw could all have been a "world," a simulated "world." 1) Did it cause itself to resemble Ubik? 2) Or did Ubik resemble it? if 2), why did Ubik resemble it? Did it influence my writing of "Ubik"? Or did I just guess correctly? I think (1). ___ Voice: "It assimilated 3 of my books." It is, after all, living information. My writing is information. The books incorporated into a life form - Lord! Well - thus the phosphene cypher in "Tears"! Can (+did) replay "Ubik" + "Tears" - like holograms; I was in each - both. Valis + Rome CAD 45 were actually holograms of "Ubik" + "Tears" + also "Unteleported Man." NB: "Tears" is Acts. This entity spins "spurious" realities. Hologram realities. ___ It can turn worlds (e.g. Acts) into information (e.g. "Tears") + then turn info (e.g. "Tears" e.g. "Ubik") back into worlds - e.g. 2-3-74. When God remembers something it exists again. Powers: "It let the courier have a glimpse of the info he was carrying." ___ It is obvious from all this that we must be dealing with God. If he can turn a world into info + then the info back into a world - this is the creative Logos. Perhaps I now know more about Zebra than I did, in regarding it as 1) living information; + 2) an arranger of reality into [linked] information. This is like DNA genetic encoding out of which the whole organism can be constructed. folder 08 - 014 folder 08 - 014 If a world can be reconstructed -reconstituted- from info, then perhaps an index can be to the corpus of info as the info is to the particular world. So a new idea about King Felix comes to me. What does Victim Pilate signify? Victim Pilate can only refer to the Gospels. "Victim" refers to Jesus; "Pilate" of course to Pontius Pilate + by extension Rome. "King," analogously, refers to Christus Victor, + "Felix" to Felix Procurator + hence by extension to Rome. If Victim Pilate refers to the first Advent, King Felix refers to the Holy Spirit who I know to be the resurrected Christ, to Acts, + by extension to the second Advent just as explicitly + precisely as Victim Pilate does to the first. It is an info lock that leads inexorably to Acts, + the content of Acts tells us what I will call "Y." From King Felix Y can be assembled (or summoned or reconstituted). But then Y can serve as an index itself to a larger body of information. An entire post resurrection world, the age of the Spirit (as Victim Pilate leads to "X," the age of Christ). Actually, there is so much more Acts material in "Tears" that there is no matter at issue here. But it could be said that King Felix is an adequate index to Acts - as proved by the rest of the Acts material in "Tears." There may be some sort of key-lock info sorting mechanism (system) in Valis that needs only the two word cypher. But - as the cypher is to Acts, Acts is to a whole world. The cypher is backed up by the collateral material in such a way that all doubt is removed. Suppose King Felix is a revision index key lock. Acts amended or amplified or decoded so that we are told: the King (second Advent) is to Felix as Victim is to Pilate - that the account folder 08 - 015 folder 08 - 015 in Acts is perhaps deliberately misleading or incomplete (stegenographic); Acts does not -in point of fact- state that Christ as King appeared, but that during the reign of Felix Procurator the Holy Spirit was with the apostolic Xtians. So perhaps it isn't King Felix equals Acts, but rather King Felix augments, revises, amplifies Acts, or gives the hidden (crypte or stegenographic) material not written down; i.e. the concealed truth which perhaps was only orally known at apostolic times, + was lost or suppressed. So it is Acts plus King Felix; the Acts material throughout "Tears" identifies Acts in itself by itself beyond error or doubt + then, upon, over + above we have the two-word cypher. Which amounts to a recovery of not just a part of the lost oral Xtian knowledge, but precisely that which is beyond doubt the summa information: news of the second coming - not contained in the Bible, but apparently so. Then perhaps a reconstitution of the true Acts world based on the true, complete information is underway. King Felix agrees with "St. Sophia will be born again; she was not acceptable before," etc. So "Felix" does not modify "King" (e.g. Happy King or Prosperous King, etc.) but is to King as Pilate is to Victim: it is a space-time key-lock. As Victim was to Rome always before, now King is to Rome (Pilate + Felix both standing for Rome, the Empire). folder 08 - 016 So the age of Victim to Rome (Advent one) has come to an end, + the age of King to Rome (second Advent is here), as in the 2 part book about Siddhartha. Two advents, two ages. The general Acts material in "Tears" strictly limits the word "Felix" to the procurator Felix of Acts + so designates Rome. It is that particular Felix. But there is a dual use of the word; the cypher is multi-layered because it also means happy, prosperous, etc, as I saw in 3-74 when it was phosphene-illuminated. More than one idea is conveyed, but the plural ideas dovetail (+ agree with the "St. Sophia" prophecy). It is both a name (of a particular person) + an adjective. The Acts material shows that the King referred to is a -or the- King of the N.T. + the dream in "Tears" is out of the two apocalyptic books of the Bible + indubitably refers to Christ: "I was dead but now I am alive for ever + ever" - the Ancient of Days: Christ. Now Christ judges rather than is judged, slays rather than is slain. The Roles of Christ + Rome are reversed. Second Advent. 1) Christ actually returned at the time of Acts but we don't know it. 2) We are living at the time of Acts but we don't know it. 3) Therefore Christ returns now (as confirmed by the St. Sophia, Buddha, Apollo + Siddhartha prophecies) folder 08 - 017 folder 08 - 017 Is Valis' presence here -as invader- Christ's presence - i.e. the Parousia? +