that is. (As when it told me "intelligence officer in the army.") It is an entity that sweeps out the truth ("the spirit of truth." "it even knows about God.") It is in you, + also outside. It is ubique, perhaps. This is the cornerstone to, e.g., the appearance of alls material a priori in "Tears." I have no idea how it works, but it is the source of absolute knowledge of the outside world not obtained through the sense organs It must be the voice of Valis, whose ubiquity permits it to know reality from withing it still sees back, as present, to the 1st century AD when it came here from the stars. using discerning Valis may be due to an a priori or "inside" apperception of reality rather than repending on. aposteriori sense organ "outer" approximation. one intuits its living, volitional, sentient inner nature. But what is it? Since it deals with infor‐ mation - esp the linking/arranging that I saw it may be the system that is breeding higher + higher organisms in this ecosphere until at last organisms evolve to the level where they have absolute a priori analogic paralled knowledge of their environment - at 898 which point they are aware of reality as Valis. Their minds now work the way Valis' works this may be the goal of the problems put before us to solves to force the a priori faculty into existence due to need of it: problems that can't be solved any other way. Since such a solution (method, faculty) does theoretically exist, it will eventually be actualized due to the need of it but only if There is this need + it is urgent (life - threatening situations). fecte 1) Why the knowledge came before (as proved by Faith" + "MITHC") the situation 2) why it was knowledge extending to inner aspects f the situation not percepible to the senses. (3 e 3) why my biological clock was suddenly speeded ip upon presentation of the trigger clue. (1 4) Why no ratiocination was needed to solve the roblem, but rather it was done in the non-thinking ashion sought for in zen. (2) 5) why I had the revelation of Zoroaster's two ntithetical combatants in dialectic, + the a priori reknowledge of Ahura Mazd vs the mere a posteriori rindsight of the "evil one." (The latter doomed to lose.) It is the key: the way Ahura Mazd thinks. âž€ This was to abort empirical (a posteriori) sense organ response to the situation so that approximation" (the normal way of knowing the outer world + choosing a course of action) would not compete with + interfere with the absolute a priori knowledge already laid down, + actions based on it. There were no decisions to make + nothing to figure out. which rules out (3) + not inferential even later Gn on re 991 6) why I knew the Xerox missive was going o come + to the precise day. a principle is involved, here (as revealed in the details about the Zoroastrian dialectic): apriori knowledge defeater a posteriori (contingent) knowledge wherever the two come into conflict: the former will inexorably drive out the latter. For example, no ecosphere can survive the introduction of an organism capable of knowing reality on an a priori basis: approximate knowledge is essential to inter-species + intra-species competition. Hence occlusion is necessary if creatures are to compete. on the other hand, is pluralist competition necessary as the goal-state of evolution? Teilhard may be right: there is a final convergence to one vast subsuming organism. (Which I see a priori knowledge of the outer world inexorably inducing. I Jesus' description of the Paraclete (+ "the Spirit of truth") in John precisely describes a being possessing this absolute a priori knowledge of all reality, moreover, Jesus says that the Paraclete will make this [kind of] knowledge available to the disciples (here a relationship to Hagia Sophia hence to the Logos is clear). but the revelation wasn't that a priori would vin if they were in conflict, but that they are in conflict. So absolute knowledge is locked in com‐ bat with approximate knowledge + will win. Then the evolution of the universe is away from approximate knowledge ("the lie") to absolute: to a total congruen between what is + what is known - which in the final nalysis is self-awareness since no contingent knowledge remains. Then deity, as in John I, would have to penetrate its own creation + assimilate it. his is exactly what Valis was doing 1 Zoroaster says - + my revelation confirms t- that only the wise mind (God) possesses Therefore this a priori foreknowledge of reality. - can reason (on authority + on revelation as well) that my a priori foreknowledge (+ this would include the Acts material in "Tears"? had to have come from God (Ahura Mazd). the Acts material points to the Paraclete as described in John, + John was heavily in t fluenced by Zoroasterianism via Qumran. The Paraclete (+ this as far as I know is not found in Zoroastrianism proper) bestows this s divine way of [absolute knowings onto the disciples of Christ [Note - which collates with the Acts material, + with the Golden Fish sign, +: "St Sophia will be she, a born again; she was not acceptable before." too, bestows divine wisdom, especially shrewdness. but my recent revelation about the needs of the ecosphere reveals that this bestowal must be made sparingly, it is - must always be until the final triumph of the Pantocrator - held to a minimum as an ingredient in our ecosphere - which makes its bestowal to me all the more precious ts I must not bemoan its passing; it had to come + in + go back out. âž€ Why, then, when it is bestowed, Christ is present because he is the word-wisdom (of God)! n i The two part book (in my dream) the last sentence of pt one of which was, "+ during all this Siddhartha scept" certainly refers to Brahman + his two-part cycle of sleep + waking [dancing]; the end of the sleep part has come: pt two of the book now begins. "St Sophia will be born again" - "the Buddha is in the park" - "Siddhartha etc" - "the read Apollo is about to return - the time you've folder 48 - 001 Okay. Someone or -ones outside our irreal triune-worlds system has "completed the work. The final world [Paradise] is here. He has been transplanted & is alive." You can abandon theological terms such as hell & Christ & say, "a Rescuer from outside this system has been successfuly transplanted into the system & he will abolish the prison as well as the lower or punishing aspects (levels) of Purgatory or the Middle Realm." Help is not just on the way from outside; it is successfully already here, & apparently recently - as my vision of Paradise while I am still "alive" -i.e. here- proves. We in cold-pak suffering the misfortunes & pain of an irreal world are in the process of being rescued. I view it all technologically. This system is too cruel & must be invaded from outside in order to change or abolish it. My anamnesis was not a fluke, a chance thing. It was the key to my ascending to the Upper Realm: because I remembered the "Tears" world & having formerly been there, I understand my present situation. To know the past (life) is to know the present life, likewise, not to know the past is not to know the present; i.e. that it is transitional: a stage in a progressive folder 48 - 002 folder 48 - 002 ascent over a number of lifetimes. But a last test remained for me: a choosing. Upon the right choice I became spotless (saved, redeemed, etc) & entered Paradise. So the anamnesis is everything; I knew it (reality) had not always been as it now was, as it seemed to have always been; I remembered the different (worse) reality. So I knew about the multiple lifetimes + the sequence of levels of realms, + the ascent. There are elements of Pythagoreanism here (metapsychosis) + Neoplatonism (coaxial hierarchically arranged realms), but - there remains 1) the Xerox missive test + 2) the help given me so I'd choose correctly. This is Xtian. + entering heaven suggests the afterlife - as does the hell or "Tears" world prior to this one. + the AI voice. I sense that the dysfunction of 2-3-74 was deliberately induced by Christ, by his intervention. It was dysfunction, but for a purpose: to save me. To reveal to me the truth, to aid me in passing the Xerox missive test, to get me into the Kingdom (Paradise). He is here, in this triune-worlds system + takes those He chooses up to Paradise. folder 48 - 003 folder 48 - 003 It is based on waking them : Eunoe. Yes, there was a dysfunction of the coaxial worlds, but it was for a purpose, & that purpose was achieved. I was Redeemed. __ All Right : Here's a point : I hadn't been in the hell world a long time ago; I was just now in it. This is why I felt the change in temperature, humidity & altitude. I hadn't really been in Orange County 1974; something (Lithium? Fear? Golden Fish?) caused my real memories to phase back in - & a month later the "Tears" world really faded back in, & so did my real personality who lived there. By "anamnesis" read: real memories: as if the 3 Women in the Altman film at the end had been reminded by something that they'd really been living in Calif, & Millie was her roommate, not mother. Viz : "Now I remember!". What was happening was I was being deliberately extricated from the - I got my true memories back, & as a result I saw reality: Paradise. It isn't an illusion, but USA 1974 folder 48 - 004 folder 48 - 004 "Tears" are. The power of illusion over me was broken by my remembering. This is why I saw Valis, the One, who is real (paradise as a multiplicity would also be illusion): it is unitary Valis that really exists. Valis is not a world (realm). Valis is an entity that spins worlds - worlds plural. It is the reality behind any & all worlds - as when it fired the info about Chrissy at me. Since I saw that this world USA 1974 did not exist, & "Tears" likewise, what does? Any world? No. Just Valis. The 3 realms are progressively closer & closer to Valis. At the top realm (the Kingdom) realm itself dissolves into Valis. Acosmic Neo-Platonism! __ I had just been in the Prison world - I got my real memory back. & it's coaxial. As is the "2nd signal" Paradise world. But the Paradise world reveals Valis posing as world. So 3 worlds, & then Valis, who is the One of Plotinus. The uppermost world reveals sentience & volition. Valis as a Land! Camouflaged as world, but it can camouflage as the different worlds which are coaxial; ah - it generates different worlds at what - You can be moved from one world to another & not remember & so not know; whichever world you're in you think you've always been in it. folder 48 - 005 folder 48 - 005 So I was being moved up through the realms, but it's Valis that really exists, able to provide world upon world. & as you learn or improve or grow or choose rightly or solve you are moved from one world to the next without remembering the previous world — that it exists & that you were there. Viewed this way, consider my anamnesis! But what is even more extraordinary is that each world requires a different per sonality from