not my artistic ability, my intellect, my creativity that did it; it is my shrewdness posing as torheit. I figured out back in high school listening to "Parsifal" that if "Parsifal" existed, the Christ story has to be true (never mind the logic; it isn't logic: it's shrewdness). I assembled the evidence (the Bible, "Parsifal" + heaven knows what else) assembled -i.e. synthesized- + shrewdly guessed the truth: that (1) Christ is; + (2) is now. Hence I had pistis. (My radical epistemology fits into this, it, too, is (not logic) but shrewdness: "a guess uncannily close to the [hidden] truth." I was willing to hold any view that seemed true, logical or not; I went where my shrewdness led. Thus my whole religious world is aesthetic in nature. My touchstone is that what is beautiful is real; this is my criterion, my epistemological criterion. "Parsifal" was my clue. Parsifal talked to me: the blood talking (plasmate) in Wagner's words + music. It all comes down to the blood: a life form. It entered me when I was still in high school from "Parsifal." No; you want the truth? The truth is: Christ is real + he is alive, + that is all I need to know. "Parsifal" comes from that premise. No, no, damn it: I saw the plasmate; it is Christ's blood + it thinks + speaks + enters you. It is information (hence wisdom). + I got it from "Parsifal" back in high school. It is a life form: it controlled Jesus. There's a new idea! His blood is alive + confers wisdom + eternal life; this explains the Eucharist! The plasmate was drunk at the feasts of agapē. + the other ingredient is: the sacred mushroom. Both are necessary, as in alchemy, as in catalyst. Well, the drugs I took reacted to the plasmate in me. The flash occurred: it became alive + took me over. + was born in me as Christos (hence the nativity in 3-74). Two ingredients, not one as I've always reasoned. Not just the plasmate (life form, blood) but the mushroom as well. These together -these 2 life forms- form one new life form as a result (alchemical wedding): Christos. Okay; I loved "Parsifal" in high school - + nothing satisfied me in life thereafter, in comparison. Q: Where do you go next from Act III of "Parsifal"? A: There is only one place, one next step, one answer: to Christ himself. This is it. Nothing else ever made me happy because nothing else ever logically followed Act III of "Parsifal," along any axis - aesthetically, logically, epistemologically, spiritually, topically, etc. I wanted more. There is no more, except in knowing Christ, which means: to have him born in you - hence the nativity; it's all modeled on the "Good Friday Spell" part of Act III. I knew what I wanted at 15 years old: the next step after “The Good Friday Spell.” + I knew what that is, +, finally, I found it, (2-3-74) + I have it yet. But I found, then, the next step, unsuspected: 11-17-80. From the Son as gate I made my way to the Father! "Parsifal" deals with the Son, it is penultimate, which I did not suspect. From salvation, blood + the cross to - agapē. From this world (2-3-74, the crucifixion) to the next (the Father + his love, not world). The blood + the cross are the highest point of this world. (2-3-74.) Then tears -"of the repentant sinner"- turn to agapē, as in "Tears"; the tears has to do with sin + atonement + Christ + the cross, but all this [sorrow] is a gate to: love. (V. "Tears"!) + love (agapē) equals ecstasy; so tears + sorrow -the cross- are converted into their opposite: joy. Through agapē; this is the goal + mystery of Xtianity, this conversion: utter sorrow (Mitleid) to bliss (agapē). This is "pity's highest power", it leads to bliss since agapē links pity (compassion) to joy - compassion becomes or even is (!!) agapē, + agapē ushers in joy because it (starting as Mitleid) ends up in God, since agapē is his einai. So compassion (Mitleid) is the road from this world to God; hence the crucifixion + the feelings engendered lead to God the Father because of the common element of agapē: this is the miraculous healing of Amfortas' wound. You cannot feel Mitleid without feeling agapē, + you cannot feel agapē without entering into and sharing God's esse. This is what happens at the ending of "Tears," based on my experience in '70, of sorrow becoming compassion becoming love, +, in 3-74, joy; + in 11-17-80 reaching God + his pure agapē nature. Somehow my action vis-à-vis Covenant House fits into this sorrow-compassion-agapē-joy-God sequence. So it's all based on my earlier sorrows, circa 1970! When I was writing "Tears"! Compassion (Mitleid) is a blend of sorrow + love. Thus it is the nexus between sorrow + joy - joy entering because love leads to God. So I now know what "Mitleids Höchtest Macht" refers to. Sorrow to compassion to agapē to God to bliss. The way of the cross now makes sense to me. I understand why Jesus had to die + in the way he did, if he was to be a gate[way] to the Father. The transfiguration in me occurred when I had the dream: punishment (death) exacted on Honor Jackson as justice for what he had done (the talion law). But, seeing this (the O.T.) I felt compassion (which I experienced as sorrow). This took me from the era of justice to the era of mercy, and out from under the law of justice in my own case; it also led me eventually to God through Christ. The old king in the dream is YHWH of the O.T., exacting justice; but, through compassion (Mitleid) I opted for the N.T. in place of the law, I mean agapē + that God (?) (era, maybe: 3rd Torah). So mercy was later (3-74) applied to my case. But it took the dream to convert my sorrow to Mitleid - upon seeing the sentence of justice imposed: death. Without the dream my sorrow (at the loss of Nancy) would have stayed simply sorrow; + the dream was based on the rat experience, which roused vast compassion in me + was the root moksa/religious experience! + it, in turn, was based on the beetle incident when I was in the 4th grade! + in the '60s the Galapagos turtle compassion. At which point the A.I. voice spoke to me! So my whole development was guided along over the decades since childhood. The first episode was my throwing the cat down the stairs - + feeling sorrow for it. The slayer sees himself in what he slays: tat tvam asi. The moment comes in biological evolution where the slayer looks into the eyes of him who he slays + sees himself as the slain, at which point he can no longer slay + his will (in Schopenhauer's sense) doubles back onto itself, is extinguished; the entire dynamism of individual striving self is annihilated - billions of years of this identity + will perish; + the person is freed from this will, the real Karmic factor/drive. Thus my several moments (i.e. with the cat I was throwing down stairs, then the beetle, then the rat, then with Honor Jackson) are significant moments of enlightenment involving this "tat tvam asi," this Brahmanist slayer-slain identification, the extinction of my biological will which is the dynamism of Spinoza's "each creature seeks to persist in its essence, to be", each instance was a further dying of this individuality, this drive to indivually be, replaced by another kind of einai when I + the slain (the other) were one - Brahman-consciousness. I could no longer be an individual bipolarized against all other individuals asserting my needs, desires, power + will against them to fulfill my own wants (striving, craving). These several evolutionary steps are irreversible. They have a "bad" side in that they involved me in the Buddhist perception of world suffering (which cannot be separated from compassion to which this perception gives rise); but this perception + the compassion it gives rise to is precisely the means to release from the wheel of birth + rebirth, since your ego -regarded by the Buddha as irreal- is extinguished with your will - + what is finally led to is the ecstasy of Nirvana - i.e. 11-17-80. This appears in "VR" in the dying dog in the ditch scene + Emmanuel's series of responses: it leads to sorrow + compassion for him, + a return of his memories - i.e. true identity (his Brahman-atman God nature). So the etiology of 11-17-80 lies in 3-74 which is rooted in the dream + sorrow, compassion + love put into "Tears" in 1970, + then back to the rat, + the beetle + the cat (+ the Galapagos turtles), to my whole "Atlas" empath nature. In Western terms it leads to God because God's nature is love, but Indian thought gives a more penetrating analysis of why Mitleid is the means to salvation. Thus my act vis-à-vis Covenant House is representative + symbolic of my freed (enlightened) Buddha nature. It was a paying off of my Karmic cebt. Paradoxically, this enlightened nature creates severe problems for me in wanting things (i.e. in acquiring), +, too, it was the basis of my anti-war stand, leading to the tax situation. That 2-3-74 + 11-17-80 were genuine I cannot now doubt, having perceived this life-history (of progressive moksa) of stages of loss of striving + self (the two are the same). Both Xtianity + Buddhism-Brahmanism lead to the same goal, because both are based on compassion (for India this means the loss of self; for the Xtian it means experiencing agapē hence God, since agapē is his nature). Hence I can now link Xtianity with pan-Indian thought through the "slayer + the slain" compassion. Identification; this is one road + it does lead to release. It leads specifically to the perception of reality as one total sentient field, i.e. Valis (Brahman or the Cosmic Christ) of which you are a part. So Valis is Brahman, but also yourself + also -hence- Christ, since yourself now has given birth to the Godhead i.e. Christos in you: the you it (or you not-you) dualism has been literally abolished! Compassion led to this [experience]; this is 3-74, my perception of Valis: this is perception of Brahman via the Xtian route. Thus my entire life led up to 3-74 + seeing Valis, + this in turn led logically to 11-17-80 - Xtian Nirvana. To meeting God (the Xtian God of love; viz: 3-74 was Brahman, i.e. Eastern; 11-17-80 was Western + Xtian; both are true, + both are reached by the one route of compassion). So 3-74 represented the final extinction of my individual self + a return to Brahman (God) + it is a culmination of a lifetime of moksa-compassion experiences that finally released me from Karma + Maya; + I saw the God-field. I was led along this route (journey) by God. From moksa to moksa. + it's all in "VR," in the dying dog in the ditch + Emmanuel's anamnesis + recovery of his true identity. Buddha + Schopenhauer: abolishing one's cravings i.e. will; but more profound is the Brahman slayer-slain recognition: "I am that which I slay," which abolishes self on the spot. This is the real insight. Tha "slayer-slain" identification is literally a perception, a realization of a fact, a true real fact; one does not just project one's own feelings onto/into the other (this is empathy); no: one realizes one is [also] the other. This is the crucial epistemological discovery set off by compassion, i.e. compassion leads to knowledge: that one is not oneself truly but - okay. "Tat tvam asi," as Sankara pointed out. + if one is