about B, In fact, probably only B knows about B; to know about it is to be part of it. The ultimate strategy of B (the secret Xtians enclosed inside A) is to transplant YHWH into the heart of A (secretly), which it would seem they have successfully done. i.e. in a human body. The dream : "All the centers of power have fallen to the adversary;" Yes, "Tears" shows that folder 49 - 099 folder 49 - 099 this is precisely what "Tears" _does_ show - plus the secret Xtian underground, which the Satanic authorities suspect & watch for but can't catch (detect? prove?). The emotion we should feel in knowing all this is joy, because despite the power of Satan (A or 2), God's power is greater - in fact absolute. In fact, he makes use of Satan. Previous hypnagogic revelation : "I bought my redemption through suffering." This would be a mythic identification with Christ : the way of the cross; only Christ through his suffering can buy our redemption. The dream I just now had of the tortured & dying sheep led to a wall where its brutalized body leaves a 2-D "painting" like of the Cro-Magnon men of animals of superlative beauty. I am told how every detail of the Gestalt of the painting came to be, derived from the suffering sheep. & I say in anguish & awareness of the sheep's anguish, "I hope they [the torturers of the sheep] burn in hell for doing this." Obviously the sheep is Christ; the painting is a Roman Fresco- Mosaic. But this is done not once but repeatedly; there are innumerable sheep "paintings" [as if branded by a branding iron]. This fits in with an earlier hypnagogic revelation : a scene in which the shroud of Christ is burnt into a wall by intense heat as a "painting" i.e. for all eternity. & the more they torture the sheep the better a picture they get - it was dreadful but the picture was indescribably beautiful. folder 49 - 100 folder 49 - 100 Here is an antithesis created : the suffering of the sheep is absolutely awful & to be abhorred, & the painting produced is absolutely beautiful. But this is not presented as a choice but as a fact : this is how you get such a painting. Still, I _deplore it in the dream_, so I feel it is not justified : this torture is not justified even by the picture produced. So my emotional sympathy - _Agape_ - outweighs my aesthetic response, however profound the latter. This recalls the passage in Paul where he says it is more important to possess Agape than the charisma of the Holy Spirit! Is this, then, the dream, the clue to the true meaning of Christianity & Christ's death? That, _through Agape_, we instinctively respond that it is not justified? There is no end justification for such dreadful means. The death of Christ, then, is like the purpose of a Greek tragedy : it is to inspire pity & terror & out of this a profound sense of _No_; it should not be : art subordinated to pity; why, this is the theme of my "Chains of Air" story!! & remember, the crucifixion broke into a predominately Greek culture. The sacrifice is wrong. Therefore the crucifixion is wrong : we are not to embrace it but abhor it! It is to teach us pity (Agape mixed with terror - terror at the nature of the world, & that "they" are condemned to eternal torment for this, they are evil). folder 49 - 101 This produces the most profound crisis of values possible, especially for someone in the ancient world where art was valued over all, & suffering ignored. K.W. is still in that place. The crucifixion educates mankind up a quantum step. The problem of suffering - the significance of suffering - outweighs the significance of art. Yet this is how beauty is achieved. One must say _no_ to the "vicarious sacrifice"! It is barbaric to value art at such a cost. Greece, the "highest" of our cultures, is actually barbaric! Even though art is eternal & suffering temporary this is the lesson that the mythic ritual death - humiliation, suffering & death - of Christ is intended to teach us. The meaning lies in the sorrow aroused rather than in the results of the art produced. (beauty - in the Platonic eternal eidos! the message is anti-Platonic). Klagendes Geschrei! not aesthetic appreciation. The ephemeral animals fate arouses certain complex feelings of far more redemptive importance than the cool perception of beauty. The epiphenomenal sheep's suffering has more significance than the eternal, hence archetypal, art produced; we are to react to the specific sheep & not the eidos! Pity, terror, & moral no-saying. "Praised the feathers & forgot the dying bird" - Tom Paine's analysis of aristocratic society. His call to political revolution. folder 49 - 102 folder 49 - 102 Then Christ has come to extricate the means from being sacrificed to the end, which is to say he is pitted against the very machinery of reality (e.g. DNA) : The subordination of the individual creature to the timeless type. He has shown us by his death the awe - & pity-inspiring tragedy of ordinary life (cf Schopenhauer!) the inexorable karmic wheel, in fact. It is to rouse us to the most intense anguish - vicarious suffering & rejection of this suffering - possible : man's highest state, to vicariously (i.e. through agape) share in the suffering while at the same time _to condemn it as evil_, despite the good results (art). (the eidos.) Thinking this dream over I would tend now to go back to my original appraisal : that it simply stated a fact : that the beautiful & imperishable comes into existence due to the suffering of individual perishable creatures who themselves are not beautiful & must be reshaped to form a template from which beautiful is printed (forged, extracted, converted). This is the terrible law of the universe. This is its basic law; it is a fact. Also, it is a fact that the suffering of the individual animal is so great that it arouses an ultimate & absolute abhorence & pity in us when we are confronted by it. This is the folder 49 - 103 folder 49 - 103 essence of tragedy : the collision of two absolutes. Absolute suffering leads to - is the means to - absolute beauty. Neither absolute should be subordinate to the other but this is not how it is : the suffering is subordinated to the value of the art produced. Thus the essence of horror underlies our realization of the bedrock nature of the universe. Art (the eternal) always wins out over suffering (the ephemeral). However; Christ is not on the side of art; here, he breaks with Greco-Roman - in fact all - antique culture except perhaps Judaism. Those who utilize suffering to produce eternal beauty are damned - damned by Christ the Judge. They will take on the suffering they have inflicted; this is the significance of hell. This is their fate. The great decision of the Xtian is to choose to spare the creature its suffering & _not_ subordinate it to an eternal value such as art. Art is the only thing that might justify it, but, to the Xtian, it does not. & if art does not, then it follows that _nothing_ does. The eternal will not crucify the ephemeral for its purposes. _This_ is the significance of the cross. _The degraded, humiliated, murdered victim is ultimate to the Xtian_; nothing is more important. There is a higher beauty in sparing the sheep than utilizing folder 49 - 104 folder 49 - 104 it, at its expense, for something eternal, but it is a different kind of beauty; it is not aesthetic & it does not endure. But here the Xtian veers 180 degrees away from high civilizations by & large (excepting Buddhism). The Living sheep (nominalism) is worth more than the eternal picture (realism) because the absolute value of sparing a creature suffering must _not_ be subordinated to any other value; _it_ is the ultimate value. When there is a clash, & the fact is, there is a clash. (1) The crucifixion was ugly & brutal & wrong. It was not justified. This is a mystery hidden even from Xtians. The messages of the crucifixion is, this must not occur, & not, this is necessary. It is redemptive only if we in pondering it see that _nothing_ justifies it. It is redemptive in that it arouses us to absolute pity & terror - more profound & powerful -i.e. higher - emotions than the experience of beauty. The cross, then, is the most spiritual event/object that can exist, more so than any work of art, it inspires feelings/reactions higher than art can, which results in a passive perception of detachment. To abhor the cross absolutely is to reach the height of spiritual Moksa - in contrast to ethereal art's capacity for arousal in the percipient. (1) This is the most tragic Urgrund of reality. folder 49 - 105 folder 49 - 105 So the true message of Xtianity at its deepest is nearly too much to bear : the perception of the necessary drama that is intolerable, & which is the inevitable basis of reality. There is no vision beyond this in terms of a full, open awareness of Welt-sein, of Being-as-it-is. The Xtian balks at allowing this cruelty to occur, insofar as he has power to deflect or mitigate or halt it; if he has not the power he remains aware of the cruelty & damns those who elect to do it, & prays for those who allow it but "do not know what they do," as Jesus correctly said. The Xtian does not flee from awareness of this cruelty. In damning those responsible for it he himself becomes both the victim & the eschatological Judge - i.e. Christ. I had the strangest hypnopompic thought : that there was no historical Jesus, that it - the Christ story - is an anti-Greek tragic drama whose point it is to valorize the transient, fleeting, epiphenomenal individual in contrast to the eternal type, which when understood properly, abolishes time, turning it into space. How? Why? because we are DNA robots, flickering _means_ (witness the 2-tapesynch programming) : we don't really exist until or unless the Christ event occurs which obliterates the twin tapes, frees us & by abolishing time makes us ends, not means, & hence no longer subject to ananke, the wheel, phylogenic self thereupon becomes folder 49 - 106 available to the epiperson. It is like in Part II of Faust when Faust halts a fleeting moment. _Flux_ (process) is real; the dialectic flip flops at enormous velocity, destroying each "image" as soon as it pops up. In this process only _type_ is real, & the individual creature just a flash. The mythic tragic drama is a Spiritual Ritual that breaks the Prison of Flux which erases the individual for the sake of the constant : the type. What Christ as type does is, Christ is individual as type, & turns the process inside out (which is why I said I was no longer blind, & had been seeing the universe backwards, & now I was on its outside skin, like walking on a balloon - I had it inside me, an inner-outer transform. What must be realized is that not only is the individual normally mere means, it is also not real (v. Plato & realism). "Christ" is type of the epiperson & reverses the means-end, individual-type basis & absolute time hence process (time becomes space). The individual becomes eternal; hence immortal. The suffering of the routine individual is valorized into not just _a_ tragedy-drama but _the_ tragedy-drama surpassing _all_ types. The means epiperson is revealed to