basis of our original civilization in rich detail: i.e. tons of information. Viewed one way we are alien to this planet; viewed another way we are secret invaders whe will overthrow its societies in order to re-estab‐ lish our pastoral Kingdom (the Garden from which we were evicted). The salvific Gnosis, then, equals anamnesis (due to the nature of what is remem‐ bered). It is suddenly totally clear to me that) how "Tears" tells the ur-story of our home world which appears in the Gospels, the Bacchae + Hamlet. the usurper the King of Tears is on the throne + is a tyrant; the land groans under his yoke. The stranger shows up + is imprisoned (unrightfully; he is innocent). oom comes to the King of Tears sell 294 Buckman) + he repents (the scene in the all-night gas station which appears in Acts thus tying "Tears" explicitly to the N.T.). The Bacchae, Hamlet + the NT + the "Tears" have a common source: DNA template: this is not a story among stories, this is the story of our home world I take it that our + what happened. to a deposed or to a ancestors belonged revolutionary party whose leader was seized, imprisoned + perhaps killed - but if so is we came here to set up mysteriously alive! our Garden Kingdom with the Bacchae him as King; this is what i THamlet i o t The DNA memory packets i nol instruct us to do - as s witness our "slave revolts" for 1000s of years. This is why my anamnesis took place the month "Tears" was published, + this the Kerygma of "Tears." I took my best is shot with "Tears." It is no accident that N.T. material shows up in it (as my recent insights disclose!). King, is of course, the key word - it is about our king who is not the King of Tears (Buckman) but his antithetical opposite, the King of joy (Dionysos). Now the specific cypher in "Tears" makes sense vis-a-vis the whole novel. It has a thematic, organic relationship e flow my Tears tain could b t A the policeman said, Dionysos Pentheus BChrist vs the Empire + t 395 Then "Tears" brings the issue up to date. Hamlet was for the 30 years war. Then later comes Goethe's /Beethoven's Egment. It could not be otherwise, then, that I would write "Tears" + when specifically I did: at the height of Kempf. the botice that the King of Tears is always older than the King of joy. It is age against youth. This is especially clear in Hamlet. Each of the 4 or 5 print-outs of the story add details not in the others. The actual story is visible only when all versions are superimposed; no one is the "right" version. The dream in "Tears" is the ritual killing of the old king by the new (v Frazer)? But the old king is in the possee! Ah, that is the young king (Christ) as judge + Lord (Panto crator) as seen in Daniel + revelation: "I was dead but now I am alive again for ever + ever"! It is the young king, having been expelled - read: killed - returned much later - read resurrected! He has attained the maturity of + for rule, + will now take his rightful place as Lord + judge. Revelation makes This clear. The new age has dawned. This is missing from Hamlet + the Bacchae but it is in the N.T. Then "Tears" displays the culmination (by virtue of the dream) of the [otherwise] the sacchal events! The dream carries us over from the Bacchae to revelation! + it there that the sequence of events ends; there is no more - + the historic events in the us, in us 974 prove I am righ it ny in 390 when the packet fires, the person (not only a priori knows the i story but] knows his role (i.e. his fart or place) in the historic acting out of the ur-story. The story is true; he knows this + he knows the story (Hamlet, the Bacchae, N.T. "Tears") + he knows (is programmed] to perform a series of what I guess are mythic ritualized actions in a drama outside of time + space, eter‐ nally true, + He is now outside of time! So the whole pageant is mythic ritual. The old "usurper who must be removed (+ his tyranny with him). the land made free, the prisons burst, + then the young rightful king puts in his appearance is the role I played the Christ - role? rany people occupy that role (Christos s act on the basis of an instinct implate this is Christ as King, not the uffering, crucified Christ: this is the final stage (moment) of the drama. It collows humiliation + death at the rands of the usurper this is Christ returned. But then you have to ask, why the we programmed instinctly (by he DNA) to act out roles in this particular drama (story. 1997 t t could it be the basis in fact the It is the a sole basis, of our world? (+ hence shows underlying reality up in "Tears." Do these instincts fire through out human history or only at the End times? The existence of the N.T. suggests that this drama is always being enacted, i.e. in the "dream time." I really did not add anything in "Tears" but details. nonetheless "Tears" shows that at the deep levels of my unconscious I am a priori theo into this drama - this particular story - as participant + this is why I 1) was disin hibited (woke up) in 2-74; + 2) performed ideationless acts in 3-74. But what specifi‐ cally was my role? Not crucifixion but attack on "the King of Tears" (I think anyhow). "This drama is always being enacted." see, it lies outside time; this must be realized when you enter your participation in it, you + are no longer - literally - in USA 1974. As indeed I discovered. I was in "Tears" + it seemed to me I was at the space-time of Acts. But when + where is Acts? In another kind of time v. Eliade.) Hence the time dysfunction + the anamnesis. Ritual killing of the usurper, the tyrant, "the King of Tears." I am sure this was tied to the historical events of 1974. So the ur-story is a template (i.e. I did not t 398 act out the ritual privately or merely sym solically but actually, on a historic stage we are programmed to do this. My actions in the drama were foretold in "Faith" + "MITHC." "Tears" tells the correct But what role was it? story (in contrast to the Gospels): the usurper is "killed" (deposed). This is the second Advent, not the first; the drama is completed by/with the missing sections. History moves forward. But these sections are in the Bacchae, written before the Gospels. The Bacchae is more complete; in the Gospels I misfires. Ah - the Gospels must be read in steganographic level, embracing revelation where - the story - is completed (Hamlet is also incom‐ t lete). Frazer; the killing of the King (the old king). "The King must die"; he is a usurper (+ tyrant). The rightful king waits in the wings. No - the rightful King leads his own cause. t Then the N.T. is not a story about cruci fixion (the dying lunar God) so much as it is a (the) story about the deposing of the tyrannical usurper by the younger rightful King + the setting up of the just kingdom ruled by that rightful king. Crucifixion (the passion) merely points to his resurrection, that he can't be killed, i.e. he is [a] God; he is revealed as God, because killed, he returns stronger than ever; i.e. his claim to The throne can't be denied (even if he is humiliated + killed). The crucifixion is good news because through it his true nature is revealed, + it is fore orded that having died he will return + regain surrected 13979 The throne. Thus God not man, will rule. It is not man vs man but man vs God. Atonement + dying for our sins has nothing to do with it; that is not the story at all. those who believe that don't know the Bacchae, do not see the story stretching from the Gospels to revelation - i.e. the cross Xtians us the Fish Xtians. Being crucified + returning to life equals pulling the sword from the stone: proof of legitimacy, of identity. but this must be fulfilled by his return + the deposing of the usurpatory tyrant. Which did indeed take place in 1974 (August) could the saving of me vis-a-vis the Xerox missive represent the in-breaking of God which did not occur vis-a-vis Jesus at advent one? it encapsulated the change to advent two where God intervenes + hence the usurpatory tyrant (this is the macro side of my micro-side over The same thrown, + there is no crucifixion (as in "Tears) How can I ascertain my role? Did I do something? Absolutely. But I don't know what I did, so I don't know who (so to speak) I am in the drama. Was something done for me? Absolutely Yes. There are then, two aspects. I became some one (whom I call Thomas) + as Thomas I did something - I know not what - + something was done for me (I was rescued, but I don't know from what. In the antithetical dialectic between the rightful king + the old tyrant-usurper I was with (or was?) the rightful king (represented in my book as Taverner: exculpated + rescued, but also bringing down doom on the tyrant. This is the "priest of Dionysos" role, the stranger 180 It is the legitimate power which when crucified (humiliated + killed the latter perhaps symbolically; viz: I died + yet did not die - here is the mystery: humiliation + death + yet he is not dead - + what is more, he is now disclosed as he truly is: divine. For the first time. the Gospels alone don't make of clear; you have to add "Tears" + "the Bacchae" - the stranger who 1) is arrested by the tyrant i.e. is innocent but/and victimized by the tyrant. 2) is exculpated. 3) but does in the tyrant in such a way that a mortal blow is delivered (by him or through him or due to him) to the tyrant So he has a dual role: victim turned into instrument of destruction. This sums it up; the two roles blend into one role (v. the Bacchae). This sounds like the back-book analysis of Christ, + it fits 3-74 + the Xerox missive. since I don't think I really pulled down the tyrant or anyone, 3-74 must be understood as mythic identification (esse) + ritual (drama with personal). It was a holy sacred) ritual drama enacted outside of time the salvation was spiritual more than pragmatic, then (+ hence more important). I participated out e side of time in the God's arrest, humiliation persecution), the trap, then triumph (reversal from innocent victim to agency of doom). But it was mythic, ritual, holy, re-enactment - the trapped turned out to be a trap (bait + hook). resurrection in divine (transfigured) form. inity (by adoption?) with the God who goes through it always - ah; the God was there in 2-3-74; I became the God by ritual identio lication. Christ, obviously. Just as Dionysos himself shows up in the Bacchae - is summoned. Christ was actually there (enthusiasmos) and not just symbolically; actually there (Valis, Thomas, the AI voice: the trinity. But personae of one God). The Q: "Was it Christ or Dionysos?" has no meaning, in as much as I was shown that "Jesus" is Zeus-Zagreus, the latter being tricked -