died come back). So I know about Ubik + reality as info which they do not + t 1311 the unisual epistemological - theological info I live in my writing because I have info based on being in the post morten world - + have returned, I have a feeling this is true of many many people, though. Everyone starts out as I did + wind up as I did: coming back. You can make many runs What seems to emerge as the irreducable grunnesatz is that 1) I had lived the 3-74 Xerox missive crisis once before; + 2) I realized it at the time. Many of the phenomena which then took place can be traced to (1) + (2). In addition, I seem surely to have been armed with foreknowledge at the time which could only be developed much later - this precisely because I had lived through it once before + so had what might be called hindsight or knowledge after the facts, + this specifically saved me my successful problem-solving cannot be under‐ stood in any other way. This rerun quality of 3-74 is what initially gives it the air of the simulated - but there is other evidence: time dysfunctions, invasions "from the other side," the presence of Ubik, post mortem experiences, another personality, etc, the AI voice: all symptoms of omething stupendously wrong or uncanny. Especially vast other mind impinging directly on mine - l he plasmate living information. It is too much ke "Ubik" to ignore the resemblances. many people have the subjective impression hat they've "lived this moment before." But I ave proof: in my prior writing. 2 world as memory contents of his own mind: "MITHC" - "Faith of" - "Ubik" - "Tears" + "unteleported man." + Valis which he saw is a macroprojection of his own mind, "worldified." Brahmanism - the "tat tram asi" realization - is pointed to. but more is pointed to: a karmic postmortem Bardo Thodol state in which one is reliving the contents of his own dying mind as world. + gets a chance to review his mistakes - + correct them. He realizes then that his life" is synthetic a product of his own mind (memories), + it + starts the journey back to life perhaps in that - the blitz - a new soul is created moment ex nihilo (Thomas). If you were running a simulated reality, you would hobble the cognative + percept systems of the percipients so they'd not notice flaws. But this is precisely what I discovered in 3-74 "when I could see - was no longer blind"! I.e. that I was thusly hobbled. + unnecessarily - unless for instance, a simulation (or the like) were being It totally occludes us to the plasmate, e.g. runs This is perhaps the strongest argument for the simulation theory in 3-74 I saw what I saw partially because "I ceased to be blind." Also The term "anamnesis" suggests a normal im pairment (block) of memory; so we don't recall what we are seeing - don't remember it having happened before. all the info (plasmate + clutch linkage system) traffic that goes on unseen by us t Then this hobbling is a This suggests technology. very grave matter. 133 t But there if nothing sinister in this, the simulation is for the purpose of offering us a chance to repair our mistakes. + a total net gain to the cosmos is achieved. The original errors become false work corrected through a sophisticated feedback system in which the life course of the individual is refined + refined until harmonia is achieved. This is really a different matter from punishment (as in hell). This system provides such obvious advantages to the individual + The total system that upon considering it one would suppose that no other would do as well. Also, its commerce would have to be concealed from us, or it would be subverted another person (self) takes me over connected with OCCP (Missir); he knows things I don't us as prison as "Tears." Memory of "facts of" code which has to do with OCCP. No - not "another" personality, true personality. PKD died, + he tool our. He never left - the AI voice talks to him. Thomas is St. Sophia. As in "the wisdom of salomon." Born, too, as Jesus. It (Christ) is a female spirit. It was God, + those were miracles. I have one final irrefutable argument that it was God: it was the teleological principle per se, the final designer drawing everything into a coherence according to plan. at the time (3-74) I saw time backward; i.e. teleologically. This is a definition of God. It knew absolutely, + it had the ab solute power to control, to organize, + it did so. This is a functional definition of God. QED. I epitomize it as the great intelligence which picks up the cards as soon as they are laid down - + fits them into place. 34 + everything which it initiates is for nvisible goals which no one but it can foresee; this, too, is definition + they, too, there was the engramming training my life long, the Fish necklace The experience with God in 3-74 did not come (break in on me) direct t came following my anamnesis that I was (am) an early Xtian (in 2-74). So authentic Xtianity is a This is important (or the road to God. realize. This was the crucial link. to God was not a thing but rather a structur of things. The route is by Pythagoras. + one of the most important things which I discovered: pretextual cause (i.e. external stimulies which seems to be cause but in fact just signals for disinhibition). So it is a regulated system my that is internally guided by other constituents which are unaware of their disinhibiting role. the controlling mind is within the system not outside it; it is the system. It is a complete mystery to me as to how it can be the system + the system not know it, yet that is the case. the mind is the total structure in contrast being (esse) the parts, regarded as discrete to parts. Ah! It most be the laws which govern the parts; this collates with the causal train "melt " that I saw. (Like the eidos triangle to any + all given triangles). These laws, thems are sentient + alive + purposeful. (v. p 144) 8 Then could it be said that my dissociate behavior 3-74 was due to my private volition being in verruled by these laws? I was reified? So my behavior is linked to the causal melting all the objects (things) in the universe p disappeared the system of laws would remain. So the real reality, God, is this system of laws which governs, not that which is governed (if all the things in the universe disappeared you would not perceive this system of laws, but nonetheless it would be there. This is the urgroul, God as void. Then my 2-3-74 experiences shows that Spinoza had it right as to God "having a body" - i.e. the universe as God extensive in space; the other attribute being mind. (Intellegere thought.) Then of course there can be nothing (miracle) contrary to natural law because the divine is what we call "natural law" + any perturbation is in itself (still] natural law; the concept of suspension of natural law by the divine equalling miracle now makes no sense (as Spinoza saw). It does what it does. The trick is to perceive the divine (will] in/as "natural law." According to this view, a full perception of "natural law" would be to perceive nothing but intentionality - my word for the divine. This is panpsychism, but the self psyche is in the structure of laws - intentionality - + not in the objects regulated by the laws (the Greeks would not have understood the this except for perhaps Pythagoras). then the divine is woven into the very trash layer since it too is as governed by the regulatory structure of "natural law" I as any thing else, in fact, volition private lack i its 36 thay make it more reliable an effect of this intentionality - the "Tea leaves" effect, so to speak: hieroglyphs of God. It offers less resistance. Subatomic particles offer no resis tance at all then, + seem undetermined, or irregular. A mystical view of reality would suppress the esse of things in favor of an awareness (can one say "perception"?) of the governing structure or body of regulating laws. Would not This view if pushed enough yield something like acosmism vis-a-vis material reality? The substantiality of matter becomes disregarded as mere hypostase's by the percipient, + pertur bation (for want of a better term) replaces it as the perceived basis of the cosmos. Matter simply designates or signals the presence of per‐ turbation; it registers on matter. Thus reality understood as matter can pragmatically be viewed as mere simulation with nothing lost in such a way of viewing. It - the conceive of simulation. is a way of withdrawing the emphasis from hypostatized "substance" + into structure (body of regulatory laws). "Substance" is gone, for all practical purposes; it is no longer sought. The entire physical universe becomes a barometer: an interface on which structure registers, through stress, perturbation or "melting." Even Spinoza does not seem to have realized this although his system calls for it. (Or at least permits it.) (What is needed is to well Pythagoras' structure of Spinoza's system of natured laws. only an extreme idealist would claim intelligence + intentionality for this structure of regulatory natural law, but this is precisely what I claim based on my 2-3-74 experience. 3 the long history of engramming me on a dark‐ eyed girl wearing a Fish [teeth] necklace shows the intentional mind doing exactly as Spinoza declares: working through natural law not despite it. (There can be no conflict, since There is but one agency.) since the proportion of cosmos to chaos is always increasing, the past always appears chaotic in relation to the present - or irrational to rational. This is totally not understood in orthodox views of creation but is correctly pressed in "Valis." The material world may be moving toward entropy. But the structure governing it is increasing in articulation + it is the real reality (i.e. structure, not content) Thus in "Ubik" entropy is expressed in terms of, specifically, reversion (to the past] along the form axes. Entropy + past = the same thing. One sees this psychology in the failure by humans to time bind into the future whereupon they decay. Decay + the past taking over, in which fossil forces are uncovered, are one + the same: simplier more stable states leading back ultimately to insentience, the inorganic. Thus, progressing forward in time. The simple gives rise to the complex. If it is true that any organism in order to live must maintain a higher level of complexity (structural organization) than its environtent, Then the universe is behaving like an organic entelechy determined to survive, applying laws (techniques) which smallen successful organisms employ (these laws apply everywhere + at even it level). If there was but one ultimate entelechy would still have to apply these dynamics because of 128) it did not it would turn into its own envir onment; the not-it would be more it than it This realization is especially poignant for me because the not-me came at me as several opi of my corpus of writing disclosing to me that my environment was at a level of organization higher than me, notifying me of my ultimate doom. In fact at that point I had ceased to be. But it allowed me the surprising experience of being annexed by a life form higher on the evolutionary scale than me. My total environ‐ ment assumed that quality, So I am saying, there