trying to simulate a courier response to replace (be taken for) the real one responding to the cyher (they found] in "Tears" but she the t real one, had already come; they were too late So a is the organization acted before G2 did superior life form was transferred to me by her from her in 2-74. The living info - like the Torah. The "she" that I spoke of was trans‐ (soul? ferred to me from her + was her. Spirit? Psyche? The last: psyche.) So the "dark trans‐ haired [eyed] Girl" was permanently ferred to me. Introjected by me, into me, to keep always. No, I can see what happened. We are here, born as cuckoo eggs + without knowledge of our true identities, no memories. Over a span of time we contact one another + link up. Each of us has, in addition to his human psyche, a second, super‐ normal psyche (her, the AI voice, "Thomas"). We are programmed to look for our contact ("courcer"). She was mind. I would guess we're from another time place. The mystical religious material + experience are real but we are a secret revolutionary organization, active in history (e.g. the wars of the Dutch lowlands). So We must be time-travelers. The Nixon tyranny was the purpose of our being here. This is the council I twelve elders of Zion" or "twelve Tibetian adepts" which secretly runs the world; this is it - what I worked for, Kabala + hence Jewish mysticism, the ccult + supernatural powers are involved. This is what the Nazis tried unsuccessfully to overthrow. so My job is to describe it; I can because I know of its existence. A master Pigspurt self use? Codes + has info on this vast fascist miligay seent god of the U.S. There has been a coup. Back in the 50s. On the i ther side is Kabalist Jewish mystics linked to 6 i Shekhing God is saving certains one of us from Solarcon - the 194,000 elect; this is the apocalypse. The planet is falling to the fascist military clicke in the us all but the elect. The selecting out of the saved at the end times is now taking place - ver sen are selected. I was. Judgment is here This is no one else in history ever ut i my experience. All which happen rad el to me in 2-3-74 was my being saved here at the apolypse one of the few. I ar to tell people this, that It's the end time + I am saved The pleroma - I am there. So every‐ hiny exists hat I took to be this: (+ was so told) this. Masons - Egyptian RC + illornate "othe Catherist 4 s very simply, I have seen God + now I endure the long dark nigh of the soul. of course it's the apocalypse (+ God is selecting out the saved): St Sophia is reborn. (Christ - the Parousia. The glory of God subsumes everything else. 5 who hit my (reintern) moved e an who saved me o s 2 h fagoms in the Park - the bendson Jewelra is 12-3-74 which resembles a dialectic contain i e i between hat's wo This is my world is not real but mean is a "halfulife" Bardo must be theel state. It 5) like in "Eyea I finished van Logt's work: we are This penet Motants als "slan." explains the above diagram "too e.g. "Book of Ptath" + "Wor ake memories - we are calling to each is very important other, my writing. leven if no more d i Our ultimate enemy is personified by the Nazis. This enemy is what I stigmatize in all my (the super state which writing: the Empire pervades my it controls our perception of reality) This is the point it corpus of writing, as a topic of my writing: to disclose the enemy + name it + my purpose isn't to disclose us what it does but them, which I have done. This was my job + did it, very successfully. (As witness what St I studies says about me.) I have always been aware of the Empire. What I did not know was who + what I was. In 2-3-74 I found out, but my work didn't begin then; in a sense it ended then The plasmate must have been in me when I wrote "Tears" so I didn't get it from the pharmacy Girl. In "Tears" did I show I had the plasmate in me? "I had the missing part of the information." + it showed up in "Tears"? No - all that was in "Tears" was to tell them where the missing informa i was: who had it "Tears": 5 police Marshals - spain (4 generals + the "Fifth column"). "Portuguese states of America. Salizar-fascist. Walloon: the flemish fascists. Rex: flemish fascists. Sterilization of blacks: third reich. Felix: Rome (i.e. italy). spain 2 portugal 3 Flemish walloon is rea s thind reich sitaly Felix t 5 fascist countuies/groups = so liety in/of "Tears" the USA: KKK. (dream.) I had told tim 6. 1) "Tears" was totalitarian + 2) racial that sterilization identified it as fascist not USSR. Tears" to our world - MITHC. "Grasshipper" - me + abendsen + Julian 78 the code in "Tears" is political; it is information about a world where fascism in general (in contrast to Germany as a nation) e fascism stripped of national identity won. "Tears" to "MITHC": Xtianity to Judiasm. exported (diaspora) international fascism. [vs freemasons true Xtians + Jews. then us = fascism. "Tears is precise + specific (well, patugal + walloon came later still -). Italy (Felix), Germany (sterilization of blacks). Flemish (Rex). USA (KKK), + Marshals (train: Q: "What do these have in common? A: Fascism. Germany lost but fascism won the old king in dream: man on horseback. The leader princip. Catholic church? Rome? The Empire now will you believe Pigspurt as view of Calif 1974? Hence topographically syntonic supering positions overthrow of Nixon - violence (blowing up is The BIP). The truth - "Tears." Festung USA. This is the secret; I got it almost right in "MITHC. but confused Germany + fascism. Hitter deliberately lost the war, to destron Germany + give fascism an international charach he knew Jewish history, knew that the Roman attack on Jerusalem (Judhism) had spread it worldwide as Xtianity. No - had spread the Jews worldwide - diaspora. A secret existence to fascism, as "bacillus of civilization; as the Jews had been; he didn't imitate the Catholic church but Judhism. Metastacizing. Biological model (my phagocytosis - the phagocytes + the Iron partich. Were in an organic body, all right. Information" virus "Tears" is plasmate - I know; I saw it. A correct appraisal of the situation in USA. Very precise references to a number of fascist roups. Something analyzed the situation here in 1970-1974. A computer. the dialectic. we are not talking about an alternate world but this world really I am an analogic binary AI system smuggled in here to analyze the situation + report on it. (Cf "impostor.") Biosphere Fascism is a bacillus. phagocytosis "from K2 to FLC. was needed. "Nats" = national socialists. Brown? Sa? think Maybe I have it (re "Tears" etal). I there are two secrets, not one. antithetical 1) Cerical fascism (invisible). two secret forces at war 2) Jews, R.C. Freemasms with each other. "Tears" runs two cypher - or reference systems - simultaneously, utilizing ambiguity. Thus Acts = imperial Rome + the true Xtians the true battle in/of this world is outlined neither force (side) being visible to us; what is visible - communism vs Capitalism - is my a mask for the 1) + 2) supra This is hard to express but important. I have traced the structure of 2-3-74 to a Hermetic, alchemical, Kabalist source. + this is precisely the secret group suspected of secretly ruling the world, My 2-3-74 experience int "Tears," indicates that the real battle for 8 possession of the world is between them (+ their divine, supernatural powers) + what we know as clerical fascism. I am a vehicle for the former against the latter both exist + contend - covertly. Hence the code in "Tears." The topic (Fascism; as well. Code = Kabala topic = the enemy, it is nothing less than God Jewish (Rosy Cross Kabala, hermetics) against Satan (clerical fascism). + the sixes - in "Tears" genetic breeding of supermen. Eugenics; "The Elders of Zion" do not "decretly rule the world" - the world is secretly ruled by "the Empire" - clarical fascism the "Elders of Zion" are the users on Earth of the Holy power, the Shekhina : oppressed + murdered, [but) known about by the Empire them, which slanders while concealing itself so this is the real war + has been since the time of minoan Crete. Since the time of moses vs Egypt. One major secret is that the Holy power (YHWH) is "just here inter‐ mittently" + just now + then by + large the world is in the power of evil - since the Fall beyard any doubt "Tears" depicts the true ruler: the clerical- fascist empire. But does it any sense allude to the antithesis the Holy power If at all, in I am not now "King Felix at but + sure. "Felix" may just refer to Acts, hence Rome in 81 It is the Bible as code. Or - it could be the living creature the Torah (plasmate). A double cypher: code within code. Also, it could be depicting the in-breaking of God (in the dream) the Holy power behind the "Elders of Zion." whereas other books of mine deal with possi‐ bilities, "Tears" totally reverses the situation + depicts the true, hidden actuality - in a form appearing to be that of a dystopic possibility there are allusions to the USSR in "Tears" micher quinn, unperson, forced labor camps: the USSR is fascist too. This may be why "Tears" displeased the marxists. I read over "Tears." It is unquestion ably "the Bacchae" - the stranger vs the King of Tears who is driven mad he has imprisoned the stranger -who in "Tears" is God like - who has done nothing). This is the real ursatz of "Tears." There is explicit reference to King Penthus/pentheus (i.e. king of Tears). It seems to say, Dionysos is here (Zagreus), + will destroy the prison. If (a I say if) there is a cryptic allusion to Christ (via Acts) it is to the second Advent, not the first. It is Christ vs Caesar, + Christ wins My 2-3-74 experience confirms this: Christ is here. It is as simple as that the society depicted is simply "the repressive state" as in "the Bacchae" - a tyranny. It is repression personified + the savior personified. 82 So 2-3-74 confirms the message in "Tears" (i.e. tells me that it is actually true), + the ursatz in "Tears" tells me what happened they y. + who rescued my in 2-3-74 + wh mistake captured a God - to their ultimate have by +, as God is here in human garb. dismay. The with Jason Taverner, does not know his own identity. His destroying of the tyrannizing authority is almost a byproduct of his nature, not a deliberate act. "Tears," in the final analysis, is prophecy, not analysis. It is broad historical, social prophecy, not about me personally - but, it also applied to me as an example." when the universe is introjected it becomes a glowing Kingdom of beauty + magic. + inner space transferred to the outer macrocosm becomes infinitely vast - so when introjected, the universe becomes bigger because the self is now a macroself. s In "Tears" the explicit exoteric story is the Bacchae"; the implicit inner one shining through dimly as the Acts material is the parallel but crucially different Christ story. Without the gas station scene with