epistemology of fascism is mythic + spiritual + magical; unfortunately for its rationalist opponents it works - which is the sole test. Rationally, it should not work; that it works proves the existence of an underlying irrationality in the universe to which we appeal + on which we rely; it is nothing other that than the will, not the intelligence; power, not reason. Knowledge is defined in terms of shamanistic power- techniques of religious (mythic + spiritual) magic. This is 20th century post rationalism. In my case a will-self overpowered my thinking self in 3-74 + proved itself to be my true essence. (+ capable of better dealing with dire problems.) Reason + thinking + ego are mere tactics of the impersonal will to achieve its hidden goals, of which the thinking ego usually + mainly knows nothing. It occurs to me now that my buried plutocratic ambitions may make me vulnerable vis-a-vis Laura; that getting her in by the front door as a goal on my part could be turned against me the moment it becomes an ut ultimate goal + not a tactic by which to obtain power. I could find myself in a "servant become master" reversal situation, if I'm not careful: "they get at you through what you love." But the enemy is not aware of my ab ambitions for Laura, + her profound anti-semitism would surprise them. folder 06 - 021 Note p. 7: "In 3-74 I beat karma + took control." I elevated the subconscious non-self impersonal will to consciousness + fused my thinking conscious ego with it; thus I temporarily achieved an "impossible" union of mind (mens) + will + took conscious control of my destiny - shattering "astral determinsim" fate or karma as something which happens to me (which is universally the case) + made it into something that I do: a deed (eine tat) of the will (like thinking intentional blood). (Which I thereupon literally saw.) I became self-programming (which is the mystic gnosis-technique of Xtianity). This (event) is the true nature of "Christ" - bringing the impersonal will into syzygy with the conscious self so that it programs instead of being programmed. In fact, the will (which is regarded as invariable unconscious) is miraculously made conscious (which to India is impossible - + this includes Nietzsche + Shopenhaur + Mussolini). We find ourselves with a self-aware (but strictly speaking not thinking) will, a particularized, personalized will (which to Sankara is self-contradictory). That will could rise to consciousness is the greatest achievement in human history, when you consider that we human individuals as "souls" are normally completely at its [programming] mercy, which the mystery religions (+ Paul) figured out (in contrast to Plato + classic Greek-Roman thought). Normally, the thinking rational self is a mere tactic of the will which [...] folder 06 - 022 folder 06 - 022 [...]p; the self is thus ephemeral - but becoming "Christ" immortalizes it due to this fantastic alchemical transmutation/Verklarung. Normally, the self is reduced to victim of the will as the will uses it for its own goals; to harmonize the self + will -to fuse the self + will, the personal + impersonal- is a victory over death [+] enslavement sine qua non. Put another way, ontogeny is always the instrument, the servant of phylogeny; yet, in 3-74 due to the secret Xtians my phylogenic will became bonded to my ontogenic self in its defense, to preserve it. When phylogeny serves ontogeny you have a miracle, an upsetting of time itself: a victory of self (knowing) over time. (Or over death.) Sentience over the impersonal. The importance of this simply staggers comprehension, (v Schopenhaur on "the world as will.") So the DNA "die" strip in me got sam sabotaged out of existence - negative victory, + then I began to program myself for my ontogenic advantage - a positive victory. + since the will actually exerts power over external reality (they constitute a continuous field) by placing the will at the service of the individual self (soul) the objective environment no longer has blind coercive power over the self, but defers to its needs (although of course not totally; it is more an inclination, but an important one). The ontogenic self ceases to be at the mercy of the objective world, but the two cooper[ate]. He who obtains the consent of his will to his continued existence has actually gained the power folder 06 - 023 folder 06 - 023 The will being impersonal extends out beyond the individual (Brahman). There is no ending of the person + the beginning of the reality surrounding the person, so that if the will acts in the defense of the individual the environment becomes palpably intentional, which normally would seen impossible. Thus the will can do what the self can't do: perturb its own environment since it is its environment. It knows no difference. But if it knows no difference, how can it distinguish the self from what is not the self? To do this it must be intelligent, this violates normal conceptions of the will; if it is intelligent, what does it need selves for? It can dispense with the self if it is intelligent enough to distinguish + protect a given self. Therefore if it can perceive self it can afford to abandon the self. Why should it defend it, then? Something mysterious is involved, here. The self cannot compel the will to defend it. Has the will made a decision? If so, it can think; if so it is a self, a macro self. Then Brahman has awakened; "Siddhartha" no longer sleeps. This is not Atman becoming aware that it is Brahman; this is Brahman conscious, the start of a new cycle. We know nothing of such a situation; there is no precedent for it. Then I deduce that "Brahman" has only posed or simulated unconsciousness - the camouflage which I see vis-a-vis Valis. "Brahman" is not "Brahman" at all. "Brahman" is something quite different from what it pretends. It must be a self + must possess consciousness, which it conceals, + this consciousness must exist in us as well as outside, although this is impossible. Since it is impossible, our reality ipso facto does not exist. We are dreaming. This is why we can {...} reality; it isn't real. I provoked folder 06 - 024 folder 06 - 024 a palpable contradiction in reality. It betrayed its self-cancelling nature, so no rational analysis is correct. It must pulsate in self-cancelling oscillations so rapidly that we don't realize it, so what is true at one nanosecond is not true at the next. The reality which exists now cannot be the reality which existed a nanosecond ago - despite our "memories." __ I just remembered my first realization when I was loaded last night: everything is backward. We must reverse all information. __ That which exists is that which poses as Brahman. {Note} Not "Brahman is that which poses as reality i.e. the universe." We've been tricked. There is no Brahman. But what poses as Brahman? {Note:} + it's conscious; it's not a blind unconscious will. But it is ubiquitous. It's not impersonal; it has personality; it is someone. With distinct idiosyncracies. Then true ontology must exist is what appears most finite + ephemeral - not eternal. If that which poses as Brahman is secretly a conscious finite self, it has no need for finite conscious individual selves; it's using mask over mask: conscious self over impersonal will over finite conscious self. A person is below Brahman. I sense Zebra smiling. Games. Fun. Riddles. Since truth changes there is no answer. Process is everything. What was true ten seconds ago is not true now (the dialectic flipflops which generate their negations instantly). Self-cancelling; if I say, "Zebra is a person" the truth of this instantly generates its opposite: "Zebra is not a person," + that becomes true, whereupon folder 06 - 025 folder 06 - 025 another opposite is generated. Is Zebra a sustain or a subcarrier? Or one flipflop - one out of infinity minus one. Yes - the last; one out of infinity minus one. Zebra is eternal - for one nanosecond. But during that nanosecond he was everywhere in all the flipflops (by definition). If he was in all the flipflops he is ephemerally eternal in the sense of reconstituted ex nihilo in every flipflop - a constant, but - he must come into existence each time; that is, he dies + is reborn each nanosecond, so we find him, in any given nanosecond, in what actually is an ultra ephemeral morphos: comes into being + passes away, comes into being + passes away again elsewhere, like a fruit fly. The way circles are spontaneously recreated - The 1:618034. Comes and goes: so it is ephemeral + yet eternal. Every time a playing card is laid down, it is the Ursein individual. There is no way it could be lost. Thus the Blood -the plasmate- reconstitutes itself ex nihilo everywhere + at all times. Thus it is everything + everyone, potentially - when/if it chooses to be! So to speak replacing any object, process or person at its volition (transubstantiation). Thus it penetrates its cosmos as bodies within body, being latent until it decides to threshold into actuality. So it is everywhere latent -exactly as I saw it in "Tears"- there but silent. Slumbering but not asleep. Potential Okay. I am saying I perturbed my reality, in 3-74, but I did it from the past, because in my 2-74 anamnesis I took control [of influencing future reality] away from Karma; or rather converted Karma or astral determinism into something under my conscious control. We constantly unconsciously modulate future folder 06 - 026 events but don't know it because 1) we do it unconsciously, by our impersonal will; + 2) what we call "memory" is not memory at all but a product of each current nanosecond flip flop frame. We don't remember the past being different just now, a split second ago, + so we see no pattern in how each of us determines his future reality. Everything hinges on anamnesis which isn't just improved memory but actual memory of the previous frame. Without anamnesis there is no identity-continuity from flip flop frame to frame, but Karma, which we make (influencing what will later happen to us) follows us inexorably. My seeing reality change in 3-74 was due to 1) anamnesis + 2) prior voluntary control, i.e. control in the past, on my part, over present reality; what happened to me I made happen to me. Thus I generated the Xerox missive, which explains how I knew it was coming + exactly when it was coming; I [had previously] willed it. Anamnesis set up a palpable link between a former frame + 3-74. Without anamnesis the causal link would have been there but it wouldn't have been palpable to me. By remembering the previous (different me, time + place) frame I must have revived or established some kind of link to it normally lost, so that the me in it could aid the me in this (3-74). It was, after all, not a true past in the usual sense, but a sort of {alternate present ("There's someone else inside my head +} folder 06 - 027 folder 06 - 027 he's not living in this century." + : "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." New light is now thrown on these cryptic revelations. The linear time axis of a given frame -self, time + space- is not the one along which we actually move, although the frame -like a multiplex form axis- does! As it unfolds like the phosphene activity. {Note} It was normal that I had just an instant before been another person at a totally different time + place; what was abnormal was remembering - i.e. having true memory, instead of frame-cue (holographic?)