researched this + it isn't Plotinus; it's Philo. The ideas exist in the mind of God throughout eternity + then God makes them into real objects: creation. This mind Philo calls "Logos," not "Nous." Philo considered the ideas not a mere aggregate but {Note} an intelligible world, a concept not known before him. {Note:} integrated into folder 48 - 050 folder 48 - 050 1) The double worlds superimposition + two selves in me: like Altman's "3 Women." 2) + then (later) I see Valis. What is the relationship between (1) + (2)? It would seem as if (2) is actually what is there, + not what we see that is included in (1). I.e. (1) raises a question that is answered by (2). Conversely, the purpose of (2) is shown us by (1). Upon seeing (1) + not (2), we would be left in the frightening dream "world" of "3 Women" with the possibility that nothing could replace something, or, worse, that it is this way now - a dream, with no substance behind it. This was the fear that "3 Women" left me with. But I must remember that later on I saw Valis which is not a dream, but which explains the dream, i.e. (1). It can be argued that there is a terrible risk to decompose world because if it is the only "thing that is the case," you will be left with nonbeing; but in point of fact I wound up with Valis - so it was a net gain + not a loss (of reality). There was more reality "behind" world than in world qua world. Nonetheless it is terrifying to realize that something provides world + that on its own it has no substance (substantia). Either (1) or (2) alone would pose an unfathomable mystery, but together they form a coherence - + yet it is a startling + mysterious coherence that few people have ever encountered: the dissolving of the world (of multiplicity) to be replaced by another world of multiplicity, + then a sentient volitional unity underlying everything as mind revealed. And it not only thought world - it also thought me - which is really startling. folder 48 - 051 It is along the something-nothing axis that YHWH primarily operates, + I should appreciate the importance of this in view of my acosmism + sense of the irreality of the world. It is precisely the task of God (YHWH) to maintain the something, the substantia of something, + defeat the sort of hallucinatory irreality that, e.g., Palmer Eldritch's "worlds" show. Thus in such books as "Three Stigmata" I have unintentionally studied this very axis, + the consequences + ramifications of a drift from the something (substantia) end: I view it -correctly!- as the greatest danger possible. Far surpassing a drift on the good-evil axis, e.g. Thus unconsciously I understood the primary role of YHWH in book after book, + at last have come to a conscious apperception of him. I did not take for granted the automatic substantia of the universe - which view on my part shows the deepest wisdom possible, + laid the groundwork over the decades for the ultimate religious experience: of theophany. The whole corpus of my writing is an expression of the intimation that the universe (i.e. reality) is an epiphenomenon, but in relation to what? 2-3-74 was the beginning of the response: not a mere intellectual answer but the epiphany of that reality itself; + now it identifies itself as YHWH. folder 48 - 052 folder 48 - 052 So my writing -+ thinking- have been a search for God; but in the end, when the crisis came -in Heidegger's sense of me being aware of my own death, i.e. my own non-being- it was YHWH who found me, not me him. At all costs the world must be real; it must not betray its epiphenomenality except under certain exceptional circumstances, such as 2-3-74, since the consequences can be lethal (since they involve (1) non-being + (2) the revealing of non-being). Thus such a crisis engages the percipient in death, +, if all goes well, resurrection; but only the most extreme circumstances would call it forth; it is, in my opinion, the ultimate move by God, since in allowing world to dissolve (display non being) he replaces it with himself (pellucid theophany). Both self + world disappear for a moment. The seriousness of this can't be overstated - + the possible benefit. (In terms of outcome experience of being by the creatorial percipient). It is like the bichlorides: "a very poisonous poison for you"; but if used in a "measured dose" a medicine that cures madness; viz: the drugged intoxication of our earthly state. folder 48 - 053 folder 48 - 053 But it can kill, if misapplied. __ God causes whatever exists to exist, but this is not artificer to artifact, the latter idea having thrown me off. Because he can utilize reality as a direct expression of his will - which the artifactual model does not explain, or provide us a clue to. He can be his "artifact" so that division between artificer + artifact is abolished (as if a cause need not proceed its effect). This is not evident from western doctrines of divine transcendence. However, if you suppose him to think reality [into existence] rather than fashion reality, you can understand this. The reality is there only insofar as he thinks it, + borrows its being from him, having none of its own. He is neither within reality nor above. It is a matter of levels of ontology, as Plotinus realized. I find it incredible that anyone could conceive of his relationship in spacial terms, as Spinoza realized. He is transcendent in that he is superior to it, + not just its psyche. He is immanent in that he is where it is + not not where it is. He can cause something to follow which only seems to follow causally, since he is the true cause, in the sense of causal trains, + not just efficient cause. (He doesn't just start it off.) So he is within (during) the contuing process. Well, then by + large Spinoza is correct. So the universe is not an object. It is not a thing. Part of the reason it seems substantial to us is due to an occlusion of our senses that blinds us to its insubstantiality. If we could see it better we'd see it as a "you," not an "it." Thus the universe as universe would disappear + he would not have caused to exist folder 48 - 054 folder 48 - 054 whatever exists because in fact nothing exists but God, + it is a privilege to know this. "Exist" involves percipients for whom the existing thing is substantial or made to seem substantial; this is a gift to us, this verisimillitude of substantiality. For God to reveal the insubstantiality to someone shows a great trust on God's part toward the person + his ability to deal with this perception; the real bulwark against non-being has been disclosed: that which really does exist. __ YHWH in 2-74 shows me the world as it actually is: the BIP: i.e. evil is in control, as revealed by my recent "satanist" dream. Thus YHWH approaches people on the outside - i.e. periphery. This is his traditional method; e.g. with Elijah. The true worship (of the true God) has been pushed out, + a false God worshipped. What he reveals to me is that he himself has been transplanted here + is alive; it's been successful. Thus the true God has broken out in Satan's world, the world of "Tears" that he showed me in 2-3-74. So YHWH has a powerful antagonist: Belial, who holds the centers of power, civil + ecclestical. Look: my experience of 2-3-74 was not like Pentecost: the Holy Spirit. It was more a theophany, like that of the O.T.! I saw Valis outside me. + it refers to "him who is alive" as YHWH, not Christ; + the view it showed me of the world is the sort of folder 48 - 055 folder 48 - 055 view the O.T. prophets had; esp. Elijah. ___ {Telephone numbers of Daniel Gilbertson} ___ This certainly adds an extraordinary emphasis on the historical significance of the 2-74 vision; it places it within a context dating back thousands of years. It is the basic view of the center of society vouchsafed to the prophets. If I take x, the 2-74 vision, + the revelation of the tetragrammaton, then the pieces of all this fall together (+ I did think of myself as Elijah from the very start!). The dream did it: put it all together. "The AI voice will guide + protect you" - + the next thing I see is the tetragrammaton. Which is to say that YHWH is here. The 2-74 revelation connects with the "YHWH is here" because it shows why YHWH is here. But he is on the periphery of this world. This is the situation of massive apostasy. The significance of Acts is: at this point in history the light still burned, but after that it was expelled. This was not the point at which Xtianity proliferated (through the Holy Spirit) but its final moment; it proliferated slightly + then was killed. To know the significance of Acts in conjunction with the pol-nat-flc empire is to know the first half of the secret. The 2nd half is told by the cypher King Felix: first the ouster of God + then his return. So "Tears" depicts both parts. The total vision (information regarding the true situation) is in "Tears" + then was revealed to me the month folder 48 - 056 "Tears" was published. But Acts is the key to it all; the fatal defeat occurred at the time of Acts after the resurrection. "Tears" depicts a dystopia in which Xtianity has been defeated, + this is the case, + it did occur at the time of Acts, which is why the Acts material is in it + is crucial. "The civil rights movement seem to have lost." Well, Xtianity lost, in fact. But the Grid shows an invisible illegal Xtianity hanging on now. Perhaps restored, rather than historically continued? Directly instilled into individuals by God? These neo secret true Xtians are the awakened ones. Awakened to the true situation, + then injected with one of the the lost apostolic selves! "Tears" is so-to-speak the true story of Acts. The death of the woman is the death of Xtianity. + Buckman's "conversion" is the emotional (i.e. spiritual) realization of that death + loss: i.e. the tears are shed in grief over the (then) irreversible loss (death). Something died - a woman. St. Sophia as spirit? The spirit's nature is shown in its manifestation at the all night gas station, that of agape. It so to speak passed over onto/into Buckman for a little while. Now the dream can be understood - even its meaning proved: the return of God. No; there is more. The man must die; Christ as Xtianity must in the historical process decreed by God (the white haired old king) die. The ostensible story is: YHWH decrees Xtianity's death, but in cypher its life, not death, is decreed. folder 48 - 057 folder 48 - 057 So on the surface YHWH willed it to die + underneath (secretly) he willed it to live. This -latter- is the [new] news, the Kerygma (good news) hidden in the bad. The bad news is not news to the secret Xtian underground - + now I am positive that there literally is a secret Xtian underground, to receive the good news in "Tears" - i.e. King Felix. But beyond any doubt the dream shows the in-breaking of YHWH at this time. "The man shut up in darkness" may be a cryptic reference to Belial who must now perish (using