in 2-3-74. I am ∴ one of their secret brotherhood. + damn glad of it: as they say, they are the red secret Xtian church, + totally hidden. Their great weapon is knowledge (enlightenment), which is what I got in 2-3-74, plus their supernatural powers. They share inner space + a common pool of esoteric knowledge - which they can transfer telepathically. I know it. In 3-74 I saw the Great Books + the Hermetic diagrams. They know the secret of 1) turning time into space; + - 2) they freight (or cook) our media with their messages. They are thus the secret power that rules this world (or hologram). 3) they can utilize synchonicity which is outside cause - + - effect + time. Specifically, they 1) know we have been invaded by an occluding organinism; + 2) their enlightenment counters it. I wonder how they link up to VALIS. Maybe VALIS is their GHQ, their cephalos. A) Olive Holt } B) Intelligence officer in the army} KGB! You have to link the two data together to get the answer. Like "King - Felix." One alone is not enough (i.e. "Olive Holt" could just mean CP, + B could be us or OCCP. But together they delineate KGB!). Originally there were 2 possible equations: [Diagram] 1) CP (+ 1) + KGB (+2) = +3 2) CP (+1) + US (-2) = -1 [/Diagram] I know believe it to be (1). The surface + the latent reinforce, rather than offsetting. This is why I was so confused: there is a vast difference, in this, between reinforcing (+3) + cancelling (-1). ---------- Wouldn't it be something if the RC were able to transfer an actual personality to - into - me? that Thomas hadn't been previously in me. The gnostic + other material in my writing (e.g. in "Tears") is their media freighting. There must be some way they can get into peoples' heads. The RC may comprise one collective Macromind. This would be the cosmic Christ or VALIS. The RC was behind Frederick, the Elector Palastine, which shows up in "MITHC"! I found a typed page starting: "VALIS' activity is a binary system of off-on. We see only the "on" of the off-on arrangements. We do not see them as arrangements but merely as change." More + more this binary computer model of VALIS seems to be the correct one. "On" is the linking of two parts which I saw: "on" equals junction; "off" equals disjunction or not inclusion in the vast assembly which I equate with VALIS. Put another way I saw high speed linking as the primary activity of VALIS. This was simply its "on" mode, so it must be everywhere, + what I construed as VALIS vs non-VALIS was "on" vs "off" of a binary computer. Then everything is the computer whether linked or not - whether the assembly (what I called "VALIS") or not. These are neural connections in a brain. "on" is "connect" + "off" is "disconnect," there is a evolution toward connection: toward a developing Macrothought in which everything is connected: worked in as relevant. Then there is something other than just a binary on-off computer. "on" more + more predominates over "off"; it seeks "on." its goal is "on" as a means to developing a total all-parts interaction. "off" could be regarded as a lack, a failure, a defeat, an impediment to be overcome. We still have a binary system, but priority (plus value) is given to "on." Then there are two orders of reality (set to ground?). The "on" or junction (which is higher or set), + "off" as disjunction (which is lower as ground): this might explain, then, the discrimination of set to ground which I achieved: on to off. Linked to unlinked, VALIS to not-VALIS - + even more ultimately, the ultra thought to the not-yet (part of) ultra-thought. What I call "VALIS," then is a thought, or rather the thought. This sheds a whole new light on 1) the set / ground which I saw. 2) what "Valis" is. (a forming thought.) One could say the "the rational invading the irrational" which I construe as going on is the deliberate, purposeful formation by a computer brain - using a binary system - of an ultimate thought which can be regarded as 1) activity or process; or 2) is a thing; the thought as network of interlinked "neurons" in a particular pattern (which has as one attibute that of absolute beauty, + perhaps should ultimately be so regarded). Yet to construe this "as the rational invading the irrational" is not only not far off as an appraisal but positively brilliant (although incomplete). The unlinked "neurons" equal disorder. The linked "neurons" equal order. My God - the causal train melting! The ultra-thought was (seen by me) forming between my very eyes. This is the override I saw, the modulation - the changes in reality including me. I was incorprated into the ultra-thought which I have termed "VALIS." The "St Elmo's Fire" - the vast knowledge all at once available to me - this is the ultra-thought all that "Hermetic" transtemporal gnosis is contents of the ultra-thought. Reality as knowledge. This "Hermetic" knowledge was physical reality which I could see + touch. Physical reality went through a transform + became knowledge. The thought could be said to have changed. It changed, + no one remembers that it had been formerly different; again, everything I experienced has to do with anamnesis. I remembered that things (the thought) had just an instant before been quite different. Anamnesis set in before the change set it. (2-74 compared with 3-74.) Did they want witnesses who would remember things as they had been - i.e. "Tears." But if "Tears" is a record of "how things had just previously been" (But no one remembered), "Tears" is Acts, so Acts had just a moment before been our world - which conforms exactly with my 2-74 anamnesis; that's what I remembered (real memories breaking through the false). Was this a good change? Yes - obviously; "Tears" is the BIP. The change was an enormous improvement; the removal of part of the curse itself (cf my Metz speech: orthogonal motion to a less-cursed world or alternate universe). I hadn't been living in "Tears"; we all had been. However, I remembered, but not until 2-74 + the Golden Fish sign. I did not know it in 1970 when I wrote the novel. A physical record of that alternate world was inserted into this world (or "track"), using me as an amanuensis. Then "Tears" is, as I intuited, scripture. The macro brain (computer) wanted the information stored (retained, encoded). It was concealed in a minor s-f novel, where it could excite no notice. This related to the dialectic 1) progression through the frames: + 2) "memory" derived from the current frame, in contrast to true memory of former, different frames - "Tears," then, is a crucial former different frame, + my memory of it (anamnesis) true memory. (The conjunction of the 2 frames was not in linear time - i.e 2000 years apart - but along a form axis in which the two were morphologically tangent; this is another of my major dicoveries.) I am building a terrific system here, with the binary computer, macro brain + ultra thought, + the frames through which we move (prior thought formations objectified giving rise to new belief systems, etc), reality - physical reality - as knowledge, + the form axes, the inner other universe of the immortals, the supermen who are trans-spacial + transtemporal dwelling in the inner universe + hence outside of clock time B, + who emerge into the exterior universe repeatedly (+ undetected by other people), + Ormazd vs Ahriman being the "on" + "off" of the binary computer, + the nature of true memory (anamnesis) vs current frame clue false "memory." Plus the possible misuse of the computer by someone, + its designer guiding us as a "low murmuring voice" against the misus by this irrational "operator" or demiurge," i.e. Satan who has taken control of "Creation" + the rational (thought) forming + growing + complexifying in the midst of the irrational (i.e. misuse of the computer): the antithetical strife between the rational (thought) + the irrational, with the former "cannibalizing" the latter to self-construct, until finally it is - has incorporated - everything. + the orthogonal leap from track A ("Tears") to track B (this reality) being a quantum growth - leap of the rational ultra thought or VALIS; + the dialectic of the Binary Computer inexorably driving everything along: the logical antinomies in sequence, + the possibility of seeing VALIS (the ultra thought) as set to ground, + its activity of self-construction. + "Salvation" consisting of being incorporated into it, + thus experiencing reality as information; absolute information which ultimately is beauty, not information at all: i.e a picture of the slain - dying - God: i.e. tragic. Xtianity is a cruel religion - yet accurate. It recognizes + conveys the true picture of this world: inglorious death, the beauty of which exceeds the weight, the burden, of the tribulation. Only when reality is experienced as the body (onto) of Christ , + its life process as the Sacred Blood, are we really home. What, oh what, if it were true that in 1945 at Nag Hammadi the actual Secret Living (information / Logos) Blood of Christ was unearthed, + through it, he was restored or the world (the "plasmate" which I describe in "Valis")? That Blood having recreated the Mystic Corpus Christi which (rational) is now growing within the old irrational universe? I just realize I've seen Christ in micro forms - as the death of the cockroach + rat + Pinky + in macro form: the universe flowing with his Blood. + what if he is Thomas + became (replaced) me, as well? ---------- All the knowledge revealed to me in 3-74 pre Newtonian. ---------- My 3-74 state was the resurrected state. So death (I had died) is an alchemical process of transmutation, like magic. It has this effect due to 1) it turning you into a christ; + 2) this is what took place with Christ, this alchemical transmutation, upon his death. Pythagoras had a strange cosmogonical belief: a seed (male) inserted into the boundless (female) which then progressively grows by incorporating more + more of the atelos (incomplete or unbounded into its carefully limited (telos) structure - a process "like inspiration with the boundless called 'breath.' " This view of careful limitation (boundaries) being the essential basis of kosmos sounds like the linking + arranging I saw VALIS doing, + this "seed" sounds like the rational VALIS invading the greater (boundless) irrational or non-kosmos.➀ Also the term "kosmos" is used by him to mean an ultimate beauty, more so than order. Pythagorianism was shamanistic, placed emphasis on health, on Apollo + the Delphic sibyl, on reincarnation, on revealed truths which gave you magic power over nature (reality), + form + number as the basis of reality, not substance. It (his system) was more a mystical religion having to do with the migrations of the soul than it was a philosophy. he strongly influenced Plato's metaphysics - certainly the platonist views about anamnesis. All this was related to Orphism. "Of things in human life, what displays most wisdom? Medicine." My revealed dialectic could be that of Empedocles. I'd say at this point that 3-74 was very Pythagorian. ➀ "Living cosmos. It grows by drawing in + assimulating the unlimited outside, that is by conforming it to limit + giving it numerical structure." "... the principle that like is known by like; hence, an understanding of the divine universe would bring man's nature closer to its own." "An organic whole, particularly one that like the universe lives forever must of necessity exhibit limit + order in the highest degree." Empedocles: "... for these teachings, grow of themselves