I passed out of the sphere of necessity.] "Both Intelligence + Soul are supposed to be present in the sensible world +, therefore, present in what is extended, although they themselves are not extended. Starting with the famous discussion in Plato's 'Parmenides', in which the attempt is made to explain how one idea can be present in many particulars, Plotinus tries to show that just because "Intelligence + Soul are not extended, they can be omnipresent + ubiquitous in what is extended." This refers precisely to my Set/Ground "two signal" "metastructure" "exploded" perception (3-74) insight (during the last few days) + identifies my experience as Neoplatonist + not Gnostic - nor anything else (i.e. my 4, 5 or 6 realms) (which are here; but we see only the discrete plurality of constituents.) So in 3-74 the Plasmate (Set) that I saw as opposed to Ground is Plotinus' Nous (Intelligence) which is above the spatiotemporal realm; within it the Forms (phylogons) are morphologically arranged. It is [indeed] {folder 01 - 012 folder 01 - 012} here ubiquitously in the spatiotemporal world but we can't discriminate it normally. In no way does Gnosticism account for my experience. The E.B. Macro article on "The History of Western Philosophy" says of Plato's theory of the realm of Ideas: "Without such shapes, which are copies of Ideas, there would be complete chaos, in which nothing would be recognizable. Furthermore, it is impossible to build up any system of knowledge without constantly preferring what is formed +, thus, recognizable to what is not, what is true to what is false, a sound logical conclusion to a logical fallacy, even an elegant scientific demonstration to a clumsy one; i.e., without considering the former as Good + the latter as Bad. In this sense at least, there is no such thing as value-free science." This well-states the necessity of abstracting + the enormous consequences of ultra abstracting - its relationship to flux, multiplicity, chaos vs the ability of the percipient to distinguish in this a latent or meta order. This strikes at the roots of our experience with + encounter with reality as a whole, whether reality will "be" (i.e. be experienced as) chaos entirely, partly chaos + partly order, greater order + less chaos, more unity + less multiplicity - quantum leaps, vast ones, in which whole multitudes of pluralities become Gestalted as structure; or, as in 2-74, space-time continua seemingly separated by 1000s of years + 1000s of miles are suddenly seen as identical (the same, one - not merely similar or tangent), by the utilizing of an otherwise (formerly) unsuspected [form]axis, based on the above-stated Platonist notion of a real realm of Ideas (cf "Ubik"). {folder 01 - 013 folder 01 - 013} Regarding this, the Form axes presented in "Ubik" represent a conceptual breakthrough - not about perception of world - but about world itself + how it may in fact be organized; viz: that in fact world itself may be organized by morphological identity or affinity rather than the contingent relatedness of spatiotemporality (i.e. essential not positional relatedness). There is nothing in my concept not found in Plato + Plotinus, but the Neoplatonist schools were closed in the 6th century C.E. which is a long time ago. [Note] This is how my "multiple tracking" (at two space-time continua) could occur; morphologically the two continua + the two me's - are essentially unitary, although not in spatiotemporal reality. What is pointed to is not just a higher way of apprehending, ordering, abstracting reality, but a non-spatiotemporal realm in itself, discovered by ultra abstracting perception but not created by it. The implications in this for epistemology defy description. After all, epistemology as a subdivision of metaphysics is the true topic of "Ubik", of my entire 10-volume meta novel plus stories + articles + letters - my whole intellectual life, for decades. [Note] However, Eliade goes into this with his presentation of "illo tempore" or sacred (non linear) time. But above this morphologically-arranged realm which is in some kind of time + space, although not arranged primarily by time + space, lies the abstract realm of phylogons in which there is no time + space at all - + I experienced it. {folder 01 - 014 folder 01 - 014} [illustration presented below in text form] Morphological arrangement => Morphological arrangement ----------------------------- but spatiotemporal existence, ----------------------------- creating the median realm of ------------------------------ sacred time, illo tempore, Spatiotemporal arrangement => in which two space-time ------------------------------ continua can superimpose + be one. Plotinus' distinction between Nous + the One is Eckehart's distinction between God + the Godhead. If it was just a matter of superior abstracting by the percipient, only an inner concept would come into existence; but an external, actual, morphological arrangement of reality -ontologically superior to the spatiotemporal- coincides with this ultra abstracting; therefore the practical consequences of this abstracting from accidents to essence are epistemologically enormous. Two space-time continua (1000s of miles + years apart) coincide to form (reveal) an unsuspected metarealm + structure. This is hierarchical stacking. - To sum up: Abstract from accidents to essence. Accidents are arranged in space + time; essence is arranged morphologically like the Form-axes in "Ubik", + not in space + time. So: (1) Two separate space time continua will coincide if they possess a common essence (2) A meta-realm of morphological arrangement is disclosed not utilizing space-time (3) Neoplatonism explains 2-3-74. {folder 01 - 015 folder 01 - 015} (4) Put another way, 2-3-74 demonstrates that Plotinus' system is correct. (5) The essence realm is Plato's Idea realm in contradistinction to the sensible realm (as reappraised by Plotinus), i.e. the realm of accidents (the sensible realm). It sounds so simple to say, "I ultra-abstracted from accidents to essence", but when you consider that "essence" is considered to be a metaphysical hypothesis, unproven, normally unobservable - consider this in terms of the Eucharist, + the implications are clear. Upon making this ultra abstraction I was already in the morphologically-arranged meta realm, thereupon, with no further reasoning (but during the next month my brain did reason further, + ascended the realms). Universals are real, Plato's form world exists + is in Nous. Medieval realism is correct. E of Ph on "universals": "... Because Plato's Forms do not exist at a place or at a time" [Note] ... "Particulars are only semi-real." [Note] "The mystery of their 'existence' becomes impenetrable." Where are they, if they exist? [Note2] My solution: Morphological arrangement without reference to space + time. This can only mean that Plotinus is right; the Forms exist in Nous, + I saw/experienced that Nous: Valis. [Note2] This had puzzled me for 6 1/2 years: where is the abstract metakosmos of the reticulated phylogons? [...] (Nous) {folder 01 - 016} E PH article on "Universals": The contrast between the two views (Plato's and Aristotle's) comes out again in their accounts of how we apprehend universals. They are agreed both that awareness of universals is implicit in ordinary sense experience (for it is this awareness that conditions our experience as being what it is) and that we are aware of universals not by sense itself but by intellect. Plato could not say that we became aware of them by abstraction from particular instances, because they have separate existence and never are more than defectively instantiated: if our concept of X were only what we could abstract from imperfect instances, we never could apprehend X itself. Therefore there must be some other mode of apprehension, which Plato called anamnesis (usually translated as "recollection" but less misleadingly interpreted in this context as "recovery"). The human soul has prenatal knowledge of universals and of their mutual relations, and postnatal experience of the ordinary world serves, or may serve, to revive this knowledge in suitable circumstances. Thus, experience does not directly provide us with new apprehensions (of universals) or with new knowledge of necessary truths (connections between universals) but acts as a stimulus to remind us of what we already know but have hitherto in this life forgotten... Aristotle thought that there was another, less fanciful and less speculative way... Apprehension of a universal, or formation of the concept, is not a sudden once-and-for-all business, given in a single experience, but a gradual process. (Etc. Etc.) (My comments: Plato seems to be describing exactly what happened to me in 2-74; exactly what happened, and he offers a reason as to why it happened that fits in with my general schema vis-a-vis Plotinus. So again I feel ratified in my conviction of last night that Platonism and neo-Platonism are absolutely pointed to in my "ultra abstraction" of 2-74, as I have phrased it.) See opening of packet XXIII + the "Acts grid/lens" theory. {folder 01 - 017 folder 01 - 017} I don't think I see the world as other people do; I presume what I'm trying to prove in this whole Exegesis, namely a medieval realist worldview in which the sensible world-order is [unconsciously] assumed to be printed out from an upper more real realm - this is also the world of the shaman: two level reality, as found in Plato but repudiated by Aristotle. 2-3-74 was a coming into full consciousness -+ control- of this worldview. My leap to full abstracting in 2-74 was an epiphany of - some archaic -probably medieval- substrate in me, bursting through the thin rationalist modern veneer. It was anamnesis all right (v. p 512, Plato's view of how we apprehend universals) but - Primitive is the word I want. Contemporary philosophy makes no sense to me. & yet, as Pat Warrick says, I write from the standpoint of quantum mechanics. My God isn't even transcendent - No; I don't believe in heaven or an afterlife. What do I believe in? Kantian phenomenology? That an invisible latent realm exists immanently in the sensible world or that no objective world in itself exists at all? Acosmism? Something Eastern (e.g. Brahmanism?) "If you press world hard enough it yields up God" - paraphrase of p. 485. "I define God as world under the threat of death ... God forced into the open, + put to work in the service of evading death." I am not I; I am not here; I am not now. Buddhist idealism? No, because when self + world go, God -not the void- replaces them, + world is seen as an abstraction outside space + time, an interconnected system of ideas in His mind; more precisely, a memory [s...t .n] process (i.e. not static). {folder 01 - 018 folder 01 - 018} Let me run a fantasy number by my scanner. The real world came to an end circa 45-70 C.E., an instant before the Parousia (i.e. the space-time of Acts): world qua real world was halted - frozen just before annihilation (this annihilation was the end of the 2nd epoch of the Torah -justice + severe limitation- + its end was to make way for the 3rd epoch, that of mercy (Christ's rule/return). But the 3rd epoch [of the Torah] never arrived; for us, anyhow. A counterfeit world (or creation) such as the Gnostics describe replaced the real world - + this is the "secret stolen past the angels in one's hands". This is the secret gnosis of Gnosticism; they knew they were living in an irreal world, + that mankind is drugged or asleep (as in "Ubik" + "Maze"). Why is this the case? A diabolical stratagem by Belial to stave off the apocalypse, the Parousia + judgment. The spatiotemporal world is counterfeit -irreal- but under it/within it/behind it/above it/beyond it/outside it (as in "Ubik") lies the real world + it is not spatiotemporal; there is no spatiotemporal world; that ended with Acts, which is now a latent freezeframe. Acts: our spatiotemporal world:: Plato's Form World: sensible world. "He causes things to look different so it'd appear {folder 01 - 019 folder 01 - 019} time has passed." No time has passed, +, moreover, all