to a vast mystery understood by the Orphics, Plato, Plotinus and Pythagoras; but no one knows about it now. Jane Harrison's book makes clear that Orphism was a conscious effort to get you up out of realm #4 and back to a unitary soul as eidos in realm #3, and this carries over into Platonism ... but what a dreadful secret lies here, one I am just beginning to glimpse. And what dimensions salvation has! For you to be unified again ... could Jesus have known about this? There is no indication of it. I see; the One became Nous; unity was lost; with each lower realm came more multiplicity, and here we are, splintered into a thousand fragments in this spatiotemporal, atomized realm; not just the realm atomized but each of our souls. What a fate. Gnosis or a savior is needed, or both; this is a dreadful condition; the Judo-Christian theme of the Fall underestimates its dreadfulness. Not just the Godhead fell into plurality (sparks) but each individual soul did, too. So Thomas was another portion of me, of my soul, rejoining the part that PKD is; two parts --did this comprise a whole, a totality? Or are there other parts still missing? And the AI voice; is that my unitary intact soul in realm #3? I think so. The Gnostics are right; our primordial mistake was to take the spatiotemporal world as real. That's it. The Fall lay there. It was an intellectual error and I reversed it in 2-3-74; this is what 2-3-74 consisted of; I no longer took it as real. Hence my ten volume meta novel is on the right path. 10-22-80 As of late last night my emotions (affective self) moved into synch with my intellect (as engaged in this exegesis), and the result was that I surveyed a world-picture of such bleakness that it was for a time beyond my capacity to bear. I saw and understood suffering, not just intellectually, not just emotionally, but fully, with complete comprehension. Today I have thought about it, and the only attitude that can or should be brought to bear is a stoic one, in fact a heroic one, a facing of this bleakness unflinchingly, with no attempt to flee from it as a vision or existentionally, as a way of being in the world. It is a view of the weary wheel of Buddhism; it is the Buddha's view of absolute suffering and the need not to be reborn, to get off the {folder 01 - 073} 10-22-80 1 wheel. Each creature is born, suffers, dies, is again born, forever and ever, because the world soul -- there is just one soul, and it has fragmented into billions of bits -- made the primordial and primary mistake of taking the spatiotemporal realm as real, thus plunging itself into enslavement and multiplicity. For a few there is a way out: discovery that the spatiotemporal world is not real, an ascent back up into unity and freedom, but only for a few bits (sparks) is this possible; the enormous mass of fragments will remain caught forever, unless some final great savior comes here and frees us en mass. I hope this will happen but I doubt it. Every fly with a missing leg, every cat beleagered by fleas, every human fearing economic want -- the endless wheel turns for all of us and it turns forever, in this irreal time we have fallen victim to. "The saying that is uttered in secret rites, to the effect that we men are in a sort of prison, and that one ought not to loose himself from it nor yet to run away, seems to me something great and not easy to see through; but this at least I think is well said, that it is the gods who care for us, and we men are one of the possessions of the gods. So says Plato referring to the Pythagoreans. Everything is contained here: the vision and the stance, and, finally, what may be the only solace that can be held out, that the gods care for us because we are their possessions. This paragraph will have to do if I am to be saved from the vision I have seen, and it is meant to save; it is Plato's great mind coming to bear on the situation, with full knowledge of the reality of the situation, the Greek equipoise that Apollo exemplified; that Attic calm to which I must return, or I am destroyed. Premise: The primordial Fall was caused by our -- by us, not our ancestors -- making the error of taking the spatiotemporal realm to be real. 1) In 2-74 I saw that the spatiotemporal realm was not real. 2) Therefore I reversed the original Fall --which is doing much more than remembering -- by anamnesis -- the reality of the Form world, the universals. What I realized last night is that I as a soul am splintered up in fragments through space and time, literally exploded through space and time, in incarnation after incarnation, my unity shattered. This is the "weary wheel" of the Orphics. This realization is terrible. Because even though I reversed the effects of the Fall for myself, I can see the dreadful condition of the others of us, born again and again (but this is temporal talk; it is irreal. Splintered is the correct term). {folder 01 - 074} 10-22-80 2 Now the significance of my "heimarmene" being abolished in 3-74 via-a-vis the Xerox missive can be appreciated; it represented the entire weight of the spatiotemporal domain, expressed as determinism. As fate and causal law. It is the rule of this realm per se; in fact in a sense it is this realm. This is what this realm does to you when you fall under its tyrannical power, even though it is irreal. So the tyranny is ultimately the tyranny of delusion, which is expressed in two ways: as karma and as maya. Now the results of not recognizing "Tat tvam asi" seem actually sinister, since you literally are other life forms, other humans and other creatures; you as primordial soul are splintered, exploded, over thousands of years and thousands of miles. "Tat tvam asi" is not a luxury for the languid philosopher or the special mystic; it is essential in the reversal of a primordial fall (our taking the spatiotemporal realm as real). (Hence falling under its rule, Fate, karma, heimarmene, astral determinism, planetary influences, the Law, etc.) The call by Sankara is imperitive. What must be recognized is a literal fact. All the horrors of Gnostic Fremdheit, Geworfenheit, of alienation and -- the prison most of all, and by delusion (maya). Now I must again consider "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." This implies an adversary, a deliberate deluding power to which we have fallen victim (as in Zoroastrianism). On the other hand, "The secret stolen, in one's hands..." that implies a divine Savior who performed this act for our benefit. Otherwise the secret stolen would not be in "one's hands," i.e. ours. The first sentence is ominous. It means that the deluding power of the spatiotemporal realm is deliberately maintained over us, by a kind of magician; this fits the dualistic religions, not Brahmanism or Buddhism; it is very pessimistic and sinister. No wonder I saw the dialectic; it is these two powers -- entities -- contending: the Liar (deluder) and the Savior. The spatiotemporal realm was for the purpose of ensnaring us (this is Gnosticism and Mani). But clearly the AI voice has ratified the vision of the dialectic; these two sentences point first to a cosmic Deluder, the other later sentence to a divine Savior who has stolen the secret -- which I suppose is the Gnosis, which is to say a revelation of the truth of our situation ...why, it was what Valis revealed to me noetically in 3-74; and Valis is that Savior! It was precisely what was revealed to me; I ask, "What is the secret that was stolen?" and the answer is, "A {folder 01 - 075} "All that was revealed to me in 2-3-74." And I ask, "Who stole the secret?" and the answer is, "Valis." And I ask, "Who is Valis?" and at once comes the functional definition, "The Savior who combats the Deluder in the dialectic; the a priori wise horn of the dialectic is the entity that revealed the dialectic --and much more-- to me; that which I call Valis. So I had better be wary of dismissing Christianity so readily for Neo-Platonism: the dialectic implies a Savior; Valis' presence (epiphany) in my life implies --is in fact-- a Savior; and the sentence, "The secret stolen... " implies a Savior; and the AI voice itself implies a Savior, as well as other things it has said ("I will remain as your tutelary spirit"; "You have been adopted" etc.). And the dialectic implies an Adversary, as does the sentence, "He causes things to look different... " Etc. That leaves us with several possibilities: Zoroastrianism; Christianity; Gnosticism; Mani. And of these four, there is in actuality a blend; there are Zoroastrian elements in Christianity, Christian elements on Gnosticism, and Gnostic elements in Mani and Zoroastrian elements in Mani. So in a way these are variants on a single concept: the War Between the Sons of Darkness and the Sons of Light, as I put it in "VR." This is not found in Orphism, Platonism, Neo-Platonism, Buddhism, Brahmanism, Taoism. Then I see now what Christ is: the breaker of the Power of the Lie that caused us originally to Fall; he is the Revealer of the truth (reality), in contrast to this pseudo-world. Why, this is pure Gnostic Christianity! But I see; this is what was done for me in 2-3-74; Valis, then, is indeed the Cosmic Christ breaking the power of the Lie, the deluding spatiotemporal world. And this is an active mortal combat -- as I saw in the dialectic. But it didn't begin at the time of Acts; that was when the Cosmic Christ entered; but the Liar and the power of the Lie, his irreal domain, existed already (as Gnosticism teaches); so my ten volume meta novel is doing a salvific task; and VALIS is on the right track vis-a-vis Gnosticism. STIGMATA is particularly accurate. There is not only the domain of delusion (maya), there is also the Liar himself, creator of this illusory entrapping domain (Yaldabaoth). The following are involved: epistemology; choice; intellectual error; delusion and the deluding entity; the Revealer of the truth and a rectification of the intellectual choice (error). There is always the possibility that the builder of the maze (spatiotemporal {folder 01 - 076} 10-22-80 4 realm) built it and then fell into it --taking it for real-- and got trapped; but with its a priori foresight prepared for its own restitution and salvation and rescue through the planned-on savior (salvator salvandus, in that case!). Devastating alienation: self-alienation, alienation from world (in a strange world); fragmentation of self-unity, unawareness of self, loss of intactness, distribution into world as thrownness, forgetfulness of self; breaking into pieces unaware of one another as an intact whole; self not recognizing self (the mirror phenomenon); seeing self oneself and not recognizing it; seeing self as Other. Subjugation to happenstance, to world and its subsentient laws; subjagation to illusion, i.e. the false, the empty: emptiness instead of the Abyss. The merely empty. Das Nichts. The not instead of the real. These are Gnostic categories of the destruction of ontology of self, especially the splintering and experiencing therefore of self as alien Other. This is the Fall. The recovery (anamnesis); intactness (regaining of the lost and missing parts of the self, a regathering in), the familiar, substance instead of das Nichts at the center; recognition of the Self as the Self by the Self; i.e. self-awareness; escape from the rule of the