empirical reality, (meta) abstracted from it, apprehended it (concrete reality) as less real than (another) a higher realm: this higher realm was a priori deducible from empirical reality. This is the greatest experience you can have. Next you apprehend Mind (Nous). But to abstract from what you had thought was the entire universe to a higher realm; to experience this perceptually and a priori combined -- the realization of a common essence (substratum) that makes the universe revealed to be mere appearance, the merely seeming (i.e. accidents) -- to deprive it of its ontological Substantia; I did this, and this is the basis of Platonism; it leads to awareness of the Form world. The most impressive moment in my life when my brain did this -- leaped to this awareness. And it was not a mere intellectual belief or theory. (1) I de-substantia-ized reality. And (2) simultaneously realized a higher realm of essence not in space-time. The Platonic leap. Took reality away from reality and rendered it only seeming; and saw reality in a higher, a non spatiotemporal world, all in one flash of insight, that it had to be so. If USA 1974 and Rome A.D. 45 (Acts) could _both_ be here and now comingled, then neither could really be Substantial, but were only seeming; and one real and substantial (einai, esse) substratum (other world) was indubitably pointed to out of which the two continua in space-time were derived. Then even the "ontological" categories of space and time, let alone world and causation, were only seeming; and only pure morphology (eidos, Form) as world remained -- totally abstracted. World, causation, time and space went; Forms replaced them, and, as I later experienced, these Forms ("reticulated phylogons," as I called them) are in a sentient Mind. Which thinks them into a kosmos-structure not in time or space. Words like "here, now, there, then, before, after," have no ontological meaning. Not if two spacetime continua thousands of miles and years apart can be one: can coincide. And this leap in abstracting came via (as Plato rightly says) from anamnesis; I was reminded (of my prenatal life and knowledge -- i.e. of another, real, higher reality). "He causes things to look different..." etc. We are enslaved to delusion. And in a leap I remembered. {folder 01 - 040 folder 01 - 040} Yeah, I guess there is no doubt of it: this moment of meta-abstraction is a perception/realization that the physical universe is (1) Only semireal; and (2) another realm is not an abstraction derived from it but is, in its place, ontologically real (i.e. it, which is not spatiotemporal, has substantia instead). To suddenly see the physical spatiotemporal universe this way is the biggest (epistemological) shock possible; this is much more than just a vague sense of irreality per se. The physical space-time universe is seen as derived, and this based on memory, of another world -- and this part alone is a stunning shock; so there is shock multiplied by shock: two shocks combined. One world floods out and another floods in. There is perhaps even a third shock: your mind is suddenly performing abstracting operations it never knew about before, never knew it could do: whole new circuits are firing for the first time. And, for me, my ten volume meta-novel all in a flash came true. And it wasn't just a hunch and intimation; it was a logical operation based on observation. In a sense the Christian stuff was a fugue on my part from my own logical operation: it is scary to grasp that the space-time causation physical universe is only semireal, and that you remember --suddenly-- another world where you were another person. And what ultimately flows into the vacuum left by the departing substantia (esse)? Why, Valis. An interconnected grid of some sort. That is sentient and thinks. It is a Mind; more, it is like a brain. No wonder I finally came to the conclusion of the ultimate bulwork against nonbeing: Ho On. {folder 01 - 041} Further evidence that the Platonist view is the correct one: I didn't just see Acts, which is another space-time continuum of the accidental; I also saw the universal, the eidos, the Form. It is of course what I have long called the Black Iron Prison, and I have been aware (as clearly expressed in VALIS) that it is a transtemporal constant ("The Empire never ended"). This is clear evidence for the difference between the many space-time continua of accidents and the universal, the eidos; it shows up e.g. at the time of the Dutch Wars of independence against the Catholic League, and heaven only knows wherelse and when else. Inwardly I can envision this Form: the secret revolutionary Christians blowing it up and scampering away in glee ... that may have been the July Bomb Plotters and Wolf's Lair; I can't be sure. But (as I realized in VALIS) the use of explosives makes it clear that this is not Acts, since explosives were unknown in the first century C.E. This has puzzled me for some time; how, however, what was a problem has become evidence for a particular explanation, that of Plato's Form world, the world of essence. And also it appears in Beethoven's FIDELIO; I forget where that is set; I think Spain. And TEARS hints at the USSR. As I say in VALIS: it is past, present and future; and when I say that it is a transtemporal constant, as I do in my notes and in the novel ... well, I should have figured out the explanation from that. The fact that the eidos repeatedly prints out would account for TEARS; here is (1) an explanation for the Acts etc. material in TEARS; and (2) evidence for the Platonist explanation of 2-3-74, this imaging of the archetype, mysteriously, in my novel when I had never read Acts; it is there even down to the right names. So I offer TEARS as evidence for the soundness of Plato's metaphysics of the Form world and how the form world shows up in our sensible world. Otherwise you have to assume even more speculative explanations such as the Holy Spirit or supernatural occult secret societies such as AMORC (there is of course the possibility that I remember Acts from a former incarnation, which has been my theory up to now; but I prefer this one relating to Plato's Form world, the reason being: if it were a memory on my part you'd think it would have shown up sooner in my writing). {folder 01 - 042 folder 01 - 042} But what I would stress at this point is that the Form world when it broke into the world of accidents (or I ascended to it, as Plotinus describes) --it was so vast; the spaces were enormous; it was so much more real, awesome, than the epiphenomenal world that we normally go through our lives experiencing. I would say, Yes, it did seem like an archetypal world, in both the Platonist sense and the Jungian sense; it was immense in terms of substance, of space, of time, of pure being. How could I suppose it to have been other than substantia itself? I have really always known this. What distinguishes Plotinus' system from, say, Gnosticism, is that for Plotinus such experiences took place in this life, as they did for me, not, as with Gnosticism, after death. In a very real sense, Plotinus' system is this-worldly, although it deals with meta-levels of reality. This crucial difference between his system and most others should have directed me that way from the start. And, too, Neo-Platonism is (as the reference books say) the culmination of Greek philosophy: it grew out of Plato, Pythagorianism and the mystery religions, including Orphism. It should have been the first place I looked. E of PH on universals (near the end of the article); "That experience, thought, and language depend on the use of universals, in some sense, is undeniable, and the explanation of this is to be given by a suitably illuminating description of the world we experience ... The philosophical history of universals has been plagued by the persistent treatment of words as names, which has been made easier by philosophers' taking as their examples only objects and their qualities. But questions about universals are questions about generality, and generality is the essential feature of all words, not just of those that might plausibly be called names." Russell in 1921: "I think a logical argument could be produced to show that universals are part of the structure of the world." Nominalism is shown in this article simply to not work: "Perhaps the only extreme nominalist has been Humpty Dumpty." It looked to the British empiricists as if nominalism was commonsense, but it turns out not to be (Locke, Hume, etc). In other words a belief in universals is not a naive fossile remnant from archaic philosophies. {folder 01 - 043 folder 01 - 043} The E.B. macro article on metaphysics says that the earliest of the Greek philosophers asked the question, "Ti to on?" What is existant? A new twist was given by Pythagoras who said that it was no material substance but structure, numerical structure. This is the origin of Plato's theory of Forms (eide), which are intelligible structure and not material. The doctrine of Heraclitus of flux made Plato assert that the world we see never is; everything is always coming into existence and passing away. The Form world is ordered through and through by the ultimate Form of Forms, the Good (which to the Neo-Platonist was the One, although Plato probably did not mean what they meant). Plato did not mean to deny existence to the world of flux; in Timaeus he presents the Demiurge (by which term he means God) copying the Forms to produce the sensible world out of space (which was the receptacle of being). What impresses me in this account is: 1) Plato's theory of Forms arises from Pythagoras' view that the ultimate substance (substantia) is not material but is intelligible structure. This fits with what I saw. 2) Plato faced the fact of Heraclitus' flux world, and Plato brought forth the theory of Forms as a contradistinction to this flux world. This again is precisely what I saw. 3) There is this Form of Forms, the Good, which orders the Form world through and through. Therefore it is evident that the Form world, if apprehended by the intellect (of a man acting as percipient) would most likely be a kosmos such as Pythagoras describes. It would be a structure of structures, so to speak: a meta-structure that is intelligible, not material, not in space or time, and standing in opposition to the flux world in one sense and yet in another sense involved with the flux world as archetype to copy (Form world as archetype, flux world as copy). The only place where my vision differs is that I saw the flux world feeding into the Form world (Valis' soma, the meta-kosmos) to further the development of reticulation and arborization. This may be the double emanation of Plotinus, from higher to lower to higher. {folder 01 - 044 folder 01 - 044} Plato's Forms world doctrine is correct, because it was on the basis of my meta-abstraction based on anamnesis that my conceptual breakthrough in 2-74 came. (I saw that USA 1974 and Acts AD 45 were based on a common essence, were accidents at different places and times, but that their essence --their eidos-- lay outside space and time, and that the two spatiotemporal continua could be superimposed, could comingle; more, were in fact comingled at the next level up of abstraction.) This is so, despite my seeing the flux world feeding into Valis' meta-soma. I can't explain this apparent contradiction. I am now absolutely certain that our spatiotemporal world is a derived reality, that it is only semireal ... that in