an increasing degree, although invisible. Also, he is, is I realized some time ago, an invader - into situation basically on its own irrational. riginally he is merely a voice speaking to roses + Elijah. The first incarnation (of St. Sophia") is rejected 3. Hence the gospel ccount is incomplete. It ends in failure, so it not the full story. The Father (abba) to hom Jesus speaks is Valis. The Empire is tronger. Nonetheless it is inevitable that Valis will grow stronger as more of his its fire (+ perhaps for other reasons). It seems o me that a vast stride forw too ane i 901 i in the Reformation + 30 years war - but that was 1500 years later! Then - there is steady advance (the Enlightenment from The Renaissance on to the present). Of great interest is beethoven + the German Romantic period of the 19th century. Then the Empire retaliates in the 20th century (Russia, Germany the U.S.). Then comes the 1960s. (Well - the + 30s + 40s had noble struggles against Germany. Germany - the worst - is eliminated in the 1940s. the us in the 1970s after the battle of the 1960s. The USSR remains. The Gnostics teach that the divine sparks are withdrawn from the world. Does this refer to the invaders' phylogenic DNA personality which is being systematically awakened + then assimi‐ lated into Valis? Put back in place? The right ful king reassembles himself until at last he will be complete, but at some point he will "Return" - i.e. incarnate again. The pleroma is obviously the home planet or system of planets. + indeed we were expelled, fell. The crisis in the Godhead: some vast conuulsion. Ho Kyrios divided up among a large umber of hominoids migrating to other worlds sser worlds (hence the concept of the Fall). predestination + the elect: the autochthonic opulation is excluded. Neither good deeds nor aith will save you; Christ must choose you, it you him. He locates the genetic carriers of he DNA packets. (He as Valis.) "My sheep know y voice. I am the narrow door + the good hepherd." The parables which would only have reaning for + be understood by the DNA packet arriers. The Kingdom of God is Valis qua orld, as I experienced. 1409 There is constant message traffic by Valis + his scattered bits (the DNA packed carriers). back + forth, like a distributed brain. This is the plasmate which I saw e e Wait. (4:15 am, thought) I saw how Valis has "valence to modulate out of plumb cause + effect trains + arranging pretex tual causes (as when I received the info about Christ birth defect). Now take it back to 2-74 before I could see Valis. or knew about it. But Valis existed; it didn't come into being in 3-74 when I first saw it (aristotle's unmoved mover). well, based on what I saw of Valis (in 3-74) I can be sure that it could bring into synchronization: "Tears" being published. 2) The sodium pentathol (by starting my wisdom tooth moving, etc) 3) have the pharmacy girl wear the Golden Fish sign that day. 4) Whatever else was necessary to trigger me off - for anamnesis. This is precisely what it does: links things together - +: pretextual cause, e.g. the Golden Fish seemed to cause my anamnesis. In actual fact, was not info fired at me that day in 2-74 just as it was done later re Christ So I can reasonably infer it was purposeful disinhibition by Valis, + not a coincidence, + just in time for the Xerox missive. 410 wrapper of game hen: instructions on how to look it. Doris picks it up. It is the writing on the pink margerinal cube in my dream. I say, ie "Oh, have they evolved so far that the instructions for cooking them are now coming with them?" All at once I have a flash or satori or flash back equal to the one in 2-74 when I saw the Golden Fish + heard the Girl's words. Evolved to the stage where the instructions (in writing) appear; so cooking + eating the game hen is the purpose for which it came into being + evolved through stage after stage. But only when it has evolved to its goal point do the written instructions appear, 1) signifying that this goal stage has been reached. + 2) until it reached this stage + the nstructions appear you can't in any way, hape or form know its purpose, if any 1) It has purpose + is evolving to it. 2) the purpose can't be known until this final tage is reached. 3) The appearance of written instructions signify that the goal, purpose, use stage is here In 3-74 I saw written pages, including (first ef) written instructions as on a food or medical roducts package. My flash was connected, I think, to this. It rang a bell, I knew - on some deep level. Something I hadn't understood, very important, made sense. what I flashed on was: when the written tructions emerge (rise to the surface) it meanin that the goal or use-point has come, + the written pages I saw were instructions - so I knew at once that reality (at least mine) had reached the instruction point or use point. it) a conscious designed is pointed to. 5) He communicates with us. 1411 5) I sense that what I call "DNA - phylogenic memory packets" reaching the point where they're designed to fire is pointed to. I know (but cannot prove) that my flash points to an innate knowledge, subliminal in me that I had Gaba-blocked neural circuits which were engrammed a long time ago fired (disinhibited) in 2-74, + the written pages I saw were instruc i ions that went with them. I was being told in words what to do. Only at the moment of use (goal) would the instructions be released: float this means that I know more The surface. to about myself than I consciously realize; I probably know it all. The curtain, as in 2-74, was raised for a moment you are given x but you are not told what to do with it until the time comes. (Y.) X + y fit - the linking. together Why do I think of "Impostor" + an explosive of the anti-nazi underground - Torah feld device? weapons (explosives) dropped from the air ochuly i Sky!) to us partisans. To blow up fortifications. behind enemy lines. Cylinder - wire service - communi -like shostokovitch's "leningrad" symphony score ations past the Nazis to the outside oured out of leningrad - world; in this case in. Revolving calinder like cylinder record. Information transmitted. Contains money - as in repartment store. Gary powers, 2 flight. Money - the dream about monopoly money + code, cabrillo, gary corp Spery-rand). Intelligence. Code. Behind enemy lines. something about Soviets (again Torah feldschuh - Soviet partisans. Spanish civil war - 1930s. "Diary of a soldier commisar's uniform. Armband-red, + cross. The Palm free afrora corps dream: motorized (i.e. technologically advanced!) visual transducing terminal, not audio. grooves in cylinder; like record - or: like EEg tracing. brain site stimulation turned into written info. Seen as instructions pages. "Electric Ant." Red army marshal the smarshals in "Tears" - like Zurou: red army niform like Torah feldschoh's. his Zechs ah castle. Anti‐ t 419 fascist. "Intelligence officer in the army." Vision of zurou, changing to Soviet military in general desk. Back to "5 police marshals" in "Tears; a reference to Soviet military ("Marshal") intelli gence ("police"). 5 = Los quatres generales. To LA placenta (in t The spanish civil war - 1930s. monopoly money dream) + cabrillo = spanish civil war. "Cabrillo" = "Caudillo" (France). reference to Janet: 1925. Woman CP. USA older than me. "Pos" in "Tears" = Politbureau. politics not police. Secpol. Soviet secret group, political (supra p. 411) = disinhibition + firing in 2-74 to 3-74, which it: right hemisphere psyche taking over. Y = the Xerox missive, i.e. the instructions that to with yo 1) I knew that the Xerox missive was coming + How? Suppose we when, of that there is no doubt. rule out the occult, psi + the supernatural. 2). It is likely I knew equally exactly what It was (before it came + when it came). In that (viz: a forgery case obviously it was not a forgery. might come, but I would not have the precision + certitude, only vague apprehension. No, I knew all about the Xerox missive even before it came i I knew e.g. in 2-74, when I had the what or Y. All that was needed was the y which is to say, written instructions. When I phoned the Bureau I knew what I had. It's that simple. There was no y = puzzle. The only question was, could I overpower my programming to act on the Y, the instructions. I did not have y in me, only Y. "Tears" depicts a sovietized USA. add this to the "Secret Xtians" overthrowing the US Government 41 new theory: the Xerox missive was Pigspurt, But I knew us G-2 was aware of it, so I had to contact the Bureau to protect myself. Hence the "was + was not" which so puzzles me. Pigspurt It was genuine but I could not [afford to] act on it because of real or suppose surveillance. this explanation resolves the dual aspect (i.e. real + forgery both). This is why I factored out Olive Holt" in it; either literally or symboli cally it established it (in my mind at least) as Pigspurt. Initially (3-20-74) I subliminally right hemisphere, Thomas/Pigspurt) saw the Olive Holt, but he/I/we could not act on it; our hands were tied, so we solved it by contacting the Bureau. Nonetheless - I was free to act n So the dialectic is Engels' nega a politically. of the negation.) My flash vis-a-vis the game hen instructions as not a new theory or even satori but "anamnesis" like 2-74 seeing the Golden Fish. the memory block was momentarily invalidated literally, I had a flash-cut instant of true memory. Here, dissociative thinking + behavior is not t neuratic but tactical (i.e. has political purpose). for self protection. Q1 where Thomas gave himself away as Pigspurt was in using the term "buttoned-down mind" for the authorities: that is a 1950uish derisive term for the bourgeoise. The managerial class of capitalists, me my two psychoi ("Bab/fred" "Phil/Thomas") iss represent a new way of thinking in which two mutually exclusive propositions can be main tained simultaneously, which is the Pigspurt men i tality that orwell parodied as "doublethink" in "1984." It is a quantum leap in regard to what is conceivable as true. It is capable of generating advanced a dialectic of contraditory premiser -i.e. Pigspurt 414 31) dissociated (right hemisphere) self puts material steganographically in "Tears" knowing it will get Pigspurt instructions (response) back as soon as it is published. but: 2) sodium pentathol + Gold Fish accidentally break down dissociative barriers. Anamnesis I is misinterpreted along Xtian lines due to Fish sign. + because some kind of theory is needed 3) gradually Thomas wakes up (v. strident radio). Anticipates y: instructions. 4) instructions (Xerox missive) comes, but there is confusion due to pentathol disin hibition. The dissociated part of me, which is supposed to operate outside of my con‐ scious awareness (as witness my history of amnesia) is now visible to me, due to the iction of the pentathol; I am aware of dissociated self, ratiocination, memories. I actions. But Fish sign provides psychologically satisfying hypnoidal rationalization (viewed by me as explanation). It is syntonic to me. the whole whereas Thomas as Pigspurt is not. Xtian cast is a typical hysteria, such as fread elucidated (if Pigspurt were syntonic it wouldn't have to be dissociated.) in-breaking The game here memory (comprehension) points to a captive