same reason that Acts described it? both are printed from the DNA packet. our king was horribly murdered + We were scattered; our ancestors encoded the whole story into our DNA memory + we came here. It broke out again in the 10 hundreds - before - Luther. is it possible there are enemy agents here from the home planet trying to detect us (out of the general population)? fiction. No - that's just (I'm not at all, sure of this) Jesus to did exist what he secretly taught his disciples was how to remember. But the Christ story come from our home world. Not "the teacher of righteouslys So the Bible is partly an account of our home world (not at least). Then the Kingdom is what we're pro‐ This was our grammed to seek. To create. home world (i.e. the PTG) before the enslavers (BIP) came, + now in 1974 we rose up + revolted. Successfully. We are taking ver this planet based on DNA program 8 med instructions which we act out sans 379 This is so as to model this planet after Our home the PTG, as it was before the BIP took over, + killed our king sent here millenia ago with DNA taped (programmed) instructions + memory-packets We must be controlled by a central I system (whose voice I hear). A the early Xtians wrote the Gospels + Acts the same way I did: automatic writing, uncon‐ sciously. The eucharist re-enacts the "eating" of the DNA info + instructions (what I saw as a refrigerated pink cube). we divided up our slain leader in the form of living info + instructions he lives on, within us, among us. So as info + instructions. This is why I write; ich bin der Retter." the message "St Sophia is going to bo (will be?] born again, she was not act ceptable before" is cypher for: we are to act to set up the PTG again, the "before" is when they tried it whenever the previous time was. That makes "Tears" cocking set for message to fulling a but yes: "King Felix" means now. We act tre killing of the man shit up in the ion in "Tears" is the murder of as victim of possee ie 389 no not only is Acts + Daniel in "Tears" but the kerygms of our King (Kyrios, Lord) murdered. Taverner is our king. He is innocent. This is a i true story, about him. I have details Tears" lacking from the in N.T., which is why I didn't recogn - the basic plot of nize that part "Tears" is Tears" - as "not history. From our home world "Tears" are the same narra Acts + tive because both are from "Q." a commow source, "Tears" is more prosaic + perhaps a little more accurate just as Acts was set in Rome, so "Tears" was set in more or less the present - yet the ur-text is in both. which shows that it can exist indepent of given space-time (in this planet). So in "Tears" I was unconsciously remembering Our BIP home from which we fled upon the death (murder) of our King. My idea for the story about the Girl Kathy carrying a civilization across a border in her womb on the road to Damascus the memory into packet in Paul fired, as it did for like 381 So "Tears," like Acts, is memory of another planet, + yes, we did wear gray robes + blow up buildings - which explains that i We had a high technology, one certainly not found in 45/70 AD: one good enough by which to encode the DNA memory packets instructions to act, what to do + when. I + may have responded to my own encypher com‐ mand in "Tears" - "King Felix", presented myself with my own instruction-release. "Ubik" describes the central A I system we use to transmit information So in 2-74 I didn't have anamnesis + remember 45 70 AD Acts but rather our home planet: which is what I saw that I mistook for Acts, because if Christ our king. would the 3-eyed people be the race on our own planet? Yes - this is the best evidence of all of another planet (I've always considered then ETIs les - "Tears" not only recapituated the N.T. it adds further details! reading this over: I'm sure it is correct. in the 1st century AD the same memory packet fired in people that fired in me in + they, too, wrote it down. They must 1974. have been as puzzled as I. "So the home culture would not be lost" we're to establish it here. First attempt by the Xtians apostolic failed ("sere was not cceptable befores it ain e i 386 over the centuries, but people make the mis‐ take I make + think it refers to Acts + the not in general. Only recently do we know the about DNA + phylogenic memory. firing in 45/70 AD is independent from the firing in me in AD 1974. Hence there would be no chance that historic con‐ tinuity of culture + purpose would be lost by us exiles forgetting. inevitably, again + again, here there, the total packet would be disinhibited + the info + structions retrieved. We would not only know + remember but we would go through a complex series of political Acts designed to re-establish our Garden world: our prime goal. The person in whom it fired would act out moves without ideation like an engrammed insect; he would wake up + remember + know but most of all act. (v. "Impostor.") There indeed may be synchronized preset clocks in a number of us, as Steiger suggests. So we would work in concent. A kind of corporate mind of which the AI voice. ah. The AI voice is an info-instruction advising) "tape" in me coordinated with the remory, knowledge + instructions packet. It is a circuit of some kind operating in con‐ unction with the packet; it corrects me, as ve noticed. It's in me, built in; the packet alone would allow too much error. So the I voice is as important as the packe 383 i + this makes sense. As I absorb the packet the AI voice sees to it that I stay on course ("the Holy Spirit") The beside delper, comforter + advocate - this is at least as important as the memory, know‐ edge + instructions packet itself. It is indeed tutelary. Precisely! The packet alone would not be enough. Since the point is to keep the etc culture alive, unbroken - the AI voice certainly does this. No wonder I interpreted it as a spacially for‐ distant transmitter! This realization about the AI voice (+ its existence) convinces me I've been on the right track in these pages. It would follow (the AI voice, I mean. Like an in-board computer. or is it possible - Good God! - that when disinhibition / anamnesis occurs + the packet fires you are thereupon linked up to an actual transmitten far off? Either way I think we've got it figured out, here now. In facts of the purpose is to recreate the home culture, it could be that the packet fires in order to bring on the reception of the transmitters my God - the whole dialectic, cosmology, linking passive active - hage amounts of knowledge. All the written our cultural heritage! + the phospher pages) graphics - even our arti 284 Each person (of us) the repository of an entire civilization! b0 am AI voice correction: our King is not t any longer) dead. He was murdered, but is alive (through + in us). This is a matter of considerable importance; he reconstituted through in us! + is here. Thomas. The personality override in me; I forgot that + as Valis! Then the AI voice is saying that other than in this essential matter (of him being alive again + here) I am correct. The real presence of Ho Kyrios again; this is the most important part of all. This I think is what we want - are supposed - to do most of all He was the most precious "thing" we had, as Cabala says, "... + lead him back to his throme." He is alive, but he has been deprived of his legitimate) throne. This is the Kingdom we are programmed to re-establish. Anything that gets in our way is ad hoc the enemy I am most interested in the AI voice, the ad‐ pocate + advisor. t This theory has the interesting quality of explaining everything (2-74 to 2-75) on the basis of a simple, limited set of assumptions. it may be incorrect but it does please the principle of Parsimony; an otherwise bewildering plethora of inexplicable phenomena suddenly fall readily into place. All of a sudden the AI voice as an ingredient makes alot of sense, moreover. it would account for the stegenographic t ced into material systematically. showing of 388 in my writing, a sort of tape is feeding systematically through me into it ("Tears" is just one example) The dream of the little boy Philip on the raft slipping past "Scotland Yard." Add that to "Impostor" + "we can remember it for you." Also, add in some of the things Hal said ("Phil Dick, + Phil Dick," + code in my writing). Good Lord; what about my periods of amnesia? + I did sit outside at night looking up at the stars, looking for my home. The AI voice knows all the answers. It seems to tacitly agree I'm on the right path here. Suddenly it all becomes very simple. One throws out all the theological obfustication + complexities. What the BIP is becomes quite clear, likewise the PTG. + the AI voice. + Valis (the macro-entity which organizes this + is our discorporate Kyrios). The anamnesis. The written pages. The noetic cosmological etc (dialectic) information. The programmed series of political actions sans ideation. The personately override by Thomas (he is Ho Kyrios the same as Valis): he lives, is recapitulted, in us. The Acts material in "Tears." The 2-74 isinhibition due partly to the pentathol political stance over the years. Even ossibly the hit on my house, Hal, + the perox missive. The 3-eyed people! the strident radio; i.e. my waking up out of a hypno‐ tized state. The superior (non-occluded) faculties + ognition. The whole N.T., what it really means. remory of blowing up iron buildings. What the true, secret Xtians rea ally ar th s 38 Double superimposition; i.e. seeing our on of as a prison. Seeing the changes in the animals: Ho Kyrios was present. The sound of bells. The linking (0-1) + the plasmate? + secret message traffic (in our media). We must be in the process of taking over this planet - i.e. set/ground cypher, e.g. "King Felix." The prophecies by the AI voice. The fall of governments. what is not encompassed by this explanation? Bible as a way of speaking, a code - to cover historic political Acts. Acts of liberation (e.g. the RC enlightenment). this is where + how the illuminate fit in. medical attention - askylepios. Superior technology. the polluted "ocean." The 2-rotor motor - all represent technology - the about Christo pher's birth defect. + this would explain the game playing contradictory multitude of explanations given me (e.g. Diana, Erasmus, Dionysos Ho on) - fairces - + why I haven't been able to figure it out in over 5 years; it has been a scramble, which religion (had it a religious origin) would not have needed. "The Empire never ended." How cardinal that now is revealed to be! This is tough, real Politike, not religion. It all has to do with 1) overthrowing Governments in order to 2) re-establ lish our own Garden world, + "lead him back to his throne." + what the Eucharist really represents: ock