oleality field D-62 e: modulation - cansents: arration. This indeed could be regarded as a program, then. But then the constants as such do not the supply - constitute - information; it is e o i activity, the modulation, that is information. But the implication here is that the information concerns the constants in some way, as if the modulation (variations) is a way of finding out everything possible about the constants, in which case space (the field, the constants) is totally real, + time (the modulation, the ariational is not + this is precisely in accord with my vast meta-abstraction of This is one issue put twice. 2-74 Another consideration: if no reality field can affect a later reality field, then some kind of original field configuration ("frame") still exists + can in theory be recovered (this fits in with the form-axes of "Ubik" in which no prior stage is ever lost but is somehow contained "within" later stages up to the present). Moreover, the notion "original field" is meaningful. what I saw in 2-74 (Acts) may have been a perception on my part of correction abstracted i backward ("cosmic resorption"?) as if to a zero point before any variations (modulation) had been - were - introduced... as if it (1) can always be reset to zero variations (in Plato's terminology from particulars to eide). Then to see Acts is to know, potentially, everything, as if everything that is the (true] case can be inferred in a very long train of reasoning from this perception (meta-abstraction); this would indeed be so i 13-63 i efeations any else is nator of same kind of maint of ation it an act the my parame that the system can at any time beaman of signal against the original source signal own see what has been done to it, retrieving what + began with. generated by the modulation it in this case the information of read properly ways pertain to Acts, at all "times" + would alw all "places" now (surprisingly) the information could be regarded as reality (Acts) breaking into, intruding on, what amounts to a dream. I again, refer to "Ubik" + the real world in the form of Runciter (+ his messages] intruding on then cold-pak mutual fantasy - vide Lem's long analysis, the one-way transmissions-intrusions uncanny + evidently inexplicable; viz: they cannot be made to belong - vide, more so. "Maze"! Which really goes back to "Eye," + involves the very urstrate of my metaphysics. An astute dreamer in "Eye," "Ubik," "Maze" + "Joint" would ponder these intrusions + construct from them as clues the morphology (nature) of the real world (which implies - reveals - that his ostensible world is not the real world). bots whatter new light wha call the "modulation"; it may be information mimed as us after all. It is clues as to the i i i actual topology (i.e. landscape) this would tertainly explain "Tears" + its relationship to 2-74 + all else. More likely it is Acts itself showing up as information; that is, reality (Acts) takes the form of - is converted into information in our pseudo-world until all at once we awaken (2-74) + remember - which could fully "Thom explai I t D-64 mention my perception of Acts is of cause ter uck stressitances Acts + USA ext would have a coaxial hotomon essence! anyhow, if no reality frame can affect a future reality frame it should be possible to work backward + retrieve either an earlier or even original - initial - frame, + this would make sense out of Eliade's cosmic resorption, anamnesis (!!!) + "time can be overcome" - all of it, Buddhism, Platonism, etc. âž€ Yes - anamnesis becomes, then, a very liable concept, as if the frames that used to be are encoded in us somehow. (Since we curselves are within + part of, inseparable from the reality field). "Anamnesis" is simply handy short word for this process a (event, act) of prior frame-retrieval or recovery. My contention is, however, that we are really dealing with coaxial reality: a as lying whole range of variations (expressed along the temporal axis, whatever that may mean) working off a structure of eide; this structure by its very nature being omnipresent. Yes: if you perceive + comprehend that Acts still exists you have the embryonic basis for an apprehension of the truth: that no reality frame can affect another, in which case the individual frames - prior reality in some way (still] exist intact. There is no temporal flow or process; causality is pfusory of a prayeated by a means to lwas inexplicable goes in reality supplanting disjunction with flow. ( D-7 what we now have here is not just regulatity but purpose, + if there is purpose there ver likely is sentience. The intuitions escalati viewed as a progression of static frames, the "temporal axis" is really space perceived as the axis of motion (change) + this is accomplished through what involves disjunctive Gaps. If you project causality, there is no problem; but if you discern that causality is not real, + yet the whole spacial field - along all its axes" behaves as if unitary, Acts in an integrated fashion despile or by the self-initiating actions of "things." Then you are confronted with a prime a mover who is everything + everywhere + who know what to do I how to do it. Some field-function unknown to us is hence inferrentially discoverable, all thing in that the unified behavior "points to an unseen exactly Hyper field as the arrangement of the iron filing points to the magnetic field, the plural discrete objects + their motions + events are as iron filings, revealing by their behavior a unified field that both initiates movement + seems to do so purposefully rather than just predictably. Hence The term "reality field"; hence the term "perturbation" which together convey it all. This is once again the "surd"; I sense that what I call "the void" is -fam]" the ultimate level, the void that can say This Anokhis) it thinks, + what it thinks is thinking is the perturbing force, God + the reality field are not one: Spinoza ens in his "sive. excnients: 1) the void. 2) Valis 3) "I-Eam]; 3 yet nonetheless it is proper to say that the world - + yet it can be perturbed order is a reality field which I construe as pointing beyond the field; thus God of reality ("Deus sive natura") are not one + the same, beyond reality lies the void. D-76 God + reality are not identical, but reality is a field (more properly, successive frames each slightly different, each perhaps, as the mustems believe, a new ex nihilo universe). Thus there is absolute continuous creation - i.e. the act of creating; it was not an initial push co hrist i t this is virtually a new view of reality, of i changes of causation, of motion, of space as o field, of what God does - new, + hence no study talen i cht -historical of any + all known thought systems - could ever have accounted for what I call Valis! This is a hyper- or ultra‐ occasionalism; God must destroy the universe every nanosecond + create a new one slightly different, + "causation" is our way of linking (bridging) the real gaps that exist between this infinitude of static frames, which is not truly time (this shows what "time" really is) but simply successive realities; why, then the motions, changes + events are the a differences between frames due s e directly to the act of continuous creation, the bringing into existence ex nihilo of successive new, slightly different versions of the reality field; these frames + their process of succession form (comprise) "the reality field"; in a sense nothing happens. there is no motion, but there is change a change of frames. This is how the self initiating is coordinated; it is done in the act of creating. e i me the tug, as I used to call it (i.e. perturbation) is the direction is that the "tr king ao withing the pro 3-77 frames is going. It is experienced as a sort of gravitation (Here Einstein, newton + Spinoza meet). You (anything involved) are being shaped at this moment by the creator. This is what I experienced as synchronized inner-outer tapes why, then This "self-initiating movement" is of course not self-initiating at all: no wonder the whole thing behaves as a unity. "Change," as we use the term, would seem to arise spon a taneously within (intrinsic to) each thing, not i n t t trine the due to a prior cause; + this is exactly impression I had of reality when I saw Valis. (nless or until you saw (understood) the successive slightly but irreducably disjunctions involved in the frame-procession you simply would not be able to account for what you saw My God - that time + looked at Harven after reading in praise of hands" - I saw rupid not continuous motion but a sequence of many stills; maybe that was a correct perception! prese frames are an infinitude of particulars, esp. of each person, who does not unfold merely mechanically but according to his essence. Thus in this process he reveals himself for what he really is. Since (it would seem) some natures are of Darkness + some are of Light, a vast conflict comes into being that is finally resolved by God himself - a time that I feel has now come. I mean to say, the firing of all the particulars constituted the a revelation of the essence of a eidos-person represented. D-81 reported his presence but not has power. - 5:15 am. There is no substantic to reality, the basis is information which equals number as structure. My vision of Valis + the plasmate is Pythagoras' number. i.e. a binary meta computer processing (this is why I information as number. saw the 345 doorway - Pythagoras' Golden rectangle, the basis of spatial reality. What Pythagoras called "number" I saw it. we call information. in the i form of number you can process, store + retrieve anything. The solution is: "A Beethoven symphony can be reduced to + encoded as a very long number" I this is what I saw, this (number as) basis. If you can understand how a Beethoven symphony can be reduced to - encoded as - a very long number, hence processed, recorded, stored + trieved, you can understand what I saw as the basis, the true einais of reality. saw reality 1) quantitatively, + 2) as I structures not substance. Bob Wilson is ight (about "Valis"). Det quality 7 (einai) can be reduced to quantity o (number) + played back (lems i n analysis of "Ubik" - + "Frozen journey a). Hence what I saw is that "Frozen digital playback. our reality is a to o ...any quality (thing) can be reduced to a number, and any sequence of numbers can be reduced to 0-1 or off-on (the dialectic), IE restmotion. (1) All the [linking] [rellation] and you have it: it ([linking- relaiations]) converts rest-motion (0-1) to [letter]. Hence versal info. The [Linkim-Rellaking archeels"] me an encoding [reality] device for converting quantity ([avorber], 0-1) back to quality ([verasal] info), when then to substantialized into static frames: [pontications] in reality. 1) Which is placement of objects on-off the info, insofar as I can decypher it, has to do with Christ's return, which is now. [p. 85 arouse]! Terrifying thought, Hegg Rickman in his article on my uniting divide, it [un] into 4, not 3, periods: 1) 1951-1960 conventional 2) 1962 ([Gorttic])- 1964 - very productive [dazzlom] 3) 1965 (county cloak) - 1970 human relationship 4) 1970 (flow my tears)-1981 and IF I understand the situation properly, I was doomed by "astrological forces" ([ananker] astral determinism, [Hermarncece], subllnar influences, the planetary powers to [alci] just as I did