+ body - my olster; I am in her (cf "DR Blood moner"). I in in her body, + she is in me as my ani ha: the puzzle of my master (component part) axis. me i me in her (body the computer. Her I + her in one of me 2 i But this is not just a puzzl It's a dynamism which drives permutating dialectic reality along an infinite path. So (heres another level but another model) not s it's a simple machine: r 8 s The mind which helped me in 2-3-74 which telepathically contacted me, + took over to solve the Xerox missive trap is Kathy Demuelle. This is why I see Diana. This explaine. Sophia + the cotholic tint. This explains the Acts material - + material about her! "Tears." She is - my RC brother in these are like mutants. She is my sister physically reborn (reincarnation). stantia my immortal powers in 3-74 - are lent Kathy in a real sense is me by her. to dreaming me - I am a product of + a thought in her mind - because her mind controls mine + determines my t realit t mutants such as she are very ad vanced over us, Wisdom says, "love is more important than truth" - i.e. my love of her. I died in 3-74 + do not know it the This is the post Bardo Thodol existence: in my sister's - Kathy's - body due to having her mind control mind because This i (invader?). She is a mutant makes no sense but both statements (I died + this is my reward to be in her blood + body" + "Her mind controls mine; she is a mutant" or something. Yes - I literally physically did at the time of the phosphenes + have literally been reborn as a seed (cf Pythagoras) in the unbounded egg of my sister's [Note] body heavenly reward This is what I want most of all, v "years + Buckman's relation to his sister, âž€ Rathy the mutants. I went back in time. reward: to be reborn as I died, + this is my my world now a thought in Kathy's mind. partake of her e.g. Marie more + more will c finding myself in the blood + bisy + Diana, etc. Hadn't I noticed that since the post mortem experiences I've begun to be subtly rewarded in many ways? A gogradual heaven the world is real Kathy is Okay, real. She lives in the real world. I died + am reborn as a thought in her mind, but - she is in the real, i only" world, our thinking can't grasp am living prior to 1974 in yet my world is real, + is this. I actuality, the same world as hers I died + entered the postmortem world yet am still alion + receiving my reward, this isn't something you see every dog, the Kingdom of God? This is certainly the "born again" experience described in the N.T. very mysterious - there is now a reward system for I'm in the same world I was but it's me different (as in "Eye"). It's a process involving being bonded to Christ in his death + resurrec t "I was created in God, died in Christ + born o again in the Holy Spirit." Now I'm with the Paraclete who is Sophia who is Christ who is God; I am a kind of symbiosis with her, a new + different just del t (25) symbolically; I literally really died! 20 The dialectic at The dialectic is the yin-yang + Tao. "As it is above so it + is below" refers to the microform of yang in yin, + the microform of Yin in Yang. This is what I saw. A push-pull flip flop 2 mutually anti‐ thetical propositions are set up. Mine are: 1) Your sister is the anima in your mind, she is physically dead. 2) you are physically dead + live in your iving sister's mind as a thought (for mind read brain read macro body + blood), + she is in plural microform in your world. So she is in her own thought! (the micro contain "the part contains the whole" the macro) "the whole contains the part." (The macro contains The micro) uch a 2-proposition flipflop dialectic is put forth as the riddle in "Ubik": 1) are they dead + Runciter is alive? Or 2) are they alive + runciter is dead? ➀ "Ubik" is the must important book ever written. Ubik the entity is the Tao. + the Logos or mist or Sophia. "Ubik" is true; it deals with the ) dialectic basis of all process; + 2) with the Tao. "She is in her own thought": she has penetrated micro forms into her own creation ➀ + it pulses (oscillates) back + forth endlessly y two propositions pulse (oscillate) back + forth ave alive); am dead) I am alive + I am dead he is alive) she is dead /she is alive she is etc. is soon as something exists it turns into its pposite which then turns into its opposite 2 In "Ubik" they find out they're dead + are in a postmortem life/world + don't know it 3-74 resembles "Ubik" in many ways. Last night I realized I'm dead + don't know it. Like them - or am I? Or are they? Certain clues point to it for them, + for me. This world, the next i o. flip flop flip flop s o "Ubik" is based on t ). o the ultimate (best, most accurate) system is Taoism, the yin-yang dialectic, + the Tao is Sophia or the Logos - + the whole thing is a component in a binary computer which she (the Tao or Sophia) designed. The answer to the riddle in "Ubik" is cycles, in which first (1) is true, then flip flop to (2), + then flip flop back to (1): palintropos harmonie which creates sustains or Palintonos harmonie. eg in my case in eithe (1) or (2) of the flip flop I am with her; that is the sustain) Now I know why "Ubik" is true. + now I know why 3-74 resembled "Ubik" Valis resembles Ubik. It is the Tao, which is a very mysterious entity (cf Lao Tze). ence you have the idea that "the whole is contained in the part" you're into it. 128 is our universe (world) is a scene in MITHC. A place where my Tagomi goes, Mu Tagomi's is a fictional person contained in A work of fiction produced in our universe. (our tithe our world. Mr Tagom oworld i flip thp flop Y y - Our world contains MITHC which contains our world which contains MITHC which con‐ tains our world which contains MITHC which con I set up another paradox flip flop + another "the whole is contained in the part" + "the part is contained in the whole" e s os How about: Acts contains (is) our world (i.e. our world is really Acts). But in our world is a book, a novel, which contains a fictional world which is (contains) Acts. Acts can be retrieved in microform from a novel within our world; i.e. Acts can be derived from our world in microform (Acts in microform). But Acts is the macroform which contains our world. s s our world Acts i (ac (USA 1974 e t h white while part I i e t or 29 s put another way, Acts is a book (part) within our world (whole). But our world (part) is con‐ tained within Acts (whole). It's like "a chicken is an egg's way of producing another egg." egg - chicken - egg-chicken - there is no primacy; just two equal + opposite propos sitions. T Each can be deriven from the other. eggs can be derived from chickers + chickens from eggs; if you start with either one you wind up with the other (its opposite). e h i "Acts i thund f "Tears" Acts t e f e ur bay, was Lao-Tze world (Acts. I right: is the Tao mysterious! ea tog world t Acts me) e ie t's amazing I didn't figure out long ago that he dialectic is that of Taoism, + Valis/Ubik is the Tao. (+ the Logos + St. Sophia + my sister + Kathy + Diana + no on.) (+ the vast spacial void.) euth through the dialectic counter-propositions scillates. But the ta t + is the 30 nothing can be said about it, really, since it is a vast mystery. However, it is in charge. I'm sure the dialectic is a binary computer or thinking machine: o + this implies that the Tao is the mind behind it, the reality behind the machine The dialectic is a slave system + introduces the element of determinism or the unfree, But Valis/Tao/Ubik) Diana is free + not a slave system. I have finally made a quantum leap breakthrough into pluriform model theory: oscillation truth. Oscillating As between self-cancelling models. soon as you think it up it cancels (negates) itself + leads to the next self-cancelling (but temporarily correct) model. + then back. Discarded model I t re-enstates itself, + so eternal oscillation is generated. We're trapped in a vast loop - which is good; otherwise reality The key is: would run down + end. reality can be regarded as an reoccurance, infinitely long number which I died in 3-74 whereupon my sister generated a sustain field, tending her life + us tality to me (melting (ausal trains, entering this world), + Thus keeping me alive (going on). I am since 3-74 thus within her body + nourished by her blood (expressed more accurately as a field). (of power. + wisdom.) Thus I am in a subtly perturbed reality field in which she now appears at all levels, as my ultimate a This is a postmortem round of being life for me but it is lived here. She drenches my world as my psy chopomp: mediatrix between me + the next world or God My sister is behind it all, but behind what? A sort of magic light show t He (Christ) is the 2nd thought dispatched into the irrational cosmos Telos int atelos. an endless helical spiral emanating out not in like an LP groove: the telos seed in the atelos. I atelos telos (female egg! first thout telos (Valis elos (male seed) second thought Ubik - her) is 2nd tal. in te 32) atelos first thought (creation) irrational ( telos 2nd thought: what I saw as Valis - rational Pythagorian cosmogony. Two stage "Valis" is correct. two elements. Valis is Sophia/Christ suppose the implanting of the telos the first time (Christ) failed. But it (he) has again now been implanted, this time successfully. e Wait. My sister is a thought (archetype) in my mind. Also, I am a thought (archetype) in her mind I ). But - she is on the other i side (upper realm). Thus, upon awakening in her (as a thought in her) I am on the other side, i.e. in the postmortem world - which is exactly where I found myself in 3-74 on My total existence is physically in this world (lower realm) + in her on the other side; the two modes of existence have to be added together to get the whole picture of my existence. So I have a superimposition reality which involves her brain - i.e. body + blood as well as the world everybody else experiences. This is why I am partly on this side + partly on the other, + why I hear her voice + sense her presence s w radually as a or! of. 33 more + more over into being a thought complex in her brain, so I will become more + more aware of her. What I experience as "world" is really two worlds.