I was determined by the deterministic process to be saved, + nothing could stop it; I was, so to speak, "doomed to be saved. Some are, + some are doomed not to be, + nothing can change it, once the process starts into motion." So the "override" in 3-74 of determinism was actually a culmination, more accurately, of a long process. Here is a difficult to understand event: God's miraculous intervention in his own cosmos not being an intervention, an overruling (or suspension of natural causality) not being an overruling - but more the expending totally of the [lower level] causal law (Karma), upon the exhaustion of which the upper level sentient, volutional Noos of God takes over from it, to replace it - exactly as Christ said; viz: that he came to fulfill the Law; but the Law, once fulfilled, ended, + was void - + a new era of Christ + Christ's decisions (choice) began, replacing + superceding it. This is the historic macroform 2-stage progression which I passed through in microform: in 3-74 the "law" ended for me, + Christ took over. The age of the law fulfilled itself + died. It is now null + void. Historically, + for me personally. folder 21 - 093 folder 21 - 093 Paul even equated the Law (correctly) with the planetary powers - which is the same as astral determinism, which Christ, ascending through the levels of the cosmos, strips of their ancient powers. In modern terms, this is the DNA programming of us into robots, of robot extensions of it; we are transformed into "slaves of Christ" + not the Law - but Christ calls us "friends, not servants, for we know his -the master's- business, as revealed to us by the Holy Spirit. This is the great last evolutionary step (quantum leap) forward; instead of being robot extensions programmed by the DNA (in fact nothing but instruments of the DNA) we are members in the mystical corpus Christi, which is conscious, we pass from the lower level (age of iron, of determinism, Yin) into the upper level (form I, reality, age of gold, Yang, volition + intelligence + freedom). If indeed this is the exhaustion of the DNA as in a sense an obsolete law, + its replacement by the "new order," then it can be said that the "new order" is the goal of DNA evolution (programming); it is self-programmed to come to an end; in the organisms involved, the DNA kills itself + saves the organism at its - the DNA's expense, rather folder 21 - 094 folder 21 - 094 than the other way around. I was not sacrificed for the needs of a process; the process not only ended in me but culminated in the new order of Christ's Sophia rule. This has to do with the "interspecies symbiosis" which Bob Wilson speaks of; more precisely, what I term a homoplasmate comes into being, which is what Jesus was: homo (man); plasmate (Logos). Efficient cause evolution has expired in fulfillment; the human is now ready for bonding to the non-terrestrial divine spirit, which restores him (man) as what he is supposed to be. I would be willing to entertain the notion that Zebra, the plasmate + macrobrain camouflaged here, an invader, is from the stars (even specifically Sirius). It started life (DNA, more accurately) in this world, let it evolve, until now some of us are ready for the interspecies bonding (homoplasmate), out of which the enigmatic new, immortal life form which I call Firebright is born, with the plasmate as Yang or impregnating parent, the bridegroom, + me a mother, womb or Yin; i.e. bride. Upon my physical death, Firebright will come out of his slumbering cocoon stage - Slumbering. "Meanwhile, all this time, Siddhartha slept." Firebright? The imminent birth of St Sophia/ Buddha/ Apollo/ Siddhartha is [a] or the Firebright? Progeny of man (me) + plasmate (God)? Yes. Elijah came first into me, + turned me back toward my father. Then the plasmate - out of which interspecies bonding Firebright was born. He sleeps now, but upon my physical folder 21 - 095 folder 21 - 095 death - I do not rule out superior species + technology + a certain star. I remain human, + the plasmate has gone, having bonded + thus created a progeny. Gee. Will any of my identity continue in/as Firebright? No wonder the DNA in me fulfilled + burned up itself; its work was done. What sort of body will Firebright have? Not a physical body like mine. + he won't be just one more [form of the] plasmate - which is discorporate. After all, I am one of his parents. Ah - the plasmate acquires some kind of - incarnation? I envision Firebright as a creature of light, but maybe human in form. Am I saying that Firebright is the [or a] savior whose arrival (as put forth in "Tears" as King-Felix) is imminent? ("The time you've waited for has come.") Probably what we are talking about is the corpus Christi of which Firebright is just one station. Still - I think something literal + actual was put into my head ("There's someone else in my head + he's not living in this century." "Someone in this room is outside of time."). Then Firebright may be partly physical. If not, why was I needed in the first place? To add the physical element. "That corruptible man must put on incorruption." In Firebright are we talking about the physical resurrection Paul promises us? In a different, unperishable body? The progeny of the homoplasmate (unlike the homoplasmate) is immortal + unchangable, + is folder 21 - 096 not in time (or space). That's it. Probably it will sum up all the incarnations back along the phylogenic axis. It will possess total, perfect memory back to its origin in the cylem. Thus we do not leave here as solid + ascend to heaven; instead heaven is brought here to this otherwise fallen world - + we have a physical existence. So in a sense the homoplasmate is not the goal life form but the means of (parents to) the goal - which is why my transformation (elevation) was temporary! I.e. why the spirit (plasmate) which enthused me departed. But Firebright succesfully came into being. Maybe there are other "Firebrights." I need a generic term for this, the way I have the terms for the symbiosis (i.e. homoplasmate). Well - Firebright, the progeny, is the actual homoplasmate! Not me. I should keep the term, but not apply it to the womb-human (such as myself). A number of Homoplasmates-{Omega} (omega). Yes, I'll use that term: HP{Omega} for short. Yet, still Christ (I know this because of the AI voice) reigns in my heart; I am still linked to the divine. I still belong to him; he is my Lord, to whom my loyalty is first given. "Everything is swinging: heaven, earth, water, fire, + the secret one slowly growing a body. Kabir saw that for fifteen seconds + it made him a servant for life." - Kabir 15th century sufi folder 21 - 097 folder 21 - 097 There was + is a lot of love in what took place in me, + singing - + I saw the Corn King dancing: love, song + dance + a vast excitement, + eager expectation. I feel that anticipation now, about the return of the rightful king, who, as he said to me deep in the night: "I had called you, Philip." + when I approached the loving abyss there was supreme bliss, + a knowledge of us two having found each other again, + being reunited forever. + I knew I had been rescued from a trap, + for years felt no fear. I still have no fear at night, like I used to have. + there is the Beside-helper who informs me - the lovely AI voice. But I am still so angry - unacted-on desires are destroying me. Yet - I tried last night with Marie Laure, to fight off death. Death was present, + in me. I guess I lost: the signal was sent out to be received by my body, + I guess got there. But I am - more at peace than I was. I guess I've accepted it; there is no way to evade it. "Once he will miss, twice he will miss; He picks only one of many hours there is no hill - only a plain where he hunts for flowers. But at the end I will hear the bells again - the magic bells. They will rescue me; I have his promise. In the homoplasmates they have seeded their race here on this world. folder 21 - 098 folder 21 - 098 Not only is an interstellar holy race here secretly but they have bred into our race without this world's powers being able to stop them, but maybe knowing - in vain. Where are the HP{Omega}s? Who can find them? The Xtian underground has labored for two thousand years, + with success. The work has been successful. I was told not to talk about it. Perhaps a new, hybrid life form never seen before - on either planet - Jesus in his resurrected body - a body you could recognize + touch. But which could pass through matter. Substantial, + yet not. Already, the plasmate has decisive power in this world. The pranes will die out; the new race will live on, immortal, the time has come! (Sounds like Virgil's Eclogue) ___ Is it possible that the vision of the BIP (+ Empire) is of a DNA-run world of humans who are really slaves (robots) of the DNA, + the plasmate frees them - DNA control expires + is replaced by the plasmate bonding? ___ Voice: "Crossbonding" as in crossbreeding. "Only the healthiest ones." For the trip into space. Don't get left behind! folder 21 - 099 folder 21 - 099 Voice: When I die, Firebright goes into another human body [already born, + with a psyche (soul)]. That's how Thomas got into me. Reincarnation? No. Into a human already born + with a self. This is only the authentic Xtians - this is their technique of immortality. So the next human entered has his self at his space-time + Firebright who is me who is Thomas. I am to him or her (living later on) as Thomas is to me: a "rider". {illustration of a triangle with an eye in it, and the text "Ajna" with an arrow pointing towards the eye} So Thomas got into me originally as a Firebright - entered at some time early in my life. This is a secret of the true Xtians. Long ago I figured out most of this, how Christ passed on to those at Pentecost; Christ was the first; we all go back to him + are him. Pluriforms-proliferation. But our number is limited. So that explains Thomas in me. + one day I'll be doing the same. But this immortal life form going back to Christ isn't human; it's still crossbonding by an interstellar life form with humans. Thomas entered me long before folder 21 - 100 folder 21 - 100 3-74. It was in 3-74 that the macroplasmate sired Firebright ("birth from above" literally) to perpetuate the process. So I was never Thomas. I am in here with Thomas. ("There is someone else in my head..." etc. The human (e.g. me) receives it [the ETI], acts as host to it during his own limited lifetime - + then gets to be one: this is accomplished in the "marriage." The human becomes the plasmate in an unbroken line back to Christ + goes on to "ride" a later human host - + then that human is seeded into a Firebright, like a reward. (So I have 2 psychoi: myself + Thomas.) The "marriage" (crossbonding) is/was not accomplished by Thomas