-- at least for Valis, it may prey of this combat! The combat may not have come into existence for this purpose. Valis uses the combative dialectic for its own purposes. Wow. Then Valis is the goal of history. Sacred (phylogenic) history; history revealed, as in Judaism. What is Valis, then? Why, it is the Cosmic Christ, point Omega. I have seen what Teilhard de Chardin wrote about, although I had never any of his writing. I am sure that this is what Valis is; my reading of Paul's letters had already half convinced me. But this clinches it. The goal of history... and the agent active in this process is the Paraclete, working backward from the end of time, entering into good men to make them saints and prophets. Then the goal of history is not victory for either horn of the dialectic; the combat itself is goal — goal of the interaction in the sense that the interaction, the. battle itself, gives rise progressively to Valis. The battle is its own justification not in terms of a final victory but in terms of Valis given its material for a developing soma. This is very zen and very existential; the struggle is the purpose, not the outcome (as far as we are concerned); not that we win but that we contend. Valis lives off our activity, our contention. And valis exists not-completed; yet it now exists; it is here; it is (einai). But eventually Valis will be completed. And history --and time-- will end. The universe is being consumed by Christ. Christ is the goal of the universe-as-process; it will become Christ and only Christ, finally. -1- 9-4-80 The sacred narrative that is the basis for our reality Calls for antithetical combat which is to say it calls for pain. Valis benefits from this, since out of the change produced (the ontogons) Valis obtains parts from which to construct itself. This is why God allows suffering. Very simply it benefits the Cosmic Christ in its task of self-completion. The entire dia¬ lectical process, in which we are involved, is a means to an end. Like all means it is subordinated to the interests of the end. The Empire will continually be generated (as thesis) and its antithesis (freedom fighters) as well — until Valis (Christ) is complete. We can never defeat the Empire but they Can never stifle us. Botri sides are "logically" essential. Christ feeds off war (in Empedocles' sense) because war produces new things; this is why God does not abolish suffering and death — it is all the sacred narrative that serves up newness; it is a workshop in which Christ is produced. So I was right; I did see cosmic transubstantiation: progressive, increasing, embracing more and more of reality (Valis' "camouflage"). (Valis wedged into reality invisibly.) helix culpa: this goal is superior to creation, even unfallen creation. God (i.e. Christ) as creation; creation moving toward being Christ (assimilated/transmuted by/into God). Exhalation, then inhalation. Or rather God pursuing creation and overtaking it. The grain of wheat sown; dropped into the furrow that is creation, to live forever including creation. Christ is that grain of wheat. Teilhard is right: when you eat the wafer it consumes you, not vice versa. Acts is permanent. Revolutions will always grow into tyrannies which will always spark new revolutions. Acts --hence TEARS— is the eternal (hence Platonic archetypal underlying reality) of our flux world. After all, in the epilog of TEARS the tyranny falls; at which point TEARS begins again. TEARS starts without tyranny; then alludes to it — then presents it; then casts or shows Jason Taverner in the role of opponent/victim/ suspect of the tyranny -- all the way to his trial, whereupon he escapes; and the eternal dance goes on. This is a satisfactory dialectic since it is self-perpetuating as a dialectic. But all this suffering and death and combat feeds continually the permanent growth of Valis, the Cosmic Christ. So continually it serves a purpose; this was my ultimate revelation, this purpose served. Continually Christ grows and expands — Cnristifies reality: the combat per se, not its outcome. So the struggle avails. And anyone who keeps the struggle alive —on either side— Buckman or Taverner is serving the Lord. To participate is to do God's will. The only real sin is not to participate. Reduced to its barest essentials the fortress (Empire) is under attack (by the revolutionaries). Both sides must constantly develop new strategies, and it is this unending procession of new strategies that Valis feeds on. (The fortress attacked paradigm appears quite clearly in FIDELIO.) This is harsh news, but it is the truth. God has a vested interest in our dialectical combat in which we toil, suffer and die. But we arc always springing to life again (as I know from my anamnesis) to toil, plot and plan, win, suffer, lose, die. God has decided that the ultimate kosmos brought into existence by this process justifies all that goes on in the process. Certainly he is right, although it is saa that we must be occluded to the purpose and meaning of the roles we play, the deeds we do, the defeats we suffer. But it must be as it is. Everything that we are and have achieved will be —is already— eternally preserved in the ultimate kosmos, the Cosmic Christ who is replacing the universe. So our sacred narrative does not contain antithetical forces by chance; no; it must be that way if it is to keep going from its own internal tensions. It must be a narrative (hence world) that always replicates itself. Empedocles and later Hegel correctly perceived this. The process philosophers are correct. So the Buddha is pretty much right about this weary wheel of birth, pain, death and rebirth. What he misses, however, is the realization (which only comes as a transcendent revelation) that everything we achieve is eternally preserved in what I call the world of the phylogons (the soma of the Cosmic Christ). So what we do matters. Viewed from my vantage point, Buddhism is ninilistic; it is almost right, but "almost Right” can, in effect, be as bad as totally wrong, perhaps even worse. Yet it could be argued that Valis is exploiting us. The cosmic wheel creates us only to destroy us...but I say we are not destroyed; we and our works live on into eternity, through Christ. This is the great -4- reward that the Cosmic Christ confers on us, this preservation. But our sacred script is harsh; it includes (as in TEARS) the information depicting —ordering the coming into existence of— a tragic death (in TEARS the death of the woman; in the N.T. the death of Christ)- The sacred narrative is a passion play thot tells of a later resurrection into immortality lived with God. This is all true but it is painful. The Buddha noted the pain but not the resurrection; his script, the sacred script of India, is different from ours. ours is, to my mind, better; it has a better outcome. "He ordered motion but ordained no rest." One thing occurs to me. Very possibly Valis intervenes in our world when one of the two horns of the dialectic lops too far over into the other — intervenes for the purpose of insuring the continued existence of both sides. This would be enantiodromia, "running the other way," the familiar principle in Taoism. To quote Heraclitus, "Everything tends sooner or later to go over into its opposite." Valis —or God— would act as a kind of steersman dwelling above the dialectic, making sure that neither horn extinguished the other. The intervention in 3-74 on my behalf may have been an example of such an intervention, of the setting into motion of enantiodromia; in 1974 the Empire had become too powerful, and the forces of freedom, the revolutionaries, needed heli . I am only guessing, but this would fit in with pre-Socratic thought, of which I am much enamoured. "Sun will not overstep his measures; for tne Erinyes, the assistants of Justice, will find him out." Heraclitus, fr 53. "War is father of all, and king of all." Heraclitus, fr. 53. Hussey says: "Every event, then, can be analysed into encroachments of one opposite on another — acts of 'war' or 'strife.' But every such encroachment is also 'justice' because it is laid down by the divine law as part of a regular plan. This does not necessarily mean that the scores between the pairs of opposites are always evened up instantaneously, though it is clear that the plan involves Bum the preservation, in general, of certain 'measures.' In one fragment an explicit assurance is given that the divine justice will preserve the cosmic order" and then he quotes supra from Heraclitus. He goes on to say, "The Erinyes are strife (eris) personified. And the inextricable combination of 'strife' between two opposites and 'justice' as a set of rules is illuminated in one further striking image: "Time is a child at play, playing draughts; a child's is the kingdom" fr. 52. He adds, "Here, as probably in Anaximander, 'Time' is a name for God, with an etymological suggestion of his eternity. The infinitely old divinity is a child playing a board game as he moves the cosmic pieces in combat according to rule." This is exactly what I am talking about, using even the very terms I have used. Thus my view of history coincides with Heraclitus* view of the flux process; change, in fact combat (strife) is necessary and to be desired. This view opposes that of Parmenides, needless to -6- say; but it can be argued that my revelation included both: it includes the flux and strife of Heraclitus, his idea that change is real; and my vision of Valis is Parmenides* vision of the single sphere, his monism, his view of that which does not and cannot change (although Valis changes in the sense that it grows and com¬ pletes itself, like Pythagoras kosmos). Also, I am seeing constants within or behind the flux: the two eternal combatants, the Empire and the revolutionaries So my vision is a sort of Platonic solution to a world otherwise constructed along the lines of Heraclitus view. This vision of two contending constants lies at the heart of my vision, although I suppose the vision of Valis —and my thoughts and theories about it—- transcendend all else. Yes, I am taken by the idea that Valis is the steersman who regulates the dialectical interaction in such a way that it continues forever or for at least a sufficient time that Valis can complete itself out of the wreckage, the stockpile of ever new parts. Perhaps Valis even intervenes to be sure that truly new parts are brought into being; that is possible, even probable. Valis, then, would prompt the ingenuity of the combatants. Valis would want to see each side become smarter and more resource¬ ful, problem-solve in ever superior ways (this does fit in with Valis intervention in my behalf in 3-74!). Yes; that definitely feels lixe what Valis did vis-à-vis me in 3-74; it exerted absolute pressure on me that rectified an imbalance between the contending forces that make up historical reality. An adjustment was made; I felt the pressure on me and around me; I saw my environment alter and I myself altered, almost as if the correction had been made in the past. This was a super¬ natural adjustment and intervention in every sense of the word. And beyond doubt it was Heraclitus' enantiodromia...so I can assume from this that just measure had been overstepped. This fits in with the historical events of the time, those pertaining to the Imperial White House. So God promotes evolution in the strategies of the two contending sides with the result that the historical process visible in our flux world reveals increasing improvement comparable to biological evolution.. Nonetheless the archetypal paradigm of