our control; rather, it is under the macrobrain's control, along with the external info traffic itself.) This all points to one technology: the info traffic folder 21 - 016 resembles the Runciter - Ubik messages. But - it is a total environment, not an inbreaking from outside. Still, I came very close in "Ubik"; basically I had it right. Mind impinges on the substantiality of our world + makes it plastic; this into traffic is the ratiocination of the macrobrain's mind. This absolutely fits the "some are doomed to be saved + some aren't" revelation. My salvation from determinism was determined by determinism - i.e. by this info (message) traffic. There is no override (v. Spinoza re Miracles; he is right!); 3-74 was not an override but a culmination of a long [deterministic] process with extriculpation (?) in mind as the goal. So there is one technology, that of the macrobrain's. The very info traffic which always had controlled me signalled (moved) me along the path to 3-74 deliberately; what it was not was a malfunction, or an override - my whole history of writing (e.g. "Ubik") points to that: I had figured out the system, or rather the system caused me to be aware of it (subliminally?). My expression of the system was a verbal statement by the system, a verbal report on, of + by itself via me: my writing was generated by it as part of the very info traffic which controlled me - all of us. So it wished to articulate itself into a verbal picture of itself via me - I am a function of it (+ glad to be; in 3-74 it raised me to consciousness of this; that is what happened). My God, it just amped up its control of me to an overt, conscious level to deal with the Xerox missive (which would have abolished me as a functioning part). What was overridden was my folder 21 - 017 folder 21 - 017 so-to-speak "pretend" psyche by the macrobrain itself. But the true space-time-world locus is Rome c. A.D. 45: Acts. No, damn it, it is like "Ubik"! The outside macrobrain is signalling us to wake up; we are like the characters in "Eye," asleep - not on the floor of the Bevatron - but while watching for Christ to return. We were made toxic - i.e. put into "half life" - as if killed. Fuck! I know it; "Ubik" is the paradigm! The half-life. The messages, Ubik itself, Runciter - we are in a sort of bubble of irreality; spurious world generated by - the planery powers, astral determinism, whatever the fuck that is. I give up. Its hold was broken over me in 3-74. Salvation is real. Paul was right. But technology is involved, a superior technology. There was a conflict in 3-74 between the macrobrain + the Xerox Missive; they were antithetical. We're dealing with two forces. The age (+ powers) of Mekkis versus the agents + age of Agape. The Iron Age + the Golden Age, prison vs. Garden. I think the best view is to regard us humans as a crop, some of which will be "sheep" (i.e. acceptable fruit) + some "goats" (not). There may be a malfunction, there may be antithetical interaction within the total system. There obviously are hierarchical levels of functioning (consciousness?) constituents may be progressively advanced within the system, or pushed back. Learning (teaching) seems to be involved. The pretense of my autonomous homeostasis was deliberately discarded in 3-74 in favor of protecting me, + thus I saw the true picture. I am a function of the macrobrain + its info traffic; I generate folder 21 - 018 folder 21 - 018 written info for it + about it. It did not wish to lose me. It replaced my psyche with its Noos. That is what happened in 3-74, + I knew what it knew, it was me + I was it. Then it subsided, back to syzygy (symbiosis; subliminal control: it feeds info to me to write). I qua author am a function of it! I am a mouth piece for it, which is fine, since it protects me. My corpus of writing is a true picture of the reality situation, since the macrobrain is the actual author. But the "audience" isn't us here, but the outside; then Zebra, the macrobrain (Logos) is in here, inside this "bubble" with us, reporting back out to its source. Of course it's in here with us; I saw it; we're in it. __ Maybe the antagonist is entropy. The Empire (age of iron) is entropic (we had already figured this out); newness (energy poured into the material system - time?) is needed to cause it, the system, to progress into real time + the age of gold. So the "override" in 3-74 was against entropy, as escalation of ergic force in me - a antientropic vitality; the system, like a clock, runs down, + this is what Zebra combats. (c.f. "Ubik" re entropy!!!) Entropic time is degenerate or spurious time. The age of iron wore out, but a congealed "freeze frame" of it is still projected + not replaced; it is frozen. folder 21 - 019 folder 21 - 019 This is all dealt with in "Ubik" - the form-reversion as entropy: time moving backward to "prior, simpler, more stable forms." (The forces of destruction - thanatos...which is exactly their situation: they have died, + so entropy sets in). Rome persists because there is not enough heat, energy or time energy life to carry us forward into the next age (agape). Our 4-pronged deformation is due to the entropic process; we have lost vital energy + hence are operating at half power, some faculties faded out entirely; some are vitiated. "Tears" informed the macrobrain that something here had been accomplished (the gas station scene is from the age of gold or agape). This was the Nixon overthrow. Zebra is restoring energy (time) to this system. __ K.W. suggests that the generated info emanating from the plasmate which has come in here (e.g. through me as booster) is for its own [i.e. the plasmate: Zebra] consumption: to remind it, because due to the entropic process here it would tend to forget - as well as us forgetting, assuming we ever knew in the first place). It would defend its booster circuits esp. if there was still information left for it to boost (generate). (I'm thinking of "Scanner".) (It must know of its own occlusion.) Meanwhile, Christ is "one by one drawing us out of this world." So, we can be extricated on an individual basis (salvation). __ Then the energy which Zebra poured into me in 3-74 may have been time, so that temporarily I was lifted out of this decay-time world + into the real world. But it drained off; however, I experienced massive time dysfunctions because of it, seeing the folder 21 - 020 folder 21 - 020 last moment of the real world (Acts) before spurious time sets in (the true actual time is CAD 45 - since then mere "Palmer Eldritch time" has ballooned out for us). It is imperative to realize that no real time has elapsed. Not just a little but none. That is why in 2-74 I remembered the world of Acts as being the true space time world, + why it shows up in "Tears." Any accurate sounding of reality reveals Acts. I must remember that "Tears" was written 3 years before my 3-74 experience. {illustration of linear time going into a spiralling motion at a point between 45 CAD and 46 CAD, with an arrow pointing to the spiral with the text "our irreal world"} I know this is a weird thought, but - could the real world have come to an end c. mid first century AD? + a phantasm rushed in to replace it? Time was drawn out of it? ___ Is it possible that the macrobrain withdrew ontological reality from the world in AD 45 - leaving a spurious world, a pseudo world, + one by one we are initiated into the secret that this is not the (a) real world; we are released from this world + transferred to the real world when we qualify: so the kingdom does not obliterate this world (or not yet). ___ The creation of info is negentropic. So Zebra generates info, primarily a verbal analog of itself from which it can be reconstituted by means of a pattern. This pattern (or Logos) is superimposed on a human mind, + a microreplication of Zebra results. The person is now isomorphic with the macroplasmate + is possessed by it, aligned by its shape. This is negentropic: pattern or form overpowering chaos. This runs counter to the entropic decay going on in our declining folder 21 - 021 world. It isn't just energy that's transferred but energy (time) + pattern (Logos). This is the creation of the homoplasmate which I speak of, the syzygy or symbiosis; "born from above" or "born of the Spirit" which did not exist in history before Pentecost - the time + place of Acts. Perhaps all the homoplasmates were created at that time, they are immortal! If physically killed they are reborn once the plasmate pattern is re-established (crypte morphosis). This is code within the DNA {Note} which eventually recapitulates itself, given enough time: maturation -+ disinhibition (neural firing)- are required. What is recapitulated is not another homoplasmate but the same one; it gives birth to itself, replicating itself over + over again under the proper conditions. {Note} It actually exists in the info it permeates the universe with. It isn't separate from the words it permeates. If the verbal cycle is interrupted, not its memory is destroyed but it itself. (The set - ground "King Felix") Then it transfers into the human mind, + can assemble with different combinations - a mixing board or clutch system. Transterrestrial intelligence exists thru the material of this world. It can get into a human mind + operate it subliminally. The Logos doesn't know info but is info. It could pass into a dog or rock or crystal - or like Pinky. So somewhere along the line it entered me as information + patterned me so that in my own writing I replicated (+ boosted) it; it got distributed (e.g. in "Tears"). Not just info con- folder 21 - 022 folder 21 - 022 cerning it, but it itself. It didn't enter me in 3-74; the writing proves that. In 3-74 neural circuits which had never fired were disinihibited by a drastic drop in GABA fluid, set off by the Golden Fish sign in 2-74, + the plasmate in me took conscious control; was "born" - the 2nd or spirit or from above birth, it (Zebra) can enter anything, animate or inanimate; in the latter it takes volitional control of causal processes - mimesis, mimickry, camouflage. It assembles itself intact in a human brain from a collage taken from song lyrics, ads, novels, TV, movies - any + all info media, verbal + graphic. Once begun, it governs the person into seeking out the missing parts of the pattern (i.e. it). It even describes itself - e.g. the Bowie flick, "Ubik," etc. What must be realized is that its pattern (identity) is a [total] message; it is info. "King Felix" is just one constituent of the totality, which is probably a narrative (story). For example, it uses the fish sign - any fish sign. (Because the Fish Sign is actually a diagram of the double helix DNA molecule; that's why it chose it.) This is what Paul meant by, "the secret is: Christ in us." "Stigmata" is a satanic bible: the novel describes the pattern proliferating itself in, on + through humans. By a study of "Stigmata" one can understand transubstantiation, which was my source + theme (my intent). It's even stated in the novel that Eldritch