019 folder 20 - 019 This is a pretty good theology, although not original (it comes from India). But I've added one point: the creator spins out an irreal universe + then enters it as all the creatures in it, is deluded + forgets - this is early Indian theology. My addition is: The creator deliberately plants clues in his irreal creation (which he enters, + then suffers deliberate amnesia) - clues which he cunningly knows in time (eventually) will restore his memory (anamnesis) of who he is + that his creation is irreal + has imprisoned him in it, thus freeing himself + restoring himself to Godhood. Wow! So he has a fail-safe system built in. No chance he won't eventually remember. Makes himself subject to [spurious] space, time + world (death, pain, loss, decay, etc.), but has these disinhibiting clues or stimuli distributed deliberately [strategically in time + space]. So it is he himself who sends himself the letter which restores his memory (Legend of the Pearl). Not bad! Salvador Salvandus! Boy, what this says about my 2-74/2-75 experience! When I saw the clue in 2-74! Look what this theory says I remembered - + who placed the clue in front of me + why! I think I've solved it. Christ without memory of identity, here in the world [Note]. + Christ = God = creator. [Note] The world he created! He caused himself to enter it + forget - but: he also carefully laid out clues to eventually remind himself. No fool he! folder 20 - 020 folder 20 - 020 Thus, as perfectly epitomized in the Ubik commercials, he can exist (be) at any trashy layers -sincerely- he wants to be, in any trashy form. But in the end, he remembers (as witness the "ad" over the final ch. of "Ubik".) Purpose? This way he can permeate his creation with the divine at all levels, + sincerely (i.e. without even him knowing, while he's doing it!) Boy, would this explain 1) what happened when I saw the Golden Fish. +: 2) why. That colossal rush of memory + understanding at the time (2-74), followed by 3-74. We're now not talking about me being (just) an early Xtian; we're talking (ahem) about the divine itself! Holy spirit, God or Christ - it's all me. Zebra = Christ. Christ = God. Thomas = Zebra. I = Thomas (for "equals" read "is"). Thus I = God. But I've forgotten again. Oh well - I wrote it all down, heh heh. Knowing I'd again forget. I was invaded (theolepsy) by Christ, all right. But as I say supra, it was I who remember (being Thomas or Christ). So (like in "Impostor" - I am - I love it. It's delightful. It's a dance. Brahman dancing in joy. (Felix.) + so was Pinky. He knew + remembered, too. folder 20 - 021 Knowing from the beginning that my hour of need (passion) would come in 3-74, just after I put my message (unknown to myself) in "Tears", I arranged for anamnesis via the Golden Fish sign. I disinhibited myself in 2-74 in order to be able to defend myself in 3-74 when the trap was sprung - + so I defeated it, with my own supernatural help! I guess I was producing my corpus of writing as further disinhibiting clues to other pluriforms of my forgetful self! This is how come I knew the exact day the Xerox thing was coming, as well as that it would come. The AI voice is the non-forgetful me. Who knows (as I do not) that "an intelligence officer in the Army" sent the Xerox thing. It was a trap! "Are you God?" I was once asked. This explains why (as Bill Duke pointed out) I have no wish to separate myself from suffering. That is the fucking point of my being here as a person - that, but more so the writing. The writing is to make lucid, to detox people. So I had to go through 1971. To write "Scanner" which I now view as the summation. I don't want us occluded; I want us happy - + I bipolarize the two. But the main thrust is: "They (we) have been punished entirely too much for what they (we) did." In other words, it is time now to bring the punishment to an end. Despite the error in folder 20 - 022 folder 20 - 022 judgment on their -our- part which started the occlusion -punishment- going. It must now end + be replaced by: Felix. Here, too, is perfect proof of the Hermetic macro-microcosm view. Memory, mirror + inner space, reflection of the macro -divine- [+] each bit (micro) like in a hologram contains the whole (macro). Now I have to define a homoplasmate as a pluriform in micro of the creator (God) who recovers his lost supernatural faculties + memory + identity as the deity + bonds at once with the living sentient macro. Macro = Micro Brahman = Atman My realization then in 2-3/74 is the highest realization that can come to a person irrespective of his particular religion: Tat tvam asi. You are God. __ Voice: "Someone in this room is outside of time." But I'm the only one here. __ The great realization of the above "God descending into his own creation + forgetting + then being reminded by himself who he really is" theory is that I realize, I am here voluntarily. The initial intellectual error (taking the delusional as real) was made voluntarily. There is no suffering [we] (I) have to endure that I did not originally choose to. + when I needed to, I reminded myself + folder 20 - 023 folder 20 - 023 got not only my memories back (to meet a -the- crisis) but also my total supernatural powers (vis-a-vis the Xerox letter). From before birth I could see -foresee- everything which was going to happen to me. That's why I knew the exact day the Xerox thing was coming, + that my house would be hit on Nov 1971 + that [I'd] meet Tessa that day, etc. Ted Sturgeon's theory, which he had wanted to tell me for 15 years, is basicaly this. + it is basically correct. Each of us leads many lives + they are voluntary, with complete foreknowledge of what it's going to be like. What pleases me is how I laid down the disinhibiting stimulus for 2-74 so as to be able to cope with the Xerox thing, + how I put code unbeknownst to myself in "Tears" - code that will disinhibit others (of myself). It's a lot like "Maze", voluntarily going into a fake world of your own creation + voluntarily shedding your memory so that this fake world can be taken as real. + it's like the "Walt" clue in "Stigmata". So my writing will remind us of the true state of things; it's good to wake ourselves or ourself up. + we will do so where necessary, by such means. "Stigmata" is fascinating when viewed this way: they go voluntarily into a fake world + then forget it's fake, or later, with Eldritch's world, go in voluntarily + can't get back out. "Maze" too. Even "Eye" can be read this way: the forgetting. + "Joint". The Kerygma: (esp. "Maze" + "Stigmata"): We created a fake world, went into it voluntarily + voluntarily shed our memories, + can't get back out, but would like to. However, foreseeing this we providently laid down clues in advance to remind us when the going would get too tough. folder 20 - 024 folder 20 - 024 Sequence: 1) Created a fake world. 2) Entered it. 3) Forgot our identity (deliberately). 4) Suffered. But then: 5) Came across a deliberately-placed clue which I (we) put there to restore memory when things went too rough - or, more profoundly, to set a limiting factor on this journey of calculated self-deception + imprisonment so it would have to end finally. (Whew - + just in time.) A spin off theory is that of the creator who will not ask any of his created creatures to undergo what he himself won't undergo. That would otherwise be unjust. This is what he did as Jesus. But to make the [suffering] experience totally that of his creatures, he'd have to block his own memories + not know who he really was, + suppose he was just another mundane created creature. (I'm not supposed to tell this, though. "I am a secret immortal early Xtian" now stands for, "I am deity himself," which I certainly don't want to tell anyone! (Many Sufis believed this, as did Empedocles). First of all, they'd lock me up + throw the key away, + (2) it'd give away the game to some of the other pluriforms prematurely. The game would be aborted - spoiled. But my writing is fine - it provides tantalyzing cryptic clues, not flat out statements, which is good. Just enough, but not the story in clear. "Tat tvam asi"; not to say openly, but rather to speak in parable. When you choose a particular life to go down into (v. Ted Sturgeon) you know in advance exactly what it's going to consist of. Like, I knew about the hit on my house, about Tessa, + esp. about the Xerox letter. I even knew, as the AI voice (myself folder 20 - 025 folder 20 - 025 as my own tutelary spirit) who sent it ("intelligence officer in the Army") but I waited 4,5 years to tell my occluded -re-occluded- self. Now I'm disclosing to myself that the 2nd advent has come, in which I have a [...] vested interest (in which I am involved as a fore-runner preparing the way). I'm just barely partitioned off from my not occluded (limited) self, as witness my transliminations during hypnagogic states. So I chose this life, knowing what it'd consist of. I'm who, when + where I am voluntarily; I occluded myself voluntarily - but didn't completely occlude myself to the irreality of world, as witness my writing. + my writing deliberately (without my remembering it) is supposed to tell much of the real -i.e. true- story). + I deliberately restored my lost memories in 1974 in time to fend off the Xerox thing - + gave myself the satisfaction of seeing what I'd put in "Tears", not to mention the other writing such as "Ubik". I guess I felt I owed it to myself for the years of shit I went through vis-a-vis "Tears": I rewarded myself. (I knew the Golden Fish would manifest itself in 2-74, + programmed myself to be disinhibited by it - programmed myself from the beginning.) This makes me a voluntary + semi-conscious teacher (of the other pluriforms); i.e. performing a salvific task, + enjoying doing it. We upstairs want the self-deception (a la "Maze") curtailed. Thus teachers are sent down here into the "Hologram". It's told in "Scanner": both parts (Bob + Fred) are himself: i.e. me + the AI voice, the tutelary spirit; I am both. The Koine Greek gave it away back in 1974, I am not-I, as in "Scanner". folder 20 - 026 But my search in this world, in all worlds, is for my sister, my female counterpart whom I have lost - been separated from. Still, she exists, + finally I will be reunited with her. She is very close to me as the AI voice, the singing woman (psychopomp) + the Sibyl. +, ultimately, as Holy Wisdom herself (v. Prov 8): "my darling + delight". The tutelary spirit is outside of time + knows (knew) from the start everything that will happen to me, every choice I will make + everything I will do. In 3-74 they trapped Dionysos, a God, + he burst the trap. Perhaps he (I) played them off each against the other. The overwhelming impulse I sometimes feel to help