is not "revealed" but "understood." + as the outcome of a logical sequence of understanding (i.e. put in a very crude + bluat reasoning). way, you can cause the Parousia to occur by thinking about it. an exercise in logic, breaking down the boundaries of the solipsistic self as expressed in the Cartesian "Eageta." is this Heraclitus! "They are compared to sleepers in private world's? The Parousia - the second coming, not just enthusiasmos by the Holy Spirit, but the sheep-goats division. The discrimination of perception (vision), etc. The world of Acts, rate by God: Christ's return. B10 what seems to be involved (the "meta abstraction") is a testing of reality + a discovering of it to be or contain something quite different from its seeming; what is really there is the "common essence" that is Xtian apocalyptic history, the other normal reality being realed as a [self-produced not - other, mere "cogito"] dream. As with Heraclitus - this latter (idios kosmos) being the all-important consideration (fact). The begins with a catching "meta-abstracting" sight of the truly other the "I mother 3 time, not 3 mothers" logic operation what then is perceived is one's own thought formations, which are recognized as such; where upon the "cogito" i.e. the idios kosmos is abolished in favor of the koinos; this is the Parousia. Vide Malebranche's occasionalism his intelligible archetypal ideas as world, his ie we see all in God." The "intelligible arche. typal ideas" are solipsism + arrise There is yet no entirely in the "Logito." contact with creation, which (when seen) turns out to be Xtian apocalyptic + the Parousia) it moves forward in true time from Acts to the Parousia, in contrast to the simulated time of the "intelligible archetypal idea, in which "he causes things to look dif ferent so it'd appear time has passed." this is the "secret stolen, past the angels it is actual external world This 8 B11 back to what I said supra about the Parousia coming - being driven along. by a chain of necessary a priori truths (reasoning), not a contingent truth, that happens to be at "this" time (in contrast to "earlier" or "later" in time). Like a (e.g.) triangle it is always so, logically necessary, + innate + now. (as the chain of reasoning progresses.) (As if true time, real time, is driven by reasoning.) As if a relentless filter (lens/grid) that is reality is driven along through its stages by logic. A component of reality that unfolds when perceived (as if, to repeat, the Parousia, like space, time + causation, is a function of consciousness + yet not subjective. It is a logical progression of apperception of external world, in which knowing, per‐ ceiving + being are all one thing, based on logical necessity. Is as if I'm saying that real time is a function of logic, + this logic relentlessly drives real time on (as compared to - contrasted with - what seems to be spurious time). This recalls at once Parmenides' presentation of the discrep ency between what we know a prior to be true + what our senses report, the latter being (1) different hence (2) suspect. it perception of the real creation (instead of the "intelligible archetypal ideas) has the effat te of driving time forward in (that] location B-12 eal time does not exist in the "logito" idios kosmos of the "intelligible archetypal ideas" but does exist in creation itself; +, in creation, is driven along by the necessity of the apriori chain of reasoning (logic) required in order to apprehend it (actual creation) in the first place. (I am speaking of the logic of the mind -consciousness - of the percipient of actual creation.) The phosphene graphics trip were then beyond doubt the fast-forward playing, firing or unwinding of the spurious time of the idiss kosmos, a programmed monadic internal clock normally preset (synchronized) with the very realm it coincides with (this coinciding giving rise to the illusion of cause + effect). Thus the percipient consciousness is given a realm which he seems to interact with (causally); what he -+ virtually cannot - realize is that does not This realm is constructed so as to adjust + modify itself to his consciousness of it so that this spurious realm so-to-speak antici pates his preconceptions as to the nature of world + reflects them faitlefully back at his Thus this idios realm will satisfactorily past any test he constructs by which to assess it real. Not only is it psychomorphic but it is as synchronized in advance with his very testing -exploring - of it, so that it is not so much adjusted to him but, rather, he + it are mutually preset by a third or common factor that governs both of them into a harmonious whole its time not under the control of his reasoning; both is it + has reasoning are preset clocks that have oner no causal control (power) over each other under the most uniso is 873 can he transcend this presynchronized idio kosmos + apprehend external creation itself, he does this (it would seem) with some kind of ineluctable abstracting logic that unfolds with a genuine internal necessity, rather than a merely preprogrammed one that generates the simulation of necessity to repeat, the theoretical origins of my analysis lies with Parmenides the (1949] intuition that causation is pretextual (irreal) + the confirming perception of it (3-74) pertain to the realm of the "intelligible archetypal ideas" + not to external actual creation itself. Hence this one given intuition eventually caused either t 1) The idios kosmos of "intelligible archetypat ideas to break down thus allowing actual creation to enter; or (2) was invaded by actual creation actively due to the exposure of its own simulatedness (I refer to the idios kosmos). In either (any) case the idios kosmos fell in its entirety based on this original point of entry, because it is a oncy simulation throughout. It is a representa i of reality + an incorrect one ot that what has really undermined it is the merciless appraisal of logic (a priori compichension) that what seems to be the case (causation) probably is not. Thus I am definitely saying that my 2-3-74 experience of the Parousian stemmed from a very og sequence of merciless B-74 my part extending over four decades, during which period reality - or what we take to be reality, actually an intelligible representation t of reality, underwent (or demonstrated) adjustments in response inturn to my logic - whereupon the logic incorporated the trans‐ formations of the intelligible representation of reality + continued on, a sort of push pull feedback dialectic. This is the "changes + adjustment of itself" that world engages in in response to perception of it. If a truly relentless logic can be employed in response to + as a cause of then (it These "changes + adjustments" would seem) the veil of seeming can be e i ultimately penetrated, but the sequential logic must be relentless. It must always function in tandem with the changes + adjustments of world that occur in relation to perception of world, never operating in a vacuum, never ignoring the changes + adjustments, +, most of all, never passively based on the adjustments as an outgrowth or function of the adjustments. never, so-to-speak at their disposal. (Viz s the logic learns from the adjustments but is not the servant of those adjustments; in essence, the logic must drive the adjust ments, not the adjustments the logic (this is pure Parmenides). The instant the logic becomes the instrument of the adjustments It ceases to be logic + becomes an endless explanation of something that probably B-15 is capable of an infinitude of thatifications of seeming (in which case the situation, from the standpoint of the thinking is hopeless). the logic must assess what the representation is willing to do (anything to provide the semblance of authenticity) + able to do (it is not able to do everything; under certain exceptional circumstances it reveals what I call "constants": plural spatiotemporal sets working off a common basis: coaxial plural realities utilizing a sort of functional economy at the expense of verisimillitude - to its own detriment because thereupon the basis on which it builds itself enters palpability, + some sort of initial appraisal of what is truly (This is the "one there can be initiated). thing seen at two times + two places which is a priori logically impossible" event that is so epistemologically important; this is the instant in which the great meta-abstraction can strike At once, the representation is perceived to have violated its own premises by a sort of doubling back on itself. It has let itself commit a self-contradiction, + if the logic has remained s stable it - the logic - now has the crucial advantage it sought - although without knowing it - from the start. The logic can now tell the representation what the case is, world as case (to paraphrase Wittgenstein). The logic, not the representation, manifactures - fabricates the bold, the Gestalt: + the Parousia emerges of the Gestalt, the identifying as the "Name" sign of recognition by the percipient, whose mind matches the bold with his own inner templates one after another until he comes matching. He now knows a correct up with what the actual case is. He has (1) reasoned of B-15 seen it; + (3) recognized + identified it. This no longer has to do with an intelligible repre‐ sentation of world but external creation itself apprehended on the basis of analytical Thus adjustments, modifications, a logic changes + transformations of a psychomorphic nature by the representation no longer apply. They have run their course + exhausted themselves. They served to obscure the + Parousia (Dokos) with spurious changes (i.e. simulated world-process). The Parousia therefore time can be defined as that end-state which sets in upon the exhaustion of all the evasive modifications in "reality [Note that we customarily take to be the world-process unfolding in time. N ➀ The intelligible representation of reality "archetypal ideas defined by Malebranche as used as the basis of creation" but which is not creation (world) itself. ➀ This is precisely in accord with highly articulated concepts of eschatology; this is what the term "Parousia" is supposed to designate; the problem is, how do we arrive at this state? How do we get out of the endless sequence of adjustments + modifications that the world-picture obligingly undergoes in response to our perception of it? I am tempted to say, by beating it to death through sheer exhaustion; i.e. by hearing it down by a recentless scruting of it until it at last commits an error + reusis some constituent. It is supple + resourceful, but not infinitely so; it is finite. the solution is simply to cutlast it. The tool is relentlear a priori reasoning working in conjunction with occasional appropriate shread hunches B-18 + lots + lots of time. t want to be something down in paper that I've tried to get down for t years + failed to. It has to do with when Valis' mind was in mine: it had information. It to do with physical worl Sath t had to do with (1) the linking + relink (2) the rest-motion modes; (3) the set-ground discrimination; (4) + this it pattern (Gestalt) message collages formed in one place + one time by all the info constituents that happen to be assembled/juxtaposed. This is related to the MMSK, giving rise to my conviction that our world is either a brain or is used by a mind in order to think +/or store information (remember). This is related to william Burroughs latent messages + info virus. All four above items go on jointly. They are in fact aspects of info processing per se 2 is the term I want "syntax"? Valis can get meaning out because Valis can perceive syntax or