saves is blurred if not abolished. We are the degraded Christ, he is our glorified, exalted selves reborn. This is a great mystery. Christ is discovered to be i right here in the trash of the alley. Conversly, the trash of the alley is revealed as sanctified. It was not trash in the first place + we were never here; the (our) occlusion prevented us from seeing who we are + where + when we are. The healing miracle by Christ abolishes the occlusion; we see him + the kingdom, here all the time. Hence in 3-74 I kept saying, "I am no longer blind!" A "second signal? was added to reality; as the J. Bible says about Christ's restoration of the fallen cosmos, "He rejoins the earthly + angelic realms (i.e he brings them back together as they were before the Fall.) Christ is both the physician (the high priect presiding at the Eucharist) + the sacrificial victim 70 As ontological, cosmic occlusion the occlusion of "Scanner" is identified with the ontological ignorance of Gnosticism: both man's condition in this world + the enslaving instrument that brings that condition about. That is, it both punishes +, simultaneously, makes -renders man unaware of his punishment, of that very same punishment; i.e. he not only is occluded - he does now he is occluded. The occlusion blinds not to him to the fact that he is occluded Thus "Scanner" represents the first great step in reversing man's condition: it asserts that a ubiquitous occlusion exists, that we are unaware of it, + that due to it we are imprisoned + enslaved + not as we should be. Hence in "Scanner" Bob arctor is not only s occluded (impaired); further, he does not know he is occluded (impaired). Thus the basic for Gnistic salvation is laid; what remains is, next the lifting of the occlusion + the restoration of those faculties entirely lost or impaired in the Fall which caluin so well describes (vide "tracta te"). This explains why I have so often supposed that 3) 74 represented -consisted of- a washing out of my system of the drugs I took years earlier, which is to say a reversal of the condition of occlusion (impairment) brought on by those drugh. It is very significant that I thought that, because demonstrates the unifying, cumulative theme it of "Scanner" + then "Valis" (of which I have been totally unaware), "Sianney" is my true Paradose (ost" (the story of the Fall) + "Valis" ot Paradise Regained," the story of the restoration "Valis" can only be truly Hence through Christ 71 wan iderstood of "Scanner" is taken into account aactor on the last page of "Scanner" is Horse‐ Bob cover Fat on the first page of "Valis" - the two t form a seamless whole, novels "Scanner": man's fall into occlusion, e, impairment + enslavement. ➀ ignora t 2) "Valis": man's restoration through Christ who brings him the saving Gnosis that in effect he has lost (been deprived of). ➁ N Here he (the man) splits into two halves: self- estranged. He is wounded. he is N Here he (the man) fuses back together as one infact person; the wound has healed. He now himself as himself. The saving knowledge recognize nosis) takes the form of the man's ability to (6 identify a picture of himself as himself. ("Mein" eigenes Gesight.") (Or: "Mein eigenes Gestalt.") Thus topologically the universe that in "Scanner" was pulled through infinity, reversing the Gestalt + (i.e Fremd. making it unfamiliar has been reversed once more familiar self: Nicht fremd but rather is ts + Heimligh. The Gnostic categories of estrangement + alienation versus returning to one's home. The familior, apply here. One has come to oneself after the Fall in "Scanner." only realized all this after rereading I is Scanner" the other night (till 5:30 a.m) what mefrom realizing it is that in "Valis" Horse. kept Lover Bat's occlusion/wound is caused -not by drugs- but by Gloria's death. (i.e. by his loss, grief + sorrow). But he is wounded precisely because herdeath is pointless -i.e. irrational she did not need to die, + the immediate cause of this polntless irrational death is drugs, so here is 78 my brief departure into orthodex worldly theism shows me that what otherly experienced, learned, figured out + come have I to believe starting in 2-74 is a coherent body of doctrine (revelation, disclosure of an apocalyptic nature) so at odds with orthodox theism that we stand virtually pitted dia‐ metrically against each other. Cardinal to my perception is the extant underlying (i.e. actual reality of Acts as world, the collapse of time so that the First Advent is sensed with the as having just now taken place conviction that Advent II will come soon means soon after Advent I, which is (which say, despite all appearances to the to contrary we are living in biblical the twin interlocking advents are an times). immedi pressing matter, arousing joy + a sense of urgency, of immediacy, both looking looking forward. Meanwhile, concealed, back + the host (Corpus Christi) is here visible to the the faithful (paradigms of the twelve). eyes of seen as Christ's body, blood + wound is world my great mystical revelation, + I don't intend to abandon it. What I saw in 2-74 + 3-74 had to do with the collapse of the present-day profane back into the sacred (which we had world This supposed to have long ago departed) sanctification of world -as in the Good Friday speell in "Parsifal"- lies at the heart of my exceeded only by a perception of the vision blood + wound + the cosmic process of body, transubstantiation of the defeated old world by 79 Christ as the new: the essential principle of the) rational (Nous) invading thera‐ tional old decomposing cosmos. This is a as transmutation of the very core of reality: world at its essence level (not externally, i.e. its accidents). I can see clearly, at this point (in today view of my brief flirtation with otherworldly or thodox theism) that the collapse of the ontological ordering categories of time + space + causation so as to reveal the world) of Acts as now + present is a crocial + vitall -in fact indispensible- factor, without no sense can be made of my vision; which this collapse + my vision cannot be t separated. This fact discloses that my vision is reveal + not empirical or analy tical. But, strangely, this vision is not apocalyptic strictly speaking; it does not speak of future events -a forthcoming Parousia accompanied by cataclysmic events such as wars + natural upheavals) - but says in effect: there is a concealed (i.e. stegero graphic) secret history of Christ present nows in fact present all this time invisibly gaging successful war against the Empire so that at this point the camouflaged transubstantiation of the "universe is well-along; the MMSK is complex + articulated already, + the crucial blow against the Empire is actually in the past. Further, the Kingdom is already here just as Christ (Valis) is here, but the I not unaided eye can discern none of this even the Empire + its enemies, the secret Xtians 80 It all boils down to what Heraclitus said, latent form is the master of obvious form" + "reality is in the habit of con‐ itself. cealing t What I envision is a dynamic process of slow, cradual conversion from the age of iron to the Age of gold with no clear transi‐ tion-ine. I take Jesus at his word that the Kingdom is in some real sense hidden so that it can (1) come here without us seeing it or knowing that it is here; + (2) it can steadily + stealthity grow + still remain hidden, just as He himself can + is (I do not clearly distinguish him from the Kingdom, since I construe him to be a cosmic t structuring presence, no longer anthropo‐ morphic, not at this place rather than that). + (3) it can through the secret Xtian underground inflict crucial damage on the Empire + still remain camouflaged successfully. What will be evident (i think) will be the second Advent, but the AI voice spys that "he has [already] been trans‐ planted + is alive" so perhaps this, too, will be veiled, at least at first. Instead of apocatypsis we are talking fact accomple II am quite aware that I am bringing my own 2-3-74 vision into accord with Jesus news of the Kingdom. My Kerygma is, God here, the Kingdom here - camouflaged; power h idden slypping away from the Iron Empire; the ctialectical combat all good news (not John's message: "repent!" nor the church. message, "Christ died for our sins"). My 81 message is "we are enslaved + in a prison, but help is here; it is both at the gates [as in "Fildelio"] + inside [in the form of (1) the secret revolutionary underground Xtians; + (2) the cosmic Corpus Christi is here - both s Most remarkequally camouflaged]. able of all, I declare that Acts is the case ais world, despite what our eyyes tell us to the contrary (thus ending a 30 year epistemological scrutiny on my part to learn the answer to "ti to on?"). supra) c see typed pages dated 1-3-81for the explanation of why we cannot see Christ) nor the Kingdom: I came to the startling realization that they -+ the meta-‐ information, the set-to-ground plasmateexist in 4-D space, whereas we exist in 3-D plus time. Thus the Kingdom can grow + yet remain undetected, along with) its information traffic simply because we can't see the 4th spatial axis, but, nstead, experience what we call "time. There is no doubt that in 2-74 I meta-abstracted (Plato's anamnesis) + then, as a result, meta-perceived -i.e. the 4th spatial axis, + as a result, saw Valis, the MMSK, the + set-to-ground info traffic -all of which is invisible to us normally. So the camauflage by the forces of light that are here depends on a single simple principle; they operate along the 4th spatial axis which we can't discern. (+ this is why time collapsed for me + the protane world reverted to the sacred world of Acts). 53 is I There is an element of the hallucinatory in this rather than a humeish "custom." In any case, if we do obligingly "see" a "cause" for the orthogonal "effect," then this tug could exert myor influences without our being aware of it strange - this fits in with my camouflage theory about Valis, + it is connected with my set/ ground discrimination + latent (concealed) info traffic Perhaps I should shift over to my view of physical thoughts, that it can only think by means of the physical world. another possibility in this business about "pretextual" cause: let's go back to my intuition in the late 40s that causation does not in fact exist. Let us say that I was right what, then, was I apperceiving if I envisioned something other than efficient cause? Could it be that I was apprehending ex nihilo creation in the form of sequential states which we as percipients linked causally? That is, each state was presumed to cause the next, but in fact each state is an instance of ex nihilo creation -continuous crea‐ - so that eternal newness comes about the 18" opposite of a deterministic closed system. Well, this would shet a great light on "Thomas" + the "dysfunction" in causality in Thomas sensed he'd just now been in a lool 3-74. s high, moist climate; there was no causal, se quential continuity - what I am saying is here the ex nihilo nature of things was apparent to me... which may be linked to anamnesis -as common crucial element being unimpaired memory (which may indicate that our normal that it literally mremory is a joke memory; 54 is not memory