suffer the consequences of our epistemological error. But perhaps it provides us with clues. Here is a theory I am fond of: it observes how we behave in a state of amnesia wherein we do now know who we are or what behavior will be rewarded, so we are ignorant of guile in culling rewards: we do not even know if it (Nous). On the other hand, a more Greek view would be that it intervenes to balance extremes; this is pure enantiodromia and fits Plato as well as Heraclitus. And is also Taoist. I.e. it is a self-regulating totally homeostatic entity maintaining internal harmonie. It seems to me that the key is: internal balance, and the mechanism for this is enantiodromia. And this accounts for (3-74). The "Torah" that relates to me speaks of troubles. Well, then a point of such extreme distress comes that due to fundamental principles of harmonie (balance) within the total system enantiodromia occurs as an alchemical transmutation of the situation: a conversion into its opposite. Surely this involves the regular oscillations in time by the dialectic (palintropos harmonie). There is some kind of "emptyingfullness" logic as described in the TAO TE CHING. It is through such alchemical conversions as 3-74 that we come to know of the existence of the Tao; otherwise we would never suspect its existence. So I am saying: 3-74 proves the existence of the Tao; it is an example of the nature of the Tao acting. And "A perturbation of the reality field" fits in with Taoism and quantum mechanics. So higher physics is involved. This Taoist, quantum mechanics theory fits in with Valis displaying or being a field of total synchronicity (Pauli developed the concept vis-a-vis Taoism did he not?). I never thought of this before; perhaps this realization is a vital clue that will incline me back toward Taoism. Which is fine, since when I read MITHC I catch a sense of a sort of field, and the AI voice did say, "A perturbation in the reality field." And the dialectic certainly is Yin and Yang (and can be equated with Parmenides' views). When I envision the dialectic I envision two angels locked in combat, but when I examine them closer they turn into dragons. If a gun were put to my head and I had to give one short answer as to what Valis was, I would say, "The Tao, as the Absolute." And as {folder 01 - 089} 10-25-80 2 to what happened in 3-74: the regulation of the Yin and the Yang, i.e. the dialectic, by the Tao; the Tao asserting itself as master of the dialectic that makes up our world-order of flux and strife ("The Tao is what lets in first the light, then the dark" -- This has always stuck in my mind as the basic definition of the Tao). And this has to do with advanced physics; so Warrick is right about Valis and 3-74. Sentient physics. But also: Valis was my splintered self "imploding" back together, the pieces that had exploded over space and time reversing their direction in enantiodromia and re-collecting to form their original unity. Of this I am absolutely certain; but look: this, too, could be an example of an event of higher physics! (This is why time seemed to flow backward; and forward-moving time had exploded my self over thousands of years and miles.) This is why I had the distinct and indubitable impression that my own earlier thought-contents were coming back to me in the form of world -- e.g. UBIK and "Faith of..." etc. World was familiar to me as my own earlier mind. I never could explain this until now. It was (I see now) the re-collecing of my own splintered self as if time were running backward, turning an explosion into an implosion. So beyond doubt enantiodromia and other higher laws of physics perceived by the Taoist and Greek naturalists (pre-Socratics) were involved! I see! The normal process of self-splintering was reversed. And this reunification of self involved thousands of years and thousands of miles -- over which it had initially exploded, due to the nature --condition-- of self in this flux realm (space-time realm). This is a great realization, confirming intimations I've had since 3-74 but never could explain. Now I am totally convinced that Taoist, pre-Socratic and quantum mechanics theory is involved. And the key is: enantiodromia and Heraclitus especially. This can be tied in with cosmic oscillations as in "I am the breath of my creator and as he exhales and inhales I live." Enantiodromia/palintropos harmonie. The first space-time thing that returned to me was my most recent book, TEARS, and the world (Acts) in it where the main part of my Self had been exploded to. Then later came UBIK. The above paragraph is the most important realization of my six and a half years of exegesis. Out of this, as the Taoist alchemists knew, comes longer life (immortality) and health; it is embryonic breathing (v. supra). Because {folder 01 - 090} 10-25-80 3 the exploding effects of time are reversed; and the magic embryo (Firebright) is born. Thus the progressive process of the annihilation (explosion and splintering) of my Self over space and time was reversed because I saw --had seen-- something familiar in the world in 2-74: the golden fish sign, which caused enantiodromia: re-collection, reverse flow of time: it caused me to remember instead of progressively more and more forgetting and losing touch with myself; i.e. the Fall. All these regressions to the womb --and cosmogonic resorption-- and time running backward to the moment before creation --cosmogenesis-- are described by Eliade. As ways to new (second) birth; so this can be equated with the "born again" of Christianity: "only if you become like a little child can you enter the Kingdom of God." It --2-3-74-- is Taoist, alchemical, Christian, Orphic. Regression to the moment before the cosmic egg of the Orphics was ruptured and space and time --the explosion-- began (the cosmogenesis instant, recapitulated in the microcosm!). But the bottom line is: re-collection of self (anamnesis). Reversal of the primordial explosion: which unless reversed ends in total annihilation of Self (Soul); total Fall. (In all of this I acted as a microcosm of the big bang exploding macrocosm.) My concept of the re-collection of the Self is more apt than anything Eliade has come up with. It is tied in with Heidegger and Angst and Gnosticism: Sein versus das Nichts. But in me as an individual the past and future history of the entire macrocosm (universe) can be seen in terms of a titanic oscillation of original Big Bang, explosion and eventual implosion and a reversal of time, and re-collection to the primordial unity. This again suggests physics. So I "ontogenically" as microcosm recapitulated the entire "phylogenic" history of the universe in and as my own Self. Incredible as it may seem, Self explodes and becomes world and also Fremd. When the process of explosion is reversed, Self first returns as world but familiar, and then is converted (re-collected) back into Self. This explosion and becoming world and Freud means annihilation (and gives rise --reasonably-- to primal Angst). Total annihilation of the Self into the categories of world: space and time. I now know what ontological Angst is about: awareness of this explosion of Self and its conversion into world --and the Fremd. And I know what the remedy is: re-collection through anamnesis, which is based on the discovery of something familiar, something that was once a part of Self, in the world ... a very archaic part. It is as if Self- {folder 01 - 091} 10-25-80 4 become-world has traveled all across the universe to finally come back from the opposite direction, and is recognized as (having once been) Self, long ago lost --lost in primordial times. Then Valis could have been missing --exploded-- parts of my own supernatural cosmic self lost in primordial times returning to me, restoring me as a supernatural creature --divine-- beyond space and time and incarnation --like a postmortem or prenatal Soul: a Light Being. Having originally been absorbed by the space-time realm, it was extracted back out, to be re-collected. This would be a superhuman entity, not lost in this lifetime, when complete. Even supra-angelic; it would be a Christos: the Being I was and had before the Fall. (As I say, this part or these parts was/were lost --exploded into world-- long before PKD was ever born; this is "phylogenic" history being reversed.) We're talking about parts of me lost thousands of years ago, lost when the world was young. We are talking about the original Fall itself! The re-collection of the original lost parts! Then "I" was Valis, but "I" does not refer to PKD; it is the "I" before the Fall began and its exploding and splintering into time and space began. This is a sudden total reascent of the Soul, a reascent described and sought for by the Orphics, Platonists, Neo-Platonists, and in a rather dim way by the Christians (although their understanding is terribly faulty). The fact that it occurred during my lifetime and not after death makes it a Taoist alchemical event; also it is the Mysterium Conionctus of the Western alchemicts-hermetics; yes, it is Hermetic for sure. No wonder that missing part of me, lost to me, came back to me (when it did come back) as world: it was lost to me before I was born. The above sentence says everything about 2-3-74 and Valis. It certainly explains Thomas! Given the theoreticaly basis that I have presented supra, how could such a re-collecting occur without there coming into existence in me a "thomas"? This, ultimately, is what 2-3-74 was all about. And he was indeed brought out of the world of Acts into USA 1974; no wonder I felt as if I'd just been in a cool, high, moist climate. I had been; but "I" was no longer PKD. So without knowing it consciously I was seeking my primordial lost Self, my missing half ... but it, too, was seeking me; it found me more than I found it. It was restored to me, born in me, "trailing clouds of glory," and exactly as Wordsworth describes the newborn child {folder 01 - 092} 10-25-80 5 in his "Ode." I must face it: my ancient missing Soul --because that is what I had lost (and I'm sure Eliade would agree; it was my Soul)-- came from God and Christ; the Christian "magic" is true; Christ is real, and my missing soul remembered God and Christ and all the sacraments, as if it had come freshly from the Pleroma... which I think it had. This may be the bottom line of the what, even though Neo-Platonism and Platonism is the how. It was born --incarnated-- in me exactly as a Soul is born --reincarnated-- in a newborn baby; except that I was full-grown. This is literally being "born again." What the Christians don't know or don't say is that metapsychosis is true, that a Soul can enter a fullgrown body as well as that of a fetus (but this is extraordinarily rare; and the key to it is that the Soul is the person's own, which he lost in the Fall, in primordial times; it is himself returning; the explosion and splintering involved in the Fall is reversed; that is why this particular Soul seeks him out; but none of these things are known or told by the Christians regarding being "born again" or "born in the Spirit" or "born from above"). (It is important to realize: this being born again restores the original intact wholeness and unity lost in the primordial fall that occurred before the person's lifetime.) So when a baby is born it remembers its former life, as Thomas did, but the brain is underdeveloped and the baby forgets before it can speak about such things, before it