passes over into Valis and becomes Valis: a conversion of the Lower Realm into the upper. I must go back to my statements on page 1 of this piece. "Valis is a meta system that at our level does not exist at all because at our level only its plural constituents exist as such. Valis is an organization, a structuring, of these constituents, in which they are unified into one entity." Etc. So the view of the reconciled opposites should not be regarded as another view but as a higher view. An introduction into a mystery that the contending sides of the dialectic are always and everywhere latently (secretly) reconciled in equilibrium forming a structure, a kosmos, into which the realm of flux, of the dialectic, constantly feeds. And this meta realm into which the realm of change feeds is permanent; nothing that enters it —is incorporated into it; this is an active process by a living Mind— ever ceases to be. So this meta realm is one of esse (Sein); it is higher on the scale of ontology than the realm of the dialectic. These are not two realms but two ways of viewing one reality; but (I think) the view of the reconciliation of opposites is a superior view; it is more true because this realm (or the world order viewed this way) is more real. Then I have justified, in a sense, Parmenides, who was the first to teach that not only was the world order not what it appeared to be (to our senses) but that the view that it did not change was more correct than the view that it did change... and this became the basis of Plato's metaphysics, his separation of the phenomenal world from the World of Forms. I would amend this (to repeat) by saying, There is one world order seen two ways, not two realms, strictly speaking; and the way of seeing the world order in which the world order forms a kosmos in which contend¬ ing forces are reconciled —act in partnership— is a higher view; it is an apprehension of the truer nature of the world order; it is a view of kosmos. Also (as Plotinus taught) this one is God and is alive and sentient; in a state of ecstasy a person can rise to union with it, and this is the supreme experience in this life. More unusual is my contention that this One, this unity, only exists when perceived, although it is nonetheless real. Therefore, I contend, this One urges the dialectic toward the production of greater consciousness in the world order; and that perception of the one by a person is really the perception of the one as macrocosm by itself as microcosm (the mirror effect). It is self-perception, self-awareness and self-knowledge by the one. This sets up the mapparadox (described by Hussey re Heraclitus) so the perception of Valis causes a rapid, even frantic,-permutation of the dialectic of his thought-processes; as he first catches sight of Valis he is in fact catching sight of himself; or, it can be said, Valis is catching sight of itself; or (it can even be said) Valis is coming into existence in the person and in the person's environment — the world order that he experiences. So initially in this event of selfawareness, self-perception by the one, a flight down a certain kind of time axis takes place, such as shamans report. Out of this rapid flight comes the perception of —or the reality of— the meta level unitary entity Valis. There are several aspects about this meta view (of Valis). (1) It is unitary (the world order/Valis). (2) In it the anti¬ thetical opposites of the dialectic are reconciled and in a state of equilibrium. (3) The dialectical interaction —what I call the flickering— perpetually feeds into it so that (4) It as kosmos grows, completes and complexifies and perfects itself. (5) it is permanent, even though accretional layers derived from the flux world of the dialectic are perpetually added. (6) Thus it can be said that the flux world of the dialectic, in which the opposites are not resolved but contend^is means and it is end. (7) Thus it can be said to have both a higher level or organization and ontology than the flickering on-off, on-off flux world; it is that which flickers; it is esse. (8) The flux world that we see, then, is its metabolism or activity, without true essence (esse). (9) It is sentient, volitional and everywhere; it is the pattern latent in the flux world. (10) a human mind can experience a hierogamy in which the contending elements —opposites— in that person's mind become resolved as a microcosm of Valis; at which point the person perceives Valis, or Valis comes into existence — I am not sure which. (11) This is self-perception by Valis. "The problems that most concerned the Milesians can be reduced to the question; what are the relations between the supreme power in the universe, 'the Divine,' and the observable world-order?" "For the Milesians the most characteristic property of the controlling deity was that he was alive and could initiate movement." Valis is more than unitary, in equilibrium, etc.; more, even, than a meta order. Valis is pure mind and it is alive and it can initiate movement. So my revelation by/with/concerning/of Valis is a revelation of the Milesians' controlling deity (either and his kosmos or as kosmos or as mind of kosmos). This is the most important point: kosmos and Mind ° And how both function together, especially in relation to the empirical world order of flux. Heraclitus: "Latent form is the master of obvious form." In the flux world —obvious form— the antitheses contend; but in the latent world they are reconciled (Valis). This is what I caught sight of when I saw Valis, this latent realm, this marriage of contending opposites. Why do two worlds exist? Valis makes use of the strife of the obvious world to feed itself as kosmos. All this would tend to indicate that Parmenides was correct about change and motion: that despite what our senses reported, motion (flux) was impossible. So the mystic is granted a vision of a unitary world (one in which the two contending antitheses are reconciled); this is the mystic vision per se. One could even define the Absolute this way: the realm beneath, within or beyond the empirical one, where the contending forces that produce the flux of this realm are reconciled. This is why there is a unity in the -21- latent realm that he sees; so I am not just saying "There is unity there rather than the dialectical strife"; I am saying why (the antitheses are reconciled). perhaps this is a definition of God. Or is taken to be God (i.e. "god" is our name for this meta realm in which the opposites are reconciled). Further, along this line of thought, this latent unity of opposites is sentient and it stage-manages our fluax realm; our obvious flux realm is shot through by the patterns —or plans— of the unity behind it. This gives rise to the notion that God —the reconciled opposites— gives rise to, acts as creator^ to, our flux realm. This is somewhat correct; the reconciled unity drives our realm along, deeply involved in it, making use of it. The flux world of the discrete plurality, which seems to us chaotic, itself masks an inner logic: a dialectical contention utilizing enantiodromia and in turn this dialectical contention masks a partnership or reconciliation or marriage of the two antitheses where there is a unity in dynamic tension (palintonos harmonie). Hence the obvious world seems unstable; the latent world in perfect equilibrium. It is one secret masking another and mirror opposite secret: the ostensible world of flux and chaos contains an antithetical dia¬ lectic (Zoroaster's revelation) (this is Yang and Yin contending, utilizing enantiodromia); and then behind that is the Tao which is on a state of perfect dynamic equilibrium. So my total revelation is (it would appear) identical with Taoism! Especially when you consider that the two sides of the dialectic revealed to me are quite obviously Yang and Yin — i.e. have the same attributes exactly as Yang and Yin. -22- And this, too, is Parmenides’ revelation, with his Forms One and Two; but he explains the unchanging world latent within them as the result of Form Two's irreality, rather than a marriage of opposites, an equilibrium; it is, for him, monism. Parmenides is utilizing a two-level truth: on a lesser or lower level a dialectic (between Forms One and Two) exists; but on a higher level only Form One is real and there is no dialectic, no change. I deal with this issue in VALIS. I think I have found a passage in Hussey that will account for the two realms: one of dialectical combat; the other of recon¬ ciliation of the two antitheses: "In Heraclitus it is difficult to tell how far the designs in God's mind are distinguished from the execution in the world, or indeed how far God's mind is distinguished from the world. The arguments of Parmenides seemed to show that all reality must indeed be a mind, or an object of thought m a mind. Anaxagoras, therefore, in making God a mind and the world, in effect, his thought, avoided the uneasy ambiguities of Heraclitus and could accept the Eleatic principle that whatever is is an object of thought, and conversely. This is based on the dropping of the idea of psyche and the use instead of the term noos. "In substituting 'Mind' for psuche, Anaxagoras shows that he has discarded this analogy (the divine power in the universe as like the psyche in the body) in favor of another one: that of the mind's creative and ordering power in the realm of pure thought. In other words, the universe, or at least the kosmos or kosmoi, are to be thought of as the ideas in God's mind, not the body which God God inhabits." (Berkeley versus Spinoza!) -23- The reason I say this change from the concept of psyche to that of noos is that when I saw the eternal world of the reticulated arborizing phylogons I had the distinct impression that I was seeing a memory system in a megametamind; and it is this that lies outside or above or beyond the dialectic. So latent in our world of the antithetical dialectic lies a realm that is reconciled because it is a realm of thoughts in God's mind. And Valis, when I apprehended it within me as mind, is that mind. This use of noos for psyche would fit into my ten volume meta novel and it might explain why I not only encountered Valis is mind (which could have been psyche, psyche of world as soma) but in fact saw it. The EB marco article on Taoism says, "The universe is a hierarchical structure," the micro-macrocosm correspondence. "A hierarchical structure." And I conceive of Valis as existing as a higher level hierarchically than anything else, so that we see only its plural constituents at our hierarchical level... so here is yet another element of my revelation that turns out to be Taoist. In viewing Valis as the Ch'ang Tao, and the dialectic as Yin and Yang, I should view 3-74 as an alchemical enantiodromia: the hierogamy that rises out of the depths of abasement and seeing the weak (Yin) go all the way to its extreme, where it reverts to its opposite: what Parmenides calls a "dry" or "fiery" soul, which is to say, made up only of Form One. But I see it more as an alchemical chemical wedding, a hierogamy: reconciliation of opposes after the opposites became totally estranged (bipolarized) in me. So two things may have occurred: enantiodromia of the weak (Yin) into -24- the strong (Yang) and enantiodromia of estrangement of the opposites, total bipolarization, into