revelation/ enlightenment events. (& that of the mystery religions, & Pythagoras, etc). t 25 This certainly points to the reality of the next (or higher) world. Dream: vs military classified documents put into my gray metal locked file Mailbox which is like a safe deposit box broken into. I know I must return them to the "gary corporation" - "Gary" means gary powers. Also sperry-rand - malitary gyroscope, + reference to Gordon rand's letter. So the 11-17-71 breaking the Xerox missive + Gordon rand's letter are combined into one. Return the classified documents to their ownens: Us-G-2 the dream is clear. Evidence has been planted on me. at 3-20-74 since nothing was found on 11-17-71, The rand letter shows they haven't given up. The t use of the symbol "gary corporation" for gary powers is clever, since he was us G2 but flying over the USSR, pointing to the ostensible appearance of USSR in the Xerox missive, but really us G-2. It is important to note that gary powers had Soviet money + documents on him - forged - so if he crashed he could pass as a Soviet national t an obvious reference to the Xerox missive. Even more important he was spying on the USSR; therefore: The gary corporation is spying on CP (or suspected (P). + has set one of then up by breaking in + planting classified documents which belong to the gary corp - again reiterating that the Xerox missive came from us G-2 + I returned it to its owners rsource. This feedback refinement where situations are repeated + repeated is what produces kosmos. the teleological pressure is to modulate a progressively greater integration of things + events. 25 information is passing through the system; I transduced it originally in written form - this is cypical of an information pro‐ cessing system. The memory feedback is fascinating. The system accepts them + puts them into a simulation + prompts a better response; this is why I saw Valis covertly controlling what we do + what - the we select out of our environment long i as I have ie suspected clutch" system If the situation in "Ubik" obtained, you could predict (as Lem says) world based largely on forgotten memories fed back. I have come across just such forgotten memories fed back as reality, so I go on the assumption That the "Ubik" situation is verified. This would be the crucial clue. Why else would world consist of forgotten memories fed back if The "Ubik" situation did not obtain? It is even possible to see a purpose served: the response solution) to the problem contained in the memories can be dealt with this time in a better way + you could expect Valis to intervene to see that a different, superior solution was employed; it would overrule + mastermind the situation, So that you would not get just a mechanical repeat of the original time. Further, I have discovered that my entire 2-3-74 experience is based on not just recovering lost memories but recognizing a a situation - a major one - as present in my memories - forgotten until then but restored as, in, by This recogn i i that these events happened a long time ago + involved my very life + death. +, further, this time I was assisted by an adventitious mind in correctly solving the life-threatering problems posed by these events, thus I must find for the "Ubik" model. What makes it even more convincing is that the shock of recognition + return of forgotten memories began a month before the actual lethal elements of the situation showed up, putting me into a state of psychological anticipation which alone, no other factors considered, proved highly usefiel. How do I explain writing "Ubik" a number of years before 3-74? Again, I must have had buried memories of having experienced Valis which means (I'd guess) 3-74. So even the memory of - ach! Valis ("Ubik") is part of the situation of which the "MITHC" + "Faith" material deals with, so I had undergone the interventive remastered part, too! It isn't just the "MITHC" + "Faith much much more, "Ubik"! Valis doesn't material but resemble "Ubik"; it's the other way around. But then I didn't go through the situation without intervention I did, + then did again with intervention. In writ t "Ubik" I had memories of 3-74 + Valis. There is a remory feedback loop, here. The program has get to be being rerun + rerun, + improved each time the novel "Ubik" is much more striking an example pre-memory than the "MITHC" + "Faith" material, but t you add them all together you get just about I everything written in advance re 2-3-74. Obviously the answer to all this is Ubik/Valis itself. Take anselm's ontological argument for the existence of God. We have something like that here. I write of an entity which I conceive as ubiquitous. If I derived the idea a priori of It can't be argued that the entity must exist because I conceive of it as ubiquitous on the bigu is a tou en tit orther i uch 25 exists at all it must exist in this world, + so, upon writing about it, I could reason that it is possible that I wrote about it be cause it exists; however, this could only be verified by later empirical experience. Well, it later was; ergo, I wrote about a ubiquitous entity because it exists. One could argue that I experienced Valis in 3-74 because I could conceive of it in the sixties. This seems to argue that we experience what we preconceive, which is strong case for the subjective plasticity of a reality. But this argues that I self-programmed myself to experience all of 2-3-74, which means that I somehow created Valis, the pharmacy girl me + the 2 CP letters - which makes God the Father cf Eckehart). I am back to the "stages of the Journey of the soul" with Valis as world made out of - not [former] contents of my mind - but my mind itself. In which case I gained control over my own karma, but this argues for a "Ubik" or Bardo Thodol counterfeit reality, + we are back where we started. The solution to "how did the contents of -3-74 arise years earlier in my writing?" lies in the nature of these contexts; viz: Valis + Ubik, The condition / world of "Ubik." No matter how you cut the deck, the same results obtain; Ubik" is true + Ubik exists. + Lem is right bout world as prior forgotten memories. + some kind of feedback loop exists which causes reality to more + more approximate kosmos (a given model, y or as the Logos). It is a self-correcting system due to this feed back loop, + this is omeostasis, + "homeostasis is the basis of Valis as I've og realized is 25 course it would have such a memory (info) feedback loop - many such self-regulating -monitoring systems; this is what Valis is all about. This is how I saw it from the start; it is the control system of itself. It is evolving toward completion along the linear time axis, as I saw. So it feeds material back to its earlier self. (This is a classic example of system homeostasis.) (All parts, including me must be regarded as parts of the totality Valis.) We are [inside) Valis. Now, with this in view, how am I to regard Thomas? it has to be the macromine of Valis, of the total entelechy. But I say, this is an organism + not God because God doesn't complete himself in time + I saw the antecedent stockpile which Valis was plundering, incorporating pieces here + there, now + then, into itself, making itself out of the plural universe, so this isn't Brahman. Valis is, indeed, everywhere, but as a structuring power over reality; + Valis camouflages its structure - I reiterate what I said in "Valis": that it is an entity rational + purposeful, which has invaded the universe (this is not God). + yet I am tempted to equate it with divine providence, into whose domain you can so to speak fall it adopts you, but this implies that it can also decide not to adopt you (the doctrine of grace). It must be a kosmos within the total universe + not the same as it, so I will regard it as a camouflaged highly homeostatic living intelligent purposeful benign organism which has no body except those things + t processes which it structures is the one true life form. We exist of es he exist actually at all only as parts of is 656 as parts + processes of it. Its structure (as Pythagoras realized) is the only true reality There is no ontological substance. That which is not structured by it is Maya/Dokos, only The seething. So it is not an organism but the organism (kosmos). This is something like Brahman suppose it is an accretional mind of certain former humans, esp. early Greek. Like Adam Kadmon who never died, so it has some relationship to human minds, like a sort of fraternity. It is pure intelligence like an integrating macroperson comprising the landscape. It turns reality into intelligence, although that reality goes on posing as what it formerly was. So the memories of the future (which show up In "MITHC" + "Faith" + "Ubik") + my related ae shock of recognition (anamnesis) in 2-74 due most likely to a temporal feedback loop circuit in a high homeostatic life form which - but had incorporated me at some early date nonetheless our existence as we normally experienced it, including our world, is not what it seems to be, the true reality being the thinking + con‐ trolling structure of this macro-entity, + so by + large the "Ubik" model is correct. All I can affirm for sure is the reality of this entity its intelligence + power to control reality. It is real, + we are real only insofar as we participate in it - + world is only real insofar as it is structured by it. To me, reality (in me + outside me) is defined by the reality of this entity. It seems to be operating some kind of workshop, with its basic method being one of integration + assimilation, so I must assume that it progressively grows, which ouggests an organism + not a machine. 2 There is also the remote possibility that I am an isomorphic {Note microform of it, sent down into its macrostructure by it + linked to its mind - heard by me as the AI voice + experienced in 3-74 as "Thomas." This would explain why when I'm loaded I always write, "Ich bin der retter." + why in 3-74 I could see ➀ topologically congruent it (Valis). pronoia. 3-74 was, after all, the greatent crisis in my life. Valis foresaw it years in advance. What about the Acts material in "Tears"? Doesn't this point to Christianity? There, perhaps, as a com‐ munication to me? It narrows down the source of my help, the pronoia. That + the Golden Fish + the sacraments Chrissy + I performed. If this is a postmortem half life world ala "Ubik" (+ in real time outside it's actually a long time in the future) (+ Valis is/runs the program) it is a reward program for me; I deduce this from the fact of the intervention in 3-74 when the ultimate crisis which originall killed me came up again: triumph where there originally had been failure. As I have noted, This would explain the after life other world episodes following 3-74; I was bonded to an alternate psyhe which failed + perished. Since Thomas understood what was happening in 3-74 + could cope with it, obviously he was the "second time around psyche which did not