playing dead, to blend in; yes - indistinguishable from world. No way our senses could do a set-ground discrimination. I was only aware of it by its activity: when it acted; otherwise, when blending, even in my heightened state I couldn't have discerned it. So there is no way to say how much of world it has replaced - i.e. what percent + which parts are world + which parts it. This is not panpsychism + maybe not immanent deity, but a UTI systematically replacing ("transsubstantiating progressively) world. I have no reason to believe it created world in the first place - no; it appeared to have invaded world, + by playing dead could not be told from it; not until it acted. Like a vast body. Of an organism. It was as if certain parts of world (reality) stirred: + all which stirred was a single organism distributed here + there, but unitary. It was energy -plasmatic- which could appear hypostatized as matter by just posing as things (matter). It is not a thing (matter); but when at rest appears to our senses indistinguishable from matter, as if it slows down. It deliberately slows itself down to the pace, rate or level of world. I am certain this is correctly formulated. folder 21 - 086 But what is its relation to the macrobrain + its info? I'd say, it is the macrobrain, + it arranges matter to form information, using world as a carrier of information. A carrier, yes, that's why the term modulation occurs to me; it modulates reality into a vehicle for information. It arranges reality into information, which is a way of ordering reality. This is exactly what it did, also, with "Tears." Arranged it + was it! Used the total novel (actually book) as a modulated carrier. Yes - this explains the apparent theological dualism of it intercepting (fielding) the Xerox missive; if it was all reality, it'd be in effect fighting itself. So a priori I can deduce it is not everything. It "transsubstantiated" me; modulated me into a carrier. Or could one say it modulates reality (inc. me) into information, not just a carrier for? Then the macrobrain is reality modulated into a carrier or into information itself - + it was quite extensive. That's its only purpose in controlling the arrangement of reality, to convert it into information. Inc. me, since I had at an earlier time been incorporated into it + was a carrier for info (in my writing). This explains the content of my writing + the 3-74 intervention. Zebra is information; it is converting us-+-world into it. But this discloses that we + world can be made plastic ("in the face of mind" - it is mind that's involved here.) folder 21 - 087 folder 21 - 087 Let's recall why I sent a copy of "Tears" to Diane Pike: because I thought that the dream in which the helmeted knights come to kill "the man shut up in the house" i.e. given in the novel as Jason Taverner (who is innocent of any crime but if framed as murderer in an actual death) somehow referred to Jim's death. (+ by extension to the conspirators + the civil rights leaders' assassinations.) Or, the message is one of punishment for those assassinations - punishment by the "Great White Brotherhood" whoever they may be, thus referring [as well] to the overthrow, the needed overthrow, of the Nixon tyranny. "Tears" could be said to present the U.S. which the police apparatus would like to see established; in "Tears" their goals got completed, down to specific details. As one reviewer said, "In this novel the civil rights movements of the sixties seem to have failed" - it is an alternate Earth. (What I call Track A.) Maybe "Tears" disclosed the master plan of Cointelpro + the thinking behind it. But it is then invaded by the wise old king (and knights) who passes judgment of culpability. If "Ubik" is correct, Zebra is the Logos or the mystical body of Christ, which was the impression I had in 2-74/3-74/2-75. The Dogon fish god Nommo. Fish sign in its original form, standing for "Brotherhood of Sirius"? Maybe my fish dreams (all 3 (or 4?)) refer to Nommo. If Nommo is an archetype in my phylogenic memory, I am from Sirius. (Or the plasmate is, + I'm a homoplasmate.) + have been for decades. folder 21 - 088 folder 21 - 088 Then the Xerox missive came from those motivated by Yurugu, + I know specifically who sent it, which fits in with the information in "Tears." But these are minor considerations. The real consideration is Zebra playing dead so as to be undetectable - + e.g. firing info at me via a beam of pink light, + modulating reality (inc. me) into info or as a carrier for info. I had the clue all the time in the word "modulate" - as in frequency modulation or amplitude modulation. + Zebra is the info which is alive, + replicates (or rather proliferates) itself through (or as) info e.g. in "Tears," etc. An informational universe (cf. "Cosmic Trigger") (where this possibility is mentioned in passing as one possibility.) This fits in with the "AI" voice giving me info late at night; it doesn't just talk; everything which it utters is info, + vital (to me) info. Interspecies bonding (v. "Cosmic Trigger",) homoplasmate, my dreams of being a fish - even eaten (by the Jews as symbolized by Bob Silverberg.) I as a pluriform of Nommo (Christ). "Fish can't carry guns." + I dreamed of the winged globe {illustration of a globe with outstretched wings}, + it was golden. Firebright. Horus, Osiris. ___ Obviously in 3-74 my DNA gene pool memory fired (phylogenic memory) + the DNA programming "burned itself up" ("astral determinism" expired) at the same time. There is therefore a visible connection between anamnesis (phylogenic memory stored in the DNA) + the breaking of DNA control (Karma). Except that the phylogenic personality took over completely, which seems contradictory to astral determinism being broken; isn't phylogenic memory astral determinism? folder 21 - 089 folder 21 - 089 Phylogenic memory + override of DNA programming + interspecies symbiosis. Bob Wilson: "at circuit VIII space-time is obliterated,... 'The greatest is within the smallest,'" "The contelligence within the quantum projection booth is the entire cosmic 'brain,' just as the micro-miniaturized DNA helix is the local brain guiding planetary evolution." This is the highest state humans can reach. I would guess that this "contelligence" is the override of the "micro-miniaturized DNA helix local brain" which I experienced as "Thomas"; viz: "There is someone else inside my head + he is not living in this century," + "someone in this room is outside of time," + "I am your tutelary spirit," + "I have plenary [once also stated as plenipotentiary] power." ___ At the age of iron Brahman is asleep + has exhaled its micro pluriforms as far from it as they go; they are sunk in ignorance, deformation + forgetfulness + sleep. Then the 2-part cycle starts them waking up, remembering, losing their occlusion; they are again in touch with Brahman ("cosmic intelligence"); they are inhaled, Brahman awakes - back "up" or "in," + Shiva is the presiding God with his Dibba Cackhu eye, which annihilates the world + frees the pluriforms of Brahman by virtue of his lending them Ajna discernment (enlightenment). The 5th or final savior has come, this time as king and judge. He calls his own [sheep] + destroys the others: this planet has served its purpose. folder 21 - 090 folder 21 - 090 __ It was as if my DNA tape was tricked (confused) into losing its clock-synchronized measured firing, + so fired the entire remainder of its programming at furious velocity - into the void; i.e. not synchronized with the outer tape: "external reality" - it needed no disinhibiting stimuli, etc., but simply exhausted its contents - even up to + including a postmortem existence. This tricking was done by emergency terror at the nearness of death, + sensory deprivation, plus the revelation of the fish sign + anamnesis, which may have started the DNA's disorientation (+ was so calculated to do), as to what the true time actually was (see supra my pages on how the organism seems to measure time: by rate of change alone). This DNA tape may have been fashioned to serve for more than this (i.e. one) lifetime. In which case my Karma may have burned itself up, freeing me from the wheel of rebirth. I am no longer a DNA robot. The outer ("external reality") tape, of course, remained intact, since its flow-rate is not dependent on anything in me. But still, my programmed response to the Xerox missive did not take place. I was conscious at the time of programming, I was afraid it would succeed, but it didn't; the override worked, + in time (time was of the essence). What I don't normally realize is that had my DNA programmed response to the Xerox missive been acted out (whatever it would have been) folder 21 - 091 the rest of my life would have been determined. That it was a Cointelpro trap I have no doubt of, although I can't determine if they would have busted me for possessing the Xerox missive or if they hoped I'd answer it. I guess they'd of had me either way. My prefallen-man primordial intact faculties were temporarily restored to me by God's grace, to exculpate me. This was a miracle, + most of all it has made me know God + his love, wisdom + power. I know him now, + I know he wants for my return to him (the loving abyss). + I got to see the macrobrain here camouflaged + how it uses our world + us as carriers which it modulates into information processing. (The Savior, Mystical Body of Christ consuming the world + us, the Logos). + I know my original identity of the world of Acts, + know of the authentic secret apostolic Xtian church + how they overthrew Nixon. (God's intervention "at the eleventh hour" in history.) + there is the AI voice of my tutelary spirit which informs + guides me + is my companion (the Beside-helper, the Paraclete). (Which is also the low murmuring voice which Elijah heard.) + I have reason to believe my 1st century E personality is the immortal Elijah - + that the Savior is here again or soon will be, which is the Good News! revealed to me. folder 21 - 092 folder 21 - 092 One thing of great significance which I was told by the AI voice is that from the primordial beginning I was determined by the deterministic process to be saved, + nothing could stop it; I was, so to speak, "doomed to be saved. Some are, + some are doomed not to be, + nothing can change it, once the process starts into motion." So the "override" in 3-74 of determinism was actually a culmination, more accurately, of a long process. Here is a difficult to understand event: God's miraculous intervention in his own cosmos not being an intervention, an overruling (or suspension of natural causality) not being an overruling - but more the expending totally of the [lower level] causal law (Karma), upon the exhaustion of which the upper level sentient, volutional Noos of God takes over from it, to replace it - exactly as Christ said; viz: that he came to fulfill the Law; but the Law, once fulfilled, ended, + was void - + a new era of Christ + Christ's decisions (choice) began, replacing + superceding it. This is the historic macroform 2-stage progression which I passed through in microform: in 3-74 the "law" ended for me, + Christ took over. The age of the law fulfilled itself + died. It is now null + void.