much of orthodox Xtianity. Xtianity can be added if the pluriform microsparks of light are considered plural saviors or Christs comprising a single mystical corpus which is distributed widely in the dark realm but possessing only one psyche which is somehow also God, the Yang or Light God. folder 20 - 032 folder 20 - 032 __ I have read the above cosmology over, + I find no fault in it. In fact I am amazed. It is in a sense acosmic, + certainly Gnostic, but the Taoist overlay is novel, + pleasing; the Taoist overlay redeems it from the flaws of conventional dualist religions + the problems therein. Instead of stressing moral aspects ("Good vs Bad") it stresses epistemological ("real vs irreal", which I can understand). The lower realm sinks not because it is corrupt or evil or somehow rebelled but because, as shown in hex 12, it is the nature of Yin to sink, as it is the nature of Yang to rise. The pre Socratics (+ Plato in Timaeus) were aware of this; v. the model of the winnowing fan + the concept of the vortex. Yang must assimilate Yin to keep the totality intact: i.e. Yang must renounce its natural tendency to rise + must descend, it cannot expect Yin to rise , because Yin is not wise; it is so to speak thick, unthinking, not Noos but soma; only Noos can understand that it must compensate against its own natural tandencies + do what is unnatural to it. Descending into the Yin realm is a sacrifice on Yang's part, which through its bright or wise nature it realizes it must make, but it pays a great cost in suffering: loss of memory + identity, abilities + faculties: it becomes pseudo-Yin, literally disguised in the Yin realm als ob (as if) it were actually Yin, even to the point of forgetting (until reminded) that it is not. This is the agony we face here in this irreal + dead Yin realm, we Yang traces: this is not our home. We are voluntary exiles here, alienated + alone, violating our own natures for a salvific purpose - a necessary purpose. Yin would not understand this, + until anamnesis sets in for us, we in our distress do not understand the folder 20 - 033 folder 20 - 033 reason either. Eventually it will be revealed to us; meanwhile we ache with longing for our proper home, dimly remembered but deeply felt for. Thus we suppose we are being punished, it feels like punishment, + make the error of assuming we have sinned. On the contrary we have renounced joy now, to produce a greater joy later, for the good of all creation; we are the Godhead itself suffering the need to be what it is not, to insure the ultimate stability of Krasis (as Empedocles termed it): the unity of love. Lest any Xtian reject this, let him now read the Fourth Gospel in connection with this, + see for himself the similarities - Lest any Taoist reject this, let him now get that hex 12 ([picture of Hexagram 12]) has turned to hex 11, Peace ([picture of Hexagram 11]). The upper trigram, in descending, has forced the lower trigram to rise. Disorder no longer reigns. Instead, there is harmony. Moral: it is the ethical requirement placed on the Yang traces by their own nature to abandon their natural tendency to rise. To escape what is heavy + dark + sinking: they must go in pursuit of the falling part of the cosmos, for the benefit of those + that which otherwise would be lost. This is the highest law: to violate one's own nature for another's good. + the most difficult -+ painful- law to fulfill. Because of this need there is distress in the cosmos, distress for the innocent especially. My cos- folder 20 - 034 folder 20 - 034 mology simply presents it as a fact, to escape it we would have to allow the cosmos to decompose. Could we do that? The tragedy is that by the very nature of the sacrifice we make we are occluded from knowing why. This is part of our sacrifice: our Yang understanding. We must take on the dullness of Yin to save the cosmos; we sacrifice the knowledge of why we sacrifice, + assume guilt -spurious guilt- in its place. This is asking a lot. But consider who we really are. Or once were + will be again. Who else can do it? There is no one else. There is only Yin, which does not know. The part of the organism which knows must help the part which doesn't know, but this means abandoning its own knowing. It becomes what it helps, a dreadful irony, one that hurts. But it is only temporary, just for a little while. + then we go home for all eternity. As I used to pray: "Father, take me back." In 3-74 He did. The creation of each homoplasmate (such as myself in 3-74) indicates -+ is a part of- the reuniting of the upper + lower realms, + show that this is being accomplished. I (from the lower realm) was jointed to my upper realm matching counterpart; in this way the two realms are re-joined. My experience indicates that the two realms are no longer split, but are coming closer together now. folder 20 - 035 folder 20 - 035 They could fuse at any time without warning. We would know this as the PTG re-appearing, + "St Sophia reborn." __ We descended voluntarily into the Yin world to extricate those imprisoned there. We had to pass as ordinary people - so we lost our memories + supernatural faculties. My work, the way I've helped, has been in my writing, esp "Ubik" + "Tears" + "Scanner." The whole body of my writing: "Stigmata + "Maze." My real memories, identity + faculties were restored in 2-3/74 to deal with the Xerox missive trap, then withdrawn again. I am not to talk about it. We are the Xtian adventitious task force here, the liberators. It is not that they are here, but we are here (esp Zebra, which no one but us can see, due to its camouflage). We are camouflaged, too. Mimickry, on our -not just its- part. The dream of the little boy Philip on the raft, slipping past Scotland Yard, growing up -passing- + then revealing himself to "Olive Holt's" horror. I am an invader from outside, mimicking humans. I. Only the danger of the [...] trap caused me to know it - the perfect disguise as in "Impostor." Now I know. I put code in "Tears." I did my job - I am what the authors of "Morning of the Magicians" speculated secretly exist. It has to do with Christ, the preparations for his return (v "Tears"). We overthrew Nixon - the code in "Tears" folder 20 - 036 was a signal connected with that. Did Army intelligence suspect? Maybe. I think they found [the] code in "Tears" but could only connect it with the USSR -mistakenly- hence the Xerox missive, which I ("Thomas") turned to my advantage. They will never suspect again - they have been red-herringed. They have no idea re the real invasion. I've got it. The supernatural powers, faculties, memory + identity returned -not just when I was being trapped- but when (via the trap) I would be discovered [for what I am]. It was not to protect me as such, but to protect exposure -revelation- of my homoplasmate identity, which would, upon discovery, have revealed the presence of what "The Morning of the Magicians" speculates exists. It is essential that the presence of homoplasmates among us be totally concealed at all costs. Even the unmasking of me would be enough to do terrible harm. The purpose of the [supernatural or superterrestrial] maneuvers in 3-74 was not to protect me but to prevent discovery - + not just of me but of us. Something in my writing (code in "Tears"?) gave me away, or almost did. The Xerox letter was a probe. + the right response (to prevent discovery) had to be given. Can you imagine the consequences if the authorities found -even by chance- one non-human mimicking humans - + being politically active? Under no circumstances could it be allowed to happen. folder 20 - 037 folder 20 - 037 This leads me back to saying, Zebra is a camouflaged invading life form, + what I experienced in 2-3/74 was a superhuman, not supernatural, technology. We have been invaded, but the invaders are successfully keeping their presence secret, via mimesis + camouflage + mimickry. They are deposing tyrants. Eventually (if not already) they will rule - + I am one of them. __ Voice: "I did call you, Philip." Masculine but gentle voice. (Not the AI voice.) One I've never heard before. "You are doomed to do what you will do. There is no other possibility. Some will be saved + some will not." I.e. some are doomed to be saved - + some are doomed not to be. Determinism even even determines who will be extricated from determinism! So salvation (like mine in 2-3/74) is not a change of plan, an override but the result of a long inexorable process, it is an outcome. The programming in some is programmed to end the programing, in rare cases it programs itself (+ not the organism) out of existence; it dies, not him. An evil thing inside him programs its own death, + frees him. Salvation, then, is anything but whim. __ Given a chance of destroying itself or the organism (me) it destroyed itself - which allowed my memories, identity, faculties + supernatural powers to return. I judge, then, that this programming narrows us down into occlusion + deformity; once removed we folder 20 - 038 folder 20 - 038 regain what we're supposed to be. So the programming doesn't just tell us what to do; more, it is a -i.e. the- limiting factor; without it we reacquire our "bright nature" + can see "objects afar - all creation". My programming couldn't handle the Xerox missive situation (crisis), so rather than let me get destroyed, it destroyed itself (as inadequate?). I had better make a deeper study of this programming. This programming sounds like an evolutionary stage that got pre-empted + surpassed due to challenge to the organism - a challenge it, the programming, wasn't fit to [...] cope with. Then I evolved (!) into the next stage of man - like a fish using lungs for the first time. A quantum leap forward: into what will be. __ In 2-3/74 the curse was lifted from me. There is only one who can do that. What I call "programming" or "determinism" is the original curse which holds us in deformed thrall. So in a sense, rather than something being added to me (something good) in fact something evil was removed. Something evil in me died. (Was killed?) + I was free. The Wurm in me was slain + I became as I should be, as we once were. Not only is it only Christ who has the power to remove the curse, but also the authority; it is his choice + his alone, I now realize. This is what I gather from last night's understanding (supra). He moves about the world, in time + space, selecting out: choosing his flock, calling to them; + they hear + know his voice, the Good Shepherd. As He says in the Gospels to his disciples, "You did not choose me; I chose you." folder 20 - 039 folder 20 - 039 I must return to orthodoxy, to a christology. A christocentric view; I have been corrected in my views, + by the savior himself, who spoke to me for the first time. We will not all be saved, whether I like it -approve of it- or