then I didn't see world qua world nor God qua God, but a kind of fusion! something like pantheism, but more complex, due to what Malebranches calls the intellectual archetypal ideas in God's mind that he used as the basis for creation; more, I saw God as the actual cause of all motion, change + activity. In fact, I did not see world, I experienced the archetypal ideas in his mind as archetypal ideas in his mind; this is whys. I the 2 spatiotemporal sets blended. I was aware of world as ideas in his mind, + I was aware of him. Him in me motivating me (e.g. vis-a-vis the Xerox missive). + the info about Chrissy, + externally as Valis. + causes as occasional -what I call "pretextual" - causes. The inner-outer tape synch that causes reality to seem real + causes us to act. ) "Vision in God": the archetypal ideas in his mind, we perceive these as world. 2) God as the true cause of motion outside us + in us. result: God in all, + all in God. We owe our existence + actions as well as our knowledge to God. 72 the "perturbation": it made it possible for me to experience the case that Malebrache's describes: (1) vision in God; (2) occasionalism. Normally It is not possible to defect what I call the "wizardny pertaining to the nature of causation, reality of objects (they are in fact ideas in God's mind) + our being "programmed" in a vast integrated structure. the "perturbation" (this is the correct term), although its immediate purpose was to save me (pronoia) gave me so-to-speak detached perception of the actual situation. What, then, in terms of Malebrache's philosophy, did the perturbation" consist of? Why, God (1) acting on me with little or no "camouflage" -i.e. without cause, so that he was disclosed; (2) the invincible power over me + my (sic) volition of his activity. That he is, he is everything + everywhere, that he is sentient, that he motivates us absolutely. So he is not just out there but in us, in fact is us. Thus the entire integrated structure was apparent to me, + my necessary involve What ment in I experienced most of all t 73 w effect causing. i without I cause ot n pe The self e I What I find in Malebranche is two elements that apply to 3-74: 1) His critique of causation. -his doctrine of occasionalism- that fits in with what call "pretextual cause" + was a major perception in 3-74. This is connected with the inner-outer tape synch + engramming. 2) His "vision in God." We do not in fact experience world but archetypal intelligible ideas in God's mind. This would explain the meta-abstraction of 2-74 + the elements connected with it; e.g. the syntonic double superimposition of two spatiotemporal sets" revealing to me that in some very major sense world was not world at all, + that the true arrangement was abstract + conceptual. underlying (1) + (2) is: God is the case, not world. There is no world, at least insotar as we are concerned; there are intelligible ideas - more, there is a mens Dee that causes us to experience these ideas as world, + this mens dee signals to us ineluctably through + by means of this seeming world, with the result that we are in effect modes of this mens dei forming one continuum or field with the ideas. The whole thing is one sentient volitional structure with a single underlying mind. Multiplicity is illusory. 2 I must remember the dismay + panic is felt when by reasoning I established the veracity of Spinoza's God, my sense of Loss - just realized: Malebranche is the first true Xtian philosopher I've con‐ sidered. So this ushers back in the Xtian material (e.g. apocalyptic history) back in. The space that Beethoven's music contains is infinite; it is God as abyss. The new disclosure: that he is present here in the very fabric of reality. This is not in the Bible. This is my Kerygma need [to say, to know] + all I I saw him. I have to tell it. I saw the annointed one a brief glimpse anamnesis out of trash novels - out of Gatin. Galelic. tremendous insight: when male branch says we really see the intellibible archetypes in God's mind; he is saying we see. I te is the the arihetybes common essence; i.e. This mre is why the 2 Plato's Forms spatiotemporal sets blended is his "visiin in God theoy Aoe of My articles on M. mention that the intelligible archetypes in God's mind that we really see" are the platonic forms - the MMSK the common essence. e here itop further proof that M. is right. I cheaked my earlier notes. No, I was not aware that M's intelligible arche types are Plato's eide! a strange idea came to me. My E of Ph say the flux world (according to Plato) is only semireal, unreal in terms of its flux world materiality, real insofar as it participates in the Forms. Now, if these forms are, as Malebranche says, the archetypal ideas in the mind of God o which he based creation, +, as Malebranche says, we do not perceive the world itself but rather these intelligible archetypal ideas It strikes me as unlikely that a given arche typal idea repeatss itself again + again for all the particulars it participates in ("is" in). All this being so, the spatiotemporal world is not a world at all; only the given eide participating in a given spatio rworld are real - +, what is more. plural spatiotemporal sets based on the same eidos (or eide) could /would syntonically superimpose (blend into one), (which would be the eidos) of seen correctly of So 4 the You could discriminate eide of by sotospeak extracting them back out of the spatiotemporal world, you would no longer be in world but in the mind ving of God + conceiving or apper his intelligible archetypal ideas. It would be as if you returned by cosmic resorption to the moment before cosmogenesis, to before time was unteashed. Here, Malebranche's system explains precisely what Spinoza's does not: my meta-abstracting + the double superimposition of the two spatio‐ temporal worlds. Thus I have Plato (the Forms), cosmic resorption + Xtian apocalyptic history in one system - Malebranche's. Plus of course Valis, pretextual causes + the inner- outer tape synch. (Valis seen externally + Valis in me as mind + this is God.) It was the mind of God that remembered Acts AD 45, not me; hence it was God in me surfacing, due to the pentathol, + seeing -it seeingthe Xtian Fish sign. In the conceptual arrangement of the MMSK each Form (phylogon) appears but once; but since memory is a hologram, a given form "repeats" itself (or rather seems to) in spatiotemporal sets, which are memories stored by the Mens Dei‐ ➀ Are we in fact in [spatiotemporal. world in the first place? Apparently not Perhaps as individual particular humans we are, but when we lose that modality + ascend -as Plotinus into the teaches back 8 kind of God we love spatiotemporality (+ causation, etc). Hence I experienced infinite space, + this was God + my awareness of God. Thus Malebranche's "vision in God" if seen as Plato's Forms leads to the conviction (not share by Malebranche himself) that in some certain important sense the Gnostics are right: world is irreal. We are caused to see world whereas in fact what we actually see is the intelligible This archetypes - Plato's eide - in God's mind. is very close to Brahmanism! In other words, God imposes on us the impression that we experience (spatiotemporal) world; viz: "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." Likewise, he creates for us the impression that we experience causation Malebranche has all the pieces but won't put them together (the implications of [for acosmism), here, in a strict Xtian tradition, are the ingredients for Brahmanism A sort of Platonist Brahmanism, in view of the doctrine of the intelligible archetypes (Plato's eide). Also, I see implications for one Neoplatonism; viz rising to an apperception of these intelligible archetypes not in space, not in time, with causation abolished, +, most of all, awareness of being in God's mind + not in spatiotemporal world, + of course unity not multiplicity; you would be aware ex post facto of the twin tapes synchronization engramming, the clutch, the physical thoughts. living info, etc. Hall of what you now wha ok apprehend consis‐ it of make 6 (to ha made) world seem eaie mechanisms of convincing impression-) + the other half are things as they really are (but, like the mechanisms of convincing impression, were occluded off from you). i Platonism "aebranche t Brahmanism + + This lacks the retains the valuable This lacks the concept of God's elements of Platonism concept of the mind. + a + also opens the way eide or archetypes radical for Brahmanist acosmism. acosmism What I gather from all this is that something exists that does deserve the appelation "world but it is not world as we experience it; it is not spatiotemporal but is, instead, composed of intelligible -not sensible- archetypes (eide) in a mind (God's mind), conceptually + abstractly arranged (the MMSK). I feel that a deliberate effort -in fact a complex mechanism- exists by which the ineluctable impression is imposed on us that space, time + causation are real; these are not just limitations to our- percept-cognitive systems. But this is world!N It's as if I think that me figuring out how a compressor works somehow invalidates my refrigerator. This is a realization of (1) utmost importance + (2) utmost subtlty. Viz: God has the power to compel us to believe in the spatiotemporal world, which makes it literally real (for us); thus I [partially] define God: by his power (authority + ability) to do this; by the same token, likewise God + God only has the power cauthority + ability) to with draw this ineluctable impression of reality 7 The + he alone- which defines him (correctly) as creator/Pantocrator. It is an error in reasoning to speak of "the impression of reality ineluctably compelling + cognitive a your perceptualassent" as illusory. My 2-3-74 experience both discloses "irreality" + the invincible impressing (impression-system) of that "irreality" on you, like an absolute + ultimate hypnotism/Wizardry. This adds up to pragmatically real. It's no different from the fact that atoms are composed of electrons + molecules of atoms, etc. The mechanism not only works on you from outside (externally) but inside you, in + on your mind directly. This is proof of the existence of God, because only God can do all this. Thus 2-3-74 amounts to (i.e is) a demonstration by God (vis-à-vis me) of his power hence of his existence the "irreality" of world + the "mechanism of impression" when revealed tell me a lot about world, but, more, I am told about God; thus paradoxically the fact that normally world seems to us totally real, + God does not seem to be, is proof of God's power, when the full picture is disclosed. + God could hardly have power of any sort if he did not exist. Thus, the imparting of knowledge of the true picture is an ultimate gift; you cannot discern these things (on your own); this too, is proof of God's sovereign power, that he must withdraw the utter compelling power of world it you are to see the true case. 8 This is a milestone in my thinking, + I owe it to Malebranche. 1) invincibly impinging stimuli 2) Which are absolutely convincing to us but not as stimule causes look like causes (this is a major aspect of the total situation) so that we will not be aware of the situation. 3) Is