the binary digits are the vehicle by which this news is transmitted. So the brain can if it wishes concentrate on the epistemological implications (the vehicle) or the message (the Parousia is here). The first yields this epistemological knowledge. World as we know it is a construct by our brain based on informat fed to it (by a source that can only be known inferrentially if at all). The second yields up the news that Christ has returned means (the bits) + end (news of the Parousia) must be compared, the former having theoretical importance; the latter has vast + immediate practical mportance hen what is the overview? The mechanism (Platonist "analytical" elements) is for the use + purpose of conveying the information - message (Xtian "synthesist elements): that God is here, the Parousia is here, Christ will soon be or already is, reborn. The Platonist elements are the means; the Xtian the ends. Hence the Platonist elements are utilized to convey the Xtian Kerygma + vision. What should be supposed is a Platonist Xtianity such as e.g. Augustine + Malebranche supposed. It could hardly be assumed that the Xtian element is the means to (or carrier of) the Platonist element. In terms of my own ontological identity, I understand myself to be - to have eternally been - a Xtian, devoted to revolutionary Xtian activity preparing the way for Christ's return, all things being done in expectation of this web... Chains..." reveals an awful + is a capitulation terrible truth: Xtianity to the inevitable, it is the epitome of realism, in fac essence of existent th ag D-186 for men + animate: that we are in the final analysis helpless in the tally grip of forces we can't control, that control us Xtianity then is a way of confronting the facts of existence unflinchingly; these facts are: suffering, helplessness in the face of power, that power, not right, rules + determines our fate. Xtianity is analytical, not ethical; it is an awareness of helpless defeat. It is the bravest system ever devised; the true t Xtian has seen the world as it is + knows that it will defeat him + that there is no recourse, no appeal. It tells of a truth So harsh that no one but a Xtian it. It says that defeat s can bear to face is inevitable, + that the realist knows this + does not flee from it in the false heroics of existentialism, art + stoicism. we have lost, + nothing at any point i i along the line would or could have changed this. The essence of life is: you lose. Jesus last; we lose, to live is to succumb power. The only strength that exists to - that can exist - is the strength to face to know, to understand, + not evade this: in fintasy what truly is. Xtianity, then, is a system of rigorous honesty; it is a Gnosis, + this Gnosis is: the power of world is invincible, + any view that the good + the just win out is illusory + evasive. Defeat inevitable. Thus Xtianity links you self s to world in a way that precludes science. It it of a mind of deception. is sanity, a terrible the highest truth. It I it sobr waking up D-57 it marks an end to what yeats spoke of: "the world of old on dreaming fed; Grey truth is now her painted toy, yet still she turns her restless head." The Xtian does not turn his restless head. Truth has entered mankind's mental construct, man's inner analog of reality. Man, through Xtianity, is at last fully + truly linked to reality, + matures into mental aducthood. The Xtian is a man, not a child. He is the first rational man in history - a great moment. Man no longer frees life but confronts it without evasion or even the hope of evasion. The dream is over: "the world of old on dreaming fed" + the Xtian eves not dream; he is awake: consciousness for the human species has begun. Hence in a certain strange + eerie way, almost a magical way, the Xtian is a very powerful person powerful because he is rational because he has no delusions out of his confrontation with his own helplessness he has, paradoxically, become strang: it is the strength of what we know of as: sanity. the Xtian, then, is the first truly sanc man, an anemnly in the world. He is in possession of a totally new + unforeseen magic, the technology of total acknowledge. ment of defeat: destroy him + he winst e Thus this story is a very great story unique + original, + terrifying; it makes the less than Xtian person run a the Xtian he flies its truth. however, i D-158 armed with the truth. He constitutes a quantum evolutionary leap; he does not lie to himself. Only a Xtian would under‐ stand + approve of this story. He knows what weakness is. + this story is an account of weakness, not of if the victory an unusual right. Weakness is power, as the "Tao Te weak (i.e. meek); Ching" hinted at. By being ordinary by being defeated by power, the Xtian he wins in the act of being crushed wins; because he is homo sapiens: knowing, conscious man: he is true to his essential nature which is to know; this is our self-definition: this is what makes us what we are. The Xtian's victory is ontological, not existential; it has to do with his nature, his essence not his Acts. Destroy him + he wakes up, which is to the basis of say, kill him + he lives. Xtianity lies in this paradox, + only the Xtian understands it because only he has the courage to face it. Existence + knowing of are one + the same: this is the meaning rationality. + this is the point of this wonderful story. +, more importantly. This is the explanation of the mystery of Christ's crucifixion: kill him + he lives because knowing + living for a man is one + the same things, defeated + destroyed by world's power, man knows his own destruction makes him totally conscious - if he is a destroyed anyhow, Xtians. Ie not he is hence without becoming without knowing Thus the ending in He concedes life, + is man. of "Valis." D-189 Noein + einai are rejoined (as Heidegger longed for), + the primordial fard is repealed. + this, precisely, is what Christ died for. This was his purpose + his success. kill a Xtian + he is, because in the moment of being destroyed he knows + he knows because he does not flee's he is aware of his defeat as inevitable; it could not be avoided. Hence he does not run. This is what my story is about: Mavane, at the beginning, is hiding + evading, but at the end He has ceased to run, +, for the first time, is. The story, then, is not unhappy; It tell about victory, of a certain subtle kind. to understand it is to participate in + share that victory. Therefore the story is a kerygma: it is good news - the godspel of Xtianity. The dispassion that this knowing leads to is the dispassion of Holy Wisdom (the AI voice) i.e. of Christ himself. then Xtianity is a way of coming to grips with reality, so that you can unflinchingly know, + since you truly + totally know, you can at last truly be - since knowing (noein) + being (einai) are for the human being one + the same. Thus Xtianity is not a technique for survival but a means to ontological completeness: by means of it a man becomes what he is as man, homo sapiens. This leads to the sublime dispassion of accurate perception of + acceptance of reality - the relationship between yourself + that reality you are for the firs -ime totally locked in D-160 that reality, with no evasion, no fear, no desire to flee. The very real triumph by the Xtian over fate, his fate, is that this fate in the act of destroying him completer him, for he is + knows that he is. Fate is destroying a fully self-aware conscious creature, + fate has made that self-awareness consciousness possible. Thus in a certain real + but invisible sense the Xtian in being destroyed by world trumphs over it - as Christ did This leads to a vast calm in the Xtian. He does not run; he does not pretend or flee. or try to hide. +, being calm, he can totally surrey world + himself + bring his knowing (noein) to completion (einai). The fall of man. Heidegger taught, is when man's noein + his they parted company einai parted company. originally (I say) when man evolved into enough consciousness of himself + world to realize his own die - at the mortality, to know he would inevitably + fled from this knowledge hands of, defeated by, world, noein + einai remained split until Xtianity came along, at which point, for the reasons I give, they rejoined. but what in the final analysis, makes possible This Xtian capitulation to the inevitable, this cessation of flight, of runnin -running, in to be true? essence, from what he knows the trust that God loves him. Xtianity, "the epitome of realism." can only occur as a psychological, spiritual event when the person becomes aware that no matter what horrors await him - + horrors do wait him. God loves him a This is knowledge not that God exists but, more knowledge that God's einai is agapÄ“: unconditional love total concern. close the horrors of life do not the issue horrors come + D-161 love remains. It is knowledge of this love that transmutes the fleeing, frightened man into the man who dispassionately confronts reality in the Form of his fate. man suddenly stands still + sees world as it is. Jesus' message was, "even though I die + die awfully, I tell you that God's love never ends." This is why the crucial utterance on the cross, "Eli, Eli, Lahma Sabachthani? Is correctly seen as the key to Jesus' dual nature As God he believed; as as both God + man. man he doubted. Man believing, trusting that God will not desert him, becomes God himself. This is the man-God, the goal of define t Xtianity, the imitation of Christ. "Christos" as that man who knows despite everything, despite world that as fate degrades) destroys him, that God loves him + will never cease loving him. + if God loves him - God's nature (einai) being love (agape) - God will prove his theodicy: he will not harm man, or allow harm to come to man, needlessly; in some way this evident harm will be offset - in fact more than offset, by God himself, acting out of absolute eternal love for man. It cannot be otherwise to the Xtian. "For a little while," is the belief of the Xtian about world, the world as then ordeal. A finite ordeal infinite bliss in the return to God from whom he originally came the finite bad balanced against the infinite good this is the Xtian's understanding. This is how he correctly views his defeat at the hands of world. +, from this view, he confronts world unflinchingly, the first person ever to do so Thus he becomes Christos. + is saved. +, At the heart of these understanding + per‐ D-162 ceptions, this knowing the truth + facing the inds truth, he, a vast, fierce joy, a joy unfathomed by any man before him I the joy of knowing that God has delivered him out of danger + into safety. Without end. This transformation from acceptance into joy which is the heart of Xtianity is called "the resurrection." Jesus knew it first; we know