(number) + played back (lems i n analysis of "Ubik" - + "Frozen journey a). Hence what I saw is that "Frozen digital playback. our reality is a to o ...any quality (thing) can be reduced to a number, and any sequence of numbers can be reduced to 0-1 or off-on (the dialectic), IE restmotion. (1) All the [linking] [rellation] and you have it: it ([linking- relaiations]) converts rest-motion (0-1) to [letter]. Hence versal info. The [Linkim-Rellaking archeels"] me an encoding [reality] device for converting quantity ([avorber], 0-1) back to quality ([verasal] info), when then to substantialized into static frames: [pontications] in reality. 1) Which is placement of objects on-off the info, insofar as I can decypher it, has to do with Christ's return, which is now. [p. 85 arouse]! Terrifying thought, Hegg Rickman in his article on my uniting divide, it [un] into 4, not 3, periods: 1) 1951-1960 conventional 2) 1962 ([Gorttic])- 1964 - very productive [dazzlom] 3) 1965 (county cloak) - 1970 human relationship 4) 1970 (flow my tears)-1981 and IF I understand the situation properly, I was doomed by "astrological forces" ([ananker] astral determinism, [Hermarncece], subllnar influences, the planetary powers to [alci] just as I did the first work of my 4th [phinl] (Flow My Tears); this would be analogic to the New Last [novel meant] Beethoven added to [quaitor] #13 to replace the grosse fuge this D-83 was a hint of his 4th period, but then he I have beethoven's astrological chart, died hence fate. However, Christ overcame this (i.e. my) fate in 2-3-74, thus allowing me to continue on living into my 4th period (Tears, scanner, Valis, divine invasion). But (as sensed in 197171) I was doomed to die I without ever getting into my 4th period; I feared, suspected, that my vancouver speech was the last thing I'd ever write - + it almost was. Only Christ's intervention saved me from reliving the fate of Beethoven. My lucid awarenes' of astral-determinism dooming me would explain the anxiety growing from 1971 to its peak in early 1974 - whereupon Christ broke that fate, + my anxiety departed. I guess the modern term for this is "script" - or it could even be DNA programming! It took outside help (Christ) to break this DNA death scrup (recatoried by Herbideath + bill cook's also) What renders all this really eerie is my sense that in 2-74 I died, passed over play the Bardo Thodol trip, + am now in the upper tevies + I saw (3-74) the "2nd of Purgatorio - dis signal," the next world; I saw God + I saw him because I was in both realms simultaneously, as it something went wrong with the dying process So mate my inner tape ran on through into its ortely post parteant part - ran through at high speed - t the outer-tape (really) wasn't in synch, + But kers me physically here; hence all my supernatural experiences: this they is specifically the Xtian ptstacle of passion, death + rebirth in the spirit ie I'm seen the next world. + hence I saw int + heaven. This analysis not only tells me that yes I did see God (Valis) but also why D-84 have it figured out "the Kingdom of God" is here + yet not here. Your inner tape is caused to shoot forward at high speed so that you die + yet don't; hence you are in heaven yet here. In the next world yet still physically in this world, i.e. you're in both at once. this may even be the subjective eschatology of the 4th Gospel; it is a vast myster + would explain the strange answers Jesus gave as to where his Kingdom is: he is the King in this double-world reality this twin signal reality ("two source los mogony"). So a lot more is achieved than just foiling your DNA death strip; you take advantage of it - its firing - to travel on to the next world mentally, while physically not dying. But it isn't even just (sic) the next world; it is heaven + Earth - upper + lower realms - reunited. Cosmic repair + Christ is present in this twin-signal super-realm, as I here as King. saw now (one asks) what would be the ad‐ vantage to this over just dying + going to your reward? Well, you would have knowledge of the next world, + you could personally testify to the reality of - i.e. the Parousia Christ + his Kingdom Millenarian history; you would know + + could testify to exactly what I moreover, you know + have festified to. would see the BIP here - this realm as bio‐ you could work to over throw it. -85 This is obviously linked with the Taoist joining of heaven + "longivity - immortality" Earth in a person from which the Golden flower (firebright) is borns What news (as in "counter clock world") do I come back with? That Christ lives, that the prison is in power but the was against it continues, +, most of all, the Parousia is here i I dreamed that I write down that what we call "world" is a program in a metacomputer; the program is arranged conceptually + not in time, space, or by causation; we call this metacompute that our world is in "God." It passes information through our world (reality) as a modulation... no wait; this is not correct. our world is created by - that is out of information, the way music is by a digital system - in fact the info is digital (off-oni ie rest - ration). The computer feeds each of us information that we hypostatize in space, time) causation as world. {Note] The mask is the actual way our reality is arranged. ➀ In other words, it is information that we actually experience; in quantitative form; the situation is as in "Frozen Journey" digital hation is fed to us + we as micro bio‐ inform D-86 computers convert (transduce) it back (?) into a reality, but it comes to us as quantitative information that we can read, out of which we construct a spatiotemporal reality. Each of us is a transducer receiving digital (quantitative) info; this insight began with Pythagoras. This is really what "number is the basis of reality, of everything" means: that our reality is a transduction of numbers, i.e. a digital sequence. in other words, one says, "what we call reality is in fact information." But this is that not the whole story; something generates information, which we transduce (convert render) into spatiotemporal world. That "some‐ thing" is known to us as God. It is a meta‐ computer, isomorphic with us! It has our reality stored entirely conceptually, not in space, nor time, but as the MMSK. The info is transmitted to us ("the phylogons casting their particulars") + then received back from us in enhanced form; i.e. each of us as a micro bio‐ computer precesses the information above + beyond the task of simply transducing it into a world we have input + output stages Hence if our reality is in fact actually digital information, we can reasonably hupothesize that it is being generated by + fed to us by a computer; further we are micro biocomputers that transduce (convert) this digital information into spatiotemporal Pythagoras was right; the "thing-in reality itself" is digital (quantitative) information. D-87 It comes to is in the form of a here fast procession (progression) of static frames was i like the 54,000 frames on side of a laser video diso. We as micro biocomputers can retrieve (?) a reality, hypostature it ah: we can read the info as/into world, like a stereo system does with a LP groover reading the music back out of it. This is not delusion, our converting) transducing) reading this digital into into world, this is what we're supposed to do; it's an ability function (of a sophisticated biocomputer) a 3-74 was, then, a breakdown on my part; instead of converting it I saw (experienced) it as digital info - but there are two good outcomes of this breakdown" 1) I know that the "thing-in-itself" is: it Pythagoras was right is digital info. I 2) I can infer a macrocomputer generating this information + feeding it to us to be converted into a spatiotemporal, causal world I was right. The key is "frozen Journey". So It is not reasonable to assume that this digital information is spontaneous or that we feed it to ourselves. I thus postulate one vast metacomputer that thinks our world reality) conceptually, then converts it into numerical (digital) information + feeds it to us, whereupon we convert it (transduce it) into a spatiotemporal representation (which 3) ove know of as "reality) these are what ) 1-88 Malebranche knew as "intelligible arche‐ typal ideas" inserted directly into our minds. Basically he is correct; world, as we know it, is (as Kant showed lates on) constructed in our own minds, based on some othing adventitious in itself unknowable. that "Unknowable" source is digital say. information emanating from a macrocomputer that thinks our reality (but not in space, time + causation but, rather, conceptually arranged according to meaning). Hence I saw Acts because in terms of meaning it is tangent (coaxial) to USA 1974 The fact that this digital info is coherent is sufficient basis for us to assume a purposeful source, for which the term "God" + "creator" is appropriate. Eviz: a speaker, receiving a flow of electricity from wires to which it is attached, from observing that when it transduces the electricity it results in something coherent - i.e/eg music - can reasonably assume that at the other end of the wives lies a purposeful source. Malebranch is right; the senses provide us very little, the real image enters our mind - is inserted directly - but (I say) in the form of quantitative (digital) information which we a as blocomputers convert (transduce) info spatiotemporal representation of world. It can be said (then) that we are in direct mind-to‐ mind contact - not with God - but with the provided by God. information i D-89 Then we live in an environment of pure information which we transduce into spatio temporal world. We as biocomputers. t this implies a source or this coherent digital information that we transduce. All this explains why in 3-74 I said "I am no longer blind"; the digital information is fed directly to our brains in some way. So behind reality lies information (basically digital in nature), but behind that lies its source, some kind of meta computer probably very much like us. In feeding information to us it certainly advisess guides + even (when necessary) controls us. that is, it is possible to infer a little about the source from the information itself. Dio - it can feed us any information it wishes Frozen Journey" points to the true state of affairs, + this story derives from my "ter volume metanouse, so it can be said that my years of epistemological preoccuration were on the right track to say that the information is digital is also to say not only to say its number but that it's in binary code (rest-motion, which explains the dialectic; this certainly adds up to tell me not only that it's a compity but a binary computer). My God. -I was right last night, the digital (0-1) info feeds to the linking. relinking wheels where it's converted from quantity to quality - i.e. to words; + these words summon objects by naming them. So we don't hypostatice directly from digital out info; it feeds into convision into D-90 is these linking-relinking wheels are certainly in our own biocomputer systems. Now it occurs that the mind that I experienced that I called Valis was in fact that portion of my own mind that Acts (functions) to convert binary information into qualitative constituents + finally into objects in