that's the term; saw may be more correct) to have been contending down thousands of years of history — phylogenic history, so to speak; ontologically real history, not the epiphenomena we normally see. (1) I found this narrative in TEARS in both explicit and latent form. (2) By anamnesis I remembered it as happening, and also remembered participating over vast spans of time. -1- 9-29-80 It may be that to see Valis your ontological categories by which you order perception must change; for example, time may in some fashion be converted into or toward being space. Valis comes into existence when you perceive it, but your perceiving it does not cause it to come into existence; this is not a normal causal relationship; there is, instead, some kind of push-pull causation going on, a positive feedback. There is a parallel between Valis existing and your seeing it; when Valis is perceived it exists and when it is not perceived it does not exist: this is because "Valis" is a name for a certain structure, a certain pattern, and a perceiving mind is required by which to perceive the pattern. However, the percipient does not create the pattern, does not project it. If there is a causal agency it is the Holy Spirit in the person; the Holy Spirit perceives Valis —who is Christ— and this adds a factor necessary for Christ to be there. Perception, then, a certain high-level perception of shape, is a key factor, an essential factor. But the constituents that form the pattern that is Christ must be there, too. So in a sense there ceases to be a clear distinction between the percipient and Christ whom he sees; that's it: we are talking about a field that includes the percipient who is a participating percipient. The normal subject-object dualism is abolished. Christ, then, in a sense is in the mind of the percipient. And this is so, because the Holy Spirit, who is in the mind of the percipient, is the Spirit of Christ (see the EB citation regarding the charismatic man). I just now read the liturgy involving the Eucharist. It not only deals with Christ's passion and death (the breaking of the bread and the pouring of the wine symbolize the crucifixion) but, worse, it has to do with man's sins and this sacrifice whereby these sins are forgiven. There is little if nothing about the resurrection; there is no joy; there is nothing about the Holy Spirit. It is all, "Thus he died for man's sins; thus he suffered. He was betrayed." Viz "...Didst give thine only Son Jesus Christ to suffer death upon the Cross for our redemption; who made there...a full, perfect, and sufficient sacrifice, oblation, and satisfaction, for the sins of the whole world; and did institute... a perpetual memory of that his precious death and sacrifice, until his coming again: For in the night in which he was betrayed, he took Bread...he brake it and gave it to his disciples, saying, Take, eat, this is my Body, which is given for you; Do this in remembrance of me. Likewise, after supper, he took the Cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of this, for this is my Blood of the New Testa¬ ment, which is shed for you, and for many, for the remission of sins." And then later the priest says: "We...most humbly beseeching thee to grant that, by the merits and death of thy Son Jesus Christ, and through faith in his blood, we, and all thy whole Church, may obtain remission of our sins, and all other benefits of his passion." It is clear that "Christ's Blood was shed for thee, preserve thy body and soul unto everlasting life," but the emphasis is on sin, suffering, sacrifice and death: "Lamb of God, Son of the Father, that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon us." Here the Eucharist ends. The EB micro article on the Eucharist says: "The breaking of the bread and the pouring of the wine are recognized by every Christian denomination as the central symbols of the death of Jesus Christ on the cross...The letters of Paul and Acts make it clear that early Christianity believed that this institution included a mandate k to continue the celebration (sic) as an anticipation in this life of the joys of the banquet that was to come in the Kingdom of God." Well, there you have it; this element of anticipatory joy is now totally edited out of the Eucharist. In the liturgy there is no real mention of the resurrection; eternal life comes to you through the Eucharist because it removes your sins, not because Christ was resurrected and by eating his flesh and drinking his blood you are resurrected with him or as he was, and, as far as I can make out, no real sense of the real presence of the risen Christ during the Eucharist except as the bread and as the wine; as what the communicant eats and drinks — the Spirit of Christ or the Holy Spirit isn’t summoned and isn't expected to be there, and there is no joy, no transformation from the sorrow attending the passion and death to the joy of the resurrection. So Christianity has become totally preoccupied with sinful man and a sacrament by which those sins are removed, by Christ’s sacrifice. The way I see it, he could have made that sacrifice and removed those sins without being later resurrected. Let me quote Jesus in the Fourth Gospel: "I tell you most solemnly, whoever listens to my words, and believes in the one who sent me, -4- has eternal life; without being brought to judgement he has passed from death to life. "I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never be hungry; he who believes in me will never thirst. "I tell you most solemnly, if you do not eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you will not have life in you. Anyone who does eat my flesh and drink my blood has eternal life, and I shall raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is real food and my blood is real drink. He who eats my flesh and drinks my bj.ood lives in me and I in him. As I, who am sent by the living Father, myself draw life from the Father, so whoever eats me will draw life from me. This is the bread come down from heaven; not like the bread our ancestors ate: they are dead, but anyone who eats this bread will live for ever. "I tell you most solemnly, you will be weeping and wailing while the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn to joy. A woman in childbirth suffers, because her time has come; but when she has given birth to the child she forgets the suffering in her joy that a man has been born into the world. So it is with you: you are sad now, but I shall see you again, and your hearts will be full of joy, and that joy no one shall take from you." This last quote (what's on this page) is said by Jesus at the Last Supper. He also tells them about the Paraclete, here; he makes it clear that when he leaves, the Paraclete will come. I made a rmaramrrudg, cursory check of the Synoptics and I can find no indication that the breaking of the bread and the pouring of the wine at the Last Supper represent his crucifixion. The Last Supper seems to be dealt with most extensively in John. Again from John: "I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the desert and they are dead; but this is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that a man may eat it and not die. I am the living bread which has come down from heaven. Anyone who eats this bread will live for ever; -6- and the bread that I shall give is my flesh, for the life of the world." When I celebrated communion with Chrissy under the direction of the Spirit it was a joyous occasion, although holy. Indeed it was a celebration, and it combined all the sacraments inaugurated by Christ. It seemed to have been an initiation; Chris was given a new name, a Christian name that was secret. My understanding of the Greek rites preceeding Christianity is that the eating of the god's flesh and the drinking of his blood made you divine, made you immortal, homologized you with him; at the very least it had to do with renewed life, as with the new harvest. The Last Supper occurs slightly before Passover, so it is in the Spring, the time when life, after the death of winter, returns. To quote once again from the EB macro article on time: "...The nature of this rite has suggested to some scholars that it originated in an annual festival at the culmination of the agricultural year. In this interpretation, the bread that is Christ's body and the wine that is his blood associate him with the annually dying gods Adonis, Osiris and Attis — the divinities, inherent in the vital and vitalizing power of man's crops, who die in order that men may eat and drink and live. 'Unless a grain of what falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but, if it dies, it bears much fruit' (John 12:24)." There is nothing said here about sin and the removal of sin. And the point of the sacrifice —the dying— is rebirth, as is the purpose of eating the flesh and drinking the blood: new life, a higher kind of life, initiation into divinity, into the company of the gods; by eating the flesh and drinking the blood of the god who sacrified himself for men by dying, men acquire some of his divinity, hence eternal life. Jesus says this explicitly, so this isn’t just an inference on my part based on comparing the Eucharist with the sacraments of other religions. It seems to me that I first came across this idea in a book by Joseph Campbell; he said something like, "Christianity has lost sight of the primary purpose of Jesus' mission which was to give man eternal life, new life; instead, it concentrates on the idea of a sacrifice removing man's sins. But this latter is really a secondary meaning of the Eucharist." Jane Harrison says (page 477): "The cardinal doctrine of Orphic religion was then the possibility of attaining divine life. It has been said by some that the great contribution of Dionysos to the religion of Greece was the hope of immortality it brought. Unquestionably the Orphics believed in a future life, but this belief was rather a corollary than of the essence of their faith. Immortality, immutability, is an attribute of the gods. As Sophocles says: "Only to gods in heaven comes no old age nor death of anything, all else is turmoiled by our master Time." "To become a god was therefore incidentally as it were to attain immortality. But one of the beautiful things in Orphic religion was that the end completely overshadowed the means. Their great concern was to become divine now. That could only be attained by perfect purity. They did not so much seek purity that they might -8- become divinely immortal, they needed immortality that they might become divinely pure. The choral songs of the BACCHAE are charged with the passionate longing after purity, in the whole play there is not one word, not one hint, of the hope of immortality. Consecration, perfect furity issuing in divinity, is, it will be seen, the keynote of Orphic faith, the goal of Orphic ritual." This desire to become pure comes