The Bible must contain many of these archetypes- hence the typological use of the Bible. It is always biblical space time (like the timeless aplicability of the 6: hexa grams). What is this mind? God? The Logos? what we call reality is some kind of stuff that shapes itself as an image of a particular archetype 65 that governs what spatiotemporal reality will There must be a finite number of archetypes be just There is a finite number of hexagrams, it is as the triumph of Taoism to reduce all flux to these hex 64 agrams. This is an ordering system of vast value we don't appreciate the achievement or even the ther ry underlying the achievement. Do you suppose I was able to apprehend the Acts archetype because of my experience with s the Ohing"? That I had learned to look for constants in the flux world? But this defeats the view of cumulative linear time which lies at the heart of Western views of change, reality + time. Now, it has often occurred to me that many elements in 2-3-74 resembled the t tak -as the absolute, i.e. Valis - + the dialectic the interaction of Yin + Yang. The Tao would be the self-regulating principle introducing enan Tiodromia -this is specifically Taoism. + the Tao would not think as men think (I mean the chang Tao, the Tao of heaven). The Tao, the way, would equal the blueprint that sets the "plumb." This -i.e. the Tao - would be the "tug" that I wrote about back 8 a while ago. This is something like the coherent system of causal law known to Western science, but inother respects it would decidedly differ. the Tao) is impersonal but it is associated with Justice. I apparently perceived an absolute that governs; it is unitary, sentient + volitional, + Acts through a dialectic involving enantiodromia it is a kind of blueprint shaping the material universe to itself. It itself is not physical. our flux world is imaged based- on a finite 64 number of underlying archetypes them‐ selves not in time + space. The tug exerted by this governing absolute rules all human lives as well as the physical, inanimate realm; it creates a valence that is, so to speaks the shortest distance + hence the direction we will take nexorably. Man is totally integrated into this system, not above it or apart from it is this Nous, Logos, Tao, Brahman, or are these all approximations representing the various cultures from which they sprang? But it is the supreme moment when one becomes aware of this inexorable tug + recognizes that it is sentient, purposeful, all wise, all knowing, all good, all powerful, + in complete a control, pervading everyone + everything; it t is the "real einai of reality compared to which spatiotemporality is a phantom; this absolute is a unitary, ubiquitous template that exerts tug on the reality field to cause it to comply; it is the im manent "artisan" or shaper. (or Form.) to enter into communion with this absolute it does not just guide; it insists. I Here! Reality is exactly as I depict it "me in THC" an interrelated field governed by certain constants (archetypes like the 64 hexagrams) which are tug-constellations, more real than Flux situations. These constants are real + recurr ent, but themselves not spatiotemporal. change is ceaseless (i.e. flux) but since there are only so many archetypes, on a deeper change is somehow illusory. level But this is the old static universe. What I add that is new is: the flux world feeds 85 new accretions to the constants (what I call phylogons), perpetually further reticulating them; thus there is dynamic cumulative addit‐ starting from the flux world + passing into the MMSK which is a growing, selfperfecting thing. Thus this self-perfecting MMSK) dismantles + assimilates the pieces of the flux-world that it needs, fitting them into place in itself (it is conceptually arranged + both) mind + the object of that mind; i.e. it totally self-aware). It feeds on the con‐ is stant newness of the flux world; this constant newne)s is generated by the dialectic + its dromia. enantin no classical -hence static- system fits what t was disclosed to me. The drawing from the newness of the flux-world as accretions borate, reticulate, enhance + perfect the to eld structure of phylogons forming the integran (which lies outside of time + space). I guess MMSK that Acts is a phylogon, + all the spatiotemporal sets to/on which it applies elaborate + perfect it. There are no new phylogons; phylogoas do not come into existence (nor pass away) they have always been + always will be; all that occurs n+ further reticulation, so in a sense time the has ceased, since no real change occurs. phylogons correspond to Plato's eide, then - so at moment in the distant past (say, 2000 years a given ago) it would theoretically possible to catalog all the phylogons (but without the reticulations yet to come). Reticulations are so‐ to-speak realized (actualized) implications of the interconnected phylogons. Then the flux 66 world of spatiotemporality must exist to complete the interconnected phylogons - i.e. the MMSKe From the standpoint of "the common essence" there is no difference between Acts AD70 + USA 1974; both are equally Valis sets of accretions perfecting the "common essence" which I saw as the BIP under attack. Every variation [of sets, of accretions] possible are added to "the common essence" to fully reticulate it It is a concept in a mind + does not possess e existence in space + time, nonetheless no physic accretion is cost. The flux world does not exist in vain but is preserved. The mind breaks down spatiotemporal their sets in to 'components + puts the components in o place conceptually, not contingently, exactly own memory systems work. Only at this as our does the flux world become real. This is point mechanical deconstruction + reconstruction not a based on total intellect by the mind, i.e. total but is comprehension would not the eide act to tug spatiotemporal reality into conformity with themselves? would this the fug I experienced exerted on the reality not be magnetic field to iron filings? The T-y of a field given obtaining eidos (phylogon)? The image must conform morphologically to its archetype as template then the flux-world reticulation is an effect + the given eidos the cause or perturbation exerted on the field; then the flux-world field is always governed by the obtaining eide. It is the eide reticulating (completing) themselves. So under (latent within) the spatiotemporal flux world are the nonphysical conceptual eide, which is to say the MMSK itself. 67 seen in terms of absolute essence the flux world field would dissolve into an eidos or commont essence outside of space + time, i.e. into (the) template, in regard to which the appro‐ priate spatiotemporal sets are interchangable. any one) set is as real, true, valid + present as any other. The template is ubiquitous + even neutral in regard to them: each set is here + now. In fact, all the spatiotemporal sets approphiate to a given common template wind up blended together when regarded from the stand‐ point of that template because the accretions are broken down into constituents + filed conceptually. the template is truly there. Only (molded? So (to repeat) the field is warped con formity with its timeless template to add Then events + participants in the reticulan field ae governed by the template so that whether we recognize it or not we act out myth roles + situations, i.e. sacred dramas the supra‐ Mundan, element being obscured to us (usually). This is the force of destiny or Fate. It is ritual can the I force of the re-enactment be nullified? No in my case, my actions vis-à-vis the Xerox missive must have been dictated by an invisible template th sacred script): hence my "dissociated (like a behavior) + my sense that it had all happened before. Then there is some kind of direct, essential connection between my perception of the archaic reality) of Acts + my "dissociated" actions vis-à-vis the Xerox missive; as if the presentation of the Golden Fish sign I was reperforming a sacred plate - + the sacredness + archaic nature of it all was palpable to me. This was indeed the illo 68 tempore that Eliade speaks of. Then it wasn't the past breaking into the present; it was the sacred breaking into the profane. Sacred world + sacred (actions) (then the 11-17-80 theophany drama was probably also genuine.) This is what I mean speak of seeing world under the aspect of when I of "Parsifal." The "eidos" was a sacred Act III the last time that the savior was here. Then in one. this the AI voice + its prophecies take on of view importance! The birth of the savior; that's added spoke of. What I I think my recent theory that I saw time as space is correct; time was overcome, + the far‐ off past was here Then Valis was the host, the body, blood + wound of the savior, + my vision was of the Cosmic) Christ transubstantiating the universe, + in dialectical combat with it, overcoming it, dismantling + assimilating it. a dynamic process); this vision led (in 11-17-80) to an encounter with the Father, whose highest aspect is love the info about Chrissy is to be regarded as a healing miracle specifically, thus notifying me of his prejence + the proximity of the Kingdom. "You are not the doubter; you are the doubt." Thomas but the wornd convinced me. It is all very ably The particle-splinter- of expresseed in "Valis" irin the cosmic body - phagocytosis. The Empire, The BIR, is + is in the wound. "Valis" picks up where "Scanner" left off. the traces of heavy metal in drugs that caused the now appeac occlusion that I noted in "Scannes" (in "Valis") as the iron (metal) spear-tip that 69 wounded Christ. + the occlusion that is the topic in "Scanner" is the topic of "Valis," but now it) is an ontological Cosmic occlusion: insave creator + irrational creation. the cure (remedy)) is salvation through Christ who, it is stipulated, represents the principrle of rationality; he breaks into the universe, heads it + us) as antidate, + invisibly transub‐ stantiates the universe into his own body. Yet paradox dcally, Christ himself has been wounded the by Black Iron Prison, the Empire, through spe‐ its ar; as he is physician + savior to us We selves flock to destroy the Empire + our heal tr own savior (salvator salvandus). He o heals us + we heal him; thus the distinction between him + those he saves is blurred if not abolished. We are the degraded Christ, he is our glorified, exalted selves reborn. This is a great mystery. Christ is discovered to be i right here in the trash of the alley. Conversly, the trash of the alley is revealed as sanctified. It was not trash in the first place + we were never here; the (our) occlusion prevented us from seeing who we are + where + when we are. The healing miracle by Christ abolishes the occlusion; we see him + the kingdom, here all the time. Hence in 3-74 I kept saying, "I am no longer blind!" A "second signal? was added to reality; as the J. Bible says about Christ's restoration of the fallen cosmos, "He rejoins the earthly + angelic realms (i.e he brings them back together as they were before the Fall.) Christ is both the physician (the high priect presiding at the Eucharist) + the sacrificial victim 70 As ontological, cosmic occlusion the occlusion of "Scanner" is identified with the ontological ignorance of Gnosticism: both man's condition in this world + the enslaving instrument that brings that condition about. That is, it both punishes +, simultaneously, makes -renders