that will explain it. macrocosm to me: microcosm containing the macrocosm. So the macrocosm contains the microcosm which contains the macrocosm in miniature. + in it, + it in me. (Christ: "us in you + you in us.") No - the discovery of outer reality in you a priori as well as prior to the events in outer reality themselves reminds you - shocks you into remembering your true identity as God who has entered his owncreation + forgotten who he is he has passed down through the layers of I 883 reality, forgetting something more, losing something more at each stage - now he (as soul) ascends to what + where he was originally - all based on finding the world + its creatures inside himself. absolute shrewdness is an invasion of the universe from outside (above?). No created I creature has that knowledge, especially a priori + in advance The "blooming" into (if) would not have occurred if the mind were wrong as to what (1), (2) + (3) pointed to. + this explains the postmortem experiences; the mind (involved here + disclosed to itself] is not of (or limited to) this world. So knowing what the Xerox missive reall was, + knowing what to do, + knowing that it would come, + when it would come, was based upon having the whole external situation a priori in my mind + in advance, as proved by "Faith" + "MITHC" + realizing this, my mind realized - remembered - about the Zoroastrian dialectic + what it meant to know reality apriori + in advance - meant about itself. So the dialectic revelation was a kind of coming to itself, a remembering in that case the Xerox missive crisis may not in itself as a threat have been of over‐ weening importance; its true importance was that It was unusual enough + threatening enough to cause the mind to remember that it knew of it a priori + in advance, + the implications of that are what was so important, because then the mind leaped in a vast intuitive blitz to a realization of its own actual nature (identity) -84 look - it not only knew a priori + in advance about the Golden Fish + girl, + the 2 CP letters + that the CP letters were a - test of it in disguise (v. "Faith") but it knew what I still don't know + never will know based on perception + cognition: not just what to do (which it knew) but who sent the Xerox missive + why ("an intelligence officer in the army"), + it knew this - not just at the time - but in ad‐ vance. There was + still is no perceptual +/or cognitive source for this knowledge; it is absolute knowledge about the Xerox missive + about its absolute nature. + this was a priori + prior, not empirical; it was not derived from the senses. Thus the mind (my mind) was faced with the shock of recognition as to its own nature, because it knew priori about the dialectic + the a priori foreknowledge of the wise mind + it knew that this is specifically what evil the evil mind of the dialectic, lacks. Thus it realized that it had entered (invaded) its own creation (JN 1) + blocked off its own memories I awareness of itself from itself (or anyhow in entering its own creation had forgotten. further, it may have - again using its a priori foreknowledge of future reality - have keyed itself deliberately to the Golden Fish + Xerox missi situation in order to remind itself, the reminding being the true goal rather than the handling of the Xerox missive per se. + then it finds that if years earlier in "Tears" its buried side wrote long messages to tself drawn from the book of then Acts 585 It empirically encounters Valis, only to discover that it wrote a complex + accurate description + analysis of Valis in "Ubik" in the sixties again based on a priori knowledge. So it knew about Valis a priori + in advance of empirically encountering it. What even stated Valis' (Ubik's) identity: the (Logos). It also knew of the "trash message traffic (the "plasmate"), so it of knew everything a priori + in advance - even about Kathy + Jack + the inspector. This is not by precognition - it is a priori knowledge. looking into itself it can not only find people + events it can even find the wise mind (Ubik/Valis). It even knew a priori about its own other mind + wrote about it in is Scanner." + it was successful; it did remember + did become briefly conscious + itself. amazing: it knew a priori about the wise i sequence: mind that knows a priori the wise mind knows everything in 1) advance + a priori. 2) creatures cannot know things a priori + advance. in 3) I know things a priori + in advance. N 4). I am the wise mind, having penetrated my own creation. No ➀ including proposition 1). ➀ This realization took place in a flash (blitz) in 2-3-74 based on finding external events apriori + prior in my mind + (B) knowing that This is a properly exclusive to the wise mind i the insight came with lightning speed + tran‐ 501 s "Valis has invaded reality - read echosphere + transubstantiates it (i.e. devours it). If an organism arose within the echospher or entered it from outside that had a priori know edge of reality - the kind of a priori foreknow ledge the wise mind has - it would destroy the balance within the echosphere by abolishing approximation space"; it would be a jugger naut. So it would devour reality (i.e. the echosphere)! Just as I see/saw Valis doing is Thus I herewith view Valis as an invading lifeform equipped with a priori knowledge of reality, + this is a hazard to the balance, i.e. the functioning, of the echosphere; it is certain that Valis with its a priori knowledge, not needing to depend on approximations, will drive everything else out; i.e. devour (assimilate) them. Valis would - in camouflaged form! become the echosphere (or local reality, if you will). He would 1) devour it; 2) replace it posing is it, so ostensibly discrete pluriform organ‐ sms could be assimilated by him + perhaps. not even know it until the time came that the core mine (Valis') used them as expressions itself. The semblance of creatures depend on approximate space would be utilized ven to the point of deceiving the assimilated reatures (until used). For example, a given creature might go on employing approxima until a crisis situation, a lethal situation in which an approximation of reality would be so inadequate as to hasten the creature to its death. At that point the o in. cut 58 But what would it really destroy within the echosphere? Strife. A Krasis would be formed: one interacting organism where randomness (a form of chaos) based on approximations (a form of the irrational. would be abolished; the wise mind (Valis) would decide which chipmunk to lose to an owl, + which chip munk to lead - or even isn't this exactly what drive - to safety. it did on my behalf? Being successfully trapped or successfully escaping a trap would depend on the decision of the core mind (Valis). So the simulation could simulate approximations whereas in fact coordination covertly would underlie all processes leading to desired goals. This is Teilhard's point omega: a con‐ verging of thought. the core mind could suspend its a priori knowledge existentially; i.e. it could know but not impart that knowledge to the sub‐ sumed creature unless the core mind so choose. Hence balance is retained but in a totally different way. Approximation space is retained as camouflage If you had that a priori knowledge, it itself would inform you of what its existence meant. "If an organism arose within an ecosphere with a priori knowledge (+ hence foreknowledge) of its vironment, so not using approximation space --" etc. am I such an organism? + I know a priori Valis, the wise mind - I innately knew of the dialectic, 588 Valis works like a spider plant, + I am one of the spin offs. If that acausal inner a priori model ability existed in an organism; it would put it to the precise use that I put it to vis-a-vis the Xerox missive (in terms of biological survival; an as an instrument, faculty for survival; it would be used practically, in a life + death situation, especially one in which hidden knowledge was crucial; viz: in a trap situation. But this only serves to illustrate the fabulous utility of the faculty in terms of physical survival in a combat - antagonist-situation. We are not dealing here with a relative faculty but an ab solute faculty. + as I have been told all sense data achieves only approximations; i.e. even the best models - inner models - based on sense data + reasoning are approximations. + the model can preceed the reality in time as well as being i absolutely analogic. Here we see the emergence of a totally new way of apprehending the outer world; it is not reported through the sense organs - there is no n en attempt to perfect or improve or refine the percept system. What the organism does (apparently) is go out + incorporate reality so that it is inside him Adam Kadmon); he becomes a ubique field (Valis) knows the not-him a priori as God does, since e here is nothing outside God of which He has only contingent knowledge. Contingent knowledge has an pper limit; it must remain imperfect. What we are talking about here is self-knowledge: a cognitive Empathy"! Isomorphism used as a basis of predic ion (extrapolation) about others - about reality as su 885 correct analogy. ("They will do x because I would do x, + I + they are isomorphic"; or: I am polymorphic + so can make myself somorphic with them for strategic (predictive + analytical) (survival) purposes. Here empathy is utilized for its use as a basis of forming an accurate idea of how people will behave Then the inner (micro) universe must "play" faster than its exterior (macro) analog, so that e the information preceeds the situation. Hence for this faculty to function, it is necessary for the organism using it to be able to de-synchronize his inner biological clock (time) from external + to run the inner one faster + faster so that time running ahead of the macrocosm, + this is precisely of he is what began in 2-3-74, until I began to external respond to stimuli before they occurred - which terrified me. But now I see why this had to take place for the faculty to servests biological urvival purpose. Then this was a developed faculty, ophisticated; it (I?) knew to accellerate the inner "tape" upon the cue-signal: the Golden Fish sign in 2-74. Thus I could know in advance not to look at the name + address on the Xerox missive; + if I didn't know in advance, there was no utility; hindsight ("I shouldn't have looked") would have had no value. This accelleration was a major element of 3-74 a most striking one; + yet it was a mere means to a goal. Having the inner model - hence needed information - prior to the outer analog: the ctual arrival of the to missive 890 So de-synchronization + inner-clock accellera on is one of the ways by which this faculty works - but just one way out of more one t prerequsite deliberately This premature inner firing decouples you of from stimulus-response captivity, or rather (ah!) it fucks it up, since your response is no longer in phase with the stimulus (thus I answered the ad in the