+ assimilating the pieces into his own new macrometasomakosmos (which only the secret real Xtian can see, by means of the Holy Spirit who has provided him with this crucial Acts encoding-decoding lens/grid by which to view reality). Today I’ve tried to work on my exegesis - as I've been doing for 6½ years. I can't do it. Why not? Because the love + personality that God showed me on 11-17-80 make any intellectual understanding seem unimportant - pale + weak + dry + faded. Never have I known anything like that love; + the personality - it was as distinct as any human personality. + this does not even consider the infinite bliss I felt. He answered all my questions anyhow; I have no more questions. To know God + God’s love, + to understand how our suffering, our life here, will be justified - his gentle reproach: "Would you think I in my theodicy would not make it up to you, make it up so that this suffering here would seem -be- paltry in comparison?" + then he let me experience a little of the bliss to come. So the bliss did 3 things: 1) It explained why he would let us suffer here. How it would be justified. (This has always been my main theological-philosophical question.) 2) Because it was infinite bliss it proved he was God (because I see this as proof; only God can provide infinite bliss). 3) It made me happy intrinsically. But the love outshone the bliss; perhaps it gave rise to the bliss. I have never known such love. Human personality is imaged upon his personality (I realize). This is why although it was infinite it was -well- it was like an infinite augmentation of such love as I have in fact known in life -but- it was beauty-in-the-form-of-love. But it was more intimate (as well as more intense). It pulsated like - maybe a light. + he knew me. + yet still he loved me. Of one thing there is no doubt: this was the Judo-Christian view/concept of God. Transcendent. With the life to come -the afterlife- as a reward, + this life here an ordeal but one justified by the afterlife. + God of love bestowing infinite + eternal bliss. + God with distinct personality - which is not really the same thing as mere consciousness. Pantheism was by what he said ruled out. + he gave me to understand that (much as I had already figured out) I had experienced only traces of him here in this world; he is in his transcendence much more - infinitely more. Although he did not say it, I got the impression that - well, I was going to say, “We are created here,” but I really don’t know. But he did designate our lives here as an ordeal - but a little ordeal, in fact so paltry in comparison to what is to come that all my theorizing about reality is of little significance because this life here is of such little stature in comparison with what is to come; what is epistemology when infinities of infinities lie ahead of us? Even a tiny knowledge about infinity + eternity is more than a lot of knowledge about this finite world ... a point I have totally missed. All my speculations have been about world, so world has me fast! It has been a trap! But on the other hand (as I have noted) I was reeling from encountering the raw fact -proof- of God’s existence + effect exerted on world. I was inferring God by the perturbation he caused in world (as the AI voice pointed out). Now I have direct knowledge of God. World no longer now seems to me to be of any importance. I just realized a common element I had missed that links the theophany of 3-74 + 11-17-80: in both cases my sense of evil, oppression + suffering was undermined drastically by an awareness of divine goodness, love, wisdom + power (cf. my Charles Platt interview: “Removed as if by divine fiat.” There is a distinct continuity. I have it. "Valis" studies reason invading the irrational + arbitrary - this is Valis invading. The rational (reason, logic, justice - i.e., Valis) is higher than the irrational (ananke); this is all a Greek view, Greek + Roman. This is as far as my revelation had reached in 2-3-74: the dialectical combat between the irrational + the rational (ananke + nous, which is how I specifically + correctly express the combat in "Valis"). But there is even one higher level, above reason: agapē (which doesn't show up in "Valis" i.e. in 2-3-74). Reason subdues the irrational; justice (Torah) subdues chaos! Order subdues chaos. But now -as of 11-17-80- I encounter something even higher: Jesus' God, Abba, whose essence is love "that moves the sun + the other stars"; this -agapē- is the highest, not higher, principle; it is Xtian love above Stoic reason. It is bliss, infinity + love, + transcendent; it leaves the world-order, epistemology + metaphysics + philosophy + science behind/below. This is not nous; it is above nous; it is like us (cf 1 JN). Greek culture didn’t give rise to this idea (it gave rise to the idea of Logos 21/22 or nous). Hebrew culture didn't give rise to it (it -Hebrew culture- gave rise to the idea of Torah, the will or law of God, cf Spinoza). Where did it come from, then, this equating God with agapē (v. Paul's letters)? Why, it was revealed by Jesus; even Buddhism + Zoroastrianism lack it (note: the wise mind, not the loving Father). I see no precedent for this revelation by Jesus. We even today, 2000 years later, have little understanding of this total, accepting loving-kindness, because of which God adopts us as his sons + heirs. I do deal with it at the end of "Tears" - but in 11-17-80 I experienced it. Words can't describe it, whereas words can describe logic + reason + justice. + I have been adopted. {phone number of David Desser} That Acts is the mirror opposite of USA 1974 occurs to me on pp 611/612 followed by p 755; vide. At that point I saw this as indicating satanic deception (dokos), an idea I may wish to resurrect in the light of my later view of Acts as a lens/grid by which to decode reality + extract concealed information. Dialectical forces contending. The prophecies by the AI voice. Most of all, Valis. The rest-motion, linking + relinking, the macrometasomakosmos. The plasmate. The information given me by Valis about Chrissy. The vast spaces. The dreams about huge pages of print. The ajna eye - it symbolizes the perception of reality achieved by the Acts grid. The grid as hologram. My knowledge of the original sacraments of the apostolic church. My fear of the Romans. My sense that Jesus had just left + would soon return: joy not grief. -> I have always sensed that Acts was the key to understanding 2-3-74 because Acts was the key to 2-3-74, + Acts goes back to "Tears" written 4 years before 2-3-74. This pertains most strikingly to my first key discovery: {illustration: two polarities "+"-pole "Acts AD 45" and "-" pole "USA 1974" both linked to "Common essence"} Note the value-sign reversal! Boy was I right-on when I figured that out! Now, this leads me up to 11-17-80. 2-3-74 + my exegesis led me step by step to 11-17-80, esp. when I got to noticing the surd. This was God, this tracing on reality from outside reality; for the first time, transcendent deity -immaterial- was pointed to. There is no way to overestimate the magnitude + significance of Acts as decoding grid/lens. It permits a totally new view of history + this view is the inner truth of history, masked to us by -in some cases- ostensible mirror opposites (e.g. the relationship between Xtianity + the established order, the role of Xtianity, esp. its goal, etc), in other cases by the epiphenomena of the flux world of space-time: it is either reversed or obscured without the Acts grid/lens. "Latent form is the master of obvious form" - + this lens/grid gives you access to the latent form (crypte morphose). That the full realization of the truth came in one instantaneous blitz shows its revelatory nature, viz: it is not logical that seeing the Xtian fish sign would set off [in me or in anyone] what was set off (I long ago discerned the history of my engramming on fish teeth necklaces on girls). (This engramming was done by Valis through its clutch mechanism.) + my assistance re the Xerox missive. This all has to do with world, with history, with the invading but camouflaged Valis. It does not have to do with God. 11-17-80 has to do with God; his nature (agapē) is the higher revelation + was held back 6½ years until my exegesis led logically up to it + I was ready for it. I can't locate the page on which I compare Acts to a device by which a groove (reality) is converted into music (information) by being "played." But that is how profound a device -almost a technological device!- Acts is vis-á-vis reality. Actually, it's not so much like music but like (or in fact is) a story; reality is either converted into a story or yields up information that constitutes a coherent + excruciatingly important story. What is fascinating is: you can actually see the information. Also, the reversal of value signs - this is why I speak of Acts as an encoding + decoding device. This reversal can not be done a priori; it must be perceived (which is experienced as recovered memory - anamnesis); therefore it is not contravertible. You so-to-speak already latently knew it; but I think this is an illusion. The abolition of the spatiotemporal in favor of a supretemporal matrix -true in the past, true in the present, true in the future- gives you a subjective sense of already having known this retroactively. Since Acts is considered a given historic moment (c. AD 45) there is a tendency to think in terms of reincarnation; but I recognize this error in "Valis". Thomas is living in Rome c. AD 45 now. The matrix concept (understanding) explains why. The meta-abstracting: that is what I did in 2-74; + now I see how + why. There is no doubt that this action/event/realization was engineered (+ certainly by the Holy Spirit; now it all comes together). My verification for this is what is said about the Paraclete in John: "he will remind you of all that Jesus said, explain what he meant, reveal the secrets of his nature." This is a prime task of the Holy Spirit. What was disclosed to me by the Acts grid/lens is what the spirit knows, + the disclosure carries his stamp of authority. I am then to regard this disclosure as of divine origin (which I do). It is not a view, nor one that I figured out. What the revelation has done is call me to my role + task in terms of history (that was my sense of it from the beginning: history, the historical context: around 3-74 to 8-74 everything I did seemed/was steeped in historic meaning - e.g. the letters I wrote to Charles Wiggens + the Wall Street Journal, the whole business about removing Nixon from office. I sensed that vast supernatural forces underlay my actions, + this realization about the Acts grid/lens + its effect explains why. I probably was right! We are talking about the assault on the Empire (+ all this is in "Valis"!). You know, in a sense this is an "unspiritual" Xtianity. It has nothing to do with sin + the soul + another world. It has to do with the Messiah, his kingdom to be established by supernatural means, but