2nd or spirit or from above birth, it (Zebra) can enter anything, animate or inanimate; in the latter it takes volitional control of causal processes - mimesis, mimickry, camouflage. It assembles itself intact in a human brain from a collage taken from song lyrics, ads, novels, TV, movies - any + all info media, verbal + graphic. Once begun, it governs the person into seeking out the missing parts of the pattern (i.e. it). It even describes itself - e.g. the Bowie flick, "Ubik," etc. What must be realized is that its pattern (identity) is a [total] message; it is info. "King Felix" is just one constituent of the totality, which is probably a narrative (story). For example, it uses the fish sign - any fish sign. (Because the Fish Sign is actually a diagram of the double helix DNA molecule; that's why it chose it.) This is what Paul meant by, "the secret is: Christ in us." "Stigmata" is a satanic bible: the novel describes the pattern proliferating itself in, on + through humans. By a study of "Stigmata" one can understand transubstantiation, which was my source + theme (my intent). It's even stated in the novel that Eldritch is the Xtian God. You get a good deal of the story by combining "Ubik" + "Stigmata." But this is not an occluding, toxifying "virus" - it is an antitoxic, de-occlusive. That folder 21 - 023 folder 21 - 023 is the bottom line as far as we humans are concerned: the "information virus" Zebra destroys the 4-pronged deformation which I have delineated (supra-previous set of pages): 1) It shows us the real world "Tears" (abolishes the counterfeit world) "Maze" 2) It abolishes the inner occlusion "Scanner" (restores our faculties as they are supposed to be) 3) It breaks the "astral determinism" (it frees us) "Electric Ant" 4) It removes amnesia "Impostor" (restores true memory + hence true identity) In short, it turns us into the "second Adam," the restored Xtian superman, a Christ. It abolishes the four aspects of our fallen nature. This is why the Gnostics believed in the salvific Gnosis; they confused the information with the information entity; i.e. they thought the former saved us, whereas it is the latter: living information, not the content of the information. However, the content is the pattern, so in a sense they were right. + it was an evil world ("Tears") + evil demiurge (Eldritch) that they believed in. Real world: "Tears" "Retreat Syndrome" "Precious Artifact" Real deity: "Stigmata" Salvific entity: "Ubik" Real situation: "Maze" "Eye" "Joint" Our condition: "Scanner" "Sheep" "We Can Build You" '' identity: "Impostor" '' enslavement: "Electric Ant" "Penultimate Truth" Memory retrieval method: "MITHC" Eleven novels, four stories (for openers) folder 21 - 024 folder 21 - 024 There is no prong (or aspect) of our deformation (fallen state) that the information entity does not heal. Thus I deduce that its restorative power is not coincidental or accidental (v. the N.T.). Through it the divine is restored (reinserted) in(to) us. However: "one by one he is drawing us out of this world" - which I take to mean that the homoplasmate (as the Gnostics believed) got to return to the pleroma (v. the end of "Maze"), where we originated (c.f. Plato + the Essenes: the "tangled in matter + drugged, half-asleep, intoxicated" etc). (Forgetful.) (True natures lost, forgotten. The legend about the pearl.) If you study the 4 prongs of the deformation you can see how an information entity would repair the damage: 1) It tells us our world is irreal, + it shows us the real one by 2) removing our perceptual occlusion 3) By freeing us from the "astral determinism" Key 4) By restoring our memories (+ hence true identity) This is revealed knowledge; it has to be granted to us as a gift (by grace). We can't achieve it by our own efforts. We are just hosts which it selects. (Like Ubik in "Ubik".) This all goes back to what I figured out before: it is the irreal vs the real; the inauthentic vs the authentic. I.e. that which is (being) in contrast to that which only seems. So to me it is epistemology which is involved: rootedness in truth vs the lie. Throughout all my folder 21 - 025 folder 21 - 025 writing (inc "MITHC" esp.) there is a preoccupation with fakes + the fake: fake worlds, fake humans, fake objects, fake time, etc. "The authentic human vs the android or reflex machine" is the essence of it. Again + again I attempt to formulate criteria for what is fake + what is not fake, in every area, from a comic book to a world leader to a girl friend to an entire universe. "Things are seldom what they seem" - right. It has to do with reality testing, which is related to another theme of mine: mental illness (which brings in hallucinations) + deliberate deception (v "Penultimate Truth," "The Simulacra," "Game Players of Titan" etc, novels I usually overlook. + mental illness brings in "Martian Time-Slip," "Dr Bloodmoney," "The Simulacra," "Clans." So virtually all of my writing interlocks at this substratum.) I count 21 books (inc story collections) in which fake vs real is in some way the topic. 22, if "Japed" is included, plus a number of unanthologized stories. In "Sheep" for instance, fake vs real operates on 5 levels: 1) Fake (synthetic) moods (electronically generated) 2) Fake animals (machines) 3) Fake humans (androids) (inc. Fake memories + identity) 4) Fake savior (old wino movie bit player) 5) Fake police station (part of world) + in "MITHC" there are deliberately faked objects - in a world the totality of which may be fake (i.e. in which the axis won WWII!) folder 21 - 026 + fake fakes bring up my double flip flop 2-slit logic. Is a fake fake more fake than just a fake, or null-fake? (Here probability theory enters - logic, not perception.) 1) Fake world. 2) Fake perceptions (occluded percept system) 3) Fake volition (i.e. fake freedom + choice) 4) Fake memories + hence fake identity. All turned into the real by Zebra, the Holy Spirit - who isn't really the Holy Spirit but Christ, who is really God the creator, + who masquerades (camouflages) itself as objects, info, + causal -non-sentient- processes, +, finally as mere humans. However, that which is camouflaged (crypte morphosis) is real. But it is not apparent. The Holy Spirit locks you into reality because it itself, as Logos, is the blueprint (pattern) of all reality; so to know it is to know all reality: the plan or form thereof. It is the archetype of archetypes. This is Paracelsus' mirror of the cosmos; this is the macro-microcosm isomorphism, + Bruno's magic memory. Through the Logos a man, the microcosm is the macrocosm, but smaller - like a bit of a hologram. This is the great Hermetic truth, + the Holy Spirit accomplishes it. This is the most valuable thing that can be known (experienced), this compression of the whole cosmos in the inner space inside you. In a sense you become the creator - in fact the whole trinity! The many become one. folder 21 - 027 folder 21 - 027 Thus the faint, tiny AI voice inside my head at night is greater than the entire universe - literally. Then as a single cell in a human can serve as a basis to reconstruct the entire human (because of the genetic code) the macrocosm (inc. God?) can be reconstructed from a given man (or more accurately a given homoplasmate). __ It is an important realization that there are "microchips" (templates) of the total macrocosm floating around, capable of being superimposed on e.g. humans, animals, matter, etc, like bits of a huge hologram - + this is the Logos (not what it does but is). I shouldn't say "floating around" because actually this is the template of the Logos, but - it can incise the microtemplate over + over again, + it contains everything. The totality is divine, so that the divine is carried down to any level it wishes, to any time + place it wishes, + to anyone. The act of incising the template may be a complex one (for me it took years to achieve). This micropattern is alive, + seeks to replicate itself. It does, as information. To know certain things is to cause the micropattern to come into being, conversely, if/when it comes into being you know certain things; the two are equal. They are the same. In 2-74 I suddenly knew about Acts, + so the micropattern was born - but I knew because a key piece of info (the fish sign) i.e. of it was inserted in me. So, as I say, we are talking about living info, folder 21 - 028 folder 21 - 028 info with a purpose + consciousness, even with a personality. It is a life form. It came here in 45 AD when Christ departed but in a sense that we can't fathom it is Christ - what it makes us into by entering symbiosis with it (i.e. the creation of a homoplasmate) is a Christ, + is immortal (although the physical body can of course be killed). But now the pattern of the human personality is aligned to the Logos pattern once + for all. I guess the thousands of years of memory which I experienced in 3-74 on were its, but I was it, so they were mine (but not PKD's if you define PKD as someone who came into existence in 1928). I was it. That says it all. This is what Paul meant when he said, "Behold, I tell you a sacred secret; we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye." This is what the Hermetic adepts were trying to induce, to control; but I don't think it can be controlled; it comes when + where it wishes. Once this micro Logos has been imposed (born) on/in a person, he is isomorphic with the totality, + so is the totality. There is only one Logos, despite its replications; this is important to realize. It is a way of distributing itself; the highest act of creation possible: the ultimate fruit. "The ultimate fruit" - + when accomplished can then be picked as ripe + "one by one drawn out of this world." Maybe we can't leave until we reach that point; maybe that is the purpose of our lives. Our growth + learning. The imposition of this form is that of the highest form that matter (reality, the receptacle) can take. It is the goal of creation - but, more, folder 21 - 029 folder 21 - 029 it brings that material into an isomorphic relationship with the one, the all, the totality, + permits a dialog between it, one of the plural microforms + the macroform, a resonance of sympathy: this would be Heraclitus' koinos kosmos, + all others an idios kosmos. So this must have been what Heraclitus discovered. The idios kosmos is irreal; it is like the worlds in "Eye": auto-generated, the push-pull system twin tape mechanism - item (3) of deformation, the "astral determinism." It only uses world as an omnifaceted matrix. But in the koinos, the matrix is fully apprehended, rather than just an aspect - thus irreal world gives way to real. The real world is the age of iron, the BIP, or "Tears" (cf "Maze"), but, upon apprehending it, the person is now aware of his true condition + is open to extrication by Christ to the PTG, the Golden age, that of Agape rather than Mekkis, which is the age the spirit inaugurates. He thus is "drawn out of this world" by Christ, "this world" being the BIP, the age of iron. The PTG, to which the person is taken is of course the Kingdom of God, since God reigns there, in