we are owned" aspect. But maybe that's so. What I'm saying is that Valis originally occluded us and now selectively restores us, but restoration is not all that frequent; we have to demonstrate that we merit it, .having been judged guilty originally, when our DMA programming came into existence. Yet I saw Valis in dialectical combat with an adversary, and it seems to me more likely that it is this adversary (known historically as Satan) who occludes us. Perhaps the solution is to view the situation as hierarchical levels in an evolution of life on this planet; that the DNA pro¬ gramming is danus-faced (to use Koestier's image). It insures species survival (or tries to, anyhow) at the expense of each and every individual (ontogony serves phyloyony). This is the blind will that Schopenhauer noted; it does press toward life but it does have drawbacks (noted by Schopenhauer: it is essentially irrational, which brings to mind my dream about James-James the insane genius who appeared to be the creator deity). Okay; into this system, this mechanism of blind species will, comes something new, as I depict in VALIS REGAINED: what I call the Beside-Helper who if course is the Paraclete or Christ. This is (as I say in the novel) a late strategy of the Divine; it was not formerly present. It acts to exonerate the ontogenic entity, which is to say the individual driven by the blind and irrational DNA will. Driven ultimately to its own exhaustion and death, in the service of the species. The Divine strategy is now to extricate at least some individuals who (apparently) have proven their ability to act properly without the DMA drive. They are then released from the DNa drive. This is evolution. This is how it now works, man does not evolve into another species; man produces individuals who — well, in any case the deserved individual is freed of the DNA drive and thereby ceases to be a DNA robot; he is not sacrifice for the species and he is no longer occluded. This is Christ's mission; this is what the N.T. means by the kerygma, the good news of salvation. A question that has long plagued me is: could it be that the individual involved engineers his own "Chemical wedding," his own enantiodromia, psychologically, through an individuation in the Jungian sense? That "God" and "Christ" refer to psychological archetypes in his own unconscious? In other words when I saw Vails I was seeing my own psyche projected onto the macrocosm around me? In which case "Valis" is a projection of my own total mind (not, of course, my ego). The answer to this lies in quantum mechanics and the observer-participant universe (as Warrick rightly says). What is involved is one field embracing me and the not-me. as the Al voice said, my experience was of a "perturbation in the reality field," but the voice did not clarify whether _I caused the perturbation. There may re, in fact, no "I." We may not be discrete, but rather are vortices in a ubiquitously distributed field (consider Sankara' views, here; the relation between the self and Brahman; ana this bas not escaped the notice of the quantum mechanics physicists). For one thing, the DNA will itself is impersonal, is not an "I." he "I" is precisely what it is willing to sacrifice and does sacrifice. 'veil, then, has the "I" revolted in a Faustian manner, against this impersonal will? Is this what is meant by, ''The secret stolen through the angels in one’s hands"'.' The revolt of the ontogenic self equals "Secret stolen," which may also refer to the primordial act of rebellion which brought on the occlusion and enslavement and death: the eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge (of good and evil, which obviously represents free will and individual decision-making; which is to say individuality, ontology itself). Then is the removal of the occlusion, the abo¬ lition of the death strip, the fighting off DNA enslavement, which is to say the Umwelt — is this a rebellion by the canny individual "I" who grasps the fact that to the DNA will, it —-the "I"— is expendable? And it rebels against this expandability? a further act of disobedience — hence trie expression "secret stolen"; a double reference to the forbidden: (1) It is secret presumably from us in the first place; and (2) someone steals it and puts it in our hands, having smuggled it "through the angels," which quite obviously are Paul’s thrones, powers, dominions, etc.; the ancient ruling forces whom God appointed at the beginning. "Secret solen through (i.e. past) the angels." Not "stolen from God." Could the angels have become an entrenched tyranny whom God now dethrones through the activity of Christ? This precisely was Paul’s view; he saw the ancient angelic powers as having become tyrannical; he equated them with astral determinism and viewed Christ as pitted against their rule — successfully pitted; that salvation had to do with an abolition of their rule The angels have become a reactionary order like a zone surrounding Earth...this is very Gnostic, this view. Because these are not angels who rebelled against God but angels whom God appointed, who are carrying out the ancient tasks God gave them. This is the Law (i»e, the Torah). Christ is God's mechanism —-agent— for dethroning these ancient powers whose power, Paul says, brings death upon man. What the AI voice said exactly was: "The secret stolen in one's hands through1 the angels." 1"Through" meaning "past. Gotten past the angels." This is Pauline. (Or perhaps Gnostics) Wait; no; "The secret stolen"!I "Through (i.e. past) the angels" might be Pauline, but not "the secret stolen." This refers to a rebellion; this is Gnosticism wherein the Bible —Lucifer's revolt— is read so-tospeak backwards. The snake in the Garden as well. Someone (the "Messenger"?) has stolen the secret (Gnosis, lifting of the oc¬ clusion) and brought it to us ("in one's hands"; the stolen secret is already here. Clearly, Valis did it; absolutely, it was not done despite Valis but, rather, by Valis. What is Valis, then, besides the stealer of the secret for man's benefit? He goes against the cosmic plan — a plan that requires men to be enslaved, occluded and killed. Valis is an invader who has come here to enlighten men, men whom Valis carefully selects. This is Gnosticism (after all, the Gnostic Messenger and his salvific activity was revealed to me; "Messenger" is a Gnostic term, not orthodox). Okay; then this is the ontogenic "I" revolting against the impersonal species DKA. programming, but its revolt is possible because of Valis’ help. Who is Valis? Christ or Lucifer? Only his function is Known: (1) He is a messenger cringing exculpa¬ tion from the bill of particulars, which obviously is the Law; and (2) He has stolen the vital Gnosis and brought it to man. This figure is a revolutionary one, in the cosmic scheme. There is no room for him in orthodox Christianity, certainly; but there is in Gnosticism. That my salvation and restoration in 3—74 might be based on a "secret stolen" is frightening because I do not wish to go against God; I do not wish to revolt. Ana yet — otherwise I would have died; heimarmene decreed my death. What worse can be done than slay me? I owe my life to Valis, whoever, whatever he/it is. Or they. Maybe it's a they. Or she: Diana, War in heaven, and the ancestral tyranny breached, for our sake: to bring us sight and life and joy. What specifically is this secret that was stolen? It is here, in "one’s hands." So presumably I Know what it is. It is (I hate to say this, but...): there is an occluding life form here; it not only occludes us, but it enslaves us and Kills us. We can’t see it; that's part of the occlusion. Bur¬ roughs is right. Is it the plasmate? maybe so. An "information virus." We are under its power, and the ultimate authority in the cosmos has willed it or allowed it; however, someone or some¬ thing revolted and brought us "medicine" that gave us sight, freedom and comprehension. This —-it must be-— the stolen secret. Did Paul know this? Is this why he defames the Torah? And speaks about Christ toppling the ancient powers? Is there a secret message in Pauline Christianity, one having to do with a rebelling messenger (Christ) who has come, as a physician, to heal and save us? Yes; this is the impression I get from Paul's letters. He curses tne Torah (which is the blueprint of creation itself, as Paul, a dew, well knows!!). Cryptically in Paul there are hints of rebellion against the Torah. Valis is Christ; and Christ is a rebel Divinity. That must be it. The clues are in Paul. And the Gnostics figured it out. Bul I have a staggering hint from the AI voice, tho last thin., it tola me. It is yhwh who is secretly the rebelling entity ("He has been transplanted and is alive"). He revolts against the Torah itself and the universe of wnich it is the blueprint. Only YHWH could do that. When all the masks are removed we will find that the salvific messenger who stole the secret and brought it to us for our emancipation is none other than YHWH. Hence VR. The Torah is a mechanism; its nature is like the DNA pro¬ gramming. 1 suspect that our benefactor is YHWH. He has been displaced (as was revealed to me in a dream) and now returns from the periphery. If we side with the ancient regime we side with the angels mentioned by Paul; if we side with the rebellious mes¬ senger we find —one day— that we have sided with YHWH. I .am sure of this; it is the final secret. In that case I am faced witn the stupifying realization that Valis is YHWH. There are no instances in recorded history —during -26- the past two thousand years, anyhow— of a theophany such as experienced. I think that it was YHWH who addressed me, whom I have been calling V.A.L.I.S. He has reentered the world as a rebel against the entire system of rule that he originally ©retained. This secret return —and rebellion— would explain such an extra¬ ordinary matter as the theophany I experienced. This is why I dreamed of Elijah and Mount Carmel and Elisha and "Elias." And YHWH is the AI voice I hear, the voice of Ho On...the little clay pot. If this is so — well, anyhow I was on the right track in VALIS REGAINED. But: to suppose, just suppose, the Valis is YHWH! To imagine it even for a moment...it was what I wanton so badly when I wd a kid first reading the Bible. This is Sila, the soul of the universe, speaking in a woman's voice "that would not frighten even a child," as the Nome shaman put it. YHWH: the low, murmuring voice. He calls us to rebellion and to freedom, the little clay pot who fashioned the universe. The time- you have waited for has come. The work is complete; the final world is here. He has been transplanted and is alive- — mysterious voice in the night 9-10-80 I have to realize that the revelation about the reality of the Prison is a genuine revelation; it exists down through the ages and it exists now. I saw it: prison and Empire, the tunnel of history. When I say "revelation" I mean divine disclosure of the nature of history...and that I had correctly depicted this archetype in TEARS, that TEARS was true; a timeless condition of man's servitude to the Empire, man enslaved; and the rest of the revelation was of the genuine secret underground Christians fighting it. How easily 1 forgot this revelation and sought for obscure meanings 1 The meaning is not obscure. First