when time runs backward you see the universe correctly. You see purpose, intelligence, volition, the careful constructing of a unitary metakosmos out of chaos - What I'm really beginning to suppose is that there are two timestreams: the one we normally (consciously) plug into, + a retrograde one, + that processes when viewed from the latter thereupon make more sense. + although we are not consciously aware of it, we also operate (i.e. unconsciously) in this retrograde -+ correct- time flow. So many events that happen to us + our actions -our own actions- only make sense vis-a-vis this reverse time [flow.] {folder 01 - 147} But time does not move. This "reverse time flow" is a way of speaking about our experience of the flux (change) process. That's the clue! There is no such thing as a time flow, forward or backward. It's a way we have of organizing reality. My anamnesis [now I have it!] - my anamnesis [Note] of 2-74 caused me to stop processing (? would experiencing be a better word? Organizing?) time in the normal way. I began to process it backward - + because of this saw a totally (or somewhat) different universe, inc. Valis, set/ground, information-plasmate, synchronicity - This is the perturbation in the reality field, this my processing cause-+-effect (change, flux) backward. + I was aware of this. I felt a vast entity moving retrograde in time. So (1) Anamnesis. (2) Recognition of the semireality or irreality of the spatiotemporal world. (3) The reality of the morphologically-arranged world. (4) +: time experienced as flowing backward: cosmogenic resorption - due to which, what I call Valis becomes palpable. (5) The heroic new deed, breaking my programming. (6) My writing of the '50s + '60s based on 2-3-74. [Note] Anamnesis rendered time null + void; + when I phased back in I phased back in retrograde. {folder 01 - 148} VI 11-7-80 1 I've solved it! I've solved the problem of 2-3-74; I did it through Eliade. It was right there in front of me; I read it but did not see the application. I will quote: For Indian thought, suffering is originated and indefinitely prolonged in the world by karma, by temporality; it is the law of karma that imposes the countless series of transmigrations, the eternal return to existence and hence to suffering. Liberation from the karmic law is equivalent to "cure." The Buddha is the "king of physicians," his message is proclaimed as a "new medicine." It is by "burning up" the very last germ of a future life that the individual definitely ends the karmic cycle and is delivered from Time. Now, one of the ways of "burning up" the karmic residues is the technique of "going back" in order to learn one's previous lives. The method is to cast off from a precise instant of Time, the nearest to the present moment, and to retrace the Time backward in order to arrive ad originem, the point where existence first "burst" into the world and unleashed Time. Then one rejoins that paradoxical instant before which Time was not, because nothing had been manifested... In the man who accomplishes it this "return" or "regression" finds expression in the annihilation of the Cosmos and hence brings about "emergence from Time," entrance into "immortality." Now, in the Tantric view immortality can be obtained only by halting manifestation and hence the process of disintegration; one must proceed "against the current" and recover the primordial Unity that existed in illo tempore, before Creation. What is necessary, then, is to enact in one's own being the process of cosmic resorption, and so return to the "origin." ... After describing the creation of the Universe by Shiva, the text describes the inverse process of cosmic resorption, as it is to be lived, experienced by the yogi. The latter sees the element Earth become "subtle" and dissolve in the element Water, Water dissolve in Fire, Fire in Air, Air in Ether, and so on, until all is reabsorbed into the Great Brahman. The yogi witnesses the inverse of the process of Creation, he "goes back" until he reaches the "origin." Valis is Brahman. I am finished. I know now. I saw Brahman because through anamnesis I escaped from time, and then time ran backward, and I saw cosmic return from plurality to unity (the metakosmos) and most of all I saw Brahman, which I called Valis. I did it. I figured it out. The Platonist anamnesis was the cause. It sent time moving backward from plurality to unity, to Brahman. {folder 01 - 149} 11-7-80 2 The cosmic resorption must have occurred in a flash; I mean, it --time-- regressed at hyper speed, as represented by the permutation of the phosphene graphics. So I reached the point "where existence first 'burst' into the world and unleashed Time" came very swiftly. This (the realization that time moved retrograde) was an absolute essential fact for completion of my understanding of 2-3-74. It is no wonder that I felt that I had encountered world as my own prior thought-formations; this is connected with Buddhism, Brahmanism, the "TIBETIAN BOOK OF THE DEAD." I am right about that; but: I did become involved with my own prior thought formations because I literally traveled back through them into phylogenic reverse-time; I used up ontogenic time (my own prior thought formations). I relived my own earlier books. But Valis is Brahman, the unity before time hence multiplicity occurred. Then the metakosmos is the universe before the Fall: During the fusion of metals the Taoist alchemist tries to bring about in his own body the union of the two cosmological principles, Heaven and Earth, in order to reproduce the primordial chaotic situation that existed before the Creation. This primordial situation corresponds both to the egg or the embryo and to the paradisal and innocent state of the uncreated World. Obviously this process of cosmic resorption was triggered off by the Platonist anamnesis which freed me of time, of the spatiotemporal world; and, specifically, I remembered my former life or lives. Thus I saw Acts because time was reversed, flowing backward. God, the work I have put into this. I am so tired. But here it is. Platonism, most of all, then this Taoist and Pan-Indian technique of returning to the origins, to cure the work of time, to attain health and immortality, and to burn up karma and get off the wheel. It is very complex; I must adopt a synchretistic view; but what is most important is that Valis is identified as the Great Brahman; when I saw Valis I saw Brahman, the unity before time and multiplicity began (time and multiplicity are the same because time equals flux, which is change, which is multiplicity). I can only repeat: this was the missing element, this business of cosmic resorption, time flowing backward. So what I did was alchemical and yoga. God, I could just burst with excitement. Once I broke free of time I was on my way back; once I remembered that's what the whole thing hinges on, the anamnesis. And I wound up seeing Brahman. {folder 01 - 150} 11-7-80 3 This points up how correct my definition of God was: "God is world under the aspect of imminent death." You push world far enough and it turns into God. This is Brahman and no other. So when I saw Valis, time had been driven out as if destroyed. I can't believe it's over. All I have done is ratify my original insight, but what a fruitful journey it has been! I must have passed through millions of years of time during that Bardo Thodol (phosphene graphics) trip. All initiated by the Platonist anamnesis, which -- well, I've said it; there is nothing more to say. I broke free of time; I burned up my karma; I returned to illo tempore; I saw world as Brahman, which is to say, before cosmogenesis. I saw the primordial unity; and I shared in the Brahman-Atman identity equation. I saw; I saw. And I gained health and "immortality" and new birth, the "Golden Flower" of mystical Taoism (alchemism). There is some connection --an essential one--between karma and your own prior thought-formations. Likewise between burning up karma and reliving by going backward in time, reliving your own prior thought-formations. There is absolutely no way that 2-3-74 can be understood --and especially Valis-- without envisioning --utilizing-- this factor of cosmic resorption (time running backward and prior thought-formations and the burning up of karma). There may be other elements (for instance it was set off by a Platonist anamnesis) but this is an absolutely crucial --the crucial-- factor, and all the Platonism and Christianity in the world will never explain 2-3-74. Anyhow, cosmic resorption is related to anamnesis, as Eliade makes clear, because the purpose of both is "Time Can Be Overcome" and "Curing the Effects of Time" that sort of thing; going back to illo tempore; I mean, this is how you get to illo tempore; you go back in time. This is what anamnesis is all about, so there is a logic in cosmic resorption being involved; it is logically --structurally-- related to anamnesis; they form parts of one thing, one whole. Therefore since anamnesis is indubitable, it should be no surprise to me that cosmic resorption is also involved. So I did not just remember the past; I TRAVELED BACK THROUGH-THE PAST, AS TIME REVERSED ITSELF, BACK THROUGH MY FORMER LIVES TO THE MOMENT OF COSMOGENESIS AND THEN BEFORE COSMOGENESIS. THAT IS WHEN I SAW REALITY AS VALIS. I AGAIN BECAME MY ORIGINAL LOST (SPLINTERED) SELF, WHO I CALL THOMAS. I DIDN'T JUST REMEMBER HIM: I BECAME HIM, AND WAS IN HIS WORLD. THIS IS BECAUSE I WAS TRAVELING BACKWARD IN TIME. {folder 01 - 151} 11-7-80 4 I WAS ACTUALLY IN THE WORLD OF ACTS. IT'S TRUE. I TRAVELED BACK TO ACTS AND THEN TO THE PARADISE STATE BEFORE THE FALL, AND, IN DOING SO, WAS RESTORED TO MY PREFALLEN SELF --HENCE I WAS NO LONGER OCCLUDED. The mechanism as to how this reversing of the flow of time was achieved: the spatiotemporal realm is only semireal; the actual ordering of reality is morphological. If this were not so, if the spatiotemporal realm were real, cosmic resorption --in fact anamnesis itself-- could not occur. So the explanation, again, is found in Platonism, although what I did was Brahmanist and Buddhist and Taoist-alchemical. Plato explains why this is possible; the others give the what; he gives the how it is done, why it is possible. I must never forget this. It is one thing to say, "I traveled back in time," but alone, it lacks a how. How could you do this? Plato makes clear how (the spatiotemporal realm is only semireal). I did not just remember my past; I returned: "The yogi witnesses the inverse of the process of Creation, he 'goes back' until he reaches the 'origin'." I.e. regressus ad uterum; "we have also seen that the regressus ad uterum can be homologized with a regression to the state of Chaos before the Creation." This is far different from just remembering a past life, and this is what I did; I regressed phylogenically, back through millions of years. And saw explosion into multiplicity turn into implosion from multiplicity to unity. None of this meant anything to me until I read Plato and realized how it could be done. An experience such as mine is not normally found in the West, but rather with yogis, in India, also China; this is Why I could find no account of it historically. The phosphene graphics were indeed the Bardo Thodol trip, literally; this is Tibetian Buddhism, and very esoteric; this is the most esoteric wisdom on Earth. I actually --literally actually-- traveled backward in time, to before the Creation. Incredible; I'd say it was impossible, that it only seemed that I did, except that Plato explains how