he calls his "yoke," one finds the second superior to the first, and one must conclude that if divinity is anywhere it lies with the second. In fact the "law" of Christ seems to refute much of the decalogue, and certainly strikes Christians as higher, in which case it is impossible for a Christian to imagine that the latter is God-given and the former not. Finally, the Christian view of history is grand, in that it sees Fall and then the beginning of the salvific machinery of restoration culminating in the uniquely moving and beautiful First Advent, whereas for Judaism history begins wrong and never really gets much better; the Christian is dynamic, the Judaic somewhat, at least in comparison, static. There is nothing in Judaism but a vague notion that somehow "everything will end," whatever that may mean, and that there is a spirit or soul in men, but what becomes of it after death, if anything -- nowhere is the answer clear until Christianity enters, with its grounding in Zoroastrianism. The ultimate triumph of Judaism in terms of eschotology appears to be the establishment of a national ethnic state, which really does not merit the term "religious" except that it is a theocracy. The Dutch had similar aims in the Thirty Years War, and they fought also for human freedom. -end- folder 82 - 013 folder 82 - 013 -10- From internal evidence (a study of his teachings) Jesus was the greatest of the Hebrew prophets, yet he was rejected by Israel. Why? Because he depreciated the Torah. Only if he were God or the Son of God or Hagia Sophia --God's Wisdom-- could he claim the authority to do so. He did make this claim. God having established the Torah it could not be voided or superceded or amended by any man. Therefore Christ's claim to divine kingship was essential if his teachings were to be accepted. The Jehovah's Witnesses do not understand that (the Arian Heresy). Mt 5:21: "You have learnt how it was said to our ancestors: 'You must not kill; and if anyone does kill he must answer for it before the court.' But I say this to you: anyone who is angry with his brother will answer for it before the court." Mt5:28: "You have learnt how it was said: 'You must not commit adultery.' But I say this to you..." Etc. Especially, this change: "You have heard it said: 'Eye for eye and tooth for tooth.' But I say this to you: offer the wicked man no resistance. On the contrary, if anyone hits you on the right cheek, offer him the other as well; if a man takes you to law and would have your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. And if anyone orders you to go one mile, go two miles with him.' Etc. This is all said by Jesus on his own authority. He could not amend and nullify the Law on any authority less than God's. Put another way, anyone who announced a nullification of the decalogue would de facto be blaspheming, in view of the authority of the Torah, and upon being brought before a Hebrew tribunal, for example the Sanhedrin, he would be boxed in by his own assertions. Note that Jesus says, "But I say this to you." He already claims the authority to supercede the Torah, and yet according folder 82 - 014 folder 82 - 014 -11- to the Rabbis the Torah as originally revealed cannot be amended nor nullified. Jesus says in Mt 5:17,"Do not imagine that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets. I have come not to abolish but to complete them." He then goes on to supercede the decalogue with a totally new ethical system, the like of which has never been seen. No one doubts that Jesus did this in such statements as Mt records in chapter 5. Do his statements fulfill the decalogue, do they amend it? In any case, there is only one authority upon which such changes, however interpreted, can be based, and that is God's authority, so his later claim to be Kyrios, Lord, is already implied here. He will have to say that he is Kyrios or be crucified. If he says that he is Kyrios he may be rejected anyhow and be crucified. He has invited crucifixion by amending the Torah; he need do no more. The Torah is what Paul says it is: only able to condemn, to convict of sin, not save. There is a progression here that is logical: Jesus states an ethical system that supercedes the Law; Jesus says that he is Kyrios; Paul says that the Law cannot save. Once the sequence has begun it will go to its end. This brings me again to Paul's doctrine of original sin which I have always found objectionable. What if it is interpreted as a failure of the Law (Torah) to save, not as an indictment of men? It is a way of declaring that indeed Jesus did bring a new ethical system which amounts to a repudiation of the Law. A Jew is placed in the situation where he must choose the Torah or Jesus and he cannot choose Jesus unless he chooses him as Kyrios: God or Son of God. There is no such thing as partial blasphemy. folder 82 - 015 folder 82 - 015 -12- Suppose, however, that Jesus had not started with a new ethical system and then declared himself Kyrios but had simply declared himself Kyrios. What would his credentials have been? At the time miracles were considered prima facia evidence of the presence of God, but this is not true for the modern world; however the total ethical system that Jesus announced is another matter. It would be very strange if the finest ethical system ever announced were the product of a liar or a madman; i.e. Jesus lied when he said he was Kyrios, or he imagined that he was Kyrios, etc. At this point, if Jesus' authority is called into doubt, whoever doubts it should then go on to doubt the divine authorship of the decalogue. It is pointed out by the Rabbis that the Torah's intrinsic nature point to its divine authorship, it being advanced over any other system known in antiquity. This same argument, then, if used for the Torah must be used for Jesus, inasmuch as his system is to this very day unmatched in all the world. There is a further element in the case to be made for Jesus; viz: that his system seems to be the product of the mind a single person, whereas it is possible that the Torah is the borrowed result of inter-cultural mingling as well as the product of many human minds, Hebrew minds, over an extended period of time. The argument, I think, for the divine authorship of Christian ethics is stronger than the argument for the divine --i.e. revealed-- origin of O.T. ethics. In fact the O.T. ethics are not ethics at all but law; they are not internalized. The decisive feature in Jesus' system is the involvement of the inner person; not just what he does but what he thinks and feels and desires. It is simply not the same kind of system as the Decalogue. folder 82 - 016 -13- It is argued by the Rabbis that the two statements "You should not do to anyone who you would not have done to yourself" and "Do unto others as you would have done unto you" differ only in terms of semantics, that in terms of meaning they are interchangeable. This is not so. The first is a typical prohibition ordinance of the sort contained in the Decalogue. It is a "don't." It is based on a notion of external law that forbids certain actions; it is a generalization of the summary of prohibitions. For example, "Thou shalt not push people in front of moving trains" does not mean the same thing as "Thou shalt pull people out of the way of moving trains," and even modern English common law makes this distinction; viz: You can be sent to prison or even executed for pushing someone in front of a moving train but you cannot be punished if you fail to pull someone out of the way of a moving train. The Rabbis either do not understand English common law and Roman law, for that matter, or choose to pretend that they do not understand these distinctions. By and large the difference between a law and an ethic is that a law tells you what you must not do (it is prohibitive) and an ethic tells you what you must do (it is a command). Jesus, then, does not substitute better laws for worse laws but internalized ethics for legal prohibitions - which in itself is a quantum leap upward in the evolution of human life. The result is simply that the person becomes a law unto himself based on the system put forth by Jesus. He guides himself on the internalized basis of this system. At this juncture, the old world gives way to the new, and the O.T. to the N.T. The Rabbis either plead ignorance when in fact they know, or they like their folder 82 - 017 folder 82 - 017 -14- Torah have ossified at the level of two thousand B.C.E. From a study of the original Torah it can be readily seen that unless it is susceptible to amendment, perhaps through precident, as is Roman and English law, it will spiral downward entropically, across the ages, and this is precisely what it has done. From the standpoint of entropy and negentropy, Jesus' system introduces new energy into the realm of moral precepts. Jesus put the Jew in a difficult position. Israel had believed for centuries that the Torah came directly from God and therefore could only be amended by God. The God who had revealed to Moses the divine Torah had manifested himself in a striking theophany: lightning, thunder, dense clouds, a loud trumpet blast, and the necessity of setting up barriers to keep back the people, with such injunctions as, "Any man who touches the mountain must be put to death." The people of course were terrified. "Mount Sinai was all smoking, because the LORD had come down upon it in fire; the smoke went up like the smoke of a kiln...and the sound of the trumpet grew even louder." Against this commanding impression, Jesus entered Jerusalem riding on a donkey. He was the son of a rural carpenter, from a province out of which nothing good was said ever to come. He pits his ethical system against that revealed in the awesome theophany at Mt. Sinai and is destroyed. When one considers the circumstances under which the original Torah was revealed to man, it is easy to understand why Israel would reject amendment by any human being whatever the system he offered in replacement. The circumstances of revelation, not the system itself, seems to be the legitimate issue. But in point of fact it is folder 82 - 018 folder 82 - 018 not, although the argument for this is torturous. The circumstances will be the issue, legitimate or not. Jesus must prove that he is God if his system is to be accepted -- this without regard to the system itself. Hence the doctrine of the risen Christ is crucial to the acceptance of the system, at least for antiquity. Today we could accept the system on its merits. It is accepted by countless people who deny the resurrection. On the other hand, no one who accepted the dogma of resurrection would deny the system, at least pro forma. Resurrection on the third day proved that the system of teachings did indeed originate from the same --or an equal-- source as the Mosaic Law, the Torah. (Equal or superior; the Gnostics believed