eidos contains all its previous form-manifestations, which Patrice pointed out was a major philosophical break-through. Like I say, I am in a world where other people still say, "One apple plusm one apple equal two apples," and I say, "one plus one equals two." My meta-abstracting caused meta-perception at once — well, very soon the "3rd eye" organ came on. Repeat: there is no theory, account or explanation of this in antiquity; this is a new, evolutionary leap in (1) meta-cognition, followed by (2) meta-perception of world. VALIS, alas, is told from a two-eyed standpoint (about a three¬ eyed reality). "Christ, the Logos, invading, the plasmate, Valis, transubstantiation," etc. are all 2-eyed terms dealing with a 3-eyed reality. Someone else will later have to figure out what happened. But I got the clues from reading over the first half of VALIS tonight. Where I have been right is; to have treated 2-3-74 as titani¬ cally important and to have toiled for almost 7 years to figure out what the fuck happened, and, as a result, what it was I saw. Ky big breakthrough was in October '80 when I realized about the cognitive meta-abstracting (of spatiotemporality). Only tnen did I begin to get 13-61 it, as I can fathom now, today, at last. But the clues are there in VALIS which is a case history of the next evolutionary step in thinking-perceiving. And a description of what we will perceive; but when I wrote VALIS I did not understand; it's there in bits and pieces, especially (1) "Here time turns into space" and (2) (separately) the set-ground discrimination, the plasmate, Valis; (1) is how and how come; (2) is what. Goddam it, it is the eye of the God denied us. It opened for me, as it did for the Buddha, but I give (at least as of today) an adequate —i.e. contemporary— explanation. It is the dibba-cakkhu experience; it did happen to Gautama. This is "waking up"! Enlightenment. Trans¬ temporal equals trans (4th) spatial. I should not have written religious and occult stuff into VALIS; that's 2-eyed thinking about a 3-eyed experience. However, Plato did help critically with his anamnesis theory. Because my "3rd eye" scoped out the past I falsely believed that the explanation lay in the past; I knew the world of 2000 years ago was involved. It was: as what I saw (spatially), but the answer is not in the past but, rather, concerns the past. VALIS not only (1) lacks this, the correct explanation, but, more (2) is cluttered with specious speculating. Oh well — there is enough correct reportage to make it of some use to future evolved humans. (1) Meta-cognition (abstracting), then: (2) Meta perception as a result. Next: (3) What I saw as a result of (2), Valis the plasmate, and our world as MMSK. Q: Okay, what did you do? A: Meta-abstracted re spatiotemporal sets. Q: And as a result? A: The ajna eye came on and as a result I meta-perceived along 4 spatial axes. Q: And as a result what did you see along these 4 spatial axes? A: (1) Something we see partially: the MMSK. And: (2) Some¬ thing we don't see at all: a living info life form: Valis/the plasmate. Q: And what does this add up to? A: A quantum evolutionary leap in cognition and way-of-being in the world both in terms of cognition (comprehension about reality) 3-81 and perception —literally— of that reality. Plato and Buddha (e.g.) were possibly onto this as an experience (anamnesis and dibba cakkhu) but did not understand what it signified. Meta-abstracting does equal anamnesis and knowledge of universals; but this leads to: meta-percep¬ tion. There would have been no meta-perception if there had been no meta-cognition-abstracting ("anamnesis"). And there would have been no meta-cognition-abstracting if Plato had been wrong and there were no universals in actuality, i.e. the MMSK. So Plato was right. The reason 2-3-74 resembles UBIK is because the tneoretical basis is put forth in UBIK knowingly connected with Plato. Viz: the form axes and regression which yields up prior forms as latent within. Finally: this untangling after 7 years of work goes directly back to the grueling labors circa 10-80 when I really bore down. The Logos is pointed to — but new language will have to be developed. Maybe we can work it out in cooperation with "the Logos," the info life form that I saw that is here. I understand! The "Logos" i.e. the plasmate hence Valis is a life form that already lives in 4-D space, just as we live in 3-D space. Therefore it is a more evolved life form than us. It isn't just living info; no: it also lives —hence moves— in full 4-D space: it's there already, and adapted to that environment. It is a life form more sophisticated than us; from our imperfect 3-D view it is camouflag¬ ed from our perception. This supra paragraph is terribly important!!! I've discovered a UTI and I know how to see it and why we don’t see it ordinarily. It is a sort of incredibly sophisticated, evolved "parasite" or "virus" -like entity; viz: it has no body of its own but replaces our information with itself (as physical arrangements that form info). It coexists with us; it in 4-D, us in mere 3-D plus time. And because it lives in 4-D space it has totally different characteristics from all 3-D and time life forms such as us; i.e. it is immortal, and has no body such as we have. It is a growing life form progressively subordinating more and more of reality to itself by this process where it substitutes itself for reality (apparently; something like that: it invades causal processes, anyhow). But it is not new in what we call time; it extends backward at least two thousand "years" along the 4th spatial axis. What I think of as "theories from antiquity" refers simply to, "Are there any historical accounts of anyone experiencing what I 1-3-81 experienced in 2-3-74?" The answer is: Yes. Plato's anamnesis, which supplies a recovering of the knowledge of universals. Since Plato was tied into Pythagoras and the Orphics, and since the MMSK so much resembles Pythagoras' kosmos, it is very likely that my cognitive and perception experience was indeed known in Attik Greece. After all, both Pythagoras and Empedocles said they'd recalled their past lives. So my research into antiquity was not wholly wasted. Through Plato I scored my big breakthrough in October '80. But what UBIK shows most of all is that when time turns into space and there is regression along the form axes, a macro informationentity (i.e. Ubik) is revealed. How did I know that? Well, I did; it is there in the novel. I even got it right that this entity is not located in one place but is ubiquitious. Well, if knowledge of the universals (eide) is prenatal knowledge, then it is possible that my knowledge of Ubik was/is prenatal but still latent in me; i.e. it hadn't entered consciousness due to anamnesis, yet. Sure; it was already there, but inhibited, blocked. Until the disinhibiting stimulus set in during Feb '74. This business about time turning into the 4th spatial axis explains the time and causality dysfunctions in 3-74, why time seemed to roll backward and stop. (This could be more proof that I am on the right track, here, in these notes.) I think I should retract my statement supra that Valis/the plasmate is a "parasite" or virus" -like life form. Because I saw (understood) that it is structurally more organized than the not-it environment; hence it is more negentropic than its environment, i.e. that which it organizes into structure. The not-it reality is perceive by it as chaos; therefore it is higher on the evolutionary scale than all that which is not-it. Terms such as "parasite" and "virus" hence are misleading. For example, information is per se structure and negentropy, which is to say, organization. Is it possible that this augmented depth-perception, perception of four spatial axes, is due to bilateral hemispheric parity? Or even to right hemisphere dominance? After all, it is the right hemisphere that apprehends space. Perhaps my right brain hemisphere became conscious. This is the next step in human evolution: for the right hemisphere to come on. And to think it never occurred to me all these years that when I looked at the contents of TEARS and saw the text at several 1-3-81 spatial levels —each successive one according to how old it was— I was seeing time as space, which means that I had coverted time into space according to the quote from Parsifal, "You see, here time turns into space." Thus (if one wanted to) one could set up a cypher system by which a message could be read off at a glance, as set to ground (in other words in terms of spatial depth along this fourth spatial axis; but whether it is cypher or just the normal way the plasmate operates I have no idea; it may not be cypher at all but just its M.O.). The message lodges in a context that is not the same age as it; in other words set and ground lie at different depths along the fourth spatial axis. Apparently the percipient does not need to know the age of the different texts in order to see them lying at different depths; they will lie at their appropriate depths according to their intrinsic age, not according to the percipient's knowledge; this is the case because they actually are at these different depths, when time (age) is converted into space. If this is so, it is quite extraordinary, perhaps the most so of anything I've come across in this experience and exegesis of the experience. For example, a percipient who is able to see time as space (the fourth spatial axis) will see the word ASHER on the Linda Ronstadt albums as lying very deep, since it is an ancient Hebrew word. So a message can be put together involving it as a linking device. For example, when I looked at that page in TEARS I saw the word FELIX at a different depth from the words surrounding it, and this was before I knew that it is a Latin word as well as a name. I did not estimate the depth by the age; I estimated the age by the depth, by the various different depths. In my opinion someone or something is using this mechanism as a messagecarrier. What I have been called "the Acts lens/grid" is in fact the appearance in me of the ability to see time as space, hence age as depth. I stood in the antechamber of a world that is already long inhabited and well-utilized. This is momentous. Since the verbal integer (morpheme) sets its own depth independent of the particular knowledge of the percipient, the encyphering-decyphering (encoding and then extraction) is spontaneous. ASHER can be used (for example) to show where a message begins. It can be linked and relinked with morphemes of other ages greater than that of the inferior bulk-text. What it is linked to need not be the same age as it but only a different age from the inferior bulk-text. The fact that I was used as an unwitting medium to generate and hence transmit such material shows 1-3-81 an instance of how this is done; the older, deeper material in TEARS came to me in the form of a dream with the urgent sense that I had to enter it into the text of TEARS exactly as I had seen it; only years later did I see it lying farther down —i.e. at a greater depth— and then I realized that it was older —hence lower— than the rest of the text of the novel. This material linked itself with the Latin word FELIX which I had thought of as being only