this intellect being the Logos. After all, my perception of the constants were Judo-Xtian apocalyptic. + the words I hear are Greek, always Greek. The 2nd psyche is adventitious dream The Ditheon t + is the Holy Spirit. referred to bill + tim; this is enthustasmos. guess the resolution between Philo + t Sankara would be Eckharts stage four of the soul in which world is seen totally abstractly as pre-existent forms in God's intellect (+ this links up with Sankara, as rudolf otto pointed out). but I emphasize that I construe what I saw was the Logos My God, I am totally fucked up; I saw the footage from "Blade Runner" tonight + the sufi‐ Dante 3-realm theory is correct: when I saw the BIPI Al was remembering hell; I was not in hell; I was remembering having been, but was now in Purgatorio. The karmic fetters t f elt loosen were punishment (thrall) fetters; + experienced time flowing backward: that was Purgatorio. then I ascended to Paradiso + reard the bells. + saw God (Valis). It was my act vis-a-vis Covenant House. In interno time doesn't move at all, as with dris; she K150 relive. the same day over + over again; it is so! These are the coaxial worlds, the meta-abstraction was my perception of coaxiality +, simultaneously, my rapid ascent, so two things were involved (3, if you include "anamnesis": recovery of memory of interno). "Meta-abstraction" signifies understanding of the situation due to (1) recovered memory; (2) perception of the hierarchically arranged coaxial worlds (3) ascent; (4) transformations in time space + causation. (Gnostics to Heidegger to bindswanger to Dante to, the sufis to "the Tibetian Book of the Dead" to "Ubik"! the touchstone (oh please do not forget this!) is the Bible; it is somehow (1) actual; (2) true; (3) alive; (4) a sentient organism which has the keys, to bind + it "uncannily enters one-way, intrudes coosen from outside" - as Lem put it. My 10 volume meta-novel is lucia, correct but incomplete It is intuitive guesswork based on buried memories. We are presented with moral + epistemological + logical problems to solve when I saw Valis + the plasmate Isaw that we are in an info-processing sentient unitary entity that simulates (Maya) world the notion of Ātman-Brahman is a good guess but Dante is closer (the 3 cognate revealed religions). The Orphics + Pythagoreans knew the truth. "The divine invasion" that shows I am now in a different realm K151 a higher one. Once, I was lower than most people (so my weltsicht/Dasein) differe sharply from theirs; then I was in 2-3-74 elluated above the norm + could see by virtue of being moved "vertically" that coaxial realms existed + that in "Ubik" had guessed the truth. For most people, I they ascent + descent is so gradual that s do not grasp the "vertical axis' existence (hence nor the coaxial realms). was taken up into heaven + saw God; this was done by + through Christ. did not see Acts; I saw "Tears" - track I I remembered it. Ach Weh! A: inferno‐ the Law (Torah) is machine law for the machine "track," i.e. inferno. This explains Paul's hostility toward the Law: "Now we are freed (ultra sic!) from the Law [sin + f Death]." The lai in necessary in the immutable Yin world, that world cannot be maintained as cosmos without it; both causation + the Law (heimarmene) must exist if track i is to be maintained. Each detail must be spetted out; for the people are machines driven by the mechanism of unfree necessity (the ancient world, but all 3 worlds co-exist coaxially, not sequen‐ tially): ontology is involved. The law must tell you -command you- to be good, for you have no inner knowledge - steering device, + This is true now for most people if they 152 are to be made (!) good. Joachim is right: his 3 ages (Father, son, Spirit) are Dante's 3 ascending realms (Dante was influenced by soachim!!!) 3 ages, not 2; + I have entered the 3rd age, of the spirit; I have a dual psyche -hence an inner monitor or spiritthe adventitious psyche now inwardly + tells me what to do (3 levels of homeo‐ stasis: machine, human, Ditheon. It all has to do with feelach resulting from t choice: right choice/wrong choice. What call: schizophrenic absolute concrete; "normal" semi-abstract; dotheon totally abstract. Doris is a machine - look: she goes by rules. She can't see that it is wrong to (eg) take the 5si money, not work, conceal her income; + she is punished; the punishment is in a sense a precondition (!) of her very existence, like a hysteron proteron fallacy; viz: is she imprisoned + hence a machine? Or is she a machine first then as a result imprisoned? "Machines o + hell" + "imprisoned [BIP] are one synch ronized modality. How do you break it? By what I call "the new/heroic act" + Only God (as Philo shows) can grant you the freedom through grace to perform that act by his perfect knowledge of you: this is the Eschatological judgment perpetually It nothing to do with time because (1) has For those in hell their is no time; + (2) in Purgatoro time rund backward; hence I was K153 sprung for an act I would "later" (later no for me) perform. For Doris there is "later" These are all feedback loops For the machine world it is by the nature of the condition (situation /world) impos‐ sible to get out - the "up by his bootstraps phenomenon. It is a closed system not The whole post-ancient world is the true Messianic age because there are 3. not 2, ages, + Joachin was the first to the N.T. does not apply to the see this. past 2000 years - age two- but to age is 3 the age of the spirit (again: it an error to view this as temporal succession since in hell, the machine age there is no linear time; in age 2 time is linear the but it moves backward, carrying world back to age! the machine world, hell. ase 2, purgatorio, leads not to Paradiso it but to inferno; hence it is sinking then is entropic. Age 3 does not occur, naturally but due to a revolutionary act of newness" (negentropy) + is due is totally to God's grace. Yet the N.T. is already here, paradoxically, because it does not arise in our world(s) but "invades" cone-way) from outside. It cannot it invade hell, the machine realm. can invade realm two but this is rare; we read (the scriptures] but do not understand; viz: the N.T. (age 2) is latent in the O.T., the Torah "within the inferior bulk -i.e. the story of Christ, but the N.T., for age two 57 third contains stegenographically a testament for Joachim's age of the two, 3, not spirit; thus there are testaments, just as there are 3 ages, this 3rd testament is what I saw + as set to ground that I called "the saw it concealed plasmate"! Hence I not in/as the O.T. but in/as the N.T. So it is not Torah. Again: just as the N.T. is latent in the O.T. the but 3rd T. is latent in the N.T. only through God's grace (miracle + pronoia) can you see (decypher) it. Age! the machine age, hell, could only be broken by something entering from out side: Christ (implicit in the Torah itself!). thus limited, conditional choice/ freedom some real time enters, but it does not + lead to age 3, the age of the spirit: it leads back to the machine age, which reasserts itself more + more + yet paradoxically bifurcates into ages 1 + 3 both, by a schism, as if some people move toward I but a few -miraculously, by charis- toward 3, Junchim's age of the spirit - due to an adventitious intervention as sudden, as "external" + abrupt as the first advent; hence the AI voice (ruah) speaks of "St Sophia being born again; she was not acceptable before"; i.e. age I reasserted itself. The Dialectic is Christ combatting age I -hell + Satan or the law- to usher in Joachim': 3rd age. Thus set to ground: the two "cities" now pull the apart; K15t final -i.e. eschatological- judgment has been made, + vast machine - thinking tyranny in which even the Law is not followed sweeps the world. Satan represents man without the law; the law compels man to good but does not save him, does not give him eternal life Now both the success + "faclure" of the first advent can be understood success. It brought in a certain 1) measure of hope, freedom, choice the human, some limited volition + newness + time but the time flowed backward, + aget reasserted itself (as ossification). yet This was the only means to get to ase 3. because it installed a winnowing process/system (for those in age one There could be no judgment because there was no choice). 2) It did not lead to age 3. It split the world (which I saw as secret Xtians -age 3- vs the BIP - age I "Thus age? -is, not contains- a/the Dialectic is in other words, Christ could not save all men because not all men would choose rightly even though they had the available to them, just as not all N.t. men in the machine age chose the Torah conclusion: AD is + is not the Messianic it is paradoxical. All 3 ages are in age. + blended together. "AD" is a fact coaxial. both mixture of the iron aeon + the Gold acon, I pulls apart as goats to sheep. There are in fact if conditions because before + below K150 the law is Satanic chaos machine man Demon Satan to law to grace to Godhood (Ditheon). Craos to machine order to voluntary decisions of which some are right + some are wrong; i.e. they are fallable, + then to ditheon where a second, adventitious God-psyche (at least the result is God) inscribes God's laws directly in/on your heart (E2 36:27). 1) Satan. Chaos. the Law. God compels man externally to 2) do good by stipulating in + for every instance what is right/ what is wrong, but this has no power to save your soul; it only creates "external" cosmos 3) Grace. Choice is offered. Inner volition without infallability; men are free to choose but many choose wrong. Thus the eschatological judge must assess each person's "Zoroastrian" choice ("sons of Darkness vs the sons of Light") the element of choice contains potential,or salvation but also falling back to chaos (pre-machine, less than the law. The law, discover, is superior to what most as I Humans voluntarily choose. Thus chaos gains [Note result of correct choice: "Birth 4) Ditheon. baptism- in the spirit" - inner certitude + salvation. the N But not everyone. Choice is risky. Law is not. Freedom + volition carry the risk of error + damnation: falling rather than rising. All of the "Grace" age is a vast, extended winnowing. It is as if K157 God now both tests + gambles - the dialectic as a two-parta wager - the period of the Law has taught man that enough that he will choose righty; the period of the Law gave man a basis to know what God prefers (hence the Law is good) + dislikes, but now the Law can't be followed slauishly; each person must choose in ambiguous test situations; this will determine essence through existential evidence (paradoxically the Law must be fought off + obeyed but obeyed voluntarily, as if inscribed on the heart, not on tablets of stone (or scrolls/ in books). (v. E2 36:27.) the Law cannot be obeyed + the person be human; if he obeys it by rote he is "correct" but only mechanically, because he is told explicitly