it was their standard code system in "Tears" + one of them had been acting as a control, subliminally, vis-a-vis me, + then overtly took me over? + they move through time as if it's space. So "Thomas" was neither a human nor god, but a superior life form. + "fairies" are a UI life form. ---------- I've studied the last 25 pages. It was Diana herself who took me over in 3-74. She is our queen + protectress. ---------- The duck eyes cap that she wears: to see in the dark depths of the great grottos where they have gone - Venus. ---------- So starting in 2-74 I was turned onto the other reality which early Xtianity (via amounts [of] muscarin) + the Elysian mysteries (LSD) were involved with, with total secrecy. There is another reality; otherwise all the initiates at Elysius wouldn't have seen the same thing. This was deliberately induced in me. I guess it's the "upper realm" in contrast to the lower. + there is a goddess there (as revealed at Elysius). (17) This seems to be a realm of haunting beauty, bells + song + dance, freedom + wisdom + immortality, in contrast to which this world is a Black Iron Prison. This is half of the revelation: to see this world as it really is. So finding the upper realm is an escape, a freeing. I have reason to equate it with a post mortem heaven. Do we pass across + return? I certainly got that impression - + yet I experienced this world in an altered sanctified way. The divine presence was here - so I was there yet here, which is really a mystery. Did I participate in this world plus the other (v. my two source cosmogony!) This (as K.W. says) is the missing half of the signal; we're only getting one channel. Here is how to render it: [graphic] signal 1 BIP signal 2 [top] PTG - after life only [overlap] - Both signals which enhances the (BIP) world: an overlap of the two worlds [bottom] BIP - what we normally experience - this is what we think of as our world So you can be alive + participate in the two unified signals, which is a big improvement over the BIP, signal 1 alone. So in a sense, out of two signals you can obtain three, not two realms; viz: A, or A+B, or B. Of course it's the superimposition of the missing B signal which creates the set-ground discrimination: B reinforces or even adds - that's the colored (phosphene) set. + all the info processing requires awareness of both signals - so they are free to communicate totally freely + openly knowing that without signal B, no one can decode (or even be aware of) their message. (18) So they are quite aware that we see only signal A. They routinely utilize their twosignal reception + our one signal impairment; this way they can use our (signal A) media, whereas if their messages lay just in the B signal they couldn't exploit our communications media! Our media is a goddam carrier - a free carrier - for them! (This approaches the phenomenon of "freighting" from the other end.) But this tells me that Zebra is a "signal B" entity invisible (camouflaged) to us because we see no signal B material, Zebra or info or otherwise, +: "the upper realm has plenary powers." Yes, Zebra could overpower causal trains. + the AI voice's source is in the upper realm, so the voice links me to the "other reality." My brain transduces from that realm. These are clearly the suprahuman + subhuman realms respectively, or heaven + earth. But to understand reality a person must receive both signals; signal A alone is incomplete + gives a totally misleading picture by itself. We can actually see effects on signal A from singal B, + yet not comprehend what we see or how a coherency is formed, so Zebra is free to be in our world + act on our world with no chance that we'll see it or even deduce its presence by its effect on what we do see (i.e. signal A)! But I didn't just see this signal B; I was possessed by an entity from it, which is probably why I could see signal B: I had been taken over. This is shamanism pure + simple. (19) I still hear the vox dei. Suppose signal B is the Gnostic Kingdom of Light, + signal A the Kingdom of Darkness - + VALIS (Zebra) has advanced into the Kingdom of Darkness to do battle + recall the imprisoned sparks to their true natural anemnesis, + to injure the Lord of Darkness. This perfectly fits the dream episode in "Tears"! ---------- Voice: "He came back from the dead to control her." "Her" - [?] as womb. ---------- It is of stunning importance to conceive the other or next world as a signal B which can be syntonically superimposed onto this world as signal A (or presumably experienced solis; viz: after death), + that out of the blended signals the complete reality forms... + that there are beings, perhaps humans, who pick up both signals + thus can process information using our media as carriers, unbeknownst to us (either them or their information). + the N.T. is their code - that no such person as Jesus Christ existed; it is just a language they use. So the world template "Acts" was visible when signal A was enhanced with signal B: this explains the how it was done. Then I conclude that this template (which shows up in "Tears") is our world really, + not another space-time world. (20) This ratifies 3 Gnostic ideas simultaneously: 1) our world as prison; 2) another realm, the realm of light; 3) our world as not quite (or fully) real. ---------- "He came back from the dead to control her." Runciter - "UBIK." ---------- The best insight I've had of late is: the discovery of the cosmic moral order (justice) by Ma'at, which is a disclosure by the universe of its volitional rather than mechanical side: to get it to respond volitionally one must have Ma'at + so see the response of the universe to ones act within the area of cosmic justice. To which Ma'at in the universe responds. Only an action based on Ma'at (in the person acting) i.e. an act of justice will cause it to respond volitionally. This is the great transformation from (the lower realm of) astral determinism to (the upper realm of) providence: it is set in motion by Ma'at (in the person) linking up with Ma'at in the macro-cosm. This is the ultimate discovery + victory in all life, this micro-macro resonance. The moral order has superceded the natural order; the cosmos has thrown off its disguise at the inanimate + revealed itself. UBIK, a vitalizing negentropic force from "the other side" - (beyond the grave) acts on us, (21) To experience the universe as volitional, rather than mechanical, is to experience Ma'at. + this is achieved by having Ma'at in you + acting out of it. If UBIK (Ma'at) (or the aton) is ubiquitous it is in us as well as outside us in macroform. So "providence" is a passing over into the volitional by the mechanical - "astral determinism" - universe; + ones perception of this arises out of ones own Ma'at UBIK, Zebra, VALIS, Ma'at, is not a thing (hypostasis) or entity (god) but an order - the cosmic order macro- + micro. 213 545-8807 Mark (201) - 798-2046 Kathy Kuntz 2800 Armacoast L.A. 90045 (213) 390-3758 (22) I realize that I have total belief in divine justice, that I cannot conceive of the cosmic order lacking justice: if it lacks justice it is not a cosmic order + there is no mind behind it. Sentience + justice are, to me, indistinguishable - which, as I say, seems childish + anthropomorphic at first glance, but, viewed more deeply, turns out to be an apperception of Ma'at, which I feel acting in me as well as in the cosmos. Thus my volition + the volition (will) of the cosmos are one. The Greeks saw that without intelligence there could be no ethics: the two are intertwined. ---------- Then what I saw in 3-74 was not an intervention in the cosmic order, but a self-correction by the cosmic order, due to a self-monitoring feedback circuit which told it that there was an overstepping, a disharmony, an imbalance, which it discerned + rectified through judgment (sentience) + analysis + power (i.e. wisdom + authority). Thus I witnessed a higher activity - function - of reality than is normally encountered, since a higher part operated on a lower. I saw it because this correction involved me, + may even have utilized me in the feed back circuit, through (23) "Tears." I may have been a sample which was tested for stress - which fits in with my "bait" theory. Then my experience in 3-74 constitutes evidence that the universe (reality) is aware of itself, + since we are part of it, it can realign itself utilizing us, + involving us. It uses human beings as micro reflections by which to determine its own state or nature (alignment, morphē, etc) - we are not outside it but function within it. This passing of the universe over from its mechanical aspect ("astral determinism") to its higher volitional aspect ("providence") would seem to the observer as if the volitional (i.e. rational) had invaded the mechanical (i.e. irrational), subtly replacing it, stick, stone, + diverse processes of causality together into a coherence, a sort of web of intentionality (toward the person!). Beyond doubt it would seem to be a theophany - in no way would it dffer from a theophany, but a close scrutiny would disclose that the universe itself had altered in aspect intrinsically that it was, itself, this volitionality. Thus one could say, "It was latently volitional all the time," as if posing as mechanical in a kind of mimesis or camouflage, having been in a sort of rest mode in a binary way of being but then passing over into its active mode. (24) What has to be realized is that the universe which we experience is a hypostasis largely imposed by our percept systems, + that an autodisturbance of these hypostases does not necessarily imply something added, but merely an alteration from a sort of sleep or neutral phase to a waking or intentional phase by the implicate order of reality within - or behind - the phenomenal. ➀ The door to this intentionality by the cosmos may lie in an act of intentionality by a human which is isomorphic to the cosmic order (e.g. justice - i.e. Ma'at); there are not many Ma'ats, just as there are not many justices, but one Ma'at + one justice. Thus Ma'at links the macro- + micro-cosms into a volitional unity. ➀ This wake-sleep-wake cycle could be what was meant by the "through all this, Siddhartha slept (in part one)" dream. Thus in the wake part of the cycle god comes into being. ----------- When the universe passes over from the mechanical to the volitional the person (for whom this happens) is no longer part of a machine or artifact but within Ma'at herself: the female, personalized cosmic (+ micro) order. Now there is intentional resonance (response) to his micro-Ma'at by the sentient + just cosmic order (structure, not entity). His relationship is now to a "you," not an "it." This "you" is emblemed to me as Diana the AI voice who is my advisor, guide, helper, comforter, advocate, + spirit of my religion, + tutulary spirit. The cosmos has at last disclosed its volitional, free nature + in doing so, frees the person. (25) My concept of reward as indicating that the rewarded person has correctly guessed the true nature of reality