the first instant of that very kind of time; + yet, contrarily + paradoxically, eschatological time never fulfills itself along the "horizontal tracking" axes however long they are tracked - which is why for me Christ returned "long ago" (i.e. in illo tempore) but is for other people "always coming but never now, never here - in the hand, but, rather, near at hand" - to understand this -why both are true- you must introduce a new + additional orthogonal ("vertical") axis. Hence when I saw Valis/Christ in 3-74 I had always already seen him; that is, I remembered. This is salvation purely + absolutely + either it pertains or it does not, + neither category passes over into its opposite (such passage is logically incoherent + unintelligible). Thus my giving to Covenant House operated backward causally but this "perturbation" was as inexorably willed as is anything else, + is only disorder if one fathoms not the additional axis (this resembles the seeming paradoxes of quantum mechanics). A final way of putting it is: if you ever get into the 5D universe you were really always already in it + somehow knew it, you did not get from the 4D to it but, rather, remembered it. Thus the arrival of Christ / the nearman was always already willed by God in such a way that it folder 53 - 102 folder 53 - 102 H-15 is correct to say, "the advent of Christ caused the fall," etc. Lack of knowing (ignorance) can never be modified; knowing (moksa) can also never be modified - + Calvin is proven correct by way of Elea + pan-Indian thought, + quantum mechanics: the damned man cannot be saved because he is damned, + the saved man was never lost. All of 3-74, then, was remembered. To repeat, any degree of Christ / the nearman is absolute Christ. I guess the term I am struggling for is absolute hysteresis based on Eleatic reasoning + the continuum. Upon this realization, the "fate vs pronoia" difficulty vanishes as illusory. folder 53 - 103 folder 53 - 103 H-16 When I heard Jeannie as the AI voice it was narrating a different narrative -hence world- than ours, but upon my hearing it, I was thereupon in that world. Thus world absolutely compels our assent because the narrative is an absolute basis; there is no other. Is this connected with what I call "endless horizontal tracking?" Only the aspects (accidents) change; the matrix remains constant. "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed"; one narrative + then the next. But essentially the one matrix remains as a constant; time, then, is illusory, + the vertical "pulley" axis reveals this. What I realized that Saturday night is that e.g. London 1715 "is" our world in terms of matrix-essence; a slight shift + Calif 1982 becomes (or is experienced as) London 1715. This is precisely why we fail to grasp that we track horizontally forever; limited by + to horizontal vision. It does not seem to repeat itself; upon the entry of the vertical or "pulley" axis all the trackings can be seen as one tracking repeated, with only the accidents changed. To comprehend the significance of this you must turn to pan-Indian thought: the "grand illusion," "the weary wheel," +, most of all, Karma. folder 53 - 104 folder 53 - 104 H-17 The 1715 London narrative is here + now - from the vertical standpoint (although from the horizontal standpoint this is not only not evident, it is -or seems- impossible!). A very distinct + profound + startling idea came to me. Ape. Nearman. Australian Aborigine: the most primitive human sub-race. "Dreamtime." Could 5D space-time be a drastically primitive (i.e. early) Dasein, now virtually lost? (We lost it upon the entry of atomist physics into Western thought.) Okay: if the 5D world is the "Christ" world, + 5D world is drastically atavistic + primitive, then the Christ/nearman vision simply states a literal fact: early man dwelt in a 5D world -4 spatial axes + one temporal, in illo tempore- + we have lost it - in which case Jesus was a drastic atavism, + all this pertains + applies to the primordial Garden + the Fall: i.e. our early forebears fell from the 5D Dasein to the 4D, thereupon becoming visually semi-blind, as in the "Book of Adam + Eve" - the "Cave of Treasures." Hence 3-74 was a genuine phylogenic abreaction to the dawn of the human species; so we literally wind up with the Christ-ape (sic!) equation. In which case the impression that when I saw the apes-nearmen coming forth out of the trees I was finally folder 53 - 105 folder 53 - 105 H-18 For the first time seeing "them" (the source of the AI voice) as they literally and really are was an authentic realization. + this would point to our secret spiritual "masters" (guides) as literal nearmen still dwelling in the 5D universe - i.e. unfallen. Our ability to perceive them correctly, however (as mentally + spiritually superior to us) requires a titanic re-evaluation of what constitutes superiority + why - i.e. the whole fall from the 5D world to our wretched 4D. Anamnesis (especially phylogenically construed) would fit in exactly: restoration to the beginning (dawn) of human history. Amid all the spiritual + religious truths lies one hard, difficult fact: we are not the dominant human branch on this planet. We are clever degenerates; the "ajna eye" is so atavistic as to predate recorded history. This does not have to do with Egypt + India: it has to do with Cro-Magnon man! + am I also to assume that the peak of intelligence in the hominoid species came before speech (verbal language) developed, + man -or nearman- utilized the math-color concepts that died out when left hemisphere verbal thinking took over? Then indeed there was a fall, + folder 53 - 106 H-19 one so vast as to place man proper -who is because he thinks- in the status of the cognitively degraded! (+ am I to assume the current presence of an ancient unfallen remnant acting as tutelary guides to us - in our sleep, as it were? Not technology but pure mental powers involving a radically superior world-experience than ours, + radically superior? We have lost one whole axis - + are blind. We no longer see what is there! The "ape" realization (disclosure/revelation) is, then, the ultimate revelation, for now not what is thought but who is thinking it is disclosed - + it is not at all who we imagined to be the source. Thus first there is the what (2-74 to now) + then the who, at last: the ape vision. ___ Okay. Because the restoration of 5D experience (which is also salvation because it introduces the orthogonal vertical axis which thus ends the endless horizontal tracking) is a return to a primordial state so early that it is a phylogenic return to the very dawn of our species. This "Christ" that one becomes when one regains this lost, superior functioning - this "Christ" or saved or restored person who is a god, a superman, is, quite literally in mental terms an ape (or near ape, near man): Christ inside, low-browed dawn age man outside - a shattering discovery that is perhaps ultimate. + this accords with Biblical teachings about the Garden + the Fall, "the extinct true cosmos + it's still there." folder 53 - 107 folder 53 - 107 H-20 I seem to be saying, I am that who I saw in my vision! Restored (saved) man who is Christ. Or a Christ. + not really human but pre-human. ___ Valis externally. Valis' mind in mine. Doesn't think in words. "Extinct true cosmos": extinct quasi-human dawn ape man. "She (the AI voice) turned into an ape." Now add this: "The ugly builders of antiquity who hide from our sight." Antiquity, not in 1000s of years but - before human culture: millions of years. Thought to be extinct. No words, no tools, only colossal direct mental powers - right brain, color instead of words. Valis not YHWH but the exercise of "technology" of extinct (sic) dawn man - not ultra technology but the mind-bending equal of it The point is, Valis was there outside me, as well as in my mind; either that or what I call Valis was a "perturbation in the reality field" presumably caused by a sentient but invisible -to me- entity. Now, "reality field" + "true cosmos" mean the same thing. For the "apes." Reality is indeed a field, along 5 axes: 4 spatial + one temporal. + after all, that Sat. night when Mary was here, I was in two-way contact with "them" + they did transmit the self-authenticating "music-color-math" annotation expressing a concept that can't arise within a human mind. So there is a "they" as with Jacque Valleé. Valis a Neanderthal - was I ever prepared for that? The AI voice also likewise? folder 53 - 108 folder 53 - 108 H-21 This would certainly explain the theme of continual emphasis on difference in skull shape by the ugly builders. Think: (1) very ancient (2) somewhat human skull-shape, but markedly different ... what does this suggest, these two points? Who/what existed a very long time ago on this planet with quasi- Homo Sapiens skulls? Why, what we call "dawn age near men," + : who is closest to illo tempore - in the 5D world? Why, the most primitive human subspecies alive: the Australian Bushmen. + the key term long extinct. ___ I just realized. The AI voice replacing Jeannie’s voice was like the end of the movie "The Elephant Man" when he began to die + heard his mother’s voice + moved out into the stars. Ach: my analysis of that event in "The Elephant Man" was: {illustration: 1) "world" with arrow to "God" with arrow to "person"} Not: {illustration: 2) "God" with arrow to "world" with arrow to "person"} Which is Malebranche. Also, this diagram ((1)) fits in with the "coaxial" realities + the plural narratives + the common matrix; viz: (to recap one of my fundamental epistemological ideas): there is an objective world (creation) out there, but as Malebranche taught, we do not truly see it, we see a representation of it, + this representation is provided us by God himself ("We see all things in God"); so what my Saturday night experience with Jeannie's voice consisted of is exactly what I supposed it to be: a stupendous demonstration of the power of God in terms of creating world - more precisely, governing which world out of all the possibilities you will experience. Thus my entire epistemology apparently was verified by Saturday night as if God desired to demonstrate for my sake the veracity of my epistemology derived from (1) 2-3-74; + (2) Malebranche. As long as one + one only world is consistently fed to you, you will imagine that you know world directly qua world, + that God is not folder 53 - 109 folder 53 - 109 H-22 involved in the way Malebranche supposes, but for me this ended abruptly in 2-74 with the meta-abstraction. + now this, with Jeannie's voice - which had its "set up" roots in the prior sense of Genel being a person of London 1715 (although at that point I felt myself to be still in USA 1982 - but later, with Jeannie, I was not only in London 1715 but this world of London 1715 was created by the voice; + the voice was not just narrating - it was reading a previously written narration in a book, a narrative that she herself did not invent, had not invented; someone else (presumably higher up) was the author; she was a phonograph to record: her reading the narrative aloud brought that particular world into existence, + it was, thereupon, not only real to +