of 2-74 was: insight into the fact that I was generating my own world, due to seeing USA 1974 easily become Acts AD 70 Syria. (3) The washerwoman dream: my red shirt + white tie; this represented true reality + I recognized it + knew what it meant. It is the white cross on a red field in the form of a shield: the Knights Templar. Which fits in with the dream in "Tears" - the posse is the Knights Templar. What do they have to do with this? The dream is saying, "Your true identity is that of a Knight Templar" in which case USA 1974 does not exist. No. I am wrong. The templars wore a red cross on a white field; I looked it up. My "shield" is - Hospitalers. White cross, my dream had, on a red field, the reverse of the Templars. This means that the red cross (R.C.) were our enemies! Okay, let's do a totally crazy trip: Gregg Arena was right. We are not in the real world (it died) but in a fake world based on R.C. technology/magic/supernatural powers - i.e. we are enchanted. God, the true God from outside, is trying to reach us + wake us up (i.e. Christ/Logos). This is Valis. Both in me + outside me, Valis, the rational, invading the irrational + irreal to restore our memories + identities. So there are two secrets, not one: 1) This world is irreal + we are trapped in it 2) God is here (camouflaged) to aid us. folder 90 - 103 folder 90 - 103 G-48 Hence my 10 volume meta novel. This world is delusional + a snare; we are occluded + in thrall. But the AI voice speaks the truth, from outside. So help is here in the form of Christ (which is to say the true God). To understand the solution/remedy (Christ) you first have to understand the problem/malady (us in thrall to an irreal world). This is precisely what "Valis" presents: this problem + this solution. There is indeed an adversary situation (expressed by the dialectic, Christ vs Satan). I am afraid that this (supra) dream is correct. (1) Irreal world vs (2) "taped" verbal messages to remind us by telling us (i.e. reminding us) of the true situation: messages from the real world, i.e. outside. This would be -obviously is- the AI voice + would include certain visions I've had. Esp: "a perturbation in the reality field" i.e. from outside. God is breaking in; God has broken in! To help us. He is here (camouflaged?). Could we be fallen sparks of light, fragments of the one sole Godhead, who, due to a crisis in the Godhead itself, fell into forgetfulness + ignorance (of our true identity)? Christ as savior comes here, causes us to remember (our real identity/nature: as parts of the damaged Godhead - hence the Atman-Brahman identification - hence the dream (supra) where we are forgetful cosmocrators. Not only is Yaldabaoth's realm a delusion - so is he. We are ourselves lords of our own imprisoning irreal realm no longer knowing or remembering our own power to create reality: a reality we create that comes back + assails us objectively. folder 90 - 104 folder 90 - 104 G-49 By perceiving, in the act (note: act) of perceiving, world we create it + are imprisoned by it. But we are unaware that perceiving world + creating world are one + the same act (we are unknowing cosmogenators). The dream made this clear. + also made clear is what the AI voice is, what it is saying, where it comes from, why I hear it. Valis in me was my own mind, was God but fallen God, forgetful, unintentional cosmogenator of world. The "binary switching computer" that generates "info that we hypostatize as world" is my own mind creating irreal imprisoning world for me (as if "Valis" + "Frozen Journey" were superimposed). It's like I said to Gregg Rickman when he suggested that when I experienced Valis in my mind I was experiencing my own [unconscious] mind! I said, "That would make me God!" To take (view, accept) a self-generated "world" as real, one would have to be occluded. + indeed we are. We would have to blind (sic!) ourselves to what we really know, which is that we fell, +, in falling, were axiomatically deprived of real world which is God. To fill up the unendurable [sensory] vacuum we generate our own fake reality - no; we did it to ourselves; hence we carefully equipped ourselves with the tape recorded message unit to periodically remind us (the maze situation in "Valis", we built the maze + entered it but intend eventually to get back out; we intended this situation (the dream makes this clear). But equally we intend to get back out - hence the "tape recorder" messages. folder 90 - 105 folder 90 - 105 G-50 So there is a fixed pre-set time limit to all this (being in a self-generated world): I guess each of us learns about himself, his own nature, by living in it, it (his own nature) as projected world coming back at him. Thus this irreal world serves a purpose: he learns (I am right; this world is a teaching machine). + what does he learn? His own nature. So he becomes through this learning process of self-knowledge until at last he truly is. We did it voluntarily + we had a legitimate purpose, but it is essential to have set up a fail safe system (mechanism) to get us back out - hence the "divine intervention" vis-a-vis the Xerox message; I had preprogrammed a stimulus to wake me up; otherwise I would have been killed. Thus, like Frank Frink, I saved myself (no wonder I knew that the Xerox missive was coming!) (In a very real sense I sent it to myself! Hence "to remember" is the same as "to wake up." Satori. When I realized Thursday night that only God has the power to render world real to me (not "render world real" but "real to me") I felt a boundless love for God + from God, that he had given me world by him impinging directly on me; world, then, as pointing to God, world viewed not as affliction or delusion but as coming from + pointing to God. This was for me my ultimate conception/understanding of God. folder 90 - 106 G-51 God as guarantor of world (as I say I believe in "DI"). That it is really God whom we experience; world as expression of God +, more, God's love for us. (I sensed that without his power to compel our assent, we would have no world, only dreams. + that I had never in all this seen God, only the world he provides; nonetheless God is in fact closer to me than world because he is in me - otherwise how could he compel my assent? That is an event in me. So I had correctly reasoned that God must be in me hence immediately known to me, more so than world: reality of world - not "world" but "reality of world" being prove of his existence - not in world or as world but in me). Now: I have reasoned that each of us is secret cosmogenator of his own world, so, in each idios kosmos, the percipient is the God involved. So for him to love God + to feel God's love in return is for him to heal the schism in himself that caused his Fall; the primordial schizophrenia in the Godhead is repaired - through absolute love + trust toward God, + a sense of that same love coming back. In a certain real sense when he feels love for God, true love such as I felt that night, is for him to love, accept + trust himself, his true [unfallen unforgetful] self, total acceptance: "His will is my peace." This sums it up, + I read this that night, before going to bed - read it + had the highest understanding of God I've ever had at the very time I was in such physical pain! So as I said supra (circa G 34 passim) folder 90 - 107 folder 90 - 107 G-52 I never saw God: not Valis, not the binary switching computer, the information + information processing - that all was world that God compelled (caused) me to see as an indication of his presence, pointing to his existence, his proximity, power, wisdom + most of all love; I can (+ did at last!) infer him from these signs, this reality that he caused me to experience. It is like in the theophany at Mt. Horeb for Elijah; "God was not in the lightning, not in the --" etc. I have taken the signs that indubitably point to God for God, for a theophany. But God has no form, no image, not even a contemporary sophisticated one (binary switching info-processor). All this is the "reality field" that God "perturbs"; we do not see God but we do see the perturbation he causes. He is thus knowable but only inferentially! ___ Valis' mind (in/as mine) contained world, world as idea, as MMSK: set of interlinked idea, which is what world in itself is; but we perceive it through God, whereupon it assumes the compelling aspects that he adds to it, confers on it. __ Well, am I cosmogenator, trapped in the world I generate, victim of my own thoughts coming back at me as world? + the more I folder 90 - 108 folder 90 - 108 G-53 scrutinize world, the longer + the more intently, the more detailed, articulated, "real" + convincing it becomes? Since by perceiving it I create it? It (world) is actually an idea -a system of interconnected ideas- in my own mind (the MMSK), that I feed to myself as world. (1) "World" is actually information. (2) This information is actually thoughts in a mind. Now, the next question is, whose mind is it? Answer: God. Yet I found that God (i.e. Valis) in my mind - with the MMSK in it, in that mind as a system of permanent interconnected ideas (the MMSK). So I have world (or "world") in my mind. The dream of last night (supra) shows that I am hopelessly trapped, because the harder + longer I scrutinize "world" the more articulated, detailed, convincing + "real" it becomes, with infinitely real as a limit, +, worse, an infinitude of spurious time as a limit; it will go on forever, all the while gaining progressively greater power over me - + yet I am its author! Yet the AI voice breaks in from outside, as the dream shows, not only as planned but as I planned. My God - this is precisely the explanation of Valis that the Lamptons give in "Valis"! We are in an irreal, changing maze that we built + then fell -or jumped- into; Valis is outside firing clock-timed signals to us to cause us to remember + become aware of folder 90 - 109 folder 90 - 109 G-54 our true situation. Time + space, which rule the maze, are irreal. + Valis is to some extent identified with Christ, + absolutely with the savior prophecized by the AI voice (i.e. Valis' voice in us). I reread the part of "Valis" where the Lamptons explain about us building the maze + then voluntarily entering it, + how Valis is outside firing info at us - why would I dream this one particular explanation (as/in my dream) out of the plethora given in "Valis"? Because the dream even shows precisely how it is that this maze (world) works to trap us. (An explanation not given in "Valis"): That the harder we scrutinize our world in an attempt to understand it (i.e. figure out the situation) the more "real" (convincing, more accurately)