you to take it as real -the latter regarded as legitimate + appropriate creating of reality- is the essential view of Malebranche; it is the heart of his system. This distinction -+ a recognition of the second as the case- is simply not fathomed by humankind; that it is indeed what is going on. folder 90 - 096 C-38 2-3-74 proves (to me) that the latter is the case: world is not real; he causes us to take it to be real by acting directly on/in us (Malebranche). Thus in a sense God can be discerned when the universe impinges on you, its patterns; but it itself is not God. I now see that "matter is plastic in the face of mind" + "a perturbation in the reality field" are essentially one + the same. I must retain my surd; it is not world impinging on me but rather, as Malebranche says, God. This understanding has the special merit of being a recognition -not just of what is known- but what is not known. Thus God is not conceived of, only the effects of God; yet there is a knowledge that he lives, that he is wise, that he is powerful, that he is loving - + all absolutely. It overcomes a basic confusion on my part of over seven years standing: that I knew something (3-74) that might be God; in fact I did not know it (so the first part is false) + it was God (the second part is also false). I knew, but did not know what I knew. The washerwoman dream of the trophy made of my red shirt + white tie, which so startled me when I saw it - I now think it symbolized -not God- but the compelling force of reality, a compelling force emanating not from reality itself but from God: his folder 90 - 097 folder 90 - 097 C-39 absolute power, in Malebranche's sense, to render something real (to the percipient). The trophy, then, represented reality becoming real for me for the first time (3-74). In other words, 3-74 was a cognate of my inner comprehension of what would be real, what reality would be like, if it could be experienced (this is why 3-74 resembled Ubik). I was so advanced that standard everyday reality was to me unconvincing. It had to undergo massive transformations for me to adjudge it veridical. But this is not mere psychomorphism. It is a total + absolute fusion between worldview (mine) + image - reality as image, true image, but image (representation) only... In fact it was an expression exceeding my comprehension, but one I could not doubt. I would have to say now that what we call "causation" is more than a modem; it results from the absolute success of the impression on us that stimuli give: that they in themselves are causes, true + complete causes. Thus my experience of + with pretextual causation is a perception of how it actually is - + this led me eventually to Malebranche + an awareness of God as the true cause. So my 3-74 vision/perception of Valis was a perception -not of God- but of reality as it actually is; but the true source + author could still only be known inferrentially. That perception insofar as it went was valid - as epistemologically the case; but it folder 90 - 098 folder 90 - 098 G-43 ___ To advance the notion that God compels our assent to reality by directly acting on us, I would have to show -or to know- that the material we take to be reality is -without his acting on us- quite different than [due to his acting] we take it to be. + this in fact is precisely what 2-3-74 -not just 3-74 but also 2-74!- showed the case to be. (In the previous decades I'd had intimations of this but no real evidence.) What seems really to be out there is information, information-processing + some kind of binary computer-like machine which we are in. There in fact is no "out there." We are within a mind or within that machine. Thus there are 2 sides to this: 1) that which is there that we don't see 2) that which isn't there that we are caused to suppose is. This compelling of our assent passes over to a compelling us to act, an engramming purposefully (i.e. teleologically) over a period of years, even decades, to move us ineluctably toward certain acts. So this is not limited to providing us with a reality; how we ourselves behave is equally involved. I just realized I had an amazing dream. I -or the character- was deprived of world totally. At once he -his own mind- filled in the sensory vacuum with a spurious autogenerated world, so he wouldn't go crazy. Next thing, he took this world to be real; the closer he scrutinized it, due to the fact that he as percipient was in fact generating it, the more actualized, detailed + convincing it became, because his perception of it was (in a certain real way) his production of it; hence the more intense his scrutiny the more folder 90 - 099 folder 90 - 099 G-44 actualized, articulated + convincing it became. As it moved toward perfection (of actualization) as a limit, the more it compelled his assent (put another way, the less he realized - would tend to realize on the basis of his empirical observations) that (1) it was spurious; + (2) he himself was its creator. However, under such circumstances, to overcome this positive feedback self-authenticating hoax-involvement, a clock-timed tape in his mind -or accessible to his mind; e.g. speaking directly into his ear or inner ear- was set in advance to speak to him at regular intervals reminders of the truth, of his true situation. The tape was plugged into RET, but since part of his spurious autogenerated world was fake time -an integral aspect of spurious world generated out of total sensory deprivation- these reminders, these messages from the real world, came to him [in terms of his own subjective time] at increasingly farther-apart (i.e. longer) intervals, + thus failed to serve their purpose (anamnesis involving the knowledge that his world is spurious, + no amount of scrutiny on his part will correct this, inasmuch as the harder he scrutinizes it, the more convincing it will become). What he faces as a dual limit is an infinitely convincing (but actually fake + self-generated) dream world "existing" for an infinite time. (Which, it occurs to me, may explain "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed.") My analysis of this: he, whoever "he" is, has gotten himself into this very fix + has therefore fallen under the spell of an ever more convincing + ever more extensive in time fake world that he himself is generating; he, world + time are in a closed loop, a closed system; moreover, it is equally clear to me that this [dream] is the folder 90 - 100 folder 90 - 100 G-45 true explanation - + reveals the true significance of 2-3-74 at which place I ("he") (1) remembered + then (2) as a result temporarily broke out of the closed-loop self-reinforcing fake world + fake time (which explains why I saw, first, another world at another place + time + then saw Valis, experienced Valis in my mind, experienced info + info-processing + what resembles a binary computer (as source of world). What I am saying is that this dream states that I myself am the mind I know as Valis, I generate the info (they are my own thoughts + ideas; viz: as I once previously speculated, I got into my own world-producing mental machinery) +, what is more, what I call "the binary computer" is a vision of my own mind as world-creator; I think (as binary computer), + these thoughts are the information that I am compelled to give assent to as world (which is why to some extent we control our own world, it adjusts to our perceptions of it -of course it does; this is a closed feed back loop literally pouring back into itself to reinforce itself- + "we are cells in a brain that both makes + perceives reality"). The several people (e.g. Gregg Rickman) are right in saying that when I experienced Valis I was experiencing my own [unconscious] mind. But they failed to note that this makes me cosmocrator! The situation resembles "Ubik" + "Frozen Journey" + "Maze" etc. He whom I call "God" who has the power to compel my assent to "world" is my own mind. But I was smart: before I got into this situation I "strapped on" so-to-speak a "tape recorder" operating in real time that would periodically remind me of the true situation; this obviously is the AI voice. folder 90 - 101 G-46 Well, this explains (1) 3-74, + explains (2) why it was set off specifically by anamnesis! The fact that anamnesis set 3-74 (perception of true reality) off proves that at one time I knew - formerly knew + then forgot) the true situation. This casts a certain specific special light on "waking up," "enlightenment," "seeing reality as it is" - recovered memory is involved. As to my meta-abstraction of 2-74 - well, it was recovered realization that I am generating my own world (since all of a sudden I generated quite another world [in terms of space + time] + instantly grasped what this meant - whereupon, sure enough, very soon world went away + I saw true reality, which turned out to be my own mind -the binary computer- as information generator which I am compelled to assent to as world. But having done this I was back where I started from, trapped in my own mind + my own thoughts, without a world to fill in the vacuum of sensory deprivation, whereupon I began generating + assenting [world, to world] again. My only link to true reality is the AI voice + it is taped! The only hope is for Christ to break into this irreal world extending further + further into fake time, + this is "He has been transplanted + is alive"; also, "one by one he draws us out of the world". If I am going to discard this line of inquiry as simply a dream rehash of "Frozen Journey" let me ask: 1) Why else would the 3-74 perception of reality as it actually is be set off by anamnesis - i.e. restored memory? Because folder 90 - 102 folder 90 - 102 G-47 this indicates that I formerly knew the true situation. (2) This also explains what my meta-abstraction of 2-74 was: insight into the fact that I was generating my own world, due to seeing USA 1974 easily become Acts AD 70 Syria. (3) The washerwoman dream: my red shirt + white tie; this represented true reality + I recognized it + knew what it meant. It is the white cross on a red field in the form of a shield: the Knights Templar. Which fits in with the dream in "Tears" - the posse is the Knights Templar. What do they have to do with this? The dream is saying, "Your true identity is that of a Knight Templar" in which case USA 1974 does not exist. No. I am wrong. The templars wore a red cross on a white field; I looked it up. My "shield" is - Hospitalers. White cross, my dream had, on a red field, the reverse of the Templars. This means that the red cross (R.C.) were our enemies! Okay, let's do a totally crazy trip: Gregg Arena was right. We are not in the real world (it died) but in a fake world based on R.C. technology/magic/supernatural powers - i.e. we are enchanted. God, the true God from outside, is trying