(A) -atomization, in which each atom knows only of itself- & realm (C) in which there is unity & only unity (but defective awareness leads to the illusion of realm (B), in which case the atomist view is faced with the calamitous threat that no knowledge is possible, in which case the question "ti to on?" can never be answered at all. Any real knowledge of world/other turns out to abolish the contention that realm (A) is the case. Thus either we are totally & absolutely imprisoned in our own private solipsistic "world" -as in "Frozen Journey"- & don't realize it (what we call "world", then, is only our own prior thought formations fed endlessly back to us: each of us both creates & then passively perceives his own self as "world") or, contrarily, we actually have total knowledge of world (but don't realize it) because "self" & "world" signify the same thing. All that is needed is for us to come to our senses, as folder 53 - 065 folder 53 - 065 F-11 if waking up. Which, then is the case? Realm (A) or (C) - realm (B) is excluded as logically impossible and must be a confused view of Realm (A) or (C). I am going to argue thus. All my epistemology (as expressed e.g. in my 10-volume meta-novel, & in "Frozen Journey" up to a point) is an acute intimation that Realm (A) is the case. We only imagine Realm (B). But 3-74, based on the meta-abstraction of 2-74 proves this view wrong. What the meta-abstraction pointed to & revealed is that realm (B) -the realm we normally are in or suppose we are in- is a confused apperception -not of realm (A), as I had always believed- but in fact realm (C). 2-3-74, then, annihilated in a single cognitive act -the meta-abstraction- the epistemology of my entire life up until then, &, in its place, ushered in real knowledge, absolute in degree & nature - of world/other, hence continuum, hence kosmos. It is as if the knowledge obtained by the meta-abstraction (revealed by it) is that knowledge per se is possible; it is, then, a cognitive act pertaining to all cognitive acts, an abstraction concerning abstractions; thinking concerning thinking, which is to say, the rational faculty perceiving itself. Asking -& obtaining an answer- as to whether its thinking pertains to anything, which is to say, whether it is really thinking about anything other than itself at all. What it finds is that in fact it is not involved in thinking about itself but does know that which is not itself, &, this being the case, it has struck down Descartes' premise ("cogito ergo sum") & replaced it with something other than circularity: it finds in itself information derived from that which is not itself nor derived from itself -in which case for it to say "I know that which is not myself" is to say, ultimately, that Realm (A) is not the case (realm (B) being excluded as unintelligible). I find for Parmenides, then, & against Leucippus & Democritus - & 2300 years of western thought. folder 53 - 066 F-12 Thus the meta-abstraction discloses the true state of affairs, abolishes the prison of self, ushers in the Divine, verifies the world, empties hell, banishes delusion, reunites the soul with God & transports the person in an instant up along a vertical axis unsuspected into safety, extrication & Paradiso. Purgatorio is a way-station from which the deluded soul either falls at last into hell (which is real) or, contrarily, upon learning (realizing) the true state of affairs ascends at enormous velocity to Paradiso. He then is either totally damned or totally saved. &, since I posit that the initial true knowledge of world/other (by agape) is inserted into the self by God himself, & since I assert that any amount of true knowledge of other potentially annihilates hell & atomization by disproving the reality of realm (A), then I find I am urging the Doctrine of absolute dependence on God, which is another way of urging the Doctrine of Double Predestination. However, I also point out that Discovery of Paradiso (Salvation) is verified whereas "Discovery" of hell is total & absolute delusion: in which case in the final analysis in the utmost & most meaningful sense I AM A Gnostic, & regard the key to salvation as the cognitive faculty set in motion by a loving transmundane Father (since world as we know it is a prison of otherwise eternal horizontal tracking, 'til God intervene, by his Grace, through Christ: IKHTHYS Agape folder 53 - 067 folder 53 - 067 G-1 The monitor has been discerning analogs between the outer board & the inner board one by one; what the meta-abstraction deals with is the realization by the monitor (Kant's transcendent self) that the boards in toto are analogs of each other. Thus the monitor ceases to progress on the basis of incremental adding &, in an instant, a single, unitary blitz, fills in the whole pattern by applying "bulk" homologization to all the incompleted constituents so that in effect the two boards are now real as a single Gestalt in which pattern has been sufficiently completed on the one-by-one basis to permit the leap (blitz) to in toto identity. Clearly, my view here derives from both Malebranche & Kant. (& has curious affinities to Wittgenstein's "toy cars as models" insight.) When the monitor makes this leap to pattern identity per se, the person's mind is flooded with information - this is the quantitative aspect. The qualitative aspect is that all at once there is no self-other barrier or distinction. But this is not mere emotional mysticism, the trite business about "oneness with the universe." This is assimilation of world by self & is cognitive, not affective. It is knowledge. Where the affect comes in is in the stupendous sense of being now able to comprehend world absolutely, not relatively. It is knowledge of the inner structure of world. But this inner structure is knowable because he already knows it as his own structure; thus his knowing world-structure is indeed a kind of remembering, or at the very least, it folder 53 - 068 folder 53 - 068 G-2 is discovered within him, a priori, as an innate category - which sheds a lot of light on Plato's anamnesis. The person has literally looked within & there found not only world but the deepest, most fundamental inner structure of world. This knowledge would not (for him) be possible if it were not discoverable within him a priori, but even though it is innate in him (& hence remembered or recovered) isomorphism between himself and world is necessary as a prerequisite, & the blitz in which this isomorphism is realized. As I say, it is not reasoned out: it is discerned in a single wordless blitz. Here is a point: isomorphism is not proven until the pattern is complete. But to complete the pattern the monitor must recognize, identify, realize & hence know isomorphism. This means that the information he arrives at as the result of pattern completion paradoxically is the information that is the cause of this completion; thus in a certain real sense cause-&-effect has collapsed; the monitor knows the result prior to finding the result, & in fact must know the result in advance to find it. So there is a mysterious & even supernatural aspect to all of this - which fits in with my theory that he (the monitor) knows by divine grace, as if the knowledge arises ex nihilo in his mind with no cause at all. This is a tremendously powerful argument for the element of anamnesis; if it is not actually remembered, the impression that it is remembered would nonetheless be there anyhow, since (as I say) the conclusion arrived at exists at the origin of the process that leads to its exposure. So I have now developed an epistemology based on the Cartesian premise but following a logic as relentless as Parmenides' in which three possibilities are explained as alternates: (A) That no knowledge folder 53 - 069 folder 53 - 069 G-3 beyond that of self is possible (Inferno); (B) partial but indubitable knowledge of world is possible (Purgatorio); (C) absolute & total knowledge of world is possible (Paradiso), the three ways, as it were: no knowledge; some; total & what is arrived at is that if (B) is the case, then it follows that (C) is the case, & (B) is regarded as a confused (C), but that if (A) is the case, both (B) & (C) are not possible. (B) is then shown to be possible, which now excludes (A); thus only (C) remains of the three roads. & it is adduced that for (C) to be the case, the knowledge must somehow be intelligible & not sensible; it must in essence already be known, at the start (in which case the knowledge is tautological, not synthetic, & this turns out to be true - which means that if (B) is a confused instance of (C), (A) is to be regarded as a total inability to recognize the existence of (C), so that of all three ways, only (C) is even real, with (A) being absolute confusion, & (B) relative confusion; thus all there can be known is already known, & in (A) we know not that we know, & in (B) we know totally but think we know only partially, so that anamnesis[Greek] is as Plato says the case. There are no other possibilities. Q.E.D. These progressive states of knowing (A), (B) & (C) are in fact interim states (of the recipient's mind) in which there is recovery or organized memory, & in essence self-knowledge of the higher sort (noesis[Greek]), which concurs with Plato's premise that the eide[Greek] are known intelligibly & not sensibly & lie outside of time & space & causation. Moreover, there is (above & beyond the Platonist world-order) kosmos in the strict sense, & the dynamic creator & line of the kosmos[Greek] which I identity with YHWH expressed as logos[Greek] within this kosmos[Greek] (as the Stoics taught, carrying over to Philo and his kosmos[Greek] noetos[Greek]. Something has occurred to me that either is a truism or very profound; the 3 levels (Inferno, Purgatorio, Paradiso) are fundamentally defined by states of knowing, which has to do with cognition - a fusion of noein & einai; viz: (A) total lack of knowledge; (B) partial or relative knowledge; (C) total knowledge. Here "knowledge" pertains both to self & to world, for in state (C) it is revealed that knowledge of self is in fact knowledge of world, & in fact knowing this fact is in itself the quintessential datum of true knowledge ("pure consciousness, pure being, pure bliss"!) The self-world dualism is abolished. folder 53 - 070 folder 53 - 070 G-4 If they are deaf & mute, music would have to register [for them] as [phosphene] colors [also experienced as math ratios as with Pythagoras]; that is, music seen. Fixed intervals. Scale. That is, for them [as a non-human species] how would our Pythagorean math-music equation [as basis of reality; ie structure as substantia] appear? For us, math/music. For them, music/color. Thus the trinity math/music/color is a lingua franca by which we could understand them & they us. It cuts across species & universes (ie 4D (ours) & 5D (theirs). "Frau, sing fu[umlaut]r unsere Freunde." Apes. Horace/Dimi. Vast green meadow. Physical ritual greeting gestures. As we can now use phosphenes for the blind (to compensate) they (the 5D species) who are deaf use phosphene color to compensate for their deafness in order to see music - it is all math anyhow: Frequency. Ratio. As they using our phosphenes because we can't "hear" or "see" their language (because we are not isomorphic with them). This is the significance of the phosphene, both functionally & symbolically: it cuts across sense-barriers & deficiencies. They