of the secret" not the secret itself, as a little analytical thought discerns. Am I then to presume that these ancient Thrones, Dominions, Powers, Sovereignties and Authorities who handed down the Old Law and who encircle Earth and enslave us, or perhaps the rebelling angels themselves, are keeping Christ's presence here secret? Keeping the news from us? It is impossible, absolutely impossible, that "the secret stolen, through the angels" runs contrary to Christ's purpose here. Obviously, the angels are denying us knowledge of this in order to preserve their own tyrannical, occluding power. I cannot suppose even for a moment that my seeing Christ --and writing about it-- is hostile or contrary to His purpose. What I think is involved here --at the Second Advent-- is virtually a diametric reversal of the situation pertaining before and at the First Advent. The first time, the ancient angelic powers did not know, and were not supposed to know, God's plan for salvation (Christ), but men, Christians, the Church, were to know. This time, however, the ancient angelic powers know because --for one thing-- they are being dethroned systematically by Christ. Thus it is their intent to keep this knowledge from man; viz: that Christ is here. This is perhaps their response, their attempted solution. The original strategy required that the ancient angelic powers not know, so those humans (the Twelve) who knew were not to tell; this time, the very same angelic powers know, and they keep humans ignorant by occluding their faculties (including memory?). Man is not occluded by an "information virus," i.e. living information; on the contrary: man is occluded and the living information is sent to tell him the true situation, that Christ is here; thus the plasmate's message is: KING FELIX and variations thereof. Burroughs has discerned (1) living information; and (2) an occlusion and leaped to the pessimistic folder 90 - 025 folder 90 - 025 -13- conclusion that there is a cause-and-effect relationship; the living information causes the occlusion. This is a very traditional "they're invading us secretly" s-f view. Yet in a real sense he is onto the truth; (1) there is an information life form here; (2) it has invaded our planet and our communications media; and (3) we are occluded; (4) we are occluded to its presence specifically. Of course we are; it is trying to get through to us to inform us of the real situation. The statement "We are occluded to it" is not the same as "we are occluded by it." The main thing is, the angelic powers are bipolarized to the "secret," which is undoubtedly Christ and God's plan for man's salvation and the restoration of the cosmos through Christ; a third point is that the secret is "in one's hands," which makes one de facto a Christian, a genuine Christian in possession of the essential salvific secret contra the angels (and this is not normal bipolarization with and for Christians; to know of it is to predicate one's understanding on a rather arcane and obscure reading of Paul; it strikes at the core of esoteric Pauline Christianity. It is indeed orthodoxy, but a covert element in orthodoxy. Generally we associate angels with Christ, not opposed to Christ; moreover, the notion that there is a sort of ring or barrier of angels between us and God, sealing off and enslaving our world against the wishes of God -- this is certainly not generally understood by Christians, and yet Paul is clear about it via many citations. What is probably most important of all is that my binary arborizing disjunctive decision-making universe system --the disclosure of which I regard as an essentially new disclosure, although as a fact it itself may not be new-- is, I think, absolutely in accord with a very high and penetrating conception of the revolutionary role of the Cosmic Christ is fundamentally transforming the nature of the world-order. This is nothing short of astonishing, that radical mystical Pauline Christianity and a very radical modern quantum-mechanics computer indeterminate unified field-reality view turn out to be basically compatible or in fact even identical! The two converge (at least in my theorizing) totally; all at once their is a lightning-swift confluence of my separate folder 90 - 026 -14- streams of thought: Christianity and, well, philosophy-metaphysics-epistemology, whatever; all else, really, than Christianity; I suddenly have one overview which is (1) basically new and original; and (2) subsumes everything Christian and non-Christian into one daring structure. What is more, this structure will adequately account for my apperception of what I call VALIS, both in me and outside me, back in 3-74. So at this point I have synthesized my various streams of thought into a higher Gestalt and no longer have to vacillate back and forth between Christianity and non-Christianity, which is reason to suppose that I have finally hit on a model that truly represents, conceptually, what I experienced in the spring of 1974 and has puzzled me for over seven years. All of a sudden a titanic idea (insight?) has struck me. VALIS was outside me in or as the external reality field; and VALIS was in me, in my mind, blended with my mind, or, perhaps, even as my mind. What if the true situation is: this is what is meant by "Christ consciousness" and it works this way: Christ enters you (never mind at this point how; up the optic nerve or some kind of alchemical hierarchy of opposites, etc., etc.); anyhow, this "Christ consciousness" which is in fact the Second Advent makes it possible for the first time in human history for human beings to discard the modem of causation (which I have shown, at least to my own satisfaction, dates back to Babylon, is in fact the astral determinism, or fate or ananke, etc. of the ancient world) as the basic ontological structuring category --by which world is ordered, arranged, understood-- and this Christ consciousness permits (again for the first time in human history) a much more accurate and acutely qualitatively different experience of reality... in which causality is replaced by an understanding of, apperception of, realization of, whatever, of what I call binary forking decision-making, a choosing system, the no-yes choice exercised volitionally, sentiently; this was always the case with world-in-itself (Kant's Dinge-an-sich) but there was no way by which humans could apperceive (comprehend, envision) it before. And this radically transformed experience (Dasein) of folder 90 - 027 folder 90 - 027 -15- reality, a way of being-in-the-world, of participating and shaping world (the observer participant), had to wait until such discoveries and realizations as quantum mechanics, indeterminacy, unified field theory, plus Taoism -- all that good new stuff such as Capra talks about... but anyhow, the leap across to this new way of Dasein is the Second Advent, and it occurs in our minds, our brains, our heads; and yet (paradoxically) it refers to something actually "out there" in world, external to us, a way in which reality functions in itself; so this new radical quantum leap upward view is not just subjection -- well, okay; reality hasn't changed; our way of being-in-reality has changed, had to wait, had to evolve over the many centuries. I mean, if Koestler and Capra et al can equate the post-Newtonian Dasein (comprehension of reality) with Taoism, why can't I equate it with Pauline Christian mysticism (which is exactly what I've done!). And then as a third element we can bring in Heidegger and talk about Sein, authentic Being, and what I call a spatial reality rather than a temporal reality, etc. And I then trace Heidegger back to Gnosticism and from there once again to Paul, who is highly thought of by the Gnostics. And there is no need to exclude Taoism, because indeed a yin-yang dialectic is involved... and we get to keep acausal synchronicity, and it just all comes together and is liberating... and we get to throw in computer stuff, which relates back to Taoism via my binary dialectic -- but most of all, as I say, this internal event (VALIS in me) permits the comprehension (Dasein) of what may in fact always (or for centuries) have been there in world but we didn't possess the inner equipment to comprehend/apprehend it. Thus the question "Where is the kingdom of God" gets an answer derived from ultra-modern views of the observer-participant universe, in which it's all treated as a field, a unified field. We're not talking about a different way of being-in-the-world or even a better way; we're talking about the lifting for the first time in human history of a massive perceptual/conceptual occlusion having to do with the ontological structuring factor we call causality (or astral determinism). This has never happened folder 90 - 028 folder 90 - 028 -16- before. I mean, just think what it would mean vis-a-vis our way of perceiving/understanding world if we ceased to utilize space or time as a Kantian ordering/structuring category? And in fact when the utilization of causation ceases, our sense of time is drastically altered (time sharply diminishes), and our sense of space drastically is altered (as I figure it, time is converted into space, so we get a great diminution in the time factor and a great augmentation in the spatial factor); but, most of all, introduced as a totally new factor is an apperception of the flicker pulsation in which the system (reality) switches on and off, as well as the binary forking decision-making; the totality of all this is that very simply our occlusion lifts and we are in another world entirely, a world I identify with the Garden. And this really could not have happened before this decade, what with computers, new theories about information, modern physics, etc. It is just now beginning to happen. And no one --no one!-- has seen the involvement of Pauline Christian mysticism, that in fact this is the pay-off ingredient. And this would explain why for over seven years I have alternated between believing Christ has returned and believing that I had evolved some kind of ultra-modern worldview connected with physics and epistemology, etc. Okay; I have one final thing to say and herewith I rest my case, triumphantly. My binary forking, which I have already said is an indeterminate element entering what always before was conceived of as causality (under various names, such as astral determinism): what is this if not the "two slit" phenomenon familiar in subatomic physics, which is the very essence of the indeterminate factor in reality! It is known to us scientifically only on a subatomic level. Yet I say (I think I say) I have perceived this as the very basis of reality per se, the reality process of change, of flux, of all cause-and-effect at all levels, micro and macro. What I have been calling "binary forking choosing" is simply the "two-slit indeterminate phenomenon" but at a larger level, and it is a level that embraces all change. I am saying, some kind of mentational volitional sentient mind or mindoid entity --perhaps that of the total system itself-- has some kind of steering or governing involvement folder 90 - 029 folder 90 - 029 -17- as to which of the two slits is the selected one at each of these forkings. This may be linked to Pauli's Synchronicity; it is acausal but ubiquitous and genuine and important. Here we turn to A.N. Whitehead's definition of process deity "as a principle of selection of the good in the world-order." And we don't see this "two-slit" phenomenon for these reasons: (1) up until now we didn't know about it and couldn't conceive of it; and (2) according to my theory the total system, which is to say the universe, switches off during this selection process; being pulse-phases into nonbeing. There is a crucial, repeated, ultra-brief disjunction in reality, in world-process. When I look over these pages at the extraordinary view -or model- of reality -the world-order- that