an analysis of how this entity comes I existence; (2) + a precise term for it: Ditheon, a term that explains that we are no longer dealing with a human mind or even two human minds (v. the ending of "BTA"). An account of how this second, adventitious is psyche is added to the intrinsic one found in - + found only in - the N.T. (as the purpose of the Messianic mission!). note: Jesus' psyche after his death resurrected + returning to the Eleven as the "Holy Spirit" or "Paraclete" would not need to be God to produce God (as the resulting two-psyche fusion). However, one could say that the ability to be resurrected + to return to them as the "Holy Spirit" is say, in itself an indication of Godhood. I he was simply a great gurs + miracle something for which we worker, +, perhaps, have no t the first Ditheon, perhaps: term K193 it Rome as a secret Xtian, using the koine, etc) had been the case up until the meta-abstraction, whereupon I ascended along the hell-purgatory-paradise axis o to USA 1974, whereupon retroactively there was a "paste-up" job of laying down memorie put another etc - all that sort of S-F stuff way, Plato's anamnesis is so-to-speak read backward; in fact, you do not (1) remember a former life + (2) because of that recover the eide. You (1) recover the eide first (never mind how; it is human ontological spiritual evolution) + (2) then you - as a result - move forward in "Time" to a later period with the profound impression that you remember a former life. Well, in a sense you do "remem ber a former life" + well you might, because up to the moment you performed the meta-a‐ abstraction, that was your life, your time + place, your ontological, evolutionary change rate level (slower turning). So you speeded up as a result of performing the meta + abstraction (I performed it in 2-74 then later my "biological clock ran faster + faster; the meta-abstraction came first). Now, this is reincarnation, but somewhat redefined, because now it is viewed in the context of one vast unitary evolving entity of which we are "bits" + as bits we speed up just as it speeds up - or does it speed up? Isn't it in itself qua MMSK. actually already perfectly + completely there? It is we who evolve along the change-rate velocity axis, from slow to fast, "center to rim," as it were 194 So my personal evolution moves me alon an axis that we call "linear time + this is somewhat correct but only superficially So, because this "time" axis is really an axis of proportional velocity of change-rate freedom, complexity of organization, abstractness + consciousness (+ I suppose a lot else, like individuality + uniqueness, spirituality, kind ness, etc), + so indeed our temporal "sets are literally coaxial, because the whole thing is organized conceptually - the MMSK. Now, I view this as an entelechy with all of us as bits within it + in a real sense micro-par its of it. + we traverse it calong the axis I describe above). Let me say, that meta‐ abstraction qua insight was of an unprece dented magnitude + could, then, conceivably have generated a leap during my life time along the above-depicted axis, like (als ob) instant Karma (rather than reward after death in the next world or next life). Revealing the nature of the situation would not be a matter taken into consideration (i.e. "Phil Dick now knows the truth, that we are dead + in the triune afterlife" etc) because there is no min D or being decreeing my advance up the axis; It's all governed - as Spinoza taught - by natural law; viz: if you have an insight of that magnitude you will leap up the axis de facto due to the nature of the total entity + what your own nature con sists of, + no eschatological judge need be involved it's as natural as weighing fruit on a scale: the heavier the fruit the lower the Scah Platform will dro (195 Now, I was lying there last night going to sleep + I realized that my 2-74 meta-abstraction was (astonishingly) a realization that "Ubik" the novel was true in terms of the concept of the past being in the present (I was too tired to get up + write this down). It really is in the present but we assign the concept + term "present to everything here now, hence semantically the statement "the past is in the present" is either unintelligible or oxymoronic. but if I glance around. me at all the many objects I realize that they are of variable - I mean different - ages, + if you could or did see age (or see time) you would see many different "depths," temporal depths, represented - here + now + yet of the past hence being the past out of this dim realization I wrote "Ubik. but the form-axis is only part of it; their total world-regression is the other part of the one idea regression of their total world as such to 1939 is the Form axes as an integrated unity). It may very well be that all (sic) I realized in 2-74 is that a very profound idea expressed in "Ubik," an idea that I worked out in detail there (at the time of writing it) simply was true + applied [to actual reality), which explains why 2-3-74 always struck me as related to "Ubik." Oh God, now vaguely remember that the AI voice I spoke to me last night + for the first + only time I didn't get it on paper. "Lem (that is Lem's to theoretical analysis of "Ubik") is (correct, or meaningful or the case - I can't (196 get the words only what I realized at the time: that I was being told that - not "Ubik" was correct - but Lem's analysis of "Ubik" was correct; there is a difference i the difference shows up in "Frozen Journey which deliberately was based on Lem's analysis of "Ubik"). My understanding of the implication that Lem saw is: if "uncanny one-way intrusions that don't 'belong" occur, you have in essence a technological foul-up + This is the only way you're going to know that what you take to be world is in fact being fed to you the way victor Kemmings" memories are fed to him, by the ship, as world This does not mean world is your own memories or even the product of your own mind. It just means that it is techno logically supplied to a brain - + now I recall that dream I had in which I ventured into a sensory - deprivation state, either got fed a seeming world or autogenerated it by my very act of perceiving it (viz: the harder I scrutinized it the more real + articulated it became) but had deliberately set up "an uncanny one t way intrusion from outside" to remind me: 15 minute clock-timed taped statements which t would hear, i.e. the AI voice. Not only would the contents of its messages remind me, but the very fact of the voice per se would remind me, since (as Lem says) "they - it - would not belong" in a sense this whole exegesis which is an attempt to explain 2-3-74 + such things as the AI voice - is working at cross purposes to the device for anamnesis that A197 the AI voice is; this is act one elaborate rationalizing pseudo-explanation to create a system in which e.g. the AI voice not "an uncanny one - way intrusion is from outside, amounting to a technological foul-up by which the truth - the true state sleep is revealed"! This exegesis is ratiocination serving to keep the illusion intact, whereas I should be trying to "wake up," as it were - here "anamnesis" equals waking up, in which case the meta-abstraction is pure + simply a waking up (+ therefore is an insight (within a group of insights. not but is the insight, there only being one, + that one is that if the past is coaxially here, then "here" + "now" are illusory, spation temporality is illusory, world is illusory: the Golden Fish sign did not belong but was "an uncanny one-way intrusion from outside revealing that "world" is spurious + what occurs to me at once, now, is: + the real world is here as a book, the Bible I know how this works because. I used + novel The idea in "TMITHC," H. Abendson's which is not exactly a book but a world this corrolates converted into information. with my reading of Luke that night when t was loaded, + with the scriptural material in "Tears." as in "Finnegans wake" the Acts material in "Tears" is the real world intruding on the dreamer + the dream - viz: the "TIP" sound of the branch against HCe's window as he sleeps K198 then "the secret stolen, through the angels, in one's hands" refers to the meta‐ abstraction + it refers back to "Ubik" but from there we go to Lem's analysis, there we end. "Perturbation in the t reality field" could imply: what you take to be "reality" is a socondary or epiphenomenal realm; there is an outside to it (my surd) able to impinge on it. How something could exist outside of reality, known only by the "tug" it exerts on really is hard to explain unless you happen to notice that in Lem's paradigmatic situation this notion is another way of expressing his "uncanny one-way intrusions that don't belong." I say, "the meta-abstraction was If a meta-abstraction but a simple not realization that Y, which I knew already in theory but did not know it was true, did not know it applied to me + to my reality, + that is is "Ubik, what, then, is "Ubik" in This context? Form axes? The past somehow present? No. "Ubik" is true signifies more (although it may include that); to say "Ubik is the case" is to say (or to realize / meta abstract) that "our world is spurious + being fed to us + I know this because I just not caught sight of something that - in Lem's words - does not belong + hence uncannily intrudes from outside + awakens the dreamer to his true situation, or awakens him per see or tells him but still doesn't waken him in any case the statement "Ubik I tru K199 signifies more or other than Platonic form. axes + the like; it signifies the veridical applicability of the paradigm that Lem extrapolated from "Ubik" wherein (the paradism) the "accidents" + harticulars are dropped out + the essential situation is "Ubik" is related to an overview seen that (as has been noted) I express in novel after novel + story after story, as if I am intuiting something having to do with the spuriousness of reality, a sense of acosmism but "Ubik" is to a degree unique in that they are dead + are (really) in the after life; which brings us back to Dante + the Commedia. to the "ontological evolutionary axis" by + which one moves from world to world due (apparently) to spiritual growth the Golden Fish sign "didn't belong," If how much more true this is of the in-rush of the world of Acts AD 70 in toto, a month later, the world of which that Golden Fish sign I confirmation of was the tip of the iceberg the meta-abstraction; Acts is the case. Does This mean that "the uncanny one-way intrusion from outside that don't belong" are the world of Acts? That would render AD 70 the "outside" or true reality + not just another spatio temporal coaxial set. + it would make me dreaming self; Thomas is