whatever is) the mode of transit is flying; the mood is restless irritability becoming contemptuous anger with an abrupt 1800 or 90 turn folder 55 - 110 folder 55 - 110 D-97 without warning. But there is no building up step by step, no accrual. Time, as with Shiva, destroys rather than creates. My mode is pedestrian but for me there is accrual + time is Brahma's time of building of adding rather than breakingdown. Viewed this way, there is a sort of method to her ostensibly disorder moves; they are not whim + not random, not impulse. They have one very long-range purpose + that is to create havoc to cause the greatest disturbance possible, a sort of gotterdammerung for as many people as possible. This has to do with rebellious power + in many ways is good - as artistic iconoclasm. But in terms of human life it is disasterous to everyone. Whatever move will cause the maximum disruption is sought for. A methodical, sedentary, cautious person like me hungers for this as an antidote to internal ossification. But the only morality here is the morality of clever power. Hence pitted against it is not Xtianity -agape - but Torah: the law, stability + justice, because what is going on is primitive raw injustice - + this concepts of justice involve + noted early on. recognition of proportion. Here, however. calculated imbalance is introduced. Everything + everyone is kept at a tilt deliberately as an end in itself. Surprise is everything. Hence in principle things must move at variance to what is expected, as if randomness has been introduced purposefully (but it is not random it is carefully planned to keep every one off balance. The stress level due to the unexpected is enormous - + there is a thrill in this. For her, anyhow. This is speed freak cith folder 55 - 111 D-98 + the diametric opposite of this is the mosaic dispensation; YHWH + Torah - which set in in me last sunday night: the archetype of stability + a horror of disorder. (This is why she "likes filth." There is a logic here. She is a very bright, daring person who takes risks. But since for me methodical increments of accrual are everything, she represents destruction: of all that I am -+ have been - methodically building up. For her, each new stage breaks + dismisses the previous. But I add on in a cumulative way: For me each new the step subsumes rather than replaces he is am Faustian; s previous steps. I Dionysian. For both of us, however, mental illness is a falling back down, me from the last increment reached, her from whatever high point she had ascended to; there is a difference: I risk what she does not have: long-term ediface. Unlike me, she in her but she a work will never have a coherent opus. mobility I lack, + a freedom of choice, + has a since her moves are revisions, erasures the issue For me experiments, not outcomes is growth; for her it is change. Things + people are always in her way The underlying dynamic operating in anne am a collector; + in Sandra is identical. she is a rejector. From her standpoint there is nothing revolutionary in me at all, + she would regard it as a favor to me completely to disrupt my life, breaking all my habits + ties. Thus the more harm (i.e. disorder) she introduced in my personal + professional affairs the more it would please her (my oos slany is an example). Not knowing where she is going isn't an oversight on her part; it is her desire + intent not to know folder 55 - 112 folder 55 - 112 D-99 for me the issue is going to; for her, leaving from. Thus for her breaking up a relationship is probably more significant than starting one. You could even say, she forms mease to breaking relationships as a t them breaking them is the goal; forming them is the means to the goal - a necessary first step. There is no bourgeois work-ethic, here for she is an artist-aristocrat. But whereas Doris getting someone else to pay the bills is a goal, for Sandra it's incidental - assumed. where they merge, however, is in taking it for granted that some man will pay for everything one crucial difference between them is that for Doris art + creativity is a fantasy but for Sandra it is real. With Sandra when you pay you're supporting the arts; with Doris a drone. these last few years I have become conscious of - + consciously seek the continuation of - accrual in my life, not only in terms of material possessions but, more so, in terms of my career. Thus my perspective has sharply changed. I cannot allow disorder + destruction to set in to my life, because there is something it menaces that I did not previously possess. I have really long-term goals (my relationship with Hollywood is an example; "BTA" another). since each step in my life is incremental + predecated on all prior steps I must maintain high degree of stability in all areas. a met anne + calculated predicability. When I I had little to lose + much to gain. With Sandra it is reversed. God expresses himself vis-a-vis creation as a valence: an irrestible tug like gravity; it creates the shortest possible distance folder 55 - 113 folder 55 - 113 D-100 within field. Whereas the two is called "gentle" this is ineluctable. man aware salvation includes making a of what he is doing morally before it is in too late (the key word is "repent"), Damnation it is the same awareness, but after it is too late; the key word, there, is: For me remorse (which changes nothing). sunday night it was - fortunately - the former. Thus he whom God corrects is saved; This fits in with my 3-18-81 Parousia dream + the blocking messages (white the damned are simply allowed to rush over the cliff into the abyss to their doom, unhindered). strange. YHWH filled me with an invincible drive to be not only with Tessa + Christopher + to make primary protestations + committments them but to be physically close to them: to to touch them literally. (As in a family There is another bipolar axis expressed sunday night: salvation from folly con my part) to wisdom - hence, indeed, Holy Wisdom was involved: entered me. + entered me also in this sense: she granted me her great gift of shrewdness ("a guess uncannily close to the a truth" in regard to Sandra's letter - again letter!). Wisdom, then, is not only bipolarized to folly but is equated with shrewdness + with prudence - the opposite - absolute opposite - of rushing over the cliff to one's doom. Hence underlying the moral law is wisdom, predence, shrewdness; morality is absolutely linked to the cognitive act of wisdom, of seeing the situation as it is folder 55 - 114 folder 55 - 114 + D-101 Thus the Torah God's law, which we view correctly) as moral law is also equally wisdom; wisdom + right conduct become one + establish + preserve order - where as sin + folly are a cognitive blindness leading to disorder, which is to say chaos. Hence the view that the Torah is arbitrary is 1800 wrong. Obviously, Torah as moral law emanates from God's absolute wisdom; more over, it sustains the universe + has (as I say supra) the force of physical law (as Pan-Indian thought expresses in the concept of Karma). These revelations that took place sunday night tell me a great deal about God, wisdom, morality + the Torah, + the order + sustaining of the cosmos - understandings I never had see how correct even an inkling of before. moral laws function in the divine government are inseparable from the physical laws that regulate reality itself, moreover, this being + the case (the Homologizing - logically - of physical law + moral law in sustaining the cosmos, i.e. order) shows why God as cosmocrator is onto‐ logically the source of morality as his primary attribute or manifestation (as Judaism teaches): as I say, the Gnostics are correct: heim‐ armene combines causation + the mosaic dis i (as pensation because both are essential in the is divine Government. God's will, then, which Spinoza rightly says) is physical law based in Holy Wisdom who informs the creator of what is, + in a certain real sense the absolute comprehension of what is comniscience) determines what should be. folder 55 - 115 folder 55 - 115 D-102 Thus (as I say) wisdom + morality + the preservation of the cosmos -universal order become one. My radical new comprehension stems from sharing God's view of reality + morality as a unitary "thing"; they only become unitary - one + the same - when Holy Wisdom is involved so that absolute a priori knowing exists. The key term is being (Sein, esse, einai), This is what is preserved because this is what Holy Wisdom knows. Hence the role of God as creator is stressed. (I did manage to deal with some of this in "D.I.") I can now see clearly why + in what way Hagia Sophia is the primary agent in creation. all this (based on sunday night) is probably theology one of the greatest leaps in my epistemology-worldview-ideology. There is nothing radical in it; it is fundamental: the O.T. itself + yet, significantly, I was already moving in This direction in my thinking (as expressed i in "D.I") + in my life (conservation, preserva accrual + building / creating). (+, very important, stability.) What epitomizes all this is not idealism but the rational (as rabbi one Hertz + others point out regarding Judaism could say that sunday night absolute ration. ality invaded my mind + totally possessed it. ) CApollo, then, in contrast to Dionysus or Faust. yet, ever since 2-74 I have venerated + sought out St. Sophia, for it was she of whom the AI voice spoke. I see myself as intoxicated up to sunday night; whereupon I became sober; I came to my senses very suddenly - at the last moment. This is, then, a very great revolution in me: perhaps the apotheosis of the long process folder 55 - 116 D-103 of sobering up that I deliberately embarked upon in 1971 when I rejected drugs + sought a sane life (one could say that despite my however efforts, sanity has eluded me although when I began to study Judaism a few years ago I found one of its major attractions to be its lucidity + rationality, its sanity, as I said in my advocate interview). there is, indeed, much meret in Ursula's perception of me as "mad" (which is to say, I think, intoxicated/Dionysian: addicted to quite abruptly excess + the dream). It is quite possible that surday night/ sobriety annihilated my intoxicated psyche. which had reached its limit of excess hence the "I Ching's" warning of exhaustion, This danger + imminent death (hex #47). + is an intoxicated psyche that has endured + ruled (in me) over decades. + the antidote was, I think Hagia Sophia herself. is, How does this fit in with 2-3-74? 2-3-74 was the apotheosis of the Dionysian saw the page on which it experience) way (hence I was revealed that "Jesus" was a code - word for Zeus-Zagreus, i.e. Dionysus): it was the absolute culmination of - not repudiation of! - my my decades of [Dionysian) madness (excess). drug-induced intoxication became mystical religious intoxication. This is, however, legitimate way (as ruth benedict points out). it is not a "wrong" or spurious way; however at some point (fairly recently) I began to perceive the Apollonian alternative. Before sunday night (11-1-81) my orientation still theoretical (which war Dionysian with only a say is