is precisely applicable to 2-74; this is exactly what I realized: the one object (the Xtian Golden Fish sign) was in -seen in, served in - both worlds. + this is Gnosticism; this is really what it + its two mutually exclusive ontological categories are about. Thus 2-74 was Gnostic, had to do with what Gnosticism really pertains too If you discover that true secret Xtians exist this proves two things not one. 1) that true secret Xtian exist, so Xtianity is real. 2) the ostensible Xtians are not real Xtianss, hence here is where the sign reversal occurs. They are anti-Xtians, + from this you extrapolate to ostensible world as a whole (1) which is not what it seems to be but is 180 opposite. (2) a true secret real + good "coaxial" world really exists interphosed with it (somehow). the goal of it all is: that your death should emanate out of what you are ontologically, + not part - the ultimate parts- of the Geworfenheit imposed on you as heimarmene, i.e. to which you succeemb + must succumb this transformation occurs when you cease to run from your death, turn + face it + make it yous (Eigen) your own, not the it-fread - other C-193 when you do this, time (the past the future) collapse into the present, There is only the now (Dasein); "This death is now (spiritually + ontologicall for in making it yours you seize it + master it + assimilate it to you (not you to it); thus world is radically transformed + becomes as-it-you. This is the "seizing fate by the throat," that Beethoven spoke of: it is the epitome of the heroic - not the tragic! - it is in fact the heroic replacing the tragic; destiny is your victim, not your master: you are the craftsman, it the artifact. This is the topic of Wagner's "King. h the Gods against fate. In it the God's lose it need not be so, Thus tragedy wins. for the creative artist. a not the great confrontation worthy of man is (the classic + Greek victory between tragedy by fate over man) + the heroic (modern Faustian: the victory of man over fate this is achieved by collapsing time + space meeting death now, on your own terms: + seizing it, not it you; you die but it is your death not death imposed on you in violation of your nature; it is a logical outcome of what you are, not world + fate are). He who can do what this has won where in the "King" the God's lost. Heidegger teacher this: it has to do with the fall. It has to do with a failure to cognitively understand world + master both. He alone yourself, + hence to masters world who understands both it + himself C-194 I when I read tome disch's foreword I realized I had successfully done this, I survived 2-3-74 + wrote about it in + as "Valis" + hence made my death my own - by living long enough to write about it (that I artistically + creatively is depicted my own death + this is the victory of the heroic over the tragic. This is what Beethoven did. have done it + nothing can change this but if I hadn't written "Valis (even if I had lived on past 2-3-74 for decades) this would not be the case. was not the surviving 2-3-74 but it the writing about it that gave the victory to the heroic over the tragic, as with Bob fosse in "All that Jazz" It is dedipus or Beethoven: the antique heimarmene wins (tragedy) or the creative human warrior wins (the heroic); thus is the past (Greek) vs the modern world (the chose the latter in 2-3-74 + Faustian). "Valis" is the proving of my choice + my victory; I willed it + I accomplished it. to do it I had to seize world, collapse time, devour my own death - as if Zagreus ate the titans! + in "Valis" I see (properly) that this victory is predicated on Zoroastrian Gnosticism in which the sacrifice (the martyred Christ) is bait, a trick, a ruse, a goat -i.e. lamb - staked out to entice evil + death, + thus spare the flock (as the Manichaeans correctly taught!) C-195 their the "vicarious atonement" is a tric by wisdom to ensnare the ensnarers. + is successful (orthodox Xtianity knows nothing of this heroic victory: but it is the true secret story Jesus, + man's knew it; I chon this all that is modern is predicated, the rest is antique succumbing fatalism) I was the lamb that bact, + the trick (ruse) worked; thus I as a microcosm aided in repairing the macrocosm, the general ground of being itself. This is why I keep thinking I died in 2-3-74; I did so as the Manichaean lamb (primal man) as bact. (1) to do it. (2) to write about it. (3) to know it. 1) sacrifice (passion + crucifixion) 2-3-74 2) Resurrection. Writing "Valis" + "D.I." i 31 "B.T.A." 3) Proof of + understanding of + explanation of (1) + (2) - which occurred tonight the macrocosmic soteriological drama was successfully recapitulated in me in micro‐ form. (Hence the realized eschatology of the s Fourth Gospel. Gnosticism -especially manichaeism successfully solves the classic problem of man: tragedy (defeat of man by the impersonal inexorable) + erects a new virtue: the heroic (through the paradoxi‐ cal maneuver of the sacrifice that is a trick devised by wisdom, that is, B. Christ, Hagia Sophia, herself. She yields, dies + is victorious. Thus C-196 the tragic is the old way + the Gnostic manichaean (the heroic) the new way: victory replaces defeat. Here history divides into two ages, the age of iron (tragedy) + the age of Gold (the heroic). but, you see, the heroic is so paradoxical + shrewd that it seems to be defeat (the passion, the lamb, the vicarious atonement, the sacrifice - the bait seized on by the "demons" - i.e. the ancient ruling powers, in their greed "Valis" is both the story of that victory (a Gospel of Manichaean Gnosticism) + that victory itself; it is what it describes (which I realized Saturday night after I wrote Sandra). (Upon making my decision.) (In which I chose the heroic path over the tragic path: to seek victory rather than capitulat (to fite]). -197 who would guess that the heroic would enter the world as the meek sacrifical lamb? This is not an orthodox Xtian secret; it is manichaean. But this -like the Kingdom itself - is indeed how the heroic drove/drives out the that fools tragic; it is a strategy all; it is hidden here this world as the 180 - reversed coaxial reality I saw + understood in 2-74; it that is strategy of Christ + it is the Kingdom, + I saw the concealed Kingdom in 2-3-74. Why must it be concealed? I now know for the first because of the nature of this strategy - the primary strategy by time: light, by God himself - the heroic must s be here in this meek concealed, Jesus patibilis form - inc. the true secret the PTG which is the Kingdom. Dark - the BIP - has swallowed it, + Xtians, secretly rules here within Darkness. Thus tragedy seems strong - seems it heroic - but is actually weak; it succumb. the heroic to fate/heimarmene / ananke / destiny / astral determinism: man loses. seems weak, but is strony yet of necessity invisible (gently. Like the Tao): man is victorious. Everything is the opposite of what it seems in these moves s counter moves; hence the necessity of the Gnosis what the coaxial (hidden) true reality his) is (This here on these + bring?" paged is the great secret. this vision (of C-198 that which is yielding wins; that which is proud + unbending loses. under‐ neath all the Gnosticism is the Tao as I suspected; Gnosticism is the dramatic historical unfolding drama of the Ch'ang Tao at work. Valis, then, below + beyond Jesus patibilis, is the Tao. + the dialectic (light vs dark) is ying + yin! the Tao is mind + passive + "weaks Hence what we normally Yet wins. see - unaided, without the Gnosis is 180° away from what is really so. "Latent structure is the master of obvious structure." It all now the ostensible Xtians comes together. are the Roman Empire; the true Xtians, their enemy, are invisible: two worlds, coaxial, one ostensible, the real one hidden. + the ostensible One is tragic; the hidden one heroic. In the former man loses; in the latter he wins. There is a 1800 schism between tactic as in all good -strategy - + result. now: note how this applies to this analysis of games. the Tagore vision) paradox + ambiquity fits it perfectly. we crucify Tagore - + we dies not Tagore. the vision is authentic: this is how Christ + was really return/returned! With He has shrewdness of Holy Wisdom. the won, not lost, Tagore is Christus victor. He is -197 c This is how the truly victorious Christ would appear + what his dispensation would be Here is the final summation: The release from the power of heimarmene I causation + the mosaic/ karmic law) is release from the power of world itself. Hence the other-worldly aspects of Orphism Xtianity, Gnosticism + Manichaeism are valid ("one by one he takes us out of the world"). The heroic victory is the unmixing + freeing of Light so that it can leave what Buddhism + Hinduism call -the weary wheel." Thus tragedy t is victory by world over man to bind + enslave him, keep him ignorant + hence keep him captive, forever. The heroic victory breaks the power of world frees the pneuma to depart; hence the messenger bilks the retribution machinery that perpetuates involvement in world. we are the dead, in hell, + seek to rise out of it to paradiso: to leave, life + death are not the issue: loosing vs binding are (the heroic vs the tragic). The most pennicious myth is that to thy for the heroic + fail is grand - to be cauded, glamorous - because it is the quintessential tragic drama. Thus a will to fail or the largest scale possible is subtly carenes, the tragle becomes thanatos. the heroic eros -200 a situation in which the aspiration is heroic + the result tragic (facture on the grand scale, the defect of heroic aspirations) is not any form of heroism but tragedy, + tragedy as subtle fatalism - i.e. the victory of the archoic of For me, 2-3-74 was an invasion the the tragic (archaic fatalism) by heroic (modern dynamism, the future This is all caught victorious over the past). in "Valis"; the search for the new savior 2) the heroic quest par excellance; whereas death is the tragic, the succumbing to fate - bipolarized to the savior - + fat rejects this succumbing + goes off to seek victory, rather than defeat: the savior or the search for the savior, not death this is what "Valis" is really about: victory by the heroic (modern) over tragic defeat archaic fatalism). Expressed as a battle against ananke or heimarmene. The true c future (time) entered in 2-3-74, +, in relation to it the present was revealed the past! when I read the Disch foreword I knew at - that the heroic had won. (Due to what I used to call "the decisive new act.") The subtle temptation is to try to lose grandly rather than win humbly; often the heroic is meek noble or not, it + small, the tragic "noble." is still a way of losing: this is what led the Nazis to their doom, + "the King" was their the model. They strove not to win but to fail the grandest possible