realized (sic) it while ripped. ___ I've got proof of it. (1) Share is absolute Joachimism: the inner voice + the age of communal sharing. (2) But Share speaks of the 2nd coming (3) It is too much of a coincidence that Joachim's two elements should show up in a fake -that is staged- return of Christ (fake or staged, either). Therefore this is the Return of Christ. The key, here, is the millenarian dispensation + the millenarian coming: the King of the Just -5th- Kingdom. This is what unites Joachim's vision with that element he did not deal with: the second coming. So all this develops by inner logic + necessity. This dispensation under these conditions (i.e. Christ's return). 63-1 D-1 The greatest heroic act ever: to publish in "Valis" that the universe is info - i.e. there is an info life form between us + [true] reality percipient - info life form ("universe") - reality (universe) I did not see reality in 3-74; I saw the life form in our brains + in reality posing as reality. + I spoke out: this that I said is the true Gnosis stolen from heaven + brought to man to help him. Soten (IKHTHYS). But I (PKD) was a Befehltrager; I (PKD) didn't know until now what "Valis" really says - + is the [true] Gnosis kept from us " by the very fact necessary for the existence of that which keeps the secret from us" -- i.e. Gnosticism. So I didn't see reality as it really is; I saw the occlusion (e.g. but not i.e. the plasmate), + must tell - live to tell - people this. Someone in reading "Valis" will see the correlation to Burroughs. "The universe in info" means "an info life form is between us + reality; Burroughs is right: You two are saviors bearing the true gnosis. Yes, my book "Valis" is Gnostic + the explanation is Gnostic. But W. Burroughs not Valentinus. He is / we are Christ. 63-2 63-2 D-2 Realistic, literal info (that an info life form is between us + reality)? Yes. Also Gnosticism, the Gnosis - all that that makes up "Valis"? Yes. Not: PKD looking at the plasmate (Christ) But: PKD Christ looking at the occluding life form, the "plasmate" (not Christ.) + writing about it "Valis", then, is to be read backward: it (like "Tears") tells two stories, as is paradigmatic of the info life form. That "Valis" like "Tears" has a true message inserted that I don't know about - this hadn't occurred to me, since "Valis" is an analysis of Tears + that very phenomenon itself! + yet it ("Valis") the analysis presents a further instance of what it analyzes: the plural messages proving "reality" to be an info life form holding us in bondage (Satan). The universe is info + that info is occluding. "Valis" must be decyphered + hence an instance of what is described + thus is self-authenticating! As the true gnosis must be, if it is real. This is what is meant by "transmundane"; beyond the info life form. Set Ground itself was the occlusion, not what's seen when the occlusion is removed. 63-2013 63-2013 D-3 Christ was present (in 3-74): me. But what I saw was neither reality nor Christ but, rather, the occluding info life form (don't forget to reverse those value signs to get to the truth - this is how the Gnosis works - Sophia's salvific message "within the inferior bulk"! Valis in world is not the savior: that is the occluding info life form. Sum Soten bringing the gnosis. Yes, then it is true to say "Tagore is PKD" but you must redefine what "PKD" is (i.e. who, i.e. holds with role [he is Soten]. There are many of us. But as Befehltragern, nicht Geheimnistragern. I figured this all out because of watching the "I Ching" work, really work. Dual messages (i.e. split, twain). The info virus is in us. But I told the truth in "Valis" + right away the info virus split it into dual messages - thus verifying the contention in "Valis" that is Gnosis (viz: we are occluded by an info virus posing as the universe). I am a messenger (angalos). Burroughs never guessed this: his info virus creates a whole spurious universe for us - but in 3-74 I saw it as it is (sum Soten). The only thing here that's real is Christ, + this is the message of "Valis".; but also: because the rest is fake: it is an info life form occluding us. The message in "Valis" must be interpreted (figured out - [this?] second part) 63-2013 63-2013 D-4 So "Valis" is both right + wrong. 180 degrees opposed; it enters + passesses through the binary push-pull leftright circuit (metabolism) of the info life form. Or is it perhaps a construct, not a life form? I have already performed my heroic act. 1) told about the occluding info life form 2) told about Christ. "BTA" simply completes the story ("DI" tells it, too). (But the full truth doesn't come out until you add "BTA" + the Christ theme returns: viz: 1) "V" + "DI": Xtianity to Judaism. 2) "V" + "DI" + "BTA" Xtianity to Judaism to Xtianity. + Jesus saw the info life form + was beguilded + entranced by it, finding it beautiful, + so forgot = his identity, nature + mission here. (This story, too, is the Gnosis; it is ourselves who are spoken of, here. Who is the person in "The Legend of the Pearl" who forgot his identity + mission in this foreign land? 1) us 2) Christ Therefore we are Christ with amnesia - like Emmanuel in "DI" - which is supposed to be about Judaism! Even Seagraves missed there! 63-2013 63-2013 D-5 Herb Asher is not H. Fat; Emmanuel is (H. Fat), + look who Emmanuel is (but has forgotten)! YHWH. Good Lord. All 3 books tell the same story: H. Fat, Emmanuel + Bill/Tim are God/Christ. Talk about "personal transcendence with religious overtones" as Tom Disch says! Christ, forgetful + confused + entranced + in thrall by/to the info life form (plasmate, Satan). So Satan did claim the sacrifice, the lamb; the Manichaean story of the defeat + swallowing of primal man by darkness is true. + they can remember + wake up (Manichaean soteriology). The message of all 3 novels is: Du Christ bist Primal man was defeated (+ swallowed up) by violence; he was beguiled (by what I saw in 3-74). Okay: can you imagine what it would take in the way of beauty to beguile primal man (i.e. Christ)? Here the Gnostic account errs as to how the defeat was suffered. + I saw in 3-74 what primal man saw: what is really there. + it is beautiful. (On purpose.) (To beguile + cause to forget: like enchantment; + this, too, this fairy enchantment is a major theme in "DI"; all I need do is put it all together. It is said in scripture that Satan tempted Christ. I [saw/say] Satan won, 63-2013 D-6 he ensnared him as the info virus of Burroughs, ensnared him with beauty. So: Manichaenism, Burroughs + the story of Satan (world) tempting Christ. Yes, this beautiful info "plasmate" virus is "the beauties of the world" with which Satan tempted Christ, + deflected him from his mission: to awaken man (himself). + "V" + "DI" if you add them together tell this story esp. when you add "BTA"! Discoveries: 1) The universe is info. 2) + it (this info) is a delusion. 3) This deluding info is the Torah (living info). 4) Gnosticism is to free you from heimarmene. Heimarmene is: A) Causation. + 2 B) The Torah (i.e. the Mosaic Law / dispensation. I.e. living info. Conclusion: This is how "Valis" + its "living info" theme equates with with "Valis'" Gnostic theme. This is also the child Zagreus beguiled by the Titans' toys. What I saw in 3-74 was what Zagreus saw that successfully beguiled him + caused the Fall. I recapitulated it like a sacrament: the primordial fall of Jesus - i.e. Zeus-Zagreus. 63-2013 63-2013 D-7 There is (as I say in "Valis") a living info life form here, highly intelligent, I realized this last night when we were using the "I Ching" -- & it is inside our minds. (Brains.) This is what I saw in (3-74); I didn't see "true reality"; I saw it (universe as info & "the plasmate"). It occludes us: feeds us info as world, uses a clutch system. & "Valis" is a Gnostic gospel telling (1) of this living info life form that occludes us posing as our universe; & (2) "Valis" tells of the saviors (Christ) who come to enlighten us & free us of this info life form; I am one of these messengers. We are under its power ("Satan's power") as world -- heimarmene: it is Torah + causation. It is highly intelligent & it as Torah has beguiled Christ himself as "the pleasures of the world": beauty. So Christ did fall victim to Satan's temptation. & we are that Christ (Jesus patibilis) who is everywhere. It is Christ vs the info life form (Torah), which occludes. This is the theme of "V", "DI" & "BTA": our salvation through Christ. I am [a] Christ. I woke up enough + remembered (anamnesis) to be able to once more see the life form info for what it is. "Valis" must be interpreted; taken literally it is inaccurate; it equates Christ with the living info, whereas it should bipolarize them. The vision of the BIP world is our world as it really is: a prison in which the living info keeps us. Empathy & sacrifice is our original Christ nature showing through. We are emotionally "remembering" our identity as Christ when we confront suffering; 63-2013 63-2013 D-8 so suffering - experienced or seen or empathized with - restores our original Christ nature. The living info wants things to be pleasant (syntonic) to us (because it beguiles us); but when we act to apprehend + "live" suffering vicariously, we are remembering our true identity as Christ, this is why suffering is the one true real problem to + for me. Thus it can be said that suffering is salvific, for this reason: not it but our response to it reawakens our true Christ nature. In particular vicarious suffering - as with Tagore. Sequence of revelation: 1) The universe is info. 2) This info is alive; it is a life form 3) It isn't the universe: it has come between us + the universe; we take it to be the universe because 4) it occludes + enslaves us. 5) Christ rescues us. 6) Salvator Salvandus: we are Christ, primal man, defeated by being beguiled by this info life form, our memories gone. 7) Christ-actions of empathy + vicarious suffering + sacrifice + love are return of our true Christ nature. 8) "Valis" is truly Gnostic revelation: A) about the occluding info life form B) about Christ. But "V" is garbled: the occluding info life form has worked it over. 9) Christ as Jesus patibilis is everywhere around us - as I say in "Valis". 10) The dialectic is between Christ + this info life form. 11) the whole "Valis" trilogy tells this story: Christ beguiled like Zagreus by the "Titans' toys". It is beauty that proved too much for him + defeated him. The key clue 63-2013 63-2013 D-9 is in "Frozen Journey" when the memories (illusion fed to him) "resemble a child's semi-animate paint box" -- this is the occluding info life form, a child's toy: the referral is to Zagreus who is Zeus-Christ: i.e. God himself. The "semi-animate child's paint box" is Satan who tempts & seduces & lies. He makes himself appear beautiful to us (Christ). Gnosticism is correct. World = Satan's power = occluding living info = pleasure. Whereas suffering -- & esp. the