This is what Paul is us The Torah even exerts a tyrannical saying. power over God, because God can only know creation indirectly, through (by means of) (by reading? The Torah, so God has only an indirect relation to creation but Christ (Valis) is here camouflaged is He the crazy magician + fool + healer, miracle worker - pretends (I mean) to be crazy like Hamlet. To fool the Torah th is K-76 be: chooses he causes to appear (not them from appear) mad, so as to save the Torah, because if they are mad the Torah has no longer any use for them, it it is claudius the King. being sober. Hamlet the fool is Christ the rightful "King Felix" - Dionysus, i King the God (rightful King ming Felix Christ (Hamlet, Dionysus, the fool, the magician the madman the miracle worker + healer) will over come Torah, who rules (claudius, Felix Buckman in "Tears") + seize the throne; i.e. wrest creation away from him + restore us to God This is the dialectic. Torah does not know everything. Christ does. This is the story the whole Bible tells: the coming of the King disguised as a madman with magical powers: Zagreus Christ: Greek (NT). Krishna + this is what I see Torah: Hebrew (of) in my dreams, + hear the Torah decreed my (the AI voice). death: "a writer in marin county will have many troubles" - this included 3-74, the Xerox missive + tax matter. Christ overcame the Torah + claimed - won me - due to my irrational (!) act of giving to Covenant House foolish thing to do, + so he made me his bride. The people will common sense are a machines + belong to the Torah; the foolish + mad belong to Jesus + hence directly to God. H. Fat is a madman + belongs to Christ. was Torah in the Xerox missive, + Christ it in me could read it: it was my death sentence. Christ nullified it + captured me. K-77 final authority - the keys have been given to Christ to loosen + to bind. the universe is info, but Christ (Valis) overri le) is it, so the statement "the universe is info not the ultimate statement. Valis is the here. ultimate statement: Christ Christ - J-a (Felix) King stern justice (Tears) Torah manny in "DI" wanting to play is Christ. the theme of play runs look how through these books. Felix in "Tears" - the bipolarities are stated. "Scanner as they wanted to play. Let them be happy" in "Valis" fit is crazy, in opposition to Tears/grief connected with gloria's death. Sorrow-madness. joy: pretend madness; actually it is play. Fat is playing a game, like a child, in his combatting tears, grief, sorrow, illness + death. In "BTA" angel has a "smart mouth"; she can't prevent herself from saying something funny at crucial moments - which gets her into trouble. death. sorrow, madness, play (joy). I define Christ as he who converts sorrow (Tears) into joy through sorrow-madness - love-play. joy. I didn't make angel up. She is the AI voice St Sophia. She is my essential identity, my eidos: Christ of which PKD is me + angel very imperfect particalar. ditheon K-78 my soul is not wedded to Christ; my soul is Christ. It is impossible to act rationally in a world where we have only imperfect + partial knowledge (this is my epistemological position). Thus we might as well be mad + He who play like little children. tries to be rational winds up grim sober +, finally, in grief + tears. He who is mad plays + wins If we with Christ. up happy; i.e. I saw play, Christ will come for us. the redemptive value for our souls in play in "Scanner" + saw how we are punished by the law (Torah) for playing. "This is a novel about some people who were they only wanted punished for too much. to play." The law that Paul speaks + I fight of is what punished them. This that law, I am with Christ the theme of "Di." In "BTA" angel, who is Christ (St. Sophia) at crucial is moments plays. Christ is the only one in the universe who can act contrary to Torah. Even God can't. But Christ is (or pretends to be) a wandering fool/madman, Torah takes no notice of him. Thus, in this disguise, he stealthing takes us + + + restores us to God. the world over. Russ is wrong: bill is very clever. He has the specific piece of info that will save tim's life - it has to do with Cars. K-79 bill is Christ; he can see the future. He pretends madness to cover up the fact that he is Christ - he fools even angel (Hagia Sophia, Christ as Wisdom). Pozzle: which of them is Christ? all! Bil? Tim? Eegar? Ansel? My guess is - well, it is bill, + this is revealed at the end; the MS says ie Bill: "I am the resurrection + the life its like a murder mystery + the auther gets to say who did it. I say bill: say bill is the one, + I have the right. + bill is the only one who speaks the truth to tim; even angel David + I discussed this Doesn't. the true fool in Christ is bill, not tim bill + Christ = Ditheon. Russ is wrong. I am bill. It is Christ. Not tim, who back to bill; Christ would know comes those details (e.g. the Chinese dinner. missed this point. I am depicting ross a Ditheon: human + Holy Spirit combined into Christ, as with me in 2-3-74. The ditheon dream proves my "Theon" letter right + Russ' letter wrong! means it is the Holy Spirit, not tim hence Ditheon: Christ. This is autobiographical analysis but when I wrote it not until I read didn't understand - I in 3-74 I was the Holy it over - + arate Russ. mad fool Christ, + that is all I need to know. K-80 angel is right; tim Diant come back to bill or to anyone. The last line of the novel is correct: "were he alive." But there is a third possibility, alluded to by barefoot that it is the Holy Spirit. The resurrection; hence bill is Now Christ when Angel says that her secret name is "tractor" she is saying "I am Judas who betrayed Christ" but tim isn't Christ; bill is, + she doesn't betray bill - i.e. Christ, she shelters + cares for him at the end she shows him love + kindness, Thus Torah assumes the role of Fate: "the book of the spinners". It programs + controls us. So it is like an occluding information virus; it keeps us enslaved at the level of machines. When Christ (Valis) overcomes causation he overcomes Torah. Torah, living info, programming, fate + world are one + the same This bipolarization between Christ + the Law is specifically stated by Paul + is implicit in the gospels. the madness that Christ feigns results in his being elusive, contradictory, playful with no ostensible pattern (like he is Krishna) but this is a guise: more camouflage. He is like ro tes a 981 inserted between us + the official messag instructional of the Torah Hence Christ takes on many guises + utilizes paradox (like my "Erasmus" experience). It's all like in "BTA": (1) is it Christ? (2) + if so who + the King disguised (another word for where camouflage), as the trickster, fool, madman. such things as the space visitor walking up to you + handing you a baby ruth candy bar This is to startle + disrupt us. Or something nothing is what it seems. Mischicuous spirit like the celtic little people. Magic, enchantment. all this disrupts our machine thinking, which is relentlessly linear. These are clues to the maze we are in, like saw. a the template There is no rational way out of the maze, rigid formula. Rigid formulas 2 are constructs, i But I read like that night + I know: Jesus was a magician + a miracle worker, + a great yogi it's like some kind of non-Euclidian geometry, in which "a meandering line is the shortest distance between two points." This is to overcome the instructions (Torah) that our scientific laws - the basis of our universe - are based on; hence the substantial aspect of Valis was a defeating of causality, which means all our natural law! I.e. "pretextual cause" brings into our universe a new set of instructions [for the Law : physical natural law + the mosaic law: Heimarmene itself). I Our universe is based on the instructions of sh Torah (as I recently realized); so Christ's miracle t are in fact events based on another or other sets of laws (instructions a 12 1 by "violating" natural law Christ is undermining the same law as the mosaic law: it is heimarmene. Our universe is based on an arbitrary set of instructions in terms of causation (natural law), + this Christ must undermine as a "protest art form or message" - hence his parables + miracles are of one piece when we experience Christ as a miracle worker, magician, trickster + yogh. We are seeing that he is not bound by the arbitrary body of instructions of Torah fed into reality to become our universe - heimarmene. Hence Valis it is causation perturbed causality specifically. that makes us machines; this is the rule of Torah Spinoza, as a Jew, fell for this law-system in which - as he correctly realized - there is no free-will, hence no freedom; free will is an illusion. It is against this machine universe that Christ works, but he does not introduce chaos, just playful, "illogical" perturbation Thus my insight into causality in the 405 was an epiphany" regarding Christ's intervention on our behalf into the machinery of natural law. The Torah can not redeem the universe because the Torah created it in the first t place. Intervention from outside is neces sary; thus Valis (Christ) impinges on reality Valis did not arise within reality + so is not subject to the law. It is clear from Paul's captivity letters that Christ is not subject to "the planetary powers": natural law G-83 then Christ would interfere with causation producing "pretextual" cause where the effect exceeds - + does not follow from the cause (since causation is based on the law. On a system of info-instructions fed into reality - the universe - to direct it how to behave: its ruleus lest I think this "Christ vs the Torah" schema is all due to dope, did I not conceive - in "BTA" - of Christ deflecting a person's fate by seizing "the book of the spinners," reading it + tipping off the person? All I've done as of last night is equate torah with the book of the spinners (i.e. the plasmate) which it obviously is. + the "Christ vs the Torah" equation is right out of Paul. Specifically the idea that the Torah has come between us + God, which is precisely the situation that Christ rectifies. + my research shows that Christ overcomes astral determinism which the Gnostics equate with Torah as heimarmene suppose this living info is occluding (for instance, does it not occlude us to its presence? Christ restores our lost faculties + we then see the plasmate. It programs us, + this is why I called myself "a machine" + felt the fetters melt away. It regulates the world, e.g. through causation - + through the inner-outer synchronized tapes. the "machine" level of functioning is due to it; before Jesus it ruled totally, keeping humans at a robot level. In stages he breaks its power. Have I not always spoken about opening the message - one's death sentence + reading it? + is this