in the end: synthesis. In reading Tillich I know now, know at last. that this is God (the first vision of this was, indeed, by Jakob Boehme). It - the dialectic - is between the prerational will in God the Aotos or reason in God; the latter always wing + at the end of each sequence. Timeo, credo. It's all there in "Valis" in the "2 source cosmogony" elsewhere in the tractatus. My term "madness," used in an ontological sense throughout the book, refers to the prerational will of God (as the dark side of the dialectic) + of course Logos is - as I say the correct term for the bright side folder 55 - 083 folder 55 - 083 Y-14 it is as if the entire plot + drama a of "Valis" is set within - + consists of - the internal dialectic within the mind of God, with the prerational will being the "whacked out creator deity" + the inbreaking of the Logos as the intelligent reason of God So that in "Valis" God + world are Homologized; the conflict - dialectic between the "two Gods" (+ this shows up in microform in fate mind: his original madness + later cure by Sophia/Logos/Christ) is actually the dialectic within God, God then as the all-in-all. The book "Valis 4 is, then, a world-drama in which the dialectic that makes up the esse of God Acts its dynamic logic out, the dialectic that Boehme saw + I saw. The dark side of the dialectic is specifically the will, a concept showing up e.g. in Bergson + whitehead, the process philosophers - which fits in with my comprehending the MMSK completing itself. Well, Valis was God, in me + in world, + the book "Valis" deals with it expressed as world drama: the irrational vs Logos (reason) + the synthesis of the two due to the strategy, as it I saw it: each synthesis is were, of rotos. victory by Logos God's reason, which absolutely is Hagia Sophia. Thus I am - + have been- indeed fouch with St. Sophia (as the AI voice, Ruah, in called him/her). This answers my Q: "is the dialectic that I saw within God (i.e. between two sides of him) or God vs Satan?" it is the former, but it acts out in world in history, as dynamic drama + interaction, folder 55 - 084 folder 55 - 084 A-15 The Dark side of the dialectic is specifically the will. I have always said, "Valis did not think. The dialectic was pure knowing without [verbal] ratiocination." But, I now see, the dialectic is Valis' being, so in Valis noein + einai are one + the same, + this is the dialectic: dynamic process from stasis (level of resolution i.e. synthesis) to the next higher one, + so forth into infinity, + each time, the Logos side winning - that is, achieving the integration of the two that schelling calls "Spirit." Moreover, its noein as its einai is expressed as dynamic activity: the interaction of the two sides of the dialectic, the resolution, whereupon the dialectic breaks out again; this is process theology (Boehme to Hartshorne). Hegel: reconciliation of estrangement through a higher synthesis that is in essence a higher abstraction (first t psychology, then politics, then art philosophy + religion); viz: my 2-74 meta-abstraction created! a reconciliation of the opposites in me that had been thesis + antithesis, into this new + higher synthesis: + this is Hegel's absolute spirit Thus my experience of Valis in my is (der Geist) was mind - + the dialectic within Valis - predicated on my meta-abstraction that was I saw that in itself the higher synthesis (schelling Valis itself arriving at pertained "spiritic). My meta-abstraction constants t to the intelligible awareness of the eternal hence + folder 55 - 085 folder 55 - 085 i asocrates / Plato: apotheosis (anamnesis). B. Jesus: enthusiasmos Q: which was 2-74? As since anamnesis was involved - + also quite likely noesis - the former Then Valis in me was an intrinsic outbreaking + is truly Eckhart-Sankara's concept of direct experience of the Godhead - urgrund. As within. but "BTA" says: B I find for B. Enthusiasmos, not apotheosis; which explains why I also saw Valis outside me as well. Divinity was conferred on me, not release from within me, the latter the Orphic position involved here, fundamentally, is a total annihilation This is the very of the categories "inner-outer"; heart of it. What I call "the reversal of cognitive estrangement." (Part-whole compatilibity.) The meta-abstraction of 2-74 must be regarded as the last, highest possible + final synthesis of the dialectic within me: for it pertains to the Absolute (+ hence eternal) + releases in me (as This what I called Valis) the absolute spirit itself. e t is the ultimate resolution of me + in me, what am contologically + dynamically: being + process A locking into the constants. For the both). reasons Hegel gives, it pertains to religions folder 55 - 086 82 the irrational against Dotos: this is achieved the dialectic. In the synthesis, acheives by Logos. Logos wins. This is the topic 3-74 was victory by Logos in of "Valis me + over me from Hegels standpoint, to meta‐ constants would be abstract historical the epiphany of absolute spirit, since it is realized in history true is something very strange here. History, the dialectic - why, my God; the intervention in 1974 to overthrow Nixon. Necessity operating on + in me: Valis. the key is: history. My sense at the time that a historic transformation was taking place: e.g. "Tears." "Yahweh is the God of history." to most important conception - possibility is the one dealt with in "Valis": the dialectic within God, perceived by Boehme in which the irrational or prerational or even demonic will - the dark side - combats the bright side, God's reason, specifically AD70s the latter always (sic: always, as was revealed + to me) wins (at the conclusion of the sequence Thus gaining for itself the whole sequence) Although in "Valis" I conceive of two Gods, this dramatic "device" does not blur the true picture, for the two sides in the dialectical combat are correctly characterized, in fact the term "AD70s" is specifically employed shown as victor. Thus Logos converts, as it were, the prerational will into 7070s (although schelling used a third term for this synthesis). In "Valis" this dynamic process occurs in all reality (macrocosm) + in Horselover Fat (microcosm). folder 55 - 087 folder 55 - 087 Y-3 Now what I must never forget is that this dialectic, the nature of the two differing sides, the inevitable victory in each sequence by 1070s came to me as absolute revelation (as it did for Boehme) Then the 2-74 meta-abstraction although quite likely noesis was (in terms of this dialectic) the synthesis by dogos: its victory in me + equatable to/with sanity (or, equally, a quantum-leap in intelligence). There is nothing I can possibly come up with that is more important - concerning 3-74 than this. + it is the topic of "Valis. clearly + dear dramatically presented Now, there is, then, a curious + curiously important thing about "BTA" - I mean Ansel Archer. t She is Dogos in me beyond doubt she - + hence the novel itself - is the fruit of 2-3-74: the outcome. Paradoxically, she denies the validity of the very reality (event) that created her the perception of Valis in world (externally) by me (in 3-74) + assigned in "Valis" to Horselover Fat is a perception of the macro‐ form of the inner vision of the victory by Doyos. Both (as I have always said) are Valis, but both (I see now for the first time) are precisely the dialectic! + the victory by 9070s in the dialectical struggle. This means that I saw God in + as world (as well as in + as me): dynamic process in world (if indeed world can be distinguished from God, at this point). This, the "transubstantiation the universe into the body of Christ/7070s. of is Boehme's vision of the dialectic in God himself. t this means that I very correctly folder 55 - 088 folder 55 - 088 Yu interpreted what I saw when I saw Valis externally, in + as world: I saw dynamic + in fact dialectic process. Such an inter t i pretation was either very brilliant or super‐ naturally inspired. I not only saw Logos - + Logos as the rational per se - but I saw it winning; + I recognized this as the absolute + basic dynamic process underlying all phenomena, all reality, all flux. I process + change This is enormously, radically + decisively Logos other than the classical static view of would as the principle of world - reason! even go so far as to say that although it has links to Boehme, schelling, Hegel, Teilhard, whitehead, heartshorne, it is a new revelation concerning God, the human + world; + it is a theophany indubitably. Although "Logos" refers to Christ (+ is so treated in "Valis") it t (Hagia Sophia). also describes God's reason Thus my vision is of the divine ground of being itself. folder 55 - 089 folder 55 - 089 -1 I discover in myself the dialectic it that Boehme + schelling find in God + also I find it in world then all three (self, world + God) can no longe be readily distinguished. Further, the 180u reversal of what I call "cognitive estrangement" - its conversion into what I call "part-whole compatibility" - is very likely, the victory by Logos at the end of a sequence, + if this is what is called "justification" (+ perhaps also "The 2nd birth" or "birth in the spirit" it is the victory of Logos in this dialectic - +, since Dogos is specifically Christ then it is a Christification of self, world, +, ultimately God himself victory by the rational over the pre-or irrational, in dynamic, dialectical process. + this is the revelation in "Valis" precisely. Dio - there is an additional + critical aspect of the dialectic that have temporarily forgotten: the dark or prerational side (the will) has only con‐ tingent a posteriori knowledge; i.e. hind sight, but the bright side - Logos - has absolute a priori knowledge, i.e. necessary foresight + it is due precisely to this this that its victory is inevitable - despite the fact that the dark side has either all the power or virtually all the the power. So I not only know that bright side a ways wins but how‐ hence why folder 55 - 090 folder 55 - 090 a 2-2 had the strangest insight after seeing "the Elephant man" that for some reason I failed to write down. Viz: we are not linked to world directly as: (self world but rather: el world that is, there is world, objective + substantial + real; but between us + it there is God, so that we receive world through God. This makes it possible for God to control + arrange how we experience world what in world strikes us forcefully - that is, God acts as a medium of selection in our apprehension of world so that for each individual person world is not only experienced uniquely (differing from person to person) but unique in purposeful ways: certain elements stressed, others suppressed - this especially has to de with information patterns that impinge compellingly (or, conversely, not at all). Now, this resembles Malebranche's epistemology somewhat, + yet is crucially different. Viz: God + world are clearly distinct what emerges here (in this theory) is a totally new explanation of 2-3-74. Either there was massive selecting (for a time) or I became aware of massive selecting, that is, aware of the medium as interface between me + world. (I.e. such massive selecting always goes on, but we know