must be near their maximum limit. guess one thing I'm saying that is important + maybe the case is: Ditheon is man evolved to bilateral hemispheric parity, + Ditheon is Christ. In which case I am equating the evolutionary leap to bilateral hemispheric parity with man becoming Christ himself + perceiving, relating to + communicating with the great unitary I evolving self-completing entity that identify as the Cosmic Christ or Teilhard's point omega. In that case Valis in me as "my" mind + Valis seen externally are both indeed Christ as a unified "field structure + ultimate of consciousness + organization in "which everything is subsumed. complexity characterize Ditheonic man as I Further, possessing the totally abstract view of reality that Eckhart speaks of as the 4th level of functioning of the soul, giving him the ability to read the universe so that Christ for him is a language that speaks in him + to him from everything like a vast perpetually renewing recombinant scripture which is unique for each person just as each person, though Christ, is uniqueeafunction of Teilhard's absolute complexification (188 another possible axis of evolution occurs to me as exemplified by Torah to N.t. to recombinant "pluralized" scripture: from rigidity to flexibility. Viz: the mosaic law is totally rigid; the N.T is flexible; "pluralized "recombinant scrip ture is an infinitude of unique messages each of which is "true" (applicable) to one person in one situation. This is the 180° opposite of what is found in organisms generally, as infants they are quite flexible but move progressively toward rigidity, repetition + ossification which is, really, an axis moving from This is viability (life itself) to death. strange. This is not like biological organisms. What it means is: it is becoming more viable progressively, passing not from birth to ultimate death but from rigidity (non-life) toward absolute + total life as a limit. is this related to the progression toward greater consciousness + abstraction? + express in "Valis" from irration‐ as I ality to rationality? (Here "irrationality" + rigidity are equated; likewise ration ality + flexibility.) More options seem open to it the more it evolves. Which implies an axis of determinism to freedom (which fits thinking as in with my notion of archaic machine thinking). That means that each successive choice progressively emancipates certainly if man is more free than it. K189 machine, Ditheon would be oportionally more free than man - another reason why upon my meta-abstraction, I perceived reality (in relation to me) as a prison + certainly it explains why in 3-74 felt the "fetters of Karma" fade out + also viewed myself as a machine or my having been a machine. These fetters undoubtedly were quite real. What this tells me is that my perception of Christ was linked to my own evolution toward or to Ditheon, again emphasizing the unity between what I saw + what I had evolved into Well, here's a fascinating thought: the progressive accelleration of its change-rate (i.e. "time") confers on it greater flexibility + freedom by the very fact of what is, after all, a quantitative transformation in its complexification process. Why? Why should the fact that It is speeding up render it more flexible + free (+ if it slowed down would it then become more rigid + more circumscribed? My seeing Acts / "Tears" the BIP suggests yes! Then it is to its advantage to accellerate its change-processes as much) fast/soon as possible. Change per ses then, can be equated with its life. Some‐ now this ties in with my own biological clock running faster + faster in 3-74 as if approaching infinite velocity (of neural firing); Everything depended on is (190 this speeding up; that is, everything that I experienced. Evolution ontology + change-rate accelleration are connected But I'm not sure why. s saw what I saw + experienced what I experienced because somehow I disengaged with external world-time. It must have to do with what I metaphor as the rotating LP; maybe there is coaxiality, + change-rate velocity determines which world you are in. When I recall My supra ruminations about the successive levels of Dante, I begin to wonder of the underlying mechanism in all this may not in fact be rather simple. I am just dying to say this: Maybe my speeding up (+ meta-abstracting) did not just cause me to perceive. world as jumping back to ancient times. rather, in relation to me it was the time of Acts, with "time of Acts defined as a certain [rather slow] change-rate; after all, velocity is relative. Relative to me, world became AD 70, due to my accelleration; what my right brain saw was for it really There Then surely we totally misunder stand what "time" is! "Earlier in time" simply means "at a slower change rate"! could my meta-abstraction, then, been a non-verbal realization of this? that somehow spatiotemporality is a quantitative K19 to matter? In which case the "doppler shift" I speak of deals with more than mere appearance. We are once again talkn about coaxial worlds in which hell is always the past, purgatory the present + Paradise the future (due to the accelleration of change: rate). The PTG then, is world speeded up in velation to me (actually me slowed down so that for me its is this a change-rate speeded up). basic mystic / sufi Gnosis - secret having to do with liberation? + ascent am I to Paradise while still alive? reminded of yoga breathing techniques, which certainly influence the inner biological clock I rate of neural firing. You seek to slow down so that world becomes heaven; I did the opposite: I speeded up, a sort of anti-yoga experience that put me in hell. Nonetheless, from this I drew a profound conclusion, unpleasant as it -the BIP- was, Although more mprisoned I could still figure it all out - i.e. the meta-abstraction. again, the rotating L-P, which although it turns as a unity at one given speed moves faster + faster as you transverse it from center to rim. My God I just had a stupendous Okay: an ontological axis where thought. complexity, change-rate velocity, 9192 bstraction, freedom + consciousness (degree of) are directly proportional, + all this is fiel to + functions in the medium that we call "time." This is an evolutios ary system. Does that mean that each of us immortal + ascends along this onto‐ logical axis as we as individuals evolve? So if you abruptly evolved -for instance, performing the meta-abstraction- you would move ahead in what we call "time," i.e. into the future (to repeat: the past is always hell, the present Purgatorio, the future Paradiso). Now, normally a person does not critically evolve in a single leap -quantum leapn during a lifetime. But if he did - would he not then be catapoulted into what for him was the future, i.e. a higher "speed" zone/level of evolution within the total am talking plural, sequen‐ unitary entity? I tial incarnations. Now, I claim that when saw Acts, world hadn't changed; my relation‐ I ship to it in terms of relative velocity had changed. All this adds up to the following dea: that, perhaps, in 2-3-74 I moved in time due to my meta-‐ 2000 years forward abstraction ("time" radically reinterpreted as change-rate velocity). This "vertical" motion would be automatic (once I performed the meta-abstraction) + not due to the will of a now, the upshot of this supernatural being. I had line of thought is, believe it or not been living in AD 70 until I performed the meta-abstraction, + all the confusion of my two worlds + two identities (me as thomas + K202 of the N.T. is the real world it would so-to-speak infiltrate the dream but (very Oddly) as information, since for us the real world is perceived as info - the verbal text This is how we know a that is the Bible what in fact is not just a world but the world: as a verbal text (i.e. information, a narrative). Hence I came to the conclusion that the universe is actually information. Now, there are two possibilities here: (1) our dream world starts out as info. (2) The info pertains not to the (our) dream world but to the real Oh, there is a third possibility: (3) both worlds have for us an info basis; viz: world. our dream world starts out as info + is some‐ the real how substantualized into reality. world (Acts) is not information in itself but shows up here as information. This makes you recall the idea of Sophia's cryptic messages "slipped into the inferior bulk" of the demiurge's information. (Certainly Gnosticism is indeed pointed to, another plus for "Valis"). No; I am too taken by my Teilhard I evolving totality, a system in which slower-moving constituents from the past exist in the present + yet "are" in the past in a way that we do not normally perceive (we normally can't see time -duration, age- as we see space - depth). Perhaps my meta-‐ abstraction was the coming-on (starting to function) of the temporal parallaxis by which temporal depth is (203 is perceived; that is, temporal paraclaxis did not occur as the result of the meta-‐ bstraction but was the meta-abstraction in that I saw time (analogous to seeing space; you actually see neither but you possess the anatomical equipment by which to callibrate age-duration + distance-length). The Golden Fish sign was indeed from outside: outside the present, + indicated the persistence of earlier strata on into the present, but composed of slower-rate components traveling at the velocity + complexity of their point of inception along the variable axis of the total evolving structure. Thus the reality spread out simultaneously only seems to us to be homogenous, since we see only space, depth, spatial location, etc., + not the same elements in temporal terms (specifically temporal depth). If we could see temporal depth as we see spatial depth, we would not see objects as a continuum but rather in a sort of block, an added dimension as from two spatial axes to three. But what would be striking would be the heterogeneous nature of reality in a spectacular + unsuspected way Hence what I call "coaxiality" or world within a world; or - camoutlaged objects, invisible to organisms with no ability to discriminate temporal duration (depth) perceptually. but here's a thought: since temporal depth is measured (perceived) in terms of complexity + change-rate velocity (+ perhaps other elements), upon perceiving temporal depth one could K204 infer the existence of + nature of a vast evolutionary structure - whole evolving nature accounts for our ability to discern temporal depth. temporal parallaxis as a percept faculty is based on absolutely fundamental aspects of total reality that are not normally known to us; we do or did not know we are within a unitary structure evolving along an intological axis from simplicity to complexity, determinism to freedom, insensiate to conscious, concrete to abstract, slow change-rate velocity to that is, our newly discovered fast, etc. faculty tells us a lot about reality not seen by the faculty, but inferrentially known by reason of the viability of the faculty. Thus the faculty brings in awareness of the total structure + this involves a priori cognition as well as empirical perception; what is really "seen," ultimately, is conceptual as - something understood as "It1 =2 here is abstraction. It is as if seeing temporal depth is seeing the MMSK itself, right off the bat, although what one is seeing -+ how- remains unknown. So seeing the Golden Fish sign as "not belonging" is probably a cognitive function, as in "seeing" that if I low t I low = 2 lows, then 1 t) = 2 + is a meta-‐ bstraction + specifically the "not two mothers once but one mother seen twice." K205 Here perception + cognition fuse as the percipient simultaneously sees