to B to C, but A to B followed by AtB = C. Here, now, the relationship between a schizophrenic (psychotic) episode psyche + (on the part of the B - human (336 the production of Ditheon can be seen; B (the human psyche) must abreact in order to recapitulate-recapture - an (the earlier psyche A - which I connect with the past (viz: A is past; B is present (is future); hence anamnesis occurs, a return to the very ancient past when the A or machine psyche existed; this is along a phylogenic axis, not ontogenic once the a psyche is "recovered" or "re prieved" or "remembered" - well, that is only the first step; then it (A) must fused alchemically with the later + ontologically is quite different B psyche to form ditheon (C). the abreaction, then, has to be into the Jungian collective or racial or phylogenic unconscious. What we call "schizophrenia" is this attempt ending unsuccessfully; it is a try at biological evolution, but it does not produce the "hierogamy" Ditheon Thus, for me, "Thomas" was the recovered/ retrieved a psyche from the age of "astral determinism," + it successfully fused with my B or human psyche to produce Valis or ditheon (Christogenesis occurred). Here is precisely where (1) my 2-3-74 experience was psychotic/schizophrenic; + (2) was not (was in terms of process; was not in terms of outcome). It is not an archetype of the collective unconscious that invades but, rather, a former self consciousness + specifically an A or machine type self 1337 from antiquity. The present returns to the past like the hero in search of a precious Jewed (or the Grail), conquers the demon of madness (disorder, entropy) + returns with the treasure; the ancient type a psyche, which is needed as the other constituent for Ditheon (Godhood). the B psyche is in search of its own prior [now] lost self; hence anamnesis is essential. + it is precisely this prior lost self that provides the completeness that is Ditheon: the goal (retrieving A, the prior lost self, is The means to the goal). Hence the expression "salvator salvandus" correctly describes this process: all 3 (A, B + C) are the one selfsame self. On this heroic journey by B, the voice of its completed self C speaks to it, offering cryptic but crucial hints. For me the Ditheon completed self C is angel archer + is my soul, the soul of both b (PKD) + A ("Thomas"). She is Logos: supreme rationality, micro-analog to the macro-Logos that steers the universe. This is literally Christogenesis. We are talking about an evo lutionary completion that took 2000 years to bring about, but now Ditheon C pierces the future; as a was, B is, C will be (as I said in my letter to Russ); her life started in 3-74 (not 2-74!) + moves forward from There (exactly as the Taoism alchemists teach) i.e. the Golden flower; her real life begins i when I did, as mine did when Thoma 338 but, as Thomas -psyche A - was guaranteed urvival in me -psyche B - we are both guaranteed survival in Ditheon - psyche c So here in essence is my revolutionary doctrine (or discovery): 1) We have a past self. 2) It is ontologically different from sur present self, + inferior to the present self. 3) It is a machine-like self, yoked to a concrete experience of reality - thus its world is qualitatively contologically) world different from ours; its is metal-like, prison-like, totally deterministic there is no freedom + no ability to abstract 4) certain severe (psychotic) psychological states (e.g. schizophrenia or anankastic obsessive or schizoid states) represent either A) reversions to this archaic psyche; or (B) the failure to become/construct a contem‐ porary "human" psyche 5) This archaic "machine" self can be retrieved; it exists still in latent form in the recessive, appositional right brain hemisphere 6) The act -process of retrieval is perilous either is or resembles psychosis (it may be psychotomimetic + not truly psychotic). ut 7) if the type a ancient machine" psyche is etrieved, it can be fused with the con‐ emporary type B "human" psyche which is somewhat free + possesses some ability to abstract) K339 5) a successful fusion of these two dissimilar psyches produces - as if by alchemical transmutation - one radically new kind of psyche which I term "Ditheon" because (A) it consists of two sub-psyches; + (B) is to human as human is to machine; thus we properly term it God-like; it is totally free + experiences reality as total abstraction. 9) as psyche a represents the past, + psyche B the present, psyche C (formed out of the two of them) represents in evololution ary terms the future. Its parameters can simply not be measured. Its Dasein is radically different from psyche B (just as B's is to A's). 10) The worlds experienced by these three psyches are represented respectively by Dante's inferno (A), Purgatorio (B), + paradiso There is some reason to believe that (C). the crucial factor of difference is somehow related to the way time is experienced (viz: cyclic; linear; + what I call "synchronous" or acausal - hence: (A): total causal deter‐ minism; (B): partial determinism; (C): non‐ a causal, but, rather perturbations in single unified field embracing both observer as participant + world itself 11) clearly this relates to bilateral Hemispheric [brain) parity (i.e. psyche C, with psyche B being left hemisphere dominani + psyche a being an archaic right hemisphere dominance now by + large a historic relic K340 11) in my opinion, psyche C was the goal of apostolic Xtianity (expressed variously as "baptised in the spirit, born in the Spirit, born from above, born again") but these techniques were successfully practiced for only a short time + probably were imperfectly under‐ stood, the techniques for inducing psyche c deriving from earlier mystery religions (Hence the basic premise underlying many mystery religions that a "deity exists above the fixed stars who can abolish your astrological fate." it is also possible that only psyche B was usheres in by Xtianity, in which case it was by + large successful. The evolutionary battle then may have been for left hemisphere dominance versus the older right-hemisphere dominance, in which case psyche Cs advent is as to the extant world (20th century) as Xtianity + the other mystery religions were to the first century A.D. World, that is, analogous. Viz: left hemisphere right hemis‐ phere:: bilateral parity: left hemisphere - in which case we are in the third age anticipated by Joaching del Fiore three, not two, vast historical epocks (of human evolution) are indicated, + Joachior was the first to see this; he equated the three ages with the three persons of the trinity: Father (psyche A: the Law : pote: nothing new; pure reflex habit). (psyche B: the son: conceptual principle. (341 expressed by Jesus in the N.T., exceptions to the law). (Spirit: psyche C; what I call recombinant scripture": no canon, no precedent; each person + situation unique. In each successive age information is generated qualitatively more rapidly + is qualitatively more flexible since there is no suggestion in "Baptism in the spirit" of anamnesis of psyche A (how could there be? Psyche A, the machine psyche was then the prevailing ruling psyche; it would not have to be remembered; it was an "is" not a "wasis like today) I assume that the birth of psyche B was as extraordinary + revolu‐ tnary for its time as (1) recovery of psyche A + (2) the "alchemical" fusion of psyches A + B to form Ditheon is for us to day. + as little (dimly) understood. Hence I say (1) This birth of left-hemisphere psyche b was a titanic revolutionary moment in human evolution, + we can thank Plato through him Jesus for it; but (2) now + We have an equally titanic revolutionary moment in terms of human evolution on the horizon... equally little (dimly) understood but bearing some logical, organic, crucial Advent. Why, relationship to the first then this psyche C Christogenesis is what is meant by the second advent the Parousia. It fulfills the first advent Hence the prophecies by the AI voice K342 am saying, the birth 2000 years ago of psyche B was not Christogenesis, but the birth of psyche C is (which is why the dream used the specific term Ditheon This then, the birth of Ditheon, is not [mere] recovery of apostolic Xtianity but a is logically related to it; necessarily related to it as completing what apostolic Xtianity began: the breaking of the chains of time, world + concreteness. But the apostolic Xtian 2000 years ago in gaining psyche B (which we now take for granted) must have been as staggered as I was in 3-74 when I experienced Valis occur in my mind + outside me (Christogenesis). accusations for example, all of Paul's against the law represent psyche B + its Dasein revolting against psyche A + its Dasein conclude, then, that indeed a I "meta-abstraction" occurred in 2-74. ushering in psyche C: the meta-abstraction + anamnesis were simultaneous, as if one event or act. Or perception now my 2-3-74 experience + exegesis can be understood in its relationship to Julian Jagnes' bicameral mind - in which the archaic human was controlled by his right hemisphere but this is quite different from Ditheon which is Jung's mysterium conionctionis. domination by the right hemisphere would be enslavement to introjected authority; man For the human mind to would be a machine! exist, the left hemisphere must predominate. 343 but this is not the end of the story; this has to do with a battle begun circa 2400 years ago - may be 2600. Ditheon goes back only to the Hermetic alchemists, + was quite rare. The early Xtian "birth in the spirit" experience died out when people started out with lift hemisphere (psyche B) dominance; no 2nd birth was needed in order to create the fully human person (at least for most people). but t Jesus knew his mission at that time was incomplete; it would only be complete when he returned - the 2nd Advent. + This (I contend) is Ditheon. C:B::B: A. So Jesus knew that in the first advent he had only begun the process - evolu tionary process - of Christogenesis. + this is exactly what Joachior figured out; that a whole new 3rd age lay ahead: in which men would be totally autonomous. So Xtianity did defeat "astral determinism" by creating a different kind of psyche which by not being a machine itself did not therefore live in a deterministic machine world (Dasein). Xtianity was a complete success. But - that was only stage one: that was not Ditheon (or Christogenesis). the "Acts" is the way Thomas would see world per se: as the BIP. The machine world is his world. Hence The 2 superimpositions were syntonic (344 they were 2 ways (inferno + purga thio) of seeing one reality. + the 8 PTG is Ditheon's way of seeing that same reality; these are my tracks A, B + C. Hence I correctly identified Thomas' vision as the past. + this explains the "supra-temporal constants"; he will see all places + all times this way: it is the machine This is how world looked to world people in ancient times; it had to do with "astral determinism." but it is precisely this dual view of one reality that C, the meta-abstraction, arises, since the mind grasps enormous implications of one + the same reality being "two" places + "two" times hence "two" worlds. Have I had the "meta-abstraction" backward? It is not seeing that two places + two times are one place + one time; but vice versa; one place (here) + one time (now) are two places + two times: AD 70 + USA 1974; + the instant the mind perceives +