"where is it?" is meaningless. (as is would this the question, "when is it?" be Torah, which preceded creation itself hence is timeless? Why, indeed it would be exactly as Torah is described. + G-21 is It is not -repeat not - derived from world, concerning reality, but is tself reality + a supra-temporal hyper reality at that. Hence I say in "Valis that contologically speaking) the universe is "really" information: this is true in terms of levels of ab i straction/ontology. It is clear from this that world (universe / creation derives from Torah: Torah is as Logos is - i.e. the word. God utters the word a from it creation derives. + This word is here as structural blue print or plan of substantial world ditheon can see it (+ see it as + primary). (world is involved in time But Torah/the word is not; it is timeless.) This Ditheon relates both perceptually + cognitively to the word basis of creation rather than to creation This is music to groove believe this word to be Christ + the ontological basis of reality from which creation is derived. This King - Felix was, literally, Christ (which is why I sensed that the plasmate, living info is Christ's blood). I suppose it is thought. Next I suppose Valis in my mind was Christ; therefore finally I suppose that Valis seen externally was Christ not invading reality but the true basis of reality from which physical reality in time + space derived K-28 as the next (lower) hypostasis. (Back to Erigena's 4 stages of God/natura.) God to son [word, Logos) to forms to creation to God. t the Ditheon is Erigena's 4th + final stage: "that which is not created + does not create" i.e. a return to #1. Hence it is correctly termed "theon," a form not of man or even Logos, but of God, but to be differentiated from God the creator, stage II "twice" God could refer to ther being two stages of the 4 that are God. The universe - for the Ditheon-does not turn out to be Christ (as it is Brahman for the Hindu); it is based on + derives from the uttered word which is abstract + distinct from physical reality; it is the ontological "prior" source (not prior in time but prior as hypostasis). It is as if Christ can be distinguished - flature-extracted. from universe yet is here, both as Thus the di structure + as information. Theon is related to God thro" the uttered word - wisdom person: this is also saint Sophia. So this is not pantheism. physical reality is not "really" Christ. but Christ is its source + basis. In no way can the solo psyche see him. It sees universe, the concrete or semi-concrete like the Ch'ang Tao, the uttered word - Christ t exists but is not real (in the sense that the universe is real). This is what t -29 abstraction -meta-abstraction - refers to it -he- is a system of relationships: that can think, + from it the universe derives. presumably by emanation. For example the information "Dog" is not real in the way an actual day is real; but this info is not a description of a dog or all dogs; it does not derive from actual dogs; on the contrary: it is their source. Plato studied this extensively. God thinks the intelligible notion "Dog" + from this uttered word there come into existence actual dogs. Christ/Logos) word (Torah is the sum total uttered entity as a coherent being, the son. He has no physical existence but "tual" "modulates + "perturbs" irresistably the reality field exactly as The Tao does! He is the non-real template to which reality must conform. + this is what I saw that I called Valis: this aligning. Hence I saw displace ment, valence away from plumb, working, + inferred Logos. Tao, the way, will serve equally well as a term + concepti shapes is the word I want. (But Tao doesn't account for the living info.) Then what I saw Valis doing is exactly what it does in relation to the universe. The perturbations in the reality find align it with its template (i.e. Logos), + this is a ceaseless event or act. "Ditheon" is precisely God-like because it possesses a fully abstract view of reality as its word-wisdom source, outside of time + causation i.e. in eternity; it experiences world the way God does: as timeless utte i G-30 what the temporal-depth axis would reveal (that is more important than age, analogous to spatial distance) would be essence, since what is permanent (archetypal constants) is as Plato reasoned, real in a sense that transient accidents are not set then, is real; ground is not. Perhaps this expresses the significance of world "pulling apart" into set + ground: all that comprises set is ontologically primary; ground is only semi real + derived, much of set would be information, since this (call it Logos or Torah or God's thoughts) is the ontological source-basis of creation. Yet above + beyond This information is Logos as plan, blueprint or ideal template (like a map not based on the territory but a map on which territory is based). Thus the word is inferrentially known by the perturbation it exerts on universe. on the physical world. (Just as the iron filings reveal to us the magnetic field acting on them to order + arrange them.) "rereading all my notes - handaritten + typed both - since the Ditheon dream; I see that I reason that (1) Ditheon is Christ; + (2) what it sees externally is the uttered word. the Logos, Valis, i.e. Christ as the abstract source from which the physical universe is derived. Would this explain why I saw Valis outside me camouflaged as world + also experienced Valis is me as a sort of ultra mind dealing in pure concepts? The Ditheon "Microcosm" is identical to the Logos macrocosm they have an analogic correspondence. But Christ is not the universe but is the s source t K-31 the universe; this is an important distinc tion. The microcosmic Christ (ditheon) does not mirror physical reality but the (informational) source of reality (If Christ were the universe, as the Hindus believe Brahma to be (pantheism) we would already all be Christ + would need only to realize this identity, as in "tat tvam asi"; the second adventitious psyche would not have to be introduced; the Ditheon would not have to be brought into existence. But in fact the physical universe is the creation of the Logos were Christ the universe a lower hypostasis. in the sense that Brahman is believed to be the opening of JN would make no sense; the word would be entering himself - but if it (world) is him, he is already there. Clearly, Logos + universe must be distinguished + then seen as higher (Logos) + lower (universe) hypostases viewed This way, the creation of Ditheons makes a totally different kind of sense (than if Logos is supposed to be the universe). The Godhead utters the word, the uttered word (Logos) creates the physical universe (the reality field) + then penetrates that reality field its creation, as Jn describes. (Here Logos is viewed in the Alexandrian sense: as an intermediary between God + creation.) (But this is not correct, because Logos is equated with God: "Kai theos en ho Logos." Thus the creating of Ditheons is a causing God to be at + in the lowest hypostasis this ditheon does not experience physical, sensible H-34 world but the source of world; viewed this way, one thinks of the Gnostic view that God + man "belong together, but world comes between them, sundering them," in which call the goal would seem to be to relate man directly to God qua Christ, eliminating the intervening hypostasis world. Ditheon sees as it were through world to Logos (but this, as say, does in no way whatsoever mean that I world is Christ or Christ is world). What I call "the meta-abstraction" or abstract view of world is not a view of world, then, at all, but a perception of source of world from which world derives. This would seem to be a Gnostic goal (with overtones of acosmism) (acosmism of a strange kind: it is a goal, to render world irreal, viewing it as heimarmene, from which be this as it may, one seeks to become free. if Ditheon relates directly to Logos (as source of world), bypassing world - well; the world is seen as the Black iron prison! Empire of darkness, world as fremd + unheimlich. into which one is thrown. But Logos is Heimlich (the opposite of world)... not just heimlich in fact but heim itself Then the presentation in "Valis" of Valis as Logos invisibly invading + transubstantiating world into itself is the ultimate Gnostic goal, purpose, salvation + vision without which Gnosticism mothes no sense. "He has been transplanted + is alive." Ditheon? For in fact Ditheon is transplanting K-33 This is very strange. (1) the second psyche is indeed precisely a transplanted - not created - psyche; + (2) out of this transplant arises "theon," specifically Ditheon + if Dithean is Christ, well, one ditheon or one millian would still be "He" + not "they" because (as I see it) There is only one Christ [Note since all the Ditheons derive from Jesus Christ; he pluralizes himself but (I think) remains singular all ditheons are the Ditheon. The statement "a Christ" is a misstatement of "the Christ Christ is Christ, + we understand this He is not an impersonal principle; he has what is termed personality certainly the mind that took me over had clear, distinct, individual + idio‐ that's how I knew it syncratic personality. wasn't me ➀ v. 638. but the Ditheon structure permits the human hosts own psyche to continue to exist intact; It is not impinged on in the sense of being destroyed or suppressed in favor of the "invading adventitious psyche, the person becomes Christ without ceasing to be himself, losing his own soul + identity. Maybe this is why "DI" is stipulated, otherwise the original human host. -innate psyche- would suffer extinction through some kind of assimilation. He would be replaced by the transplant. is + here is an important - terribly important implication of the "DI" part of Ditheon. True I was temporarily pre-empted but only for + in a life - threatening situation. Which implies that the transplant did not occur in 2-74: my other psyche, rather, came to the surface K-34 + this fits in with "Tears." This would explain the disinhibiting element (by the Golden Fish sign); the adventitious seco psyche was already there (how else can "Tear be explained?). + this fits in with the dream of the little boy Philip on the raft slipping past Scotland Yard This notion that the sensible world derive from the uttered word is a strange evolution of Plato's Form doctrine. If we study the stoic view, the Logos is here, pervading sensible reality + has some kind of substantial existence, but the Alexandrian Logos seems to be intelligible only + certainly is rational - in fact "Logos "The + rational" are always equated; hence homologized with Hagia Sophia I was reading about Christ in the EB vil pC 481 (?). "Ditheon" specifically refers to Christ. He has two natures. one is God - one is man. They are not paralled but combine in one person: "2 natures, one person. that person is the pre-existent Logos. This was the subject of much doctrinarial (sp?) dispute (as I should know; some heresies - the Ducetists - regarded Jesus as all God; the Arians regarded him as all man 2 natures I person" is the triumphant orthodox formulation, but it is a difficult concept to fathom. Now, as it applies to my dream, we start with the premise that Christ