object - probably also a Gnostic objective. Hence (I say) this is the significance of Jesus to the Gnostic: to reverse the roles of man + world vis-a-vis God. 1) I find world to be my own construct ("prior thought formations"); 2) I relate directly to God not through world (world no longer stands between me + God); + 3) I am between God + world (he exerts his will on it through me, but the will has become, for me, wise advice the basis of my creation of world). 63-2013 63-2013 D-39 This is as major a revolution as could possibly be - in the history not just of man but of any created being, for man (myself) is no longer part of creation as a bit of it; man governs this creation as its pantocrator - + yet he does not replace God; he is God's regent - as was the original plan before the Fall; this is not only man's proper role but the role he originally had - + lost. The fall, then, has these aspects: 1) world comes between man + God; 2) world makes man its creation, not vice-versa. Man + world exchanged place. Thus (I reason) man originally was Logos. This would be the primal man of Manichaeism. Did the fall occur because man as agent of creation (between God + world) turned toward God + challenged him? + thereby ceased to be God's agent of creation (i.e. God's viceroy) +, instead, constructed irreal private worlds - whereupon world (the servant) became man's master, both as consequence + as just punishment. Christ's soteriological is to reverse the roles of man + world + restore them to their original order: God-man-world, not God-world-man. God now confronts man as the info basis - the instructions of world, + man consults God as if God were a book; viz: the greatest truth, then, is: "God is the Book of the universe", a Platonist notion.) 63-2013 63-2013 D-40 [illustrations, in the first one the arrows go from 1 to 3, in the second from 3 to 1] Correct (restored) sequence: 1) God as information about -the basis of- world - i.e. God the creator -- 2) Man -- 3) World as spatiotemporal physical construct Incorrect (fallen) sequence: 1) Man -- 2) Physical spatiotemporal world -- 3) God concealed by world from man, which is the Gnostic appraisal of the situation qua Fall In the correct (unfallen) sequence, it is as if man is himself "protest art" inserting itself between God (the official message / instructions) + world (the recipient / audience / receiver) + can modify it or abort it. Thus the info basis of world has lost its enslaving power over man because it has been severed from world by the intervention of man himself in the role of Soten! Man is in a position to keep instructions from world, instructions that would doom him; thus world now ceases to compel + enslave man as Fate/Karma. Then what I saw in 3-74 (set to ground) was God pulling apart from world. God as set; world as ground. God as plasmate. 63-2013 63-2013 D-41 Up until then, I experienced a confusion -a mix- of world + God, but then they separated: world as world, God as info: [illustrations: first picture with three circles, with one arrow going from "me" to "God", another from "me" to "world"; second picture with only two circles, "me" relating with "God/world"] World, then, is not broken down into its two components: God is discriminated from world - hence Valis (God, the Logos) seen as mimicking world but now distinguished from world, its "mimicry" discerned. So thereupon I relate directly to God, not to world between me + God. +, oddly, this is not pantheism, for it is not world as God, world animated by God, God as world, etc; God is sharply discriminated from world - that is the whole point of what I saw! Thus our original relationship to God - a direct one - is restored. Surely to see the divine extracted out from world is the greatest vision of all - esp. the divine in the trash stratum here + there! Was that what I saw in 2-74 (the Fish Sign) + exctracted it as an eternal constant embedded in world or this ostensible world but it -the sign- part of another + unchanging eternal world coaxially here? Then it was done by God's grace - + that was meta-abstraction: the eternal unchanging divine is here mixed in coaxially with our ostensible flux world (my "not 2 mothers but 1 mother twice" meta-abstraction was extraction of the divine back out of world). Hence there is coaxiality - mundane + divine. 63-2013 D-42 ___ I have been reading over "DI" + discovered this: In "Valis" the normal (present) actual world is described; when the beam of pink light strikes H. Fat + he experiences Valis, this is inscrutible; no sense can be made out of it. But in "D.I." a completely fabulous, fictitious world is described - both s-f + fantasy + cosmic in scope - + when on p. 173 Zina Pallas kisses Herb Asher, + the beam of pink light strikes him, + he is blinded + sees the plasmate + Valis + remembers (experiences anamnesis of the real world) this extraordinary event - which in the novel is unexplained - makes perfect sense. Thus "Valis" + "D.I." are mirror-opposite inversions of each other; viz: in "DI" I have created an imaginary world in which Valis + the experience of Valis are logical - whereas in "Valis" which is our known world even I can't explain them. Thus "DI" can be regarded as one vast theoretical construct in which were it the case Valis + the experience of Valis, the plasmate + anamnesis require no explanation. This is extraordinary, + I had not realized it, but now I see what in fact I was up to in writing "DI" + why it must be a "s-f romance" if it is to explain the mystery in "Valis" of Valis + the plasmate; thus 63-2013 63-2013 D-43 "DI" is not only necessary, it had to take the form it takes! + this ultra crucial statement is made: Q: "Who is Valis?" A: "The Lord your God." Thus "DI" is not a loose sequel to "Valis" but the sole logical + correct + necessary one: the other missing half of the totality in all respects. This is simply amazing. Without that little scene (p. 173 passim) "DI" would not be what it is: the answer to which the whole preceding novel "Valis" is the question. What, after all, is the purpose of "DI" if not to answer categorically the q: what is Valis? + it does: it is YHWH; + I got this answer in a vision; I did not make it up nor merely reason or guess it to be the right answer out of all the many possibilities. I stand amazed + thoroughly delighted! The quest in "Valis" has ended satisfactorily: the matter is settled. The task is done. That the solution runs contrary to all the [Gnostic] speculation in "Valis" only shows how bold + original + brilliant + decisive it is! The entire novel ("DI") explains what Valis is. The p. 173 passim section relates it right back to "Valis": the total assertion is there, for all its false starts. 63-2013 63-2013 D-44 What I called Valis that I saw externally was the justification of my karma, physically expressed, by the Lord. Hence my sense of the invisible template (justify as in setting type). He is Lord of creation. It is true - Jesus patibilis + YHWH; "DI" is correct. He would not allow me to err. The rest of the Valis story is in "BTA": the character (now called Bill) becomes Christ. (Ditheon.) This completes the story. I was made into Ditheon, by the grace of God. Therefore I became Christ (Christos). Christ is paradigmatic of the justified man - yet Jesus patibilis exists, everywhere crucified, everywhere dying with/as the creature in Ditheon: at the end, God justifies. This justification can really only be understood as extrication from + repair of the alienated state that Gnosticism depicts as the state of man: only in Gnosticism does the magnitude of this disturbance become clear - hence the real significance of justification. I am saying that (1) the Gnostics are right concerning man's natural state; + (2) orthodox Xtianity is right about the possibility of God rectifying this state: this latter is really not found in Gnosticism but rather in Pauline + Protestant thought. This latter is what the Messianic task concerns: it is the transaction (represented by the messenger vision) by which the "karmic" debt is paid: the law is (heimarmene) is satisfied: Christ substitutes himself as spotless surrogate for the person. 63-2013 63-2013 D-45 Thereupon the justified man's total relationship with God + world undergoes a radical shift. The "blank white sheet" is the "spotless son whom God sees instead of the sinner", as the reformers expressed it. The whole (total) system must be regarded as a unitary field which operates lawfully to establish balance + equilibrium + that the effects of an act will not on their own fail to affect the entire field unless there is actual cancellation - hence in a sense there is no miracle in the pure sense: Christ's death is an actual contemporaneous event here + now voiding the effects we know of as karma + determinism + heimarmene. A spotless human had to be introduced into the system (+ for him to be spotless he had paradoxically to be not human while yet human, that is, Jesus Christ the man-God); second, it had to be possible for him to be able to substitute himself for an unlimited - potentially infinite number of men - + this returns the situation to his God nature: thus he had to be God for two reasons: (1) spotless + (2) to act as surrogate for the whole species; only God can do this: be both these things. (Curiously, the same quality -that he is God- answers both requirements.) God himself thus repairs the fall by active participation in the machinery of retribution arising from the fall: that machinery [...] our condition of "thrown" enslave[ment] to what in the final analysis is our [...] natures - what that nature has [become]: that we do now err + hence set the retributive (talion) system into motion. 63-2013 63-2013 D-46 What does justification bring? Luther says reunion with God - which is precisely what I experienced. This: Man -- world -- God is transformed to this: Man -- God -- world Man + God are reunited by justification. My view is a mixture of Gnosticism + Protestantism. Er machte mich unschuldig [Note]; dabei mein Ur-angst verschwangt. [Note] By the action of the Holy Spirit which made Christ's death contemporaneous with me hence for me; viz: the spirit caused me to know, to understand, the Messianic purpose + in terms of my own salvation (eschatology-soteriology); that is, it applies to me. The messenger vision clarifies this. ___ It came to me last night while stoned that 3-74 could be boiled down simply to this: reality exists in one more dimension than we know of, + I saw that dimension (as if added: reality enhanced properly). + this was due I realize today because of a cognitive act/event in my mind: the "not two mothers but one mother twice" meta-abstraction; viz: my brain/mind did it. Hereupon, all attempts to explain + describe + understand what I saw must fail, since world was radically transformed (it was other) However: what 63-2013 D-47 I think I saw is an insubstantial template that either is the eide or is like the eide: due to the meta-abstraction I saw the timeless eternal basis of what for us is ephemeral substantial phenomenal reality