maintain a greater level of negentropy than its environment, + it does this by assembling negative entropy from its environment. "Its structure is information." Very well: our problem in distinguishing the structure stems from the fact that much of this information (& of the rest - motion binary modes. The linking and relinking. The mutual arrangement of objects into spatial gestalt, etc) is not recognized by us as information at all : this is what I cal the "groove music" - Quantum leap in understanding and it involves a meta-abstraction of some kind. I guess. This info and its intenral order (organizational structure) are one and the same. This info does not pertain to something [else] but is that something. Wait a minute: I'm missing something terribly important. In 2-74 I realized about the two coaxial worlds here sharing one space-time. In 3-74 I saw the set-groud; I then was discriminating the two worlds each from the other --and yet this was only an extension into particulars of the 2-74 meta-abstraction itself! The meta-abstraction was in itself a seeing of this; once the concept was there the rest did follow. Verifying the concept. And, in turn, this verifies that the set-ground discrimination is the distinguishing of the two realms. folder 55 - 042 folder 55 - 042 1-41 In a strange way it all seems to boil down to message-traffic: the fish sign itself is "other" info leading a dual life: as here in our realm as one (thing?) but also existing in the other realm as well- which is what the meta-abstraction was all about. An info life-form; it's metabolism - it's circulatory system- is info! This is either how it can coaxially co-exist in one of the way, by which it does (&, as I say, this includes info that we don't even recognize -as- info; we just see objects in motion!) Christ & his kingdom in a certain real sense are one folder 55 - 043 folder 55 - 043 1-42 in my "music to groove" metaphor. i now, this being the case, it becomes clear how it can be coaxial + why it utilizes information because it as a realm is a kind of thinking, as if it thinks throughout its soma So it could be here forever - everywhere + unless you performed that meta-abstraction you'd never be aware of it. Nonetheless my analysis of cohabitation/coaxiality is still valid - but this realization that the other realm exists at one step up in levels of abstraction would completely explain our inability to discern -discriminate - it, + why It did take a meta-abstraction on my part may herein have to realize its existences I finally crossed the T. This [higher level of ab‐ straction] explains how it can "time share, like using the unused spaces - + this is what connects it to Plato's Forms + his noesis; it is to our physical world as circularity is to ceramic Plate; I was on the right track in studying the universalia ante remi Thus there is a necessary connection between apperception of the other realm + the highest possible rational faculty ( pressed as noesis), hence my long research into call "the aesthetics of rationality" has what I been wasted. not existing at a higher level of abstraction than the ostensible world, Christ's Kingdom hence is more real, just as the forms are more real than mere particulars" also, like the Forms, it participates in eternity, which is why it consists of trans‐ temporal constants - i.e. the archetype world of eschatological fulfillment QED folder 55 - 044 folder 55 - 044 2-7 My seeing the Golden rectangle verifies that I was literally seeing, as set that which is abstract (eidos); I presume more intelligibly than sensibly - but this was what I saw a) set: the hyper-abstract. Christ t Christ's Kingdom is set (abstract) to our world (physical) as groouds The key term for the info we fail to see as info is: syntactical relationships. I could see universals, eg. the Golden rectangle - somehow Then Jesus was telling the truth wher I he said, "my Kingdom is not of this world" - i.e. the sensible, physical world. physical object + their but it is here causal processes comprise it but in a way quite different from the way they comprise our reality, so to speak of his Kingdom as "not being here on Earth" is equally false (e.g. in the next world - whatever here but if anything that may mean), it is like the Forms it is apprehended by the intellect + not really by the senses; it is I think - unlike the Forms understood that instantiate down as it were into particulars - it is a hyper-structure evolving up out of our physical reality (but I'm just guessing - still this is a crucial point, since, if I am right, it depends in + requires physical reality for its own existers; the Forms do not. That is folder 55 - 045 folder 55 - 045 2-2 for it to exist as the mutual arrangement of objects in relation to one another, there must be objects to be arranged. This is clearly not true of the Forms. could the Kingdom, then, not be defined as "a perturbation in the reality field"? Since it treats reality - physical reality, our world-order - as a single field, a continuum, which it modulates from out side as if by a wave-form that results of an arrangement of the field into information, like an electrical signal fed to a disc-cutting stylus? + this is what I saw that I called Valis, but it is really the Kingdom per se which is say the Corpus Christi? Impinging - like to the Tao - on reality? The point is the perturbation does not arise from within the field; it is not the result of the sum total of prior states - i.e. efficient cause. without the reality field to perturb, there would be no Kingdom, like feeding a signal to a cutting stylus not in contact with a rotating disc. to cause someone to enter the King‐ dom you would - would have to - massively increase their intelligence: qualitatively, not just quantitatively, which goes back to my insight of several weeks ago: "2-3-74 was God (2) suddenly making me a lot smarter." the set-ground discrimination implies that more is involved than in the sense of equal opposite coaxial realities; some kind of hyper reality is involved, + the Golden rectangle identifies it a pure abstraction related to Plato's eide Then this folder 55 - 046 2-3 cannot be a matter of equal, alternate realities or views of realities - subjective interpretation, set is a hyper-reality of which no one speaks + of which perhaps few know. Beyond doubt I have at last pinned it down? the real issue is not the two coaxial worlds - as in S-f alternate worlds - but the set-ground dis‐ crimination, + I now know for a certainly what that "set" in fact was It is also of great - + in fact startling importance to realize that Christ + Christ's realm (set) are one + the same: Valis + the plasmate, as I say in "Valis; are alive + comprise one vast organism - + we are in it, although also it (Christ) is in us. It is coherent + intact + unitary but very complex (the MMSK) + always becoming more so. folder 55 - 047 folder 55 - 047 He - the savior - is for the creatures who don't understand, so that they will understand (reversing cognitive estrangement); hence he is Logos, wisdom the part whole compatibility pattern of cosmos This i i was 2-3-74, + why I fall I got suddenly smarter, i.e. I understood (above + beyond knowing thinking] understood - not know‐ is the key word. t "understand" here equals "penetrate the mystery" or "shrewdly guess the riddle (of "Tears"). another passion - mercer. viewed through the "lens" of Xtianity, in particular Xtian apocalypse - everything makes sense - not just to me + for me but as such; it is the key that explains the mystery of reality (creation); i.e. cosmos is when this lens is used. This is not merely personal + subjective on my part: it is objective fact. Last night as I reflected on the beatitudes + Karen (nepios + ptochoi) I realized this, whom God loves in this world + how + where he acts, in relation to Them; she is one + so am I. She more than Is in her I see myself. late last night I realized that "Tears," in Buckman vs Jason, expresses the two dif ferent ways, man relying on himself + man relying on God; viz: "Heaven protects the innocent (or just) man" - that is the nepioi, the ptockos. + this must be the case since, without the guile + power + tactics of the world at their disposal, the innocent would all perish, did heaven not protect them. Much of what Jesus taught addresses this issue; it is basic folder 55 - 048 folder 55 - 048 2 is the great secret of the Judothis Xtian religion, first found + Judaism + then brought to its peak -fulfillment - by Jesus' teachings. The proud man relies ou his own powers + abilities (e.g. Buckman); the nepioi + ptochoi rely on their heavenly Father This is what explains 2-3-74: it is an instance of this vast principle which involves God's love - hence both pronoia + theodicy the ultimate expression of this is to "have a tutelary Spirit" + "to be adopted [sons of God" which has to do with the Kingdom or Kingship of God). This is it: to be one of the nepioi + to be adopted by God, hence to enter the Kingdom; this secret is concealed from the proud. (i.e. hubris is the opposite state from relying on God: hence The motto: "in it is the ultimate sin or fully.) God we trust" expresses absolute faith in God's love hence his protection. 2-3-74 verifies that one can so do. In a sense for me to guess the answer to the riddle of "Tears" is to understand the essence of Xtianity (+ also Judaism), as well as to explain 2-3-74. The innocence of the nepioi is a return to or a never departing from in the first place - the primordial innocence of original man. In viewing Karen I see myself + esp. see myself as God must see me: defenseless + innocent, both needing + deserving the aid of heaver ("+ found in heaven a friend"), hence the theme of the holy fool in Christ (e.g. Parsifal). It is like a secret law of physics: how the world-order works (but in terms of morality, of being in the world Thus in "Tears" Jason + the rabbit but not of it). are shown to be the same: the creature that does not know what to do. Viewed this way, Jesus' entire system of teachings boils down as it were to: being (or becoming) one of the nepioi/ptochoi + as a result being protected by God. If indeed -as 2-3-74 proves it to be the case - this is so as a law the world-order, Jesus' teachings are practical, of folder 55 - 049 folder 55 - 049 3-3 for they envoke this law (it functions lawfully, based on due cause, as the AI voice explained to me; it is not arbitrary!). One has put himself in a direct relationship with the God above (as it were) the stars (heimarmene), the supreme power in the universe. Thus Jesus stressed his role as the good shephere may be that the way I saw world in it for instance the animals, as in a nativity 3-74 scene, or like the good Friday spell- is the way God sees us all, ourselves + our