So now I have a counselor + an advocate with Ma'at, which is an example of Ma'at or justice. So I believe reality is responsive to just acts + so is, pragmatically, alive (sentient, aware of us, intelligent conscious: a mind (8) It takes intelligence to know who is just (v Supra arguments); thus, if the universe were just, it would have to be a mind, for only a mind is intelligence. No artifact could figure out what is just. So I have just cited a necessary quality that, for the universe to have it, the universe must know it, of it, + the fact is, it does display justice - as my reward (Diana) + the intervention in 3-74 show. The RC Brothers believe in Ma'at, that's where I first heard of her, + wondered if it was she who I had seen as the Sibyl. A person has to be intellectually occluded not to know that it is unjust to bomb children with napalm, hence against Ma'at; + are they willing to gamble that Ma'at does not exist? Would you make that wager? So in the final analysis it's a game! A betting game! There is, oddly, an element of play in it. (9) 1) I believe that cosmic justice exists (not, "I believe justice is good." This is an intellectual, epistemological matter) 2) If I act justly, it is just that I be rewarded. 3) ∴ if (1) is correct, then I can anticipate a reward. (But the sequence doesn't end here:) 4) I have received a reward, so I have got a confirm on - I tested reality + got a confirm on - (1). 5) So, intellectually, I know something about the cosmos that most people don't know. Those who are moral or virtuous for its own sake do not know what I know; their premise ("It is right to do good for its own sake") can't be tested; mine can, + so falls into the category of verified knowledge, not just faith or opinion or value judgment, which can vary from person to person. Insight: the irridescent colors of the Mallard Drake's feathers on Diana's cap are the colors of Ma'at's ostritch feathers - which tells me that in Diana Ma'at is crypted! (10) This explains the otherwise perplexing fact of Diana's Mallard Drake's head + neck cap. One can ask, "Is it moral to smoke dope?" But, "Is it justice to smoke dope?" Either (1) the Q makes no sense, [or (2)?] the answer may differ from the "moral" answer. So my withholding my taxes (not the signing but the withholding) was as act based on comprehension of justice i.e. truth i.e. order i.e. Ma'at, a single complex abstraction: the universe (phenomenal world) isn't real but Ma'at is. So I am not a better person or a more moral person for what I did, but a person in touch with reality. It's literally a matter of reality testing. We are taught it's childish to believe that God +/or the universe rewards us if we're good (read just). In Jewish-Xtian terms it is childish. (Anthropomorphic God.) But Ma'at is something different, [...?] difficult abstraction. This is what the "crab who always gave us the proper thing in exchange" dream signified: Ma'at in me. Morality may be good, but it can't be [derived?] from the cosmic order, ➀ + it may [or] may not reward. ➀ So justice has more ramifications than morality. Justice is a matter capable of proof (that it exists). Morality is not (11) I don't see where my morality or anyone's morality has gotten them anywhere, or is it supposed to. But I had Ma'at in me + performed a just act (withholding money for the war) + that was rewarded - which, I must repeat, is only just - a self-confirming totality. I would be a fool now to be unjust. You could even ask, "Is it right that there should be justice rather than morality? Isn't morality higher than justice because it rises past justice to mercy?" Well, my reward didn't prove or disprove that - that has no proof or disproof. But I did prove the existence of justice: like it or not: it, it is a fact. Now I can define what happened in 3-74. The natural (causal) order was interrupted - interfered with - to serve the moral (or just) order. Therefore I deduce: the moral order (justice) is more real! (not more important - incredibly - but - more real!) Think about it in terms of obvious vs latent form - + Heraclitus' statement - if the 2 orders clash, the moral wins (for it is linked with astral orders, v. Ma'at). (12) I just realized I've worked out something of vast importance. Despite all appearances, injustice cannot exist.➀ No matter how we subjectively (socially -determined + emotionally) feel. Papagena. Feathers. Bird. Feather: ostrich = Ma'at! Bird woman. --------- I have assigned a basic (perhaps the basic) quality of Ma'at to Diana; viz: stepping in when there is what I call "overstepping" a concept involving balance, order, harmony, etc.; in short Ma'at itself. Note that I conceived of a geometric form - the golden rectangle - as the indicator of what is a moral - i.e. just - order. + I conceive of the needle swinging toward the BIP as bringing down retributive consequences because it involves a diverging from a sort of balance. Ma'at is the daughter of Re the creator + the wife of Thoth: wisdom. ➀ This appears to agree to the concept of reincarnation + karma, + at the start of this I affirm reincarnation (+ claim I have good karma - am rising very high in the concentric rings. My 3-74 apotheosis could be viewed as my next birth to a higher state or incarnation. ---------- I have discerned 3-74 (+ the gift of Diana) as constituting (proof of) divine providence, which I now identify with Ma'at because I comprehend it geometrically; i.e. the moral (13) order not separate or independent from the other orders but all being expressions of one order viewed various ways. (moral order equals theodicy) (i.e. cosmic justice.) E.B.: the opposite of Ma'at is not evil but disorder. Ma'at is order vs disorder or chaos. "Ma'at represents truth + order; her domain includes not only the order of the nature, but also the social + ethical orders." At the start of these 13 pages I express my conception of the moral as the highest order of reality, as a kind of geometry discernable epistemologically - + then I recognize my conception as Ma'at. I think I've been influenced by "The Magic Flute": life is a progressive series of more + more complex tests, +, if you pass (i.e. learn) you are rewarded - + much that happens to us which we don't like +/or which puzzles us is an epistemological problem which we must solve (understand + act properly on). These are initiatory trials, out of which we are initiated into the mysteries of truth (which means a concept of order + truth + justice, which means, finally, Ma'at). ---------- I don't think my gift of Diana can be separated from the intervention of 3-74; I was under her protection then. So I should not divide it: (1) intervention; 2) gift of Diana. So what I saw in 3-74 was the suspending of natural law in favor of moral law. (14) I am not projecting my concept of justice onto the universe; I derive my concept from the universal moral domain Ma'at in me. ---------- I've got it! 3-74: My (previous) moral action (later) changed the natural order (of reality). This is almost impossible to believe, but it is true; I literally saw it happen: the Hologram was altered; it switched or fluctuated + reformed before my very eyes. Like a sort of correction, a realignment not due to volitional intervention but caused by my previous moral action. This points unerringly to an order of reality which is moral in nature as more real than the hologram, as having power over it. Literally. Cause + effect. A moral act altered the hologram. + in the crucible of that moment the next, higher me was born. ---------- Diana: so I saw Rome. Then can fade it (+ her) in + out. ---------- + the Great Secret is that in achieving inner + outer (i.e. linked you + reality) Ma'at there is a passing over of mechanical reality (fate or astral determinism) to intentional reality (divine providence) which is the Great Mother: hence a (by you) return to paradisical lost state, since Ma'at is female + her cosmic order volitional. (15) No one today (scarcely) knows this secret: 1) the Great Mother ➀ exists; 2) you can be restored to her; 3) how to be restored. This is what happened with me. + if reality turns into her (instead of being fate, chance or a machine) you are home again + safe forever. She is everywhere (ubique) but camouflaged (hidden from your perception). This is the great alienation, the "thrownness" of the Gnostics. To be separated from her. So Diana is not a gift but the Gift i.e. goal - purpose of the journey: to return to her (what I called Zebra, Ubik or VALIS, but which is Ma'at). ➀ But Ma'at is more than a chthonic Great Earth Mother; to conceive of her is to understand everything. Rē created the cosmos + turned it over to her to operate. She is (higher) causal law, a quasi-volitional law: seen as volitional when you are in harmony with her; as blind + mechanical when you are not (upper + lower realms respectively). Now I have solved 3-74; by correctly grasping Ma'at. The BIP could be a view - the correct view - of the lower realm upon one's leaving it (behind). We are here defining Ma'at is 1) mechanical (causal) + non-volitional; + 2) volitional - a "A = Ā" situation where something displays antithetical aspects when experienced from two different "angles" - lower + upper realms, (16) this is perhaps the mystery of mysteries, + hard to understand - this leads me back to the mysterious nature of the Tao. ---------- There is one piece of evidence that "Thomas" was not a human being: he knew that the xerox missive was a trap + he knew what to do about it. This does not quite sound like one human overriding another - Suppose it was a member of the current secret Xtian underground which is tied in with what are called "the fairies" - or suppose it was what we call a fairy - the supernormal life forms able to be invisible + perform "magic." What if - it was their standard code system in "Tears" + one of them had been acting as a control, subliminally, vis-a-vis me, + then overtly took me over? + they move through time as if it's space. So "Thomas" was neither a human nor god, but a superior life form. + "fairies" are a UI life form. ---------- I've studied the last 25 pages. It was Diana herself who took me over in 3-74. She is our queen + protectress. ---------- The duck eyes cap that she wears: to see in the dark depths of the great grottos where they have gone - Venus. ---------- So starting in 2-74 I was turned onto the other reality which early Xtianity (via amounts [of] muscarin) + the Elysian mysteries (LSD) were involved with, with total secrecy. There is another reality; otherwise all the initiates at Elysius wouldn't have seen the same thing. This was deliberately induced in me. I guess it's the "upper realm" in contrast to the lower. + there is a goddess there (as revealed at Elysius). (17) This seems to be a realm of haunting beauty, bells + song + dance, freedom + wisdom + immortality, in contrast to which