I find myself incapable of acquiring, a state I on my own cannot achieve. I cannot persuade myself + I cannot compel myself to believe; unless God compels me I will not believe, + if I do not believe, I am doomed to a certain kind of hell. I know from experience that God can compel that assent, for he did this by a rustle of color in the grass. He can absolutely impinge on me; he can break into my prison-world + destroy it - burst the prison, release me. That my assent might be compelled by perceptual + cognitive occlusion + amnesia does not in folder 90 - 136 G-81 the slightest matter to me because the end justifies the means, since I cannot live at all unless I am taken out of my private prison. That is why I see the issue as one of belief on my part, not on the truth of what I believe. I know now that if there is something that is true I will never on my own know it. Or if I know it I will not believe I know it. Like Victor Kemmings at the end of "Frozen Journey" I may have reached reality + can't believe it. That essential belief lies outside my power. My argument that [I have proof that] God exists is odd. I do not say "I know God exists because I experienced / perceived him in 3-74"; that is dubitable as an argument because my experience may have been an hallucination (I experienced it but it was not real). But I can say "I know that God exists because I believe I experience you above + beyond myself; + I know of no way that I can go beyond Descartes' "cogito ergo sum" by my own power; on my own I cannot add any knowledge to that self-knowledge. Yet I believe I know of your existence, so I conclude that some agency with the power to disclose your existence to me + then to compel my assent to that disclosure exists, + I can only conceive of God as possessing this power, since, pragmatically, this is cosmogenesis, + I define God as 'He who causes to exist what exists.'" (In other words I cannot doubt that I believe, + I know of no way that I can believe on my own power, unaided. Therefore the Cartesian proposition "cogito ergo folder 90 - 137 folder 90 - 137 G-82 sum" is not the limit to what I can be certain of; I can say "I know that I believe, + since I know that I cannot compel into existence my own belief, I conclude that something beyond myself exists {Note1}; therefore I not only know that I exist, I know that something beyond myself exists (by reason of my belief). {Note1} that has compelled this belief. Carrying this further, I find that it is my understanding of the term "God" that causes me to assume that my belief is caused by him (since to me this belief is a form of cosmogenesis, + God alone, by definition, is cosmogenator). (Viz: Pragmatically, my experience of + belief in world equals cosmogenesis, since the concept 'the universe is real' is to me unintelligible, whereas the concept 'the universe seems real to me' is intelligible + a reasonable instance of cosmogenesis. God, then, is cosmogenator when he compels my assent to something beyond myself, for the very reason that on my own I cannot acquire or attain or compel into existence that belief. That I think proves that I exist; that I believe [in something outside + beyond + other than myself] proves God's existence. However, I cannot go from there to proving that world in fact exists; I only know that I believe it exists - + this points not to world but to God. Beyond proof of myself + of God nothing in the way of proof of anything can -I think- be found. folder 90 - 138 folder 90 - 138 G-83 In summation, I say that even if it can be shown that Malebranche is wrong + that a representation of world arises naturally in my mind, without God's activity, I would say that belief in the truth of this representation lies outside my own power; I cannot compel myself to assent to the truth of this representation; yet I find I have this belief. I conclude that I find the representation convincing because God compels my assent. Put another, perhaps ominous + alarming, way, I would say that did God not compel my assent - did he not cause me to perceive this representation as absolutely real, I would on my own see it as a mirage, +, as a result, I would either confront no world, or a mere dream, or an inexplicable world - most likely a dreamlike, inexplicable confusion whose spuriousness would impress me disastrously; that is, I could not survive what I saw. Thus I am totally dependent on God each moment of my life; he is the creator of world, not in the abstract + the general, but for me: + by this, from this + upon this I live. (This is a valid argument - consider the contrary: "I believe in world because I find it convincing." This is naive, tautological, circular. That which is to be proved is in fact presumed. folder 90 - 139 folder 90 - 139 G-84 ___ In reviewing in my mind what I believe to be my highest conception of God, it is his bringing into existence ex nihilo something new that does not follow in terms of cause-+-effect; I mean after the zero or mechanical firing at each forking, when the total system -the reality field- briefly switches off + then on again, to the one stage: this is choice on the part of God, a selection based on wisdom, displaying the power to do it + the motivation (love) but, most of all, this is cosmogenesis itself: the original initial act of creation repeated -reperformed- again + again (thus he more than sustains the universe, he constantly creates, + out of nothing). This is what I speak of when I talk about "pretextual cause" where the "effect" is greater than its putative "cause". God is not the reality field + must not be confused with it, as Spinoza did; but he constantly perturbs it by adding to it what was not there before. Thus he ceaselessly makes new his folder 90 - 140 folder 90 - 140 G-85 creation. As I say circa p G-34 passim in no way can we know him directly, but we can see this perturbation, this coming into existence of the new that points indubitably to him; we see the effects of an invisible cause, one lying outside reality. This vision that in 3-74 that he showed me of what I call the binary switching system (+ all else such as the plasmate) I construe (v. p G-33 passim) to be an image, not God himself, but a rendering of world that would compel my assent, by inference, to his existence (+ to the existence of world conceived under that aspect, that Gestalt or model, that he revealed to me; i.e. it was the world-order as I would best comprehend it: an information-processing binary switching system into which newness (negentropy) is constantly fed from outside reality. Hence I could perceive + understand reality - specifically one that pointed to him as well, him impinging on it in an endless process of folder 90 - 141 G-86 rebirth, re-creation + renewal, all based on selection. As Whitehead put it, "God is a principle of selection promoting the realization of the good in the world-process" thus by the revelation of this model to me he compelled my assent to reality, +, more, by the nature of this model, by inference to him ... since (I am sure) only God can bring something out of nothing, + this is what in the final analysis I saw. It is crucial to this model, this system in which effects exceed their ostensible (pretextual) causes. + that, to me, can point to only one thing. This indeed compels my belief, perhaps because I feel that, with the aid of the AI voice, I understand what I saw. ___ 2-74 confirms Malebranche that we see the "intelligible archetypal ideas"; what I called Acts + the BIP were these ideas (Plato's eide). My meta-abstraction: I realized that in fact I was seeing these timeless ideas + not corporeal world at all. + I saw these ideas as they truly are, in essence, not accidents. So I knew suddenly that I did not see world qua world at all. This is Plato's anamnesis + recovery of the eide, but, even more, it is Malebranche. folder 90 - 142 folder 90 - 142 G-87 We think that this other that we experience is world; actually it is God. What we call "world" are timeless intelligible archetypal ideas of world (eide) in God, experienced through his mind, which is where they are. (Hence the transformation of 2-74.) This is what my meta-abstraction was; if I had indeed experienced world, it could not have undergone those changes (to another time another place.) ___ I have just now understood. In 2-3-74 when I said, "I am no longer blind!" I was seeing everything in the divine light that first Plato + then Augustine talks about: the divine light of God by which + in which [light] all things -i.e. reality / creation- become [truly] visible. (I believe, as I recall, that Plato spoke of the ultimate Form, the Good, as "being like the sun, within whose light all other things can be seen"; St. Augustine picked it up from Plato, + Malebranche from Augustine, as the basis of Malebranche's system: "We see + know all things in God," a quote from St. Paul. Hence I saw reality (not God) transformed. Xtian apocalyptic history, set / ground, the plasmate, Valis, etc. This is why it says in "The First Book of Adam + Eve" that after they left the Garden they lost their bright nature + could see only close things. folder 90 - 143 folder 90 - 143 G-88 In other words, when God is present, things (the corporeal world + its objects + processes) become very clear; but when God withdraws, things + their processes become (to us) very dim, no longer clearly seen. Thus he illuminates reality (1) in terms of our literal perception of it; (2) our understanding of what we perceive. Augustine, p. 201 v. 1 E of Ph. Augustine equated the divine illumination with Plato's anamnesis (latin: memoria). He also identified it with the Logos -word of God- or Christ indwelling (in the person's mind) through which all things -+ especially the Platonic intelligible Forms- were comprehended (perceived) + understood. Understood this way, 2-3-74 is in fact a disclosure (through the return of the divine illumination) of what truly is (esp in terms of the eide) + perhaps by Christ in my mind, teaching + illuminating. Then regarding Adam + Eve, this divine illumination went out or went away; whereupon they could only see things "up close to them." Augustine's formulation of what this divine illumination discloses shows why 2-3-74 was Plato's anamnesis + why specifically I recovered knowledge of the eide (the fact that Augustine associates the divine illumination with Plato's anamnesis folder 90 - 144 folder 90 - 144 G-89 indicates I'm on the right track, because now I can link Malebranche not just to Plato but to Plato's anamnesis, through Augustine! That would indicate that 2-3-74 is not just another possible way of viewing reality: one model out of many. + it would explain specifically how + why I could discriminate the Holy Scripture, the set to ground writing, the plasmate - the "covert" info traffic, e.g. KING FELIX.