world; thus he is forced out of it because he is literally killed; but by then spiritual victory is his. Hence the secret "the victor" He name of the Buddha is he gave up a has made a wise trade: temporary perishable, ephemeral physical body (as sacrifice) in exchange for eternal bliss as a purely spiritual being released from the wheel (as the Buddha expresses it) or return to heaven (Christian view). So the Tagore dream shows my unconscious realization of two things: 1) What I've achieved 2) The cost plus a third 3) + I did this voluntarily, intentionally, knowing all the time - throughout my lifetime - what I was doing: trying to achieve #-1 + being willing to pay #-2, the lost. + both came true; I have achieved it + I have paid the lost. Thus the - in fact Tagore dream reveals two tremendous colossal - insights about my whole life + my fundamental nature: what I have become, how did it, the price I paid, + that I did it knowingly + voluntarily; no one made me do it t chose this read, knowing the price + the goal only now, at the end, do these realizations force their way into consciousness, because now + is over: I have become Tagore; I have been it Thus as in '74 I show - have - awareness of successful. death, but this time it is self approaching caused, even voluntary - + this is in the service of a high ideal (I almost wrote "ordeal") G-79 I cannot then, expect extrication this time. Do I want it? I will not sur‐ vender or debase Tagore, so it follows that my protest - + this is what is called "a protest" as in protest march or fast - will continue, unless the crimes themselves cease. I guess you could say that I have. Messiah complex, + because of this am led ineluctably to voluntary crucifixion. To what? Achieve what? Protest the sins of the world. As I say supra: not to be saved - I am saved - but to save. + to perfect myself (vide supra). The drive toward the spiritual is So strong in me now that I would give up my life in pursuit of it: for I have experienced the spiritual domain + know its joys. This is not anhedonia or masochism; the joys of the spiritual domain - to draw near to Krishna - is beyond all that this world is or has s I realized tonight; the ecosphere is my body: "the indivisible unity" is my total psychosomatic (mind-body) being. Animals + all o + the less (sic) than human life are my body; humans poisoning the ecosphere - this is my mind ("mind" - "human species") poisoning my body by not recognizing that it must live in harmony with it, that they are parts of one indivisible whole. "If the ecosphere dies" means "If my body dies" - "then we [humans) die; my am using up my body + in mind dies. I fact poisoning it. The dream says, "it is indivisible, mind + body." But the dream say more; there is an effore to transcend the body that although this breaks the unity C-80 leads to a separation of the spiritua from its earthly prison ("we are now dead + in a kind of prison"); + this spiritual being is Tagore. The mixture of Light + dark has ended in me individual eschatology; this only happen at the end of time: up until then the two elements in us are hopelessly mingled I (Zoroastrian?); the whole Gnostic purpose is to unscramble the spiritual (pneuma?) back out - the fallen divine spark imprisoned here in this prison (v. Hans Jonas' article on Gnosticism). (+: "One by one he draws us out of the world.") Once the pneuma has been unscrambled back out, it can ascend This whole process is set off by anamnesis The pneuma remembers itself + says "Anotthe--" + thus separation begins. This is for Orphism the winning out of the Dianysiac nature over the titanic My 9-81 vision is Gnostic: the sparks are located, separated; they with. draw from the world - this is Tagore withdrawing - + then the world is left Tagore symbolizes the Gnostic spark. t die reread Hans Jonas' article on Gnosticism. indubitably (1) the Tagore dream cunningly expresses primary Gnostic views: the pneuma poisoned here in this world by "toxic wastes" reluctantly withdraws; viz: the toxified ecosphere is an idiom for the condition of the pneuma involved th G-81 world; "toxified ecosphere." Then, is cypher conveying the basic condition of pneumatic man (the pneuma) exiled + imprisoned here; but it has remembered its transmundane identity this remembering (avanucous) being a separating, an unmixing in which Tagore comes into existence as an independent entity, salvator salvandus, now (being unmingled) able to leave the world. "Tagore," then, is cypher for pneuma. Because of the poisoning it cannot stay; this expresses perfectly the Gnostic perception of (1) the pneuma (Tagore); (2) its condition here in world (poisoned, insured, wounded, burned, toxified, that is, forced to live in a poisonous environment that is killing it) + (3) that because of #-2, it (Tagore, the pneuma) must regretfully + lovingly ascend (back to the transmundane pleroma, its source + home), leaving the world behind it: with the pneuma (Tagore) gone, world dies: it has by its very nature forced the pneuma to leave, to ascend. Thus the antithetical relationship between pneuma (Tagore) + world is expressed in metaphor the nature of both expressed: why they are incompatible (world burns the pneuma + hence drives it away). So underneath the exoteric soteriology of the dream more or less Xtian is another esoteric Gnostic soteriology: the nature of pneuma (Tagore), the nature of world (the toxified ecosphere) + their incompatibility to the consequences of this dualism both pneuma (Tagore) + world (toxified eco sphere). Francie steiger, by making me aware that I am Tagore (pneuma) am being killed by world + finally will be i C-82 forced to withdraw, whether I want to or not (due to the injuries inflicted on me but the nature of the situation the antithetical dualism of Tagore - toxified ecosphere, + note: the prognosist the situation worsens! My "self-denial" is the Gnostic meta‐ physical strike. Within this context my 3 years of exegesis can be seen as a deliberate effort to unmix + extricate my have spiritual self or pneuma (Tagore), + I been successful. It has been in this last year that I have succeeded in my exegesis: + very much in Platonist - hence Orphic- terms. simply have not been able to pin down my source for my mixture-unmixing theme; is it orphic, grastic, Zoroastrian, other? It has, certainly, its highest expression in Gnosticism in the awakening + then this fits in with freeing of the pneuma. + my 3-18-81 dream about the notices going out to the "real Xtians" to block them from doing evil but underneath the content of my ideas the value to me of ideas themselves, of is the search (an Orphic idea) + the enjoyment of ideas with emphasis on the abstract the enjoyment of using the abstracting faculty itself... which is where I wrote (ureka. But it is not the intellect that characterizes Tagore; he is far beyond that nor is it love nor beauty, although both are there. It is sweetness, an ineffable C-83 sweetness related to love, related to beauty, but perhaps more to perfume, music + colors, as I say in my letter. This is a spirituality that cannot otherwise be categorized + it is This that tells me that his spirituality is absolute, for it transcends love + beauty, the two ultimate ontological categories of God; This is not God: this is a man, a given individual man: this is not a deity cal though he is also - but secondarily - deity) This is the perfection of a man such as we are; this is not the "wholly other" toward which one moves in delight + rapture: this is he - as man - who moves toward the wholly - this is what we as humans can other become at best, the transfiguration of the natural to its ultimate without ceasing to be natural, a created thing, not creator. This is not Valis; this is that which Valis as deity - principle of creative power creates + brings to perfection. Tagore is the result of deity, not deity itself, not God but response to God; thus he is Jesus or Gautama: man made complete. He is the handiwork of deity (Valis as driver). He does not make; he is made. He does not create; He he understands that which deity creates. not that is result, not cause; perfection, which brings to perfection. He is the crown of creation but no more. That a finite could reach this thing ("particular") state of perfection is the goal + the accomplishment - the very purpose itself. of the universe existing C-84 Tagore is not God but what God makes man into when man is perfected He is the result of two billion years of evolution + he is absolute; he is omega + human; he can work no miracles; he is not omniscient nor omnipotent nor ubiquitous. He is the ultimate given, what God wishes of us This (I say) I saw the Buddha, + that answers that; the new savior The Buddha; hence his compassion (for all life, expressed as the ecosphere) I know this. This is no theoretical system; this is Tagore, the new incarna of the Buddha. He teaches one thing: The sparing of pain, +, if necessary. withdrawal - ascent - from the world, but only after one as Buddha has done all one can: + this is finite, for this is not the creator (there may be no creator, just as Gautama taught; we don't know). only the Buddha would recognize his limitations to teach us, +, if he cannot, he will leave. This is not God, not even Christ; this is the perfection of the finite: the perfect man, but man not God; he does not know everything nor can he accomplish everything. He wishes to teach us, but he can't compel us to do right (God could, but we have no proof that God exists. Tagore exists; I know it I saw him). C-85 Thus I come to a great new moksa: Tagore is human, a perfected finite human; he is the Buddha + he is the a now savior (Entm") + he is real + I saw him + heard his doctrine which is a finite doctrine + specifically the wisdom we need. + the rest - all of it e.g. 3-74 - is secondary to this finite perfected man. I said it sometime back in these notes. Who + what is Tagore? He is Tagore (a particular, not [a] God). But I know now: he is either Buddha, the Buddha or a Buddha (awakened or enlightened ones, + this is very seriously considered in "Valis as one of the possibilities; e.g. "the Buddha is in the Park." This is not mysticism or metaphysics or theology or I philosophy; those have come to me + enjoyed them, but they pass away + Tagore remains. + his concern is for life, the ecosphere, not a concern for speculations compassion, the way of + flights of fancy. Buddha. The nobelest way of all. rejoice! Everything so far has been a head-trip, a system of thought, ideas, abstractions, speculations, beliefs. But Tagore is a man, a real + actual man. Even (which I doubt) of he is me, why, he is still a man, for I am a man. + my proof of this is the practicality the infinite serves the of his teachings. finite when the finite is perfected; Tagore He is Nirvana to help us. turned