crucified Christ. folder 55 - 027 folder 55 - 027 L-26 He was the paschal lamb offered, to avert the angel of Death: Passover re-enacted, to save my physical life. So this, too, in addition to my spiritual salvation was involved. “The good shepherd lays down his life for his sheep.” I just had a revelation (4:00 a.m.). The old usurper King [a reni] has cast a spell upn the land that serves to hide from the people the real (true) situation: that he is not the rightful king; that they are in a prison folder 55 - 028 folder 55 - 028 L-27 ideally, the young stranger (sic! "The Bacchae") will destroy + depose the old pretender (usurper), but on the other hand he may not may himself be murdered. Or they may both die. what is important is: a vast deception is pointed to by the arrival in the Kingdom (from a point outside) by the your man, + everything else is subor dinate to this fact; his arrival is indication of this fraud, this spurious reality, this spell. Thus his very presence is indicative of a vast mystery + deception that be knows of + that the old usurper knows of. But which no one else knows of. This shows up most clearly in the debate between Jesus + pulate as to the issue of whether Jesus is a king + where his Kingdom is, the fact is, both polate + Jesus know the true situation, but neither allides to it openly. Clearly, this is a story long predating the Gospels. What is (as I say ultra super) is that in fact the mad young fool holds the true power, is the secretly rules (i.e. makes true king + Acts as judge) beneath the the laws + Dokos, the seeming. This is the ulti mate revelation: he is the true king, the old man on the throne is only seemingly a king + in fact has no true authority or power at all folder 55 - 029 folder 55 - 029 1-28 in essence, a ritual drama is being enacted in the encounter between these two men - for the edification of the unlockers, who, in seeing this drama will either guess right (which equals remem‐ ber) or fail to understand (i.e. con‐ tinue to believe what they see). If an ontoker guesses the truth - i.e. suddenly grasps what the ritual encounter-dialog signifies - he instantly (upon understanding) remembers the true situation + no longer believes what his senses tell him - that is, the spell under which he has lain is summarily banished. He knows that the young stranger is the true king, + the true Kingdom there are is that of the young man. (to use my terms) two coaxial realms, sharing one space-time but one realm - or Kingdom - (which is ostensible) is irreal; + the other How they (which is hidden) is real. don't know. How this can coexist I situation arose in the first place I but the ritual drama don't know. of the encounter is enacted for the purpose of causing the onlockers to remember, by guessing the truth. This of course is not the old usurper's purpose, but on folder 55 - 030 folder 55 - 030 Leg is the purpose young man. the arrival of the viewed this way my 2-74 meta-abstraction was my guessing the truth, solving the riddle, remembering (anamnesis). it posits (as I say) two Kingdoms coaxial in space-time. I get the impressian that the actual reality is one in which a court sits in judgment - not on the two Kings but on the onlookers. Thus the are two audiences to the ritual drama: the populace enslaved + forgetful, + the invisible court which -presumably - is presided over by God himself. Those who upon watching understand + remember hence awaken + are rewarded with what we call salvation. those who do not are doomed t to continue on as they have been. This reminds me of the celtic legend of the procession in which the Holy Grail is carried) again, one upon seeing this must guess the riddle - i.e. what it means. magic, delusion, a spell - all this is involved in both instances. Thus (1 say) 2-3-74 had to do with Xtian magic. as when the Greek tect as turned into a halm tree. wn are dealing with the supernatural or with technolo folder 55 - 031 1-30 I sense that there is some relation. ship between the old usurper + the procession of Empires; between the young man + fairy (Celtic) magic, +, in realizing this, I am most terribly, astonishingly close to the ultimate truth. They can make you see what they want you to see - that is, they can delude you. But they can also reward you by waking you up. this is connected with runes - i.e. the plasmate: living information. Jason Taverner cannot prove his claim that he is actually a very famous person. Jesus cannot prove his claime that he is the rightful king - likewise nor can Hamlet verify even to + for himself his contention. In "Tears" there exists some kind of paralled worlds - coaxial realities, + Jason has passed over from one to the other. This is how I deal with the two coaxial space-time-sharing realms when I read like that night I realized Jesus was a great Magician. Performing Acts of "white" magic - a wizard, as meationed in the dream in "Valis." the value-signs shift - reverse - + his Kingdom + kingship is available: here + now just as Jason moves laterally, as it were, between differing coaxial worlds (viz: in the two worlds his statut is at mirror-opposites with itself: famous, unknown; likewise with Jesus it is madman-fool, king). in the 1800 reverse sign-value coaxial folder 55 - 032 folder 55 - 032 2-31 Kingdom, God rules. The laws there are quite different from the laws here that other, hidden Kingdom is what Jesus referred to as "the Kingdom of God" + there he is king, just as "There" in the other (i.e. coaxial) world Jason is a famous, rich + powerful mans I have solved the riddle. It is put forth (but not for the first time!) in "Tears." in a very real way "DI" deals with this: Zina's realm which is somehow here. With different laws - her laws + she is God. Entry into the Kingdom is associated with the "sheep-goats" division which in turn is eschatological judgment, with Jesus Christ as the judge; he both opens the gate + bars (closes) the gate. must never lose sight of this: the I explanation for 2-3-74 is in "Tears" beyond doubt. the young (rightful) king speaks in riddles (parables) cryptically about his Kingdom: what it is like + where it is "set" vs "ground" now become intelligible as two information systems + two differing systems of laws that are the structures of two realms blended - for us - into a single world. Physical objects, Acts, events processes serve dual functions in that each exists simultaneously in both realms - but possessing different value (significance) in each last realm, this is what my explication had to if the 2-74 meta-abstraction February This is the do with: one object seen twice. folder 55 - 033 folder 55 - 033 1-32 core realization: somehow one + the same object "occurs" twice + yet (paradoxically remains unitary (this is what caused me to conceive of Plato's Forms as the solution; but, think now, this is I each not quite the case. What I the case is that object, act, event or process occurs in each coaxial realm - thus it occurs twice - + yet both realms are - as have been phrasing it - working off one common - shared - matrix, in which case to speak of it occurring twice is correct + to speak of it being unitary is also + equally correct. Assuming two + only two coaxial realms, each object, act, event + process possesses two quite differing - if not indeed opposite-value-signs. This in turn feeds into two opposed systems of laws + information which is to say, two differing or even mutually opposed structures - coherent structures. what this seems to lead to is the realization that a given ethical act (I believe that ethical or moral Acts are the crucial ones) may truly signity little or nothing in one coaxial realm but, contrarily, be highly "efficient" in the other in terms of the motive force it exerts (to use the language of physics). Now, in this case it is very possible that we here in the ostensible realm have no conception whatsoever of the "efficience" of moral/ethical acts in terms or what I guess I've got to call karma - for want of another word, since the transformations may keep an acausal parallel discrete separation so that the coherency of each domain does not pervade what is suggested the coherency of the other. here is that the "next world" may not be "next" at all in terms of folder 55 - 034 folder 55 - 034 G-33 temporal sequence, but, rathers run equal + parallel simultaneous in space-time with a cross over system that is so intricate that it can only be desireated by such terms as pronoia + justification that is if the other equal + etc - opposite realm (the hidden one) intrudes into this one, it carries the aspect + semblance - even force - of an uncanny "one-way intrusion," as if suspending or nullifying or overriding the laws that obtain here... but in fact this is one lawful coherent system impinging on the other, setting up a perturbation on the latter that amounts to a mingling of the two systems, like the combining of two signals formerly discrete + intact. What would seem to have rushed in is the super‐ natural, but in fact it is simply another different lawful system up until this moment unsuspected. Now I realize that I have led up + complete + total explanation of to a Thomas + why - as I say in "Valis" reincarnation is not - cannot be - involved. ("My body is either in two places it once or nowhere at all"): Thomas is tracking the 1800 opposite coaxial realm, + in no sense is this anywhere else in space-time but here + now. Thomas - his intrusion into my mind - is the inner analog of the intrusion of his world into my world, but (as I say) This is two coaxial worlds existing at the same place + the same time. Thus Thomas verifies the veracity of this entire line of thought; he would have to exist folder 55 - 035 folder 55 - 035 L-34 if this line of thought were correct + he would have to invade my mind when the "Acts" world invaded my world as a Thomas is no longe "second signal". a problem to be explained: he amounts to varification of a whole system of hypothesizing. "Tears" is an example of how one object can lead a dual existence, i.e. in both of the coaxial worlds. What I saw in 3-74 in "Tears (the stegenographia removed) is how it looks in the other realm; it tells another story, there. Also the way the animals were, as it able to speak; + arranged as in a nativity scene but there may not be "secret real Xtians" in this realm; like Thomas, they may be tracking the other realm. then - + here the realization finally stegenographic the dawns story in "Tears" was not meant for anyone in this [coaxial] world, any more than it was written by anyone (i.e. by me) in this world. So the explanation of who it was aimed for explains how it got there; Thomas wrote it + it is read in that realm