shows that it isn't USA 1974 or Acts AD 70 either one. The forms are eternal: outside of time (a major feature of them, if not a definition of them!) This is why anamnesis is necessary for recovery of the Forms; the opportunity to super impose 2 fields occurs. Oot another way, this is why anamnesis does yield recovery of the eide. #140 So by the sly introjection of the adventitiou psyche, Christ breaks the power of substantial spatiotemporal (+ causal) world over you; when this occurs your own reasoning -abstractingfaculty will make the leak, perform the mental operation necessary - do it on its own, given the data (viz: two differing fields based on one world but with certain abstract elements common; the normal human brain can under those conditions abstract to the proper conclusion + reach Eckhart's stage #4. But it mus have the Data. The Data come first, + only 2 psyches, + the comparison + contrast Thus between their perceptions yields this eata. Dianthropos is by necessity Ditheon! Anamnesis is merely a means to the higher goal of deification due to the higher faculties of the soul coming into use. Cognition has been dormant because of insufficient perceptual (empirical) info; it "There is only in the mind what first is as if was in the senses" is true. As remarkable as they are anamnesis is, + as 2 yoked psyches are, only means to a goal + act the goal itself the goal is #4 + #5 (glimpse of the mind that contains the pre-existent forms). One does not just see world abstractly, as it, is; on. sees through/past world to creator, N + it seem to me that God holds Logos in his mind as his sole + total utterance ( Vollendet. I can say not only that I saw the creator I can say how So (A8) know the purpose of "Baptism in the I spirit," what it does: it restores man to direct experience of God by rendering world abstract +, at last, out of the way, from between man + God. the (Charit) does this o lo K141 This is the Messianic mission, + it employs a technique for bringing on the higher unused cognitive faculties of the mind by feeding it the data it needs. (for the meta-abstraction.) A duplex view of world (temporal parallaxis) reveals that as a substantial thing it is not real; it is a complex structure of abstract ideas in a mind. the complex structure is Logos; the mind is God's intellect, Hagia Sophia. Which, after all, the AI voice did mention (+ first + foremost). Summation: what in "Valis" I say I saw (universe as info, the Logos, AD 70, another psyche in my mind from the past, supra-temporal constants, etc) is all correct; but now I know how I saw all this: the mechanism o All I could put forth in "Valis" was that it was revelation, charis + theophany, + pronoia. Now I know: if the human mind can be yoked to another human mind at another lace + time, it will cognitively "see" that world is not substantially real; a purely abstract structure in a mind in real, this structure is a thought (as I say in Valis") of this mind (God). in Eckhart's stage #4 of the soul's operation is an implicit presentation that what we take to be substantial world is in fact a structure of integrated ideas in a [i.e. God's] mind, therefore a complex thought or system of thoughts creation (world) as we know t empirically is not (as such) there, + we K142 possess the cognitive figure this out ("meta-abstraction faculties to if given the information + formati(Data) is what "Gnosis refers to. this in This is not really acosmism but radical idealism, related to Platonist metaphysics. the Gnosis causes us to see the info in a sense is not "in" the Gnosis Ge.g verbally) but what the Gnosis permits our cognition to do as an abstracting c higher) operation. This Gnosticism is not a dualistic Gnosticism but a monotheism + in fact a monism. give me (i.e. my mind) the Data (i.e. the Gnosis) it needs + it will itself perform the meta-abstraction that will roll world back up through the hierarchy of ontology to pre-existent forms in God's intellect (i.e. St. Sophia, Christ,, the Logos; wide Philo) I just now read the whole E of Ph article on Philo. His philosophy underlay Judaism, Xtianity + islam, + obtained until Spinoza at which point it was overthrown "by Spinoza of properly understood." I was brought up in the Spinoza, post-Philo worldview. 2-3-74 tells me, very suddenly, that Philo was correct the 17thcentury (Spinoza) on is not. Imagine my surprise. "Valis" reflects this discovery. I in talking about Philo is all details like in that bogart film: "I was misinformed." the fact of the matter is, Philo gives an ccount of my 2-3-74 experience, ty (143 it to Plato's anamnesis, calling it ie "prophetic" -i.e. divine- knowledge given directly by God + causing a sudden + simultaneous knowledge of God's existence (in contrast to long slow, step-by-step, labored ratiocication). before creation, the world pre-existed as ideas (forms) in God's mind (Logos), in an "intelligible world" (a new idea in Greek philosophy, up to then the forms were a loose aggregate) + then at the time (sic) of creation, God turned the ideas/forms into real things. Following Echhart, I saw (stage 4 of the soul's level of activity) the "world in total abstraction as it pre-existed as forms/ideas in God's intellect" according to Philo the Logos itself has these two "levels" of existences originally in God's mind + then as a real thing; which I envision as God uttering it as the word. Philo was the first thinken to apply pronoia to individuals, + with God overruling natural law if natural law would injure that individual - i.e. miracle i.e. 2-3-74 agains Philo was the first to teach the causality/determinism) fate can be broken by God giving a person the power of absolute free-will to act against his -the person's- own nature! Thus God by a divine act can cause a man to cease to be what I call "a machine" on the face of it, belief in Philo's K144 system seems reactionary, because it rouls back the Western worldview i.e. Pre-Spinoza. But look: the ancient world before Philo, believed in reality (world nature, the cosmos) as an inexorable machine (astral determinism, sublunge influences, fate); Philo introduced the Jewish idea of God's sovereign power to intercede in this mechanism + break it (inco granting absolute freewill to individuals). Perhaps one can say that Spinoza re-introduced in the 17th century the pre-Philo machine world lacking God's sovereign interventive power (pronoia + miracle). Thus our modern worldview is really the ancient Pre-Philo worldview (of say the stoics, i.e. the Romans as well as Greeks) revived, + hence it is reactionary + reduces man to a machine within a macro-machine. Philo introduced YHWH Western civilization, Spinoza threw to YHwH back out, + we all follow Spinoza He added pistis +, under Justice, Mercy or "alms, giving help to those in need of these It under the title "humanity" are not listed prior to Philo by any philosopher (he also added repentance). system stood for 1500 years this the vista presented is too vast for 145 me to mentally encompass also it was a new idea with him that we can know of God's existence but not his essence). But what occurs to me is that the dialectic in history (western history) is A-B-A with "A" being Greco-homan + coming first; then "B? which is Philo Harmonizing Greco-Roman philosophy so that it conforms to Hebrew scripture - + this underlay Judgism Xtianity + is lam + then "A" comes back as modern rational enlighten ment (in Spinoza's time), + this "A" is the BIP, the Empire vs Xtianity (with Judaism hereon not seen as antithetical to Xtianity as Poul sees it -i.e. the Torah- but both pitted against the Empire. This is the broadest historical sweep of welt sicht Western thought I have ever conceived of or comprehended. + "Valis" is the return of "B"- of YHWH. Of philo‐ the whole Valis trilogy is, + my own experience is the basis for it o I have read the EB macro article on Philo. What I call the MMSK is the Logos: viz: the intelligible world were the deas (Forms) are; the Idea of the ideas all the Ideas (God's intellect) conceptual + abstract G-146 Then if the Logos is "the idea of Deas" (Form of Forms) my 2-74 anam‐ vesis wasrecovery (recollection) of the eide essentially figured in + as the Logos, the stage #4 of the soul of which Eckhart speaks, the Logos (according to Philo) being the intelligible world or nous where the Forms are - + are structured by this Logos, rather than (as had been taught previous to Philo) a mere aggregate. t I can show that Eckhart's stage #4 is higher + a rational faculty + that it a depends on data received through anamnesis, But I can't figure out how + why anamnesis occurs, unless it is through the "Ditheon" event - but what set that off is obscured to me, unless it is the bicameral brain Plato's "prenatal life in the pleroma" does not seem necessary, only the temporal parallaxis Is it possible that I am right supra when I say that a discorporate information life form yokes two human psyches together to form a meta-entity? It is its own creator; that is, it is self-creating (a higher level of homeo stasis). One theory I tried out is Sankara's unitary self - which at once led me to concuude that when I saw Valis I saw Brahman K147 I can only account for anamnesis by assuming that Sankara is right: Below the plurality of ephemeral egos (selves) lies one ubiquitous unitary self, the Atman. It is pure consciousness & my verification of this is four-fold 1) I saw Valis externally which I now take to be Brahman, i.e. macro-unity as analog of inner self-unity 2) The irreality of what we take to be plural spatiotemporal sets 3) the ubiquitous inner self (Ātman) is the outer unity (Brahman). 4) World is actually an abstraction + not substantial (the concept of Maya) now for my pay-off: Valis externally (Brahman) is pure consciousness When all this is realized, the hold of Karma is broken. I felt it break. K149 Nope; I'm sorry; I must find for Philo's explanation of anamnesis. My reason. the AI voice speaking of St. Sophia. It is saw Eckharts logos 4th stage: the world as total abstraction as it pre-exists as form's in God's intellect, this intellect being the Logos. After all, my perception of the constants were Judo-Xtian apocalyptic. + the words I hear are Greek, always Greek. The 2nd psyche is adventitious dream The Ditheon t + is the Holy Spirit. referred to bill + tim; this is enthustasmos. guess the resolution between Philo + t Sankara would be Eckharts stage four of the soul in which world is seen totally abstractly as pre-existent forms in God's intellect (+ this links up with Sankara, as rudolf otto pointed out). but I emphasize that I construe what I saw was the Logos My God, I am totally fucked up; I saw the footage from "Blade Runner" tonight + the sufi‐ Dante 3-realm theory is correct: when I saw the BIPI Al was remembering hell; I was not in hell; I was remembering having been, but was now in Purgatorio. The karmic fetters t f elt loosen were punishment (thrall) fetters; + experienced time flowing backward: that was Purgatorio. then I ascended to Paradiso + reard the bells. + saw God (Valis). It was my act vis-a-vis Covenant House. In interno time doesn't move at all, as with dris; she K150 relive. the same day