humans are - well, epiphenomenal Foct, I guess; it is the vast binary info processing, world-generating system lying (1) in us + (2) behind world (atman-Brahman; it has a dual existence, since it both underlies world as unitary info-processor + is in us as the Kantian structuring mechanism that supplies time, space + causation). A complex system is involved: the true macro-brain - or brains! that generate the thoughts; the construct or transducer that converts these thoughts into is simultaneously) both in us + world - this external to us (exactly as I experienced (3546 Valis: in me + outside me - this is a unified system (observer participant: "a vast deranged brain that both makes + perceives reality!) + then we recipients/percipients who are whittled-down - i.e. occluded + forgetful - micro-foci of quasi-consciousnesss far short of the "anokhi." of the original brain brains that think/thought the pro‐ gramming thoughts for the purpose of gene‐ rating the basis for world but in "Valis" I reasoned (based on what I experienced in 2-3-74) all the way back from world to info to thoughts to brain; I just didn't see the loop effect: we as percipients are subportions of the cosmogenic macro-brain/brains. (Although apparently I implied it; vide the analog review of "Valis "). in fact, it would appear that the "is minute reminder - sensory deprivation solution dream (oh God; that dream showed how it works: the harder we scrutinize reality (to see if it's real) the more real we make it; to perceive it is to create it! Here is a loop indeed!) + this "the Girl recognizing the info as her own prior thought" (thought, not memory; memory of thought, of having thought it qua thought not lived it as world) both verify "Valis + point to "Ubik" + "Maze" especially. Valis is the overall info-processing binary + switching mechanism that processes the info the thoughts - + maybe thinks the thoughts + hence would be the only real mind (Brahman) which of o we are "cells" (atman). So in this "Girl" dream I groan with dismay 93544 because I realize the implications: we are cosmocrators, but this is bad, not good s we're in a "maze of death" situation indeed; we didn't want to know the truth we have no authentic the truth is a bummer! world; it's just our own [prior] thoughts which were deliberately thought for this purpose: + there: a program a world for us. to bunch of us in this together. Then we our selves are our own savior (salvator salvandus for sure!). We programmed a retter to show up at crucial times + places - exactly as in "Maze" I not write recently (while ripped) that did I the truth wasn't in "Valis" + the truth in the 10 volume meta novel; "Valis" wasn't is the code book to the 10 volume meta‐ novel + says (1) that it's true; + (2) in what way; that is, out of the plural variations on the basic story one - by the aid of "Valis" - can discern which thread is veridical. Bummer indeed It is "Maze" more than "Ubik." + of course this explains what the Torah is: it is computer programmed information sent to us to edify us; it is all that the Jewish mystical tradition claims for it (as put forth in "Divine invasion"). Valis could be the original brain (in which case its a binary computer) or a binary computer employed by a group of brains (who themselves may not be artificial). So no wonder I call Ruah the "AI" voice! I remember: one of the people in our group was victoria principal. Which clearly signifies: we are actors in a synthetic drama along 43546 points to an "all the world's a stage, the men + women merely players" basis for our lives, which in turn points to Sturgeon's theory that we entered this drama volun t tarily + voluntarily assumed our roles (but having done so arranged deliberately to forget that they are [only] assumed shit roles in a fictitious drama!). the first quote from the tractite put th in "Valis" is the essence of it: (P.15!" for "thoughts of the brain are experienced by us as arrangements + rearrangements t change - in a physical universe; but in fact it is really information + info processing which we substantialize, a all that is needed is to perform the "tat tvam asi" equation + remember that we ourselves thought these thoughts. Well, the reader who reads "Maze" or "Ubik" can fill in the gaps; or really any substantial constituent of the 10 volume meta novel (as I realized, this is how the wise horn plays its cards: not in sequence. First "Maze" + "Joint" + "Ubik" etc. + they "Valis" so the corpus of info is already in my readers before they read "Valis"! The con‐ clusions appear first - the co volume meta noved. then the premise - "Valis." Shit. The wise + horn wins again. Here's the name of its game: wachet auf! but the Girl in the dream was right. To recognize the info basis of world as your own (prior] thought - although [Note the summit of Tibetian Buddhist enlightenment is really a bummer. ➀ discovering this is actually 354F So reality is a unitary field, all right, & is based on info. Living info (though is all living info, precisely! and could define thoughts this way!) & it's all one vast binary computer acting on instructions from what seems to be a group of living brines combined, as in "Maze." {Diagram: Source, Binary computer (Valis), world, us} or other {Diagaram: 1 Source, 2 thoughts, 3 Binary computer (Valis), 4 World, 5 us} With 5 considered as 1 self-occluding & delibarately forgetful, but with fail- safe safety features built into the system. I was going to write, "It's all there in 'Valis' except for the last bit: that stage 5 (us) is also stage 1, the source." But in a way even that is in "Valis" on page 100: "We are not individuals. We are stations in a single mind." If for "mind" you read "Brain" as on [p. 15, you have the sequence completed, which is to say, I didn't follow my own logic even upon having the "15 minute tape reminder" dream - & writing "Maze" - until the "girl" dream last night. The people respond in chagrin, "Shit - we're making this all up [this whole world & our drama & roles in the drama] ourselves." K354G So being aware that we are cosmocrators is not ego-inflating. But egodeflating; it's all illusion (maya!). Inner illusion, outer illusion, a conjuror's conjo trick. We have our tail bones plugged into our assholes: nothing new can come into the system: it is not negentropic after all. (1) What about the MMSK? Well, that is world as it really is: stored conceptually - as memory - in Valis' mind. (1) This is the burden of the bummer element: if our own [prior] thoughts program our world & drama, & we remember it, the game is over. It's an awakening, all right, but not a happy one - unless our lives here in this fake world, in this synthetic drama, are distressing. But since we chose it & programmed it, presumably by definition we got more out of forgetting, out of playing our roles, than by remembering & abolishing the game! If we are in thrall it is to ourselves. Big deal. & it was intentional. The whole soteriological drama is illusory: to keep us amused. Homo ludens. Sensory stimulation to keep us sane & maybe (as is alluded to in "Valis") we are not sane any longer. This all makes ontology a mockery. acosmism rules. -- Could 2-3-74 be boiled down to: if you wrote your own script you can change your own script; you are the scriptwriter (if your world & 354H your life are based on thoughts you deliberately programmed in). The AI voice, then, is from outside the drama, outside the program (hence it knows the future). A part of you - if it remembers, & I did remember in 2-74 - knows what is coming because you set it up; thus you can amend your own "tape" with a little help from the AI voice & its non- forgetful knowledge. (This is what I have envisioned as seizing the "Book of the Spinners," the Book of Fate, & reading what your fate is & thus avoiding it.) (Also, as if you had opened up your DNA to reprogram it, esp. the death strip.) Anamnesis, then, is everything; & the meta-abstraction is a seeing "through" world, so-to-speak. Anamnesis is in itself escape per se from the script; all else is inexorably set in motion by it. Likewise, without it you are doomed to live out the script, taking world to be real. Then my sense in 3-74 of the release of the deterministic bonds - karmic control - has to do with the abolition of preprogramming & is allied to the synchronized inner-outer tape. The expansion of my mind to become 354i Valis is, perhaps, a restoration to the original mind, the actual mind, not whittled down or occluded, which programmed the system; thus I am - we are - Valis; hence anamnesis set it off: it is "anokhi --" & it includes both the inner & outer (as in atman-brahman). It is the total system, hence it could see set-ground, the info, rest-motion, linking-relinking, the MMSK. -- The Dialectic (that I experienced in me when I experienced Valis' mind) is the interaction between the two psyches of Ditheon: the wise horn is psyche B; the stupider but more powerful one is psyche A; they act in a push-pull unitary closed system; hence what I experienced as Valis was Ditheon which purely knows. It does not think in words because only psyche B (the left hemisphere psyche) possesses language skills; but it can know without verbal ratiocination (as e.g. the meta-abstraction). This left-right-left-right is what caused it to seem to me like (or to be) a binary computer. Only half - psyche B - is what I call human. Psyche A is machine (pre-human) & the totality - Ditheon or type C - is post human or God-like. As a totality it says "anokhi --": "I --" which is absolute consciousness. Because of its intrinsic Dialectic it evolves (hence recombinant info is produced by it, always exceeding itself, suprassing itself, each stage building 354J on the totality of the previous stages (the MMSK); hence this is a truly Faustian mental entity. Contrast this with the utter rigidity of psyche A in which time is non-cumulative (cyclic) & even with psyche B (where time is linear - i.e. cumulative - but lacks the dialectic to drive it on in the manner expemplified in Beethoven's music in which each new composition suprasses & subsumes all - the totality of - the previous compositions; this is internal evolution. & its time is a new kind of time, to linear time as linear time is to cyclic time. I call it "synchronous" time since it is acausal.) (Viz: the future stage determines the past, not vice versa; it may even be a sort of retrograde or teleological time.) Thus Ditheon itself imposes itself onto the B psyche rather than evolving out of it, from it, as if flowing into it to use it for its own purposes. For the type A psyche the past rules. For type B the present. For type C, Ditheon, the future rules & tugs the present as a perturbation of the reality field. So rather than evolution there is an igniting or catalytic effect, as if it is triggered off from latency to active mode. Though there is bilateral hemispheric parity, psyche B (the wise horn) is smarter than psych A (the stupider horn). Nonetheless both are equally essential to the total