cycle faster + faster (runaway). The result? the programming reached its limit, the programmed part reached its limit - i.e. the total circuit reached its limit: reality became visible as information which apparently it is). My mind had evolved to its limit, as if exhausting time. What set this off was the recognition experience that I call the "not 2 mothers but one mother twice" meta-abstraction. At its limit the system had complete control over its own programming (the DNA?) E 45 that is it programmed itself by programming its programming Thus it had power to generate its own reality (the other) out of itself; in terms of Cartesian representationalism the representation was not supplied (Fees to it as a brute given but was its own creation; thus the circuit (my mind) became Pantocrator, not psychotically but truly. This it became this what I call Valis or God that it God took the form (bild) (my mind) best -ideally - conceived (knew as self-knowledge, drawn from itself: its intrinsic a priori knowledge - archetype - of Christ. what I experienced as Valis in me + outside me was Christ as my mind ultimately conceiver of him: I created him + fed him to myself as the summum Bonum, the archetype of archetypes that I found in myself; therefore Valis (Christ) was my own self (mind) fed back to me in + as its (my mind's) absolute + ideal + ultimate form or ontological stage: the out come of its own self-generated spiritual evolution, as if over E-16 thousands of years. I am, then, Valis, but it is me expressed in terms not of what I was in 2-74 but what I could finally evolve into after centuries or even milennia. it was absolute self (Sein) sua generis, perfected: the goal not even of ontogenic evolution but phylogenic evolution: the outcome of the human species because I assumed control of my c own DNA, "I" signifies ontogeny; "DNA" signifies phylogeny. the a ontogenic self, normally programmed by the phylogeny, the DNA, reversed the situation + programmed the programmer, hence it contogeny. myself) was its own creator shaping itself into its ideal image: a totally homeostatic - hence ultimate - entity all the written pages seen + the words heard stem from the fact that the look consisted of info traffic this, too, would explain why reality was I itself "became" info; plunged into the info world of opened up DNA. This in terms of altered stated of consciousness or consciousness The quintessential conscious raising state: absolute consciousness. G-17 It was pure, absolute, perfect + complete, forcing itself to its ultimate conclusion in a matter of hours, whereupon it overcame time causation + all determinism + + limitation. World was now inside - it, + it was infinite in size like a universe (the Hermetic this is what the transform! a Hermetic alchemists sought to bail it down: once it had control of its own programming it programmed itself to program itself to evolve into phylogenic perfection. There can be absolutely no doubt. what it recognized in + as world was its own prior thought formations coming back as world; thus the experience resembled the Bardo Thodol trip. This is what was recognized + why; whereupon it took contral of its own reality + fee itself what was ideal, abolishing heimarmene +, most of all, overpowering its DNA death-strip. The highest enlighten ment of Tibetan Buddhism is represented here. encounter with the absolute within itself which, because I am a Xtian, took the form of Christ - or at least was identified by me as such. In any case It was the absolute, genuinely. i E78 put anatter way, it remembered (which is anamnesis) that world is its own prior thought-formations. Recognition came first, then anamnesis. The normal functioning can be represented this way: actions that in fact I do no programming the cascin will but are willed through (self me as receiver 3-74: feedback loop producing t an my conscious infinite programming series of ad self justments: within me as a total closed system regulating itself (i.e. homeostatic). o No, this is not correct. Yet it has some merit. What is involved is the search for Christ: where is Christ? When all the storehouse of information fired, a Gestalt was formed made up of a trillion trillion discrete images (forms); he was in none of them, but when they all fired very rapidly Christ's outline (figure as in figure-to-ground) could be made out - the camouflage situation: Christ s thi is somehow concealed in world, but "world" is information + representation + is created by the mind itself as an innate possession (Cartesian rationalism). I am saying that the sum total of all the innate contents of the mind - its storehouse aviewed right are Christ or disclose the outlince figure - of Christ distinguished from ground. E-19 the mind to find Christ must itself (1) totally; + (2) absolutely. know the mind thinking about its own thoughts as I say in my latest letter to Russ. this is the mind is able to examine itself it will I discern Christ - Christ as world or in world Christ is not one thought in the mind - one thought of many, like ons particular book i a very large library - it is the library itself It is the totality, + only when this totality is seen as a unity is Christ discernable. This may have to do with heirarchy of complexity. none of the pieces is Christ. Yet all the pieces are [parts of) Christ. The mind must get outside itself + see itself from outside, as if cooking in from outside. Christ is all the clues assembled, when the last clue (piese) is added to the picture, there is Christ made up of all those things which in themselves are not Christ. Perhaps Christ is how everything (not most things but everything) fits together - like Pythagoras' Kosmos. If you are one piece short you have nothing; he not there. He is dispersed. it the perception of him is an act - a mental act - of hyper‐ abstracting. It is a cognitives perceptual leap. He is not substantial; he is outline, i.e. shape. First world is seen as Acts. then it is seen as collage information; then the figure is perceived visually (although it is understood in the percipients mind as if utilizing an inner matching template that is the innate possession of the mind. both the outer shape + the inner matching template are necessary; they must exactly correspond. The key word is: recognition E-20 This template fits over the entire world, not just parts of it, but it is world as Cartesian representation (information). This is like a cypher. Only with the inner matching template con the shape be extracted. Without the temsiote you see him not; you see multiplicity + t Flux the template turns mantiplicity into one unitary thing + halts the flux + this is your own representation; it as somehow (in a way I don't understand) intrinsically created. Christ is the halting of the of flux (change) + the unifying that is, many (time must be abolished). change within the representation must go to its conclusion -fulfill itself - + end in stasis. Thus (in some real way) Christ is (point outcome of change, process, time. omega?). This is essential: that prosess (flux) by driven at high speed to its conclusion, as if time is consumed, used up, exhausted. This is internal (in the percipients mind; these are his own mental processes + involve his representation of world). It is not world itself that exhausts time + change but This distinction his representation of world. but be mate (as I clarity in my letter to rers). It is not the mind examining world but examining itself - its representation of world over which it seems to possess (under certain circumstances) control. I suddenly realize what is necessary in order to apperceive Christ. Some kind of runaway positive feedback involving E-21 Paradox (e.g. "Valis" is a novel + "Valis is not a novel); the flip flop in to infinity regresses faster + faster until at last the outline [of Christ) emerges hence the paradoxical nature of the parables: they constitute doorways to the Kingdom, rather than being descriptions of it. they are designed to cause some kind of event in the listener's mind having to do with paradox + flipflop + runawny regress + what I call "the two-mirror" self-scruting/perception that forms - sets up - a loop. This does something to time + causation + space, at least in terms of representation (experience) of -information about - world (not world itself). the mind is tricked by the paradox into becoming aware of its own processes; it begins to think about its own thinking + this becomes aware of itself (the "two mirror" situation of self. Observation); this generates an infinate regress (because there is now a loop, a feedback between programmer + what is programmed). it discovers that what it took to be world (other) is really itself thinking about world. Its attention is directed inward with startling results. (v. the loop, the runaway feedback.) It is precisely under these circumstances - when the mind becomes aware of itself - that Christ is "born." Because in fact it was always only itself that the mind knew anyhow, E-22 it did not really know world. All could ever know was itself. But it can know itself, so there is something it can know. I seem to be saying that although Christ seems to be world or in world he is actually in the person's mind - yet he is real + he is distinct from that person, the person does not himself become Christ; this is, rather, Christogenesis + is the only - it i to i, s in true other (at least that is knowable, everything else taken to be other is in fact only a fabrication of the mind itself). Thus in finding Christ in itself the mind for the first time at last encounters something other than itself or its own construct. Paradoxically by turning inward + scrutinizing itself it breaks out of itself + encounters the true other - it bursts the prison of solipsism (of which it had been unaware.). World, or rather its auto-generation of representation of world is replaced by Christ: not representation of Christ (as with world) but hrist himself. ( I think Malebranche says that there are only two "things" that the mind can immediately know: itself + t God I just now carefully reread the E of h article on Malebranche - + discover to my delight that I have recapitulated his o asic argument that we do not know E-23 objects (world) directly but only as representations (which for Malebranche are based on the pre-existent archetypal intelligible ideas in the mind of God used as the basis of creation); but that we know two things immediately: (1) our mind itself + (2) God (I have been saying Christ but the reasoning is the same for both Malebranche + for me) my Spinozan attribute of infinite (which I realized last Saturday night) be the intelligible pre-existent would archetypal ideas in the mind of God s quite obviously. This does not surprase me; then are many common elements in Also, exactly as Spinoza + Malebranche. I do, Malebranche homologizes God + infinity, a critical point. He corrects my solipsism, my notion that the human mind auto-generater all its own ideas; he shows why that is inplausible (but it is also not plausible that we actually experience objects, i.e. world). His arguments strike me as invincible. I yield So here (joyfully) I am back once more with Malebranche + the occasionalists! 2-3-74 can readily be understood in terms of Malebranche's "we see all things in God." We know God immediately (as infinity), world as representations