the high speed recombinant information: which is to say you are aware of the rapidly evolving Corpus Christi camouflaged into reality but now visible to you as set to ground. Since it is negentropic - moving from disorder to order - it seems to progress retrograde in time. Its change rate velocity is enormous, now; as I figured out (supra notes) quantitative change rate velocity accelleration produces qualitative changes in it, in terms of flexibility & abstraction; we know it only as it perturbs the reality field (like a magnetic field to iron filings), since it is not substantial but is an organizing principle or pattern distributed (perhaps) ubiquitously. Expressed as a valence away from plumb. Thus it is in a sense latent form. It must be - as information - retrieved. This tug - is it not the Ch'ang Tao? But I conceive of an evolving entity whose change rate velocity is accellerating exponentially. This is expressed as structure, complexity, order, flexibility, freedom, self-consciousness, & abstracting (& a progression subsumation of its incroprorated environment into arrangements of info - why, this is a definition of s negentropy! An organism to survive (Boltzman) must incorporate negative entropy from its environment, & this is best expressed in terms of information! That means that this is an organismp. E of Ph. "Negative entropy is identified with information." "Any living organism delays its decay into thermal equilibrium (death) by its capacity to maintain itself at a fairly high level of orderliness (& hence at a fairly ie low level of entropy) by continually absorbing negative entropy from its environment." -- A vast blinding light just lit up for & in me. Information is negative entropy. Thus the info arranging by Valis is negentropy per se; viz: what I saw that I called "living info" is negentropy properly perceived, but I only found this out within the past month! I mean, if I saw negentropy per se I would see exactly what I saw: recombinant information ubiquitously through a subsumation by Valis of its environment, precisely as stated in the squib preceeding the text of the novel. Viz: if you were inside a vast unitary growing organism you would see it "tending progressively to subsume & incorporate its environment into arrangements of information." Put another way (damn it; I can't get this quite right!) if you saw a vast organism growing & you were in it, you'd see what you would correctly call "subsumation & incorporation of its environment into arrangements of information" because the term "information" is a cupola for "negative entropy." Oh Jesu; I saw it correctly & (what is more) stated it correctly! Any [such] macro-organism if successfully growing (delaying death) would subsume & arrange its environment into info - any such organism. Not just info (or arranging things into info) but subsuming & incorporating its environment into [arrangements of] info; this is not just a definition of negentropy but a definition of how a biological organism "delays its death"! Valis, is, then, an evolving biological organism. I did see what I though I saw! & I had no formal knowledge of the relation between disorder within a system (ie entropy & loss of info; like order & info - & that this info is "absorbed from its environment"! it does have an environment substantiating" it (absorbing & arranging it into information - negative entropy). Put another way (I'm still trying) if I had not seen this subsuming & incorporation of its environment into arrangements of info I would not actually have seen a growing, evolving biological organism. Such manifestations of "spontaneous" ex nihilo info as the Acts material in "Tears" simply point to the organism: successful existence I am so-to-speak its metabolism - as I've often said before! Suddenly I know: it is a growing, viable biological organism, not a machine or an absolute (such as God), for it must do this "absorbing" & - ! - it does have an environment (as I saw); then it does camouflage itself - in its environment. But it itself is more complex, & the ratio of its relative complexity is improving (increasing); my God it is a UTI! It is not an info macro-entity (in a sense) because all such entities would of necessity disclose this "info metabolism"! The perturbation of the reality field is what arranges its environment into info; thus the perturbation is an indication of its existence & viability. If it could not perturb it could not live & grow & evolve; ie it could not absorb negative entropy from its environment. Thus I not only saw it when I saw Valis, I saw its absorbing of negative entropy from its environment (expressed as its effect on its environment as tug or displacement). This is how it arranges. It has indeed worked itself into causation per se, & I am perfectly correct: because of its presence (existence) the effect exceeds its nominal pro forma cause. & it is conscious, although it does not think! It knows but does not reason in words, as we do. I saw, the dialectic is its relation to its environment (the wise horn as it, the stupider horn its environment); this expresses its relative high level of order vis-à-vis its environment; thus it conquors (subsumes, incorporates, assimilates) its environment, feeds on it: grows at its expense, continually besting it. Valis & continually defeats its environment & creates ever greater levels of internal complexity vis-à-vis its environment; thus the dialectic is not internal but expresses its relationship to what is external but is rapidly being assimilated. I thus pronounced it a biological organism - & a successful one - without any doubt or hesitation on my part! K366 I thus have experienced it doing what all biological organisms do & only biological organisms do. & it has involved itself in our communications medium because this provides it with the internal info-metabolism it requires by which to avoid entropy - death. No one can tell me (1) one has an environment (2) which he subsumes & incorporates into arrangements of info (3) to avoid thermal equilibrium. No: this is a biological organism & in a real sense governed by the same laws & needs as a protozoon. Further, Shannon (1948) says "info is not concerned with meaning but with the statistical character of a whole range of possible messages & is, in fact, a measure of the amount of freedom of choice we have in constructing messages." ("G.N. Lewis... concluded that gain in entropy always means loss of info. These investigations were remarkable for preceding the development of modern info theory by Claude Shannon in 1948.") Now, this is precisely the combining & recomb[in]ing (linking & relinking) that I saw Valis employing. So Valis is a biological organism of ultimate negative entropy, but it is getting more & more negative entropy "from" its environment by this combining & recombining into messages as it becomes more & more free (ie my recombinant "Scripture"; this recombinant quality is a mesasure of order or negative entropy. Contrast this to the fixed track. K367 In the dialectic it triumphs over its environment by pattern-completion. This is simply a way of depicting order (vs disorder). As soon as it fails - I mean the wise horn - it (I mean Valis) dies. If you were in a macro-[biological] organism you would not see blood, guts & organs but info metabolism. We are in Valis but it is camouflaged to us & by being camouflaged is free to prey on its environment; this too - ie camouflage - is a device of a biological organism. Perhaps it occludes us. Then we are part of its environment & get incorporated (without knowing it?). {Diagram: Christ, Acts material in "Tears," Reason for intervening on my behalf, Xtian fish sign, Messenger vision, Easter Good Friday spell, AI voice's prophecy about St. Sophia} Christ is pointed to in Teilhard's sense -- Its structure can be seen as set to ground; this is what set is: Corpus Christi This is why there is a set, not because set to ground is normal but because there is a (the) Christ organism that constitutes set. It is distinguishable because it moves faster; it is more complex; its change rate velocity is greater than its environment, as if K368 it comes from the future (since there is an evolution toward change rate velocity accelleration). My God - The BIP is a supra- temporal constant because it is an ossified - hence entropic - complex; it does not change. This threatens the total organism with death: "One day nothing new came into his mind." If recombinant info is the metabolic life of this macro-organism, the BIP is a part of it that has stopped growing; it hasn't changed in the last 2000 years. Hence it is seen as (als ob) metal, i.e. rigid & inert, &, like all complexes, drawing other thoughts to it. It is not an invader of the organism; it is internal death to & of the organism; it is so-to- speak the route to death of & by this organism. The BIP is part of it, a nonviable part; if it dies it will die by becomeing the Empire (BIP): i.e. totally ossified with the same frozen info recirculated forevver. This is precisely why Acts (i.e. the Roman Empire) is also now; the Empire is the organism ossified, hence unchanging. What we are K369 talking about here (in info terms) is the official message, official act, as in that PBS TV program about archetecture. Hence in a sense the fact that it is still the time & place of Acts is bad, is an ominous sign; this points to ossification: the BIP unchanged & unchanging. If time is (i.e. becomes) unreal, the organism can't evolve & become more complex, for it is in time as a matrix (receptacle) that it changes (change rate velocity accellerating). It is - time is - a measure of its self complexification & evolution; but the BIP does not change, does not evolve. It is therefore an ominous supra- temporal constant & warps reality back always to the Roman Empire, as if by gravitational mass. "The imperial presidency," as Ford put it. The existence of the BIP is inverseley proportional to the laying down of new accretions in the MMSK. The 2-74 vision (meta- abstraction) is of hell, then, truly, but hell precisely defined as unchanging "metal" mass; as a vast unyielding ossified complex opaque to time, but knowing time (i.e. change); it is a vision of the diabolic, of the adversary, & hence was a vision of "Tears." !! I hate even to speculate about this, but could the K370 Acts material in "Tears" be due to the time-stopping valence of the "mass" that is the BIP? A sort of registering of the omnipresence of the Empire, like a siesmograph? Opposed to this (General Felix Buckman) is Jason Taverner, who is Dionysos - i.e. Zagreus/Christ - the God of change pitted against King Penthus? I can, then, identify Valis as Christ by way of identifying its adversary, the Roman Empire. Perhaps King Felix vs the BIP is eros vs thanatos per se, life vs death! This would point, then, once more to the Dialectic as basic & irreducible - & internal (as well as vis-à-vis Valis' environment). Its real enemy is its own internal ossification, the BIP. All this (this issue of entropy) is carefully & consciously studied in "Ubik" & "Maze" both! & in "Ubik" three is a strange trivialization of what is in fact holy information, as if it spontaneously manifested itself in the trash strata, undergoing a transformation from sacred to profane; it & (at the beginning of each chapter) it is recombinant. It is as if self-causing. Info must occur at all loci throughout the system so as to be in contain the message that sums up the totality (macro-micro corresponddence): that is, the total message can