they represented). You would not get one transformation without the other; that is, if objects "became" ideas, God would advance into palpability, or conversely, if there was a theophany ( genuine one), all limited beings + objects would "become" ideas, archetypes, represen‐ tations intelligibly - no longer sensibly!- known; + there would finally become of world - world would be transformed into what I call the MMSK: conceptual arrangement. of great interest is the fact that i as saw, graphic, auditory + verbal -esp. written) information is fed into the system: in fact the system itself best be construed as information can expressed in terms of the mutual arran sements of objects - which are (I now understand) not truly ob jects folder 55 - 133 folder 55 - 133 -61 t at all but archetypal ideas within an infinite field best comprehended experienced as space - the receptacle of being, inasmuch as space is the matrix in which arrangement of objects occurs s this another theory amony many? perhaps not: it has an oceanic quality, especially I note now that (Malebranche teaches) we do not experience finite things (objects + beings) directly (but only their surrogate representations, which are their archetypal ideas in God's mind used as the basis of + for creation) but we do experience God directly (because he is infinite + there can be no infinite representation) - + this explains both the radical transformation in world (objects experienced abstractly + intelligibly) + the "inbreaking" of God that is, everything is explained + I have here an explanation of the total transfor‐ mation in all its aspects: for instance I now see the significance of the vast space (+ for that matter the ambiance of the bells as + throughout this same if sounding over infinite space - the key word I have missed is extension, which has to do with space, or what we call space; it is think, the infinitude of God per se, +, as Malebranche says, directly known, as if it entering This is the direct experience the space is in the mind: a infinity. through the senses. what is most striking in this folder 55 - 134 folder 55 - 134 D-62 analysis + view by Malebranche is his sense (the basis of it all) that it is in fact God that we directly experience, all else is representations; this infinitude explains + expresses what is really the ultimate essence of 3-74: not the transformation of objects into ideas but, rather, the flowing in of the vastness of space: boundless + awesome, + beyond doubt holy will restate the meta-abstraction rather differently. To suppose that when we see a second object of the same class that we are seeing two objects once + not one object twice - at two times + places - is (as Malebranche would put it) "the most dangerous error in all philosophy" for in fact There is only one object in + of each + every class, it being the closs itself hence not object but idea of what that object is: used + reused inexhaust ibly for all times + all places, it (a given idea) is eternal + unchanging in the divine mind; all "changes" are only seeming + a mere looking different thus giving rise to the faulty notion that time has passed. Thus the AI voice's cryptic remark that "he causes things to look different it'd appear time has passed" refere i the "not 2 mothers but one mother twice" reta-perception + lies therefore at + as to e folder 55 - 135 folder 55 - 135 D63 cognitive basis for all of 3-74 itself, which is to say, my meta-abstraction in 2-74 overcame a fundamental error so fundamental that it is not even discussed (that is, the error passen unnoticed but is uncritically built into the very basis of our perception + thought: it is basic + wrong). "Look different" then, carriers the force of "seen at different times + places I This very fact - it (a given object or rather idea) being seen at different times + different places - is precisely what gives rise to this most dangerous error: that plural objects (of a given class, i.e. particulars) exist; + it is this error that my mind corrected in 2-74; my mind realized it to be an error, + as a result, saw (1) object as idea; + (2) God within whom all these ideas exist - exist as eternal ideas resembling suppose then, that when a given objects. I idea appears at two (or two hundred) times + places it does look different to us: + herein lies the cause-noot of our perceptual-cognitive error. Moreover, it is the method by the divine mind to cause us to perceive this single idea to look different at each time + place it appears (one cat versus another cat), so this could be said: that in 2-74 I was caused (by grace) to see as things in fact really are what folder 55 - 136 D-64 consists not of similarity between + among objects causen them to "be" members of the same chs. But, rather unitary identity: it is always one + the same "thing" seen different + hence seen as pluralized, but in fact (as I say) being one + one only reused endlessly without depletion, as if an infinity number of views or icons (images) are perceptible to us because we normally exist within the context of the cate gories of space + time (but God does not. So to know God is to lose - shee those categories; or, put another way to shee those categories is then to perceive God). The issue, then, that perplexed Plato so of how does an eidos instantiate in its many particulars is solved via Malebranche as: it only seems to instantiate in its "many particulars"; this is mere looking (to us) or seeming (to us) - again the "not 2 mothers" meta-abstraction which is the absolute basis of it all. an idea. So bizarre + radical his just now struck me - I scarce can credit my senses! In dealing with the enigma of schizophrenia we make the "not two mothers" meta-abstraction successfully when in fact it is not the case: we suppose the same person twice folder 55 - 137 folder 55 - 137 D-65 when in fact it is really two different people; this is the ur- "meta-abstraction" normally performed by all higher life forms routinely misapplied, here a physical resemblance has caused an erronious application of the fundamental "not two mothers but I mother twice" basis abstraction when it is not the case (e.g. what I call "Sandra" is in fact actually two people, + this explains her two faces: one ugly, old, forbidding + austere the other lovely, smiling + accepting; there literally are two "objects" i.e. ideas - notions - confused with each other + abstracted (by this, then, percipient such as 1) into one. is the mirror opposite of the meta‐ abstraction, + explains (as I say) what schizophrenia is; therefore I say, Sandia is schizophrenic because in fact the term "Sandra" refers to two different Valis confounded as being unitary, i.e. almost as of the divine mind one. It logically itself has erred. It is precisely this error that is corrected in - as the thematic basis of - "A scanner Darkly" showing that my mind was grappling as early as 1973 with this particular abstraction, first viewing it when applied wrongly ("scanner") when not applied - also wrongly; + + 2-74 is a cognitive correction of the latter!) e.g. in Sandri's case it is "two mothers once, not one mother twice"!! folder 55 - 138 folder 55 - 138 D-66 do I need proof that the divine mind [itself] can thusly en? Why, I have that proof: myself + Thomas: a dys‐ function in a which two different people (ideas) are inadvertently inter‐ changed - which explains the two different considering memory systems in competition. I now wonder again this as a dysfunction it "perturbation" may not indeed refer to a chaotic event, a loss of control + order - i.e. cosmos, paradoxically induced by my (PKD's) correction of "this, the most dangerous error" etc., as Malebranche My corrected perception, would put it. then, of objects as really ideas, + my perception of God, may have been due to (in part) a malfunction by reason of which the phenomenon of Ditheon was created, a parallaxis of two selves operating jointly, myself + Thomas (my "temporal parallaxis" in which the same object is seen twice, that is from two times + two places (in which case I invert my diagram to viewpoint a viewpoint be source 3 s obsect rather than flow-directing reversed o t i source folder 55 - 139 folder 55 - 139 D-67 Here, then, is the diagram I used to draw of the medieval worldview: Rose) actual rose (archetype) icons or, put more t (rose it is modernly, representi tis in our plural minds; but there is only the one actual archetypal rose (in the divine mind) seen (experienced) over + over again. It is not likely that God's mind contains all the icons/representations/images (i.e. Plato's particulars) because these "particulars" only exist in our minds as images of that one actual idea-rose: as the Sankara + Buddhists say, like the one real sun reflected in a thousand - or million - pools of water or mirrors; my view, then, is a radical idealism much like Buddhist idealism that in a certain way dences ontological reality to world regarding it instead as plural images in plural minds - yet there is a difference: I agree with Malebranche that somehow God gives us acless to the pre-existent unitary archetypal in idea (in this case "rose") that exists the divine mind, preceeding creation; that is he causes us to perceive this one real rose in the form of a representation that (I think) is veridical. So he is guarantor of creation in two ways: (1) the pre-existent idea exists in his mind, as thought by him - i.e. created by him; + (2) in plural form in each of our minds as a genuine (i.e. veridical) representa - it is, as descartes taught, certified by God (or as I put it, he has - + exercisesthe power to compel our absolute assent) folder 55 - 140 folder 55 - 140 D-68 the issue now arises as to: what is the difference between the pre-existent idea of "rose" in the divine mind ou -real + unitary + eternal - plural representations? In other words, how accurate as analog is the icon? Could it be said that we truly have access to the real, unitary, pre-existent archetypal idea what I say is of rose in the divine mind? It is built into the + wer of God as creator cause the icon (all plural representatives a point descartes to to be faithful analogs I say (this is my faith) that we deals with. do have in a certain real + valid way genuine access to the unitary archetypal pre-existent idea in his mind, insofar as our creatureal (?) limited needs are concerned. we do know the archetypal idea absolutely (i.e. as God knows it - i.e. a priori) (which is to say, as it is) but none the less this is legitimate access to what is a sort of information storage + retrieval system: our own particular icon is valid information as information, truly pertaining to the archetypal idea hence not worthless or false - but (we must realize) less than perfect: we do not possess from within (so-to-speak) the pre-existent archetypal idea itself (for one thing we do not understand it intelligibly but only sensibly; so there is a degradation of the information: Plato is right: it is a copy that we possess of something + not that something. But it is not