reality -i.e. the universe‐ believe but with no preconceptions.) I that my premise proved true - by saw reason of 2-3-74. But what I that is real - I really don't know what it is, but - it regulates the universe. That is its regulator relationship to the universe.I + whatever that tells us. (E.g. it tells there is purpose + design. + very us likely consciousness.) + any control must be able to "move" system fister than what it controls. just had an extraordinary revelation, of which I am sure. My religious (sacramental) experience began in MiD-1970, not early 1972 -which explains the Acts material in "Tears" conversely, the Acts material in "Tears" indicates beyond doubt that my experience does begin as far back as mid-1970). What happened in 1970 was death. (Due to Nancy's illness + then her leaving, the exact moment would be 4398 The mescalone trip. This appears in the posse dream, the theme of ritual death + the grief + forgiveness - agapē - appropriate to a it. Then there is a long period "in the tomb" - up to the beginning of 1974. + in 2-74 resurrection as a new kind of creature begins. Now, it is evident from this that the stations of the cross are crucially involved. 2-74 was my return to life, but transformed. Christ is indubitable pointed to in this process of dying, death, the period in the tomb, then resurrection (which is to say rebirth) in the spring of 1974. This has been a very long + intricate + difficult process, but it has been the real thing. I returned as Ditheon, obviously a technical term for Christos. Christ was born in me, as my supra notes say. The location of Christ in 3-74 was in me + radiating outward. What I must understand is, Christ himself was really there (beginning in 3-74). He re-entered the world through me (as a "canal"). I saw the nativity (yes, I did see it) because this was the moment of Christ. genesis. These booke tell the story in sequence (1) "Tears" [crucifixion as expressed in the dream]; (2) period in the tomb: "Scanner" [mors ontologica]; (3) miraculous moment of resurrection "Valis" [everything in confusion] (4) successful birth "D.I." [as stated in the "He has been transplanted + is alive" prefatory paragraph: "Valis" was a success]; K-399 (5) "BTA": pure + simple statement about christogenesis through + as Ditheon. The story, then, to be told takes five novels. Hence King Felix does refer to Christ + Christ's return, but it also refers to these events in my life. We are talking almost twelve years! Now, when the full picture is seen -i.e. when you begin with 1970 + "Tears" - it becomes an invincible realization that among all the theories I've entertained about 3-74 per se, Christogenesis (+ resurrection) is the correct one, because now 3-74 is seen in a broader context, + one in which it is logical, inevit. able + makes sense.. as resurrection hence Christogenesis. But look: I was the man Jesus (mid-1970 to 2-74) before I became the Ditheon Christos! 3-74 can be seen as rooted in the dream in "Tears" (ritual murder), + my response to the dream (forgiving agapē toward Honor Jackson). Thus the necessary groundwork for 3-74 was laid down while I was still writing "Tears" - so this was not accidental but deliberately accomplished. may while this "12-year span" discovery seem on the surface to be just another theory about 2-3-74 in a virtually endless series of conflicting theories it in fact is unique because it places 2-3-74 within a much broaden context -in fact subsuming it- + therefore is not just (sic) about 2-3-74 but about, really, my whole life 2-3-74 the t admittedly seen as one step most (400 revolutionary + startling + superventive Yet nonetheless one step of a longer, more complex sequence; + it is only in terms of this total sequence that 2-3-74 can be understood (or verified; that is, I can consider it much more likely that there was an epiphany in 2-3-74 when I view it in context). What emerges is the whole Christ story / drama) narrative: ending, i not beginning, with the birth of Christ prior to 3-74 (the nativity) the story is that of a suffering, degraded + ultimately retur listically slain human - + then a period in the tomb that is paradoxically simultaneously a state of death (i.e. it follows life) + Gestation (ie it precedes life). That this leved-through narrative ends with the birth of Christ frather than beginning with it- is verified by "BTA" where Christogenesis occurs only at the end, after madness + death- literal death. We now must discern that Jesus was not Kyrios, that the term "Kyrios" can only be applied to him after the resurrection. The real secret of the N.T. (esp. the Gospels) is that Jesus is a man -everyman, any man- who through a long "alchemical" process involving suffering, degradation + dying becomes Ditheon or Christ. What was special about Jesus what happened to him. Hence the is passion + crucifixion can now be under‐ stood as necessary for Christogenesis to occur. am not the first person to figure this I the whole "stations of the cross" out. involve this. now, viewed in this i2. year context, my anamnesis takes on totally R401 -+ much greater- significance; it is new the moment of transformation. "Recovered memory," then equals identity, + identity Thus i turns out to be identity as Christos the Gospels are a formula are paradigmatic (which may be what the Gnostics at least partly understood - they did not understand the need for / significance of the passion + crucifixion, however, but they did understanc that you yourself could be Christos. But so did the Reformers vis-a-vis their understanding of justification). This may be the ufter high truth about our religion: its paradigmatic "recipe" basis ("De Imitati Christi"). Viz: "God became man so man could become God of This all resembles the myth sums it up. Zegreus, + my "Zeus-Zagreus" dream may have been an attempt to show me not a literal truth (i.e. "Jesus is Zagreus"), but an anologic parallel (i.e. "Jesus is like Zagreus"). It appears somewhere in my recent notes that I go from "ich hab' den retter gesehn" to "ich War dir retter Selber." crucial in all this is the duping of the karma machine (of retribution) by the "Messengers" blank white sheet of paper, so the Reformers are right about justification. for it is necessary that this step be negotiated successfully for Christogenesis of occur, this Christ presides as adventitious high priest in the total sequence of the Ritual; he does intervene, with the result t (Christo then that a superventive outcome it genesis) occurs becomes 9402 a ritual initiation into the entry into the company of the Pitheons which is the true brotherhood of saints or Christoi. My God, the Gospels are to be read backward (if read correctly): passion to crucifixion to nativity (birth) rather than nativity (birth to passion to cruci‐ fixim; the nativity (birth) is the goal, the end, the resclt (effect) of the passion crucifixion -+ the "3 Days in the tomb" is Gestation, not death; it is during this period that the new embryo grows, to be born, with the passion + crucifixion as the cause: why has no one realized this? The Fall is precisely the fact that we are cut off from God; hence finding him again reverses the Fall. It is that simple, anyhow, now the Acts material in "Tears" is accounted for. + the period which I had hazarded the guess that I was insane in, from the Mescaline trip to 2-74, was from my nitual death (hence I was in the tomb) to my rebirth (Christogenesis). + this rebirth -Ditheon in is Logos hence rational, which is why I felt I had become sand "for the first time." We are now talking about a much broader, more powerful + fundamental experience which seems to be announced in "Tears" in the cyphr. The pay off -due 4 years later!- was announced in '70 when I wrote it; it had not yet happened. 403 I'm grappling with a very solemn thought I that when I saw Valis external to me had projected him out of me, as if I had (note: als ob) given birth to him: he was in me (in my mind) first, born there, + then he left (as the Taoist alchemists theorize); I acted as a host, a womb, a canal; because 12 years + the material in "Tears" suggests something major. As I say in my notes of last night "is reliving the life -the total life- of Christ a normal (sic) mystic vision?? Insofar as I experience: the phenomenal world I experience only my projections. insofar as I experience anything (then) that objective, it is God. 2-3-74 (esp 3-74) consisted of experiencing God [instead of the phenomenal world] conclusion: then for the first time I in fact experienced something objective Malebranche is not radical enough God shows through is world, world (Ubik) "Ubik". between us + God t man + God belong percipient world together. "Ubik" shows the true state of affairs. (1) What pertains world separates man from God); (2) what can be caused to pertain (man + God can rejoin each other, mutually, as if man breaks through world to God, + God does the same to reach man). Ubik is searching for them to reach them; they are searching for Ubik to reach Ubik This "Valis" tells that I finally did it. is what "perturbation in the realty field" K404 signifies: God reaching man through + Despite world. World, then, becomes a carrier that God modulates as a medium by which to reach us, Harvey at the vet's - the letter I wrote: cat as hologram. Don't you see what it proves? It is all Maya. Magic trick projection. Our own brains project our world. The only thing that is really out there is God; world must be made to vanish (vide supra) + we ourselves can cause it to vanish because wf project it - God doesn't became the ultimate enemy; I tonight that [thing] which disappoints little boys. worse than an anproid. This did not occur due to evil in me -i.e. sin; no: I am not a sinner - but was due to nelessity (ananke). There is such a thing, + irreducible. There is, then, only one issue: does such an entity as "Jesus Christ" exist (defined as a humane "thing" with the power to overrule necessity)? If so, belief in God + religion is correct. If not, then stoicism + existentialism is correct. These are the only two important choices open to us, + the correct solution depends upon knowledge (axiomatically] we can't know‐ This forces us to say "no he does not exist" ar because wish fulfilument fantasy gratifica tion-craving will cause us to not only K415 to believe that Jesus Christ (as defined) exists but, further, will cause us to falsify reality so as to "prove" if thus causing us to break with the reality principle. To avoid this, the rational machooses Stoicism + existentialism (in the absence of this knowledge) so as to remain sane. It is necessary that he Do so, to serve the good. The greater good is served by facing reality in contrast to the temporary pleasure of breaking from it It takes more courage to face the irreducible nature of necessity, + courage is the ultimate virtue, since without courage I all the other virtues (such as honesty) 90. There is, then, only one virtue; all thers derive from it. Courage 6 - the theological- philosophical premise of Valis, that the universe is irrational but something rational has broken into it poses as it, devours it, is one of the most noble + original ideas in the history of