he is still alive. This explains it all, from "Tears" thru 2-3-74 to Tagore t s C-57 against the Empire. What is it really religious? Hat: "PKD,, PKD" + this is 2-3-74; PKD, surfaced. + this is Ditheon. there is literally a masterminis guiding this + it is revolution hypnagogic: I mad out the 85 "notices" - the mmothon runners ED Mesky, Xerox image: carring the Torch: two of them, picking up the Torah + running in different directions; there are at least i.e. out of the 85 people 2 of "the right people" whom I've now notified; but notified of what? Could the whole Tagore ecosphere revelation - like the dream in "Tears" - be cypher for revolution? Christ but what are the real the master revolutionary. was hizely thinking, "If this were a I goals? conspiracy I'd have sent one of the 85 letters to Robert Anton Wilson" - + then I suddenly realized with a terrible shock that I did. + the shock was because I did it dissociatedly; I saw derived the "Bob" - + did (I are the name "Wilson," not consciously know it was he. Yet absolutely sure) PKD, knew. I have two selves + the eal one surfaced in 2-3-74. + this very efficient systematic mailout was predicated on motives by the PKD, who put the material I in "Tears" + who knows the true goals knew to contact those is people re Tagore 85 is a drop in the Bucked; why out write a story or novel? + where did I sudderly why? get the energy? I was exhausted, wasn't I? at least two of those 85 will pass the news on - in different directions: revolutionists + the Empire. They will know what it means i a have seen the leader of the revolution I a vision - "Tagore." The new cause is ecology. 2 people of the 85 will know but this is only the exoteric cover. what this "Tagore" vision mean C-55 C-58) the dream last night literally identifies Reagan as the new Caesar - this goes all the way back to my dream of the Emperor tiberius being strangled by the shank-teeth necklace. So: Reagan is the target of the "Tagore" protest, Keagan as the current "Caesar"; this Caesar - Rome talk is apocalyptic cypher the "Tears" dream is nothing compared with the "Tagore" dream - but "nothing it only in quantitative terms; qualitatively they are on the same axis there is a coop: GDTG) 3) 2-3 the novel o letters frome "Valis" + i 8 readers of "Valis" i back to me Tears t tetters from t He regarding I 1 The "tape" dream source of response the Acts by "the two (material) Maratron runnerish I am on a "need to know" basis, t I know nothing about #-0 + E-6. 3 s but I sense them to be the same; X fed in at #-0 + gets back out at #-6 I have it. 2 of the 85 people I sent the news to were waiting for it; hence they - these 2 - are rendered graphically as Marathon runners, who accept the torch + begin their run upon receiving the news they have been waiting for. + this news of course is: that the savior is X + is located at place Y, etc. enough facts to pinpoint who + what + where as well as (obviously) that the is borne i -59 The Marathan runners hypnagogic vision shows that either (1) I unconsciously think that in mailing out the 85 copies I notified what I call the "Xtian underground" or (2) I did one authentic instance on all it would take is my "list" of people who write in response to "Valis." Surely if there is anything in all this, There would be a response once "Valis" came out No; it's all nonsense. Futile dreams. futile? Notifying the alleged "underground has little importance compared with the Parousia itself. But "they" or "it" has to be notified; the goodnews - Godspell" - must be told + that is precisely what I have striven to do - + for some eerie reason, sense that I have done the rag-tag motly band of believers who wrote i me when I published "Valis" - I was thinking "Ray-tag mother band." Like 2000 years believers The event a There need be no "underground. ago Here is the sequence. creates it, not it the event. 2) Elijah. Who comes before 1) Angelic prophecy. + the work of the spirit "The birth. 5) Faith that it is the Messiah. the Messiah dies 6) 7) The few believers are demoralized. 8) The epiphany. (The resurrected Christ.) 9) The movement, aided by the spirit, grows 10) persecution ) etc. am/was victimized, so-to-speak, by my own con‐ spiratorial proclivities "The weapons of God are smallness, weakness, "the Kingdom begins tiny + inob. as Tillich says trusive" - J. Bible. "It enters the world unnoticed or barely noticed." "like a mustard seed." but he is the whole ecosphere; he Pantocrator. Nonetheless in his incarnation as i i 86 -60 c a human being he is again the suffering servant; yet (as Jesus said) "when t return will be like the lightning: everywhere the c total ecosphere.) He voluntarily suffers, the Again." vicarious atonement vision stressed this. But this time there is the threat of destruction t this was man + abandonment of man by God of not true at the first Advent. Hence there is with This time! the eschatological judging This fits the the threat of world-destruction. apocalyptic thinking re the small remnant There is a saved, the rest (others) doomed dive threat on the part of God this time, unless we change our ways (i.e. repent). Doom is at hand. + yet God (Tagore) is love. (AgapÄ“ as This is straight down-the-pipe apoca einai.) cyptic prophecy. (expectation.) (As in "The world is coming to an end in X days. So repent. + my "Caesar" dream - re the Empire. With its blood games, carrying out the theme I stated in my 9-23 letter: "I was too busy watching tr "The circus, the arena. The playing.... games + "Caesar" dream explicates + amplifies this, which when I wrote the letter was just an after thought. when the flood came they were busy playing " etc. although they were warned. So this is a crucial part of the letter! Look: he will not sit still for an infinitude vicarious atonement this time; if we do of not desist ("repent," change our ways) he will withdraw from the world + this de facto dooms us, for he is sustainer of the world It is a sentence of death for us, not for him our death; he will not truly be killed but will withdraw - depart, "will abandon man to his fate, is how I put it in the letter as -61 +: "If we continual we will case God's presence [capital P?] +, finally, we will This is lose our own physical lives" the 2nd advent the end times, not a reprise of the first Advent. The "macro‐ crucifixion" means death for us, not him; he will withdraw: ascend to the upper realm, abandoning us. there are two antithetical futures open to us, both absolutes: 1) The millenial Kingdom with Christ as its head (King). 2) World-destruction (the apocalypse). There is no middle ground; each ab‐ solutely drives out - is incompatable with the other. Moreover, the choice is ours (this is very Zoroastrian, this choice business; it is not fated, inevitable, which way it will go, but it will go one way or the other.) (Because the ecosphere is an indivisible unity; it either survives as a unitary totality or perishes as a unitary totality. It is an interconnected system. Part of it can't survive while the other part perishes, we've now reached that point, literally, where it is a global matter + in reference to this, it has one psyche who either stays with us or departs, + if it departs we die because the ecosphere dies. what would the cheap snear in retort be? That the ecosphere is not in Danger? or that we can survive without it "you need help, you think it's in Danger" what sense does that maken C-62 I just read the E.B. Macro article on eschatology. My 9-81 vision is somewhat Judaic & somewhat Xtian (it contains indubitable elements of both) & somewhat Zoroastrian, but - there is an indubitable _Eastern_ element in that the spiritual element - personified by Tagore - will reluctantly & in perfect Love _withdraw_ from the world leaving man to his fate, which is doom; viz: the spiritual element is forced out of the world so that it reascends to heaven - due to man’s crimes against all life (the ecosphere); thus it is not circumstantial that Tagore is “Darkskinned, either Buddhist or Hindu, lives in Ceylon & is taken to be Lord Krishna." Western & Eastern thought is thus fused (in my vision); it simply cannot be reduced to Judeo-Xtian, Zoroastrian western eschatology. Nor can it be correctly viewed as just Eastern. Tagore may indeed be "the second incarnation of [illegible]" & "the Logos" & "Holy wisdom." But he is also Eastern: the "macro-crucifixion"is a panIndian spiritual insight in which God & all life are equated. What I am desperately trying to say is this both is & is not the second coming. It is a totally new system, albeit a synthesis of West & East. C-63 man is perceived as dooming himself; God does not punish him: God withdraws reluctantly because is incompatible what mankind does with the spiritual element I say, Jesus Christ (St. Sophia) o Lord Krishna combine into something quantum-leap new, never envisioned before by any religious system + not inplied by any known combination: however synthetic, it has genuinely new basic elements, it is indeed a a "3rd" dispensation! There is distinct quasi (note: quasi!) Pantheism of a sort never seen before, because withdrawal" implies a transcendent source + "home" of the spiritual element. it has descended from "heaven" to save all life, + if wounded -ill-treated here. will return from whence it originated; So this is not -repeat not - true Pantheism. I'm not sure it is even pan-Indian. have no idea what it is in terms of i historic time + place. Except that it has an ultra relevent realistic quality It is a new religion. + in some ways "primitive" like "minor" religion. that Eliade deals with. My God; it subsumes Xtianity + pan-Indian thought in a new synthesis, totally unanticipated even by me cer says, "the spiritual element is here it may withdraw reluctantly, depending but on what mankind does." + the basis this "what" is precisely spelled out of in a way it is a truly logical projection on the axis of Judaism to Xtianity to it; can now see that; + yet simultaneously I it is new, I guess because of its pre‐ sumption that the divine (spiritual) element is here + is congruent with the ecosphere - but just when you grasp this, you learn that if "killed" this anima psyche) of the ecosphere will withdraw (presumably infact) to its home. Then did the ecosphere descend originally, as if coming here to live? + yet this precisely is said of Hagia Sophia in "Wisdom" I but in genesis it ant find it. I clear that man is custodian of the is world. So here is a cardinal element from Judaism. + if man fails as custodian, God will abandon him. This, too, could be Judaism; God will turn his back on man. but the suffering servant + vicarious atonement - why, this comes from (saiah! maybe my vision is simply (sic) a profound perception of the Hebrew prophetic basis of Xtianity bypassing conventional Xtian views about the 2nd coming. My view may be the correct one because maybe the