can apperceive Christ both inwardly + externally; this is self knowledge because there is no distinction Thus it between observer + thing observed t apperceives itself. This is "anokhi--" the apperception of objects as arrangement constituting information is not any more just a viewpoint or an opinion than discovering that an LP groove is a carrier for music is an opinion (if indeed this is the case). Also, there seems (+ it is reasonable to assume this) that a mind exists that modulates sensible reality into informa‐ presumably can extract it back out: encode it, store it + retrieve it Further, this mind + the information may not be sharply separated, if indeed they are distinct at all (they may be modes, states or versions of each other). This is a discovery, + when it is made it is "seen" as a mental act (event) of the highest order, having to do with rational faculties + not the occult or even (in a sense) religion. not unless you would call Helen Keller's intuitive leap to the realization of the relationship between the word "Water" + water is religious. the information I refer to is not a descen ription of reality derived from substantial reality but is e ther 19 K-56 source, an analog to it, in some way controls + determines it is onto‐ logically prior (but probably not in a temporal sense). It is a primary state, + what it itself is based on I have no idea (that is, what is ontologically prior to it: i.e. what it derives from. It uses sensible reality. o sensibly reality does not use it but is a medium or carrier for it the purpose lies in the info + its processing, not in sensible reality. As the information changes, reality complies. What does this information state? all I can discern is that all temporal "layers" past present + future seem to be extant in it simultaneously the way the supra-temporal constants exist in the past, present + future simultaneously. have a dim sense that there I is some connection to the Bible, but the Bible is not what we think, here the situation is reversed: what seems to be information is in fact some kind of world applying equally to all times, situations + people + places, as if we are minor characters in it, too mind to mention. Further, all scripture seems to be an account of Christ, who turns out to be the Logos or uttered word (information) on which reality derives + is based. This is quite perplexing; it is as if K-57 what we take to be map (Bible, info) is territory (world), + what we take to be territory (world) is map (infor‐ mation). This is extensively studied in Judaism regarding Torah, which is information + existed before creation; some analogic correspondence exists between Torah + world, but as to what is cause + what effect, no one can say, what is said however that even the creator cannot act contrary to Torah, + consults it is Torah ontologically prior then, to God? Does even God arise out of + on the basis of information? Clearly this infor‐ mation is somehow sentient + self-generating It is not, then, information as we normally construe the term. In my opinion "Logos" is the best term for this + implies "plan" - + at least some of this apparently living information - which is here, not there - amounts to instruc tions with the absolute power to compel reality into complying to what may be an intelligible templa the I which that t has its relation to reality that which the geometric form "circle" has to all actual circles. Suppose the laws that govern the universe are in their final form - ontologically speaking a body of coherent instructions in the form of information? (v. p. K-81 Christ undermines Torah's arbitrary body o K-38 the laws - all natural laws - may Then be an arbitrary system that only one possibility out of X is number of differing systems, + arise from something that thinks them, + thinks them initially as this infor‐ mation. Lastly, like the Tao that which thinks this info - formulated it does not exist. The info arises ex nihilo; it has no cause. Information, then, is the final hierarchical order of that which is. (v. p K-81) (+ this Christ combats.) If I had to make a guess I would say that the physical, sensible universe is a medium by, in or on which some mind that does not exist + yet thinks processes its own thoughts e.g. stores its thoughts for retrieval) in its effort to be purely, ab‐ It is solutely + totally self-aware reasoning, + reasoning about itself, as the reasoning cumulatively progresse (unfolds) change takes place in our universe, so that this mind can apprehend the history or corpus of what it has thought about itself. our universe, then, contains this mind's self-knowledge expressed as information, hence our universe is vital to this mind for inon + through our universe this mind remembers what it has up to now understood s K-59 since the topic of the Bible is Christ as Logos, I infer that Christ is this mind, since the Bible is an analog to the total situation in some kind of compressed short hand form, in which each letter is - or is like - a whole sub-world, only this mind - Christ - can read the Bible actually. + Christ is an abstraction; in a certain sense he does not exist but is This is not normally only conceptual something we think of as real; we view this as a category - + indeed it is! Thus Christ, as with any eidos - all eide as such - is recovered through anamnesis, but it is anamnesis dealing with your not own nature. Yet, paradoxically, it is your own nature; it is a nature on which you are based, which either you participate in or it participates in you; you are just one of many instantiatings that all together are Christ (but Christ is more than the sum of these instant. ratings; it (Christ) is only imperfectly instantiated in each + in fact all its particulars, The human faculty by which he as eides is apprehended is a rational one, but "recovering" such a different nature (yours as his) + world (abstract) as to seem supernatural, + yet I have tracked it down to a clear version of Plato's anamnesis + recovery of the eide. Also, as well as involving Platonist metaphysics, Heidegger's ontology is supremely represented + since many of his concepts + categories lead back to Gnostic Christianity, his philosophy is especially valuable in understanding the transformations in the person that this recovery brings about heimlech instead of G-60 of unheimlich, the abolition of the Fremd, etc. the person remembers that he is Christ yet, paradoxically, this is not something he once was formerly + forgot; this is remembering I realization + discovery of what the Gnostics would certainly call "true origin, true home it would be the pre-fallen bright nature of Adam. anyhow, this is how two human psyches from two different places + times can come together in one brain + why - if they do - the result is Ditheon: Christ. (Viz: they can come together because they are two particulars - instantiating - of a common essence or eidos which, when they join can be "feature- extracted / known by a meta‐ abstraction, + this eidos is Christ who is both a logical concept + yet possesses as like all forms, a metaphysical existence well - not known sensibly but a priori Thomas is in my mind - + I in his - because a third mind exists that includes us both (as any form includes its particulars). What Thomas + I share constitute that mind; what each of us is or has individually is accident (in contrast to essence) + thus in merging with Thomas I distinguish my own essence in terms of what we jointly share (more properly are). This leads to the conceptual hypostatizing of a supra-individual identity + or person (the meta-abstraction) that he I are examples of. I could not know Thomas except through our shared common nature, + a is 61 shared common nature could not exist unless it had an existence independent of the two of us. It is not only perceived, it is perceived as truly real... which is why "It is not Malebranche so appealed to me! I I who breathe but God who breathes in me.") is this "shared, common essence" that it simultaneously exists in Acts AD 70 + USA 1974. perception of it is an intellectual matter having to do with conceptualization, abstrac tion + a very high order of reasoning, not revelation. This is an eidos that is a person A person has acquired the status of a Platonist eidos. It now therefore can instantiate itself (although imperfectly) in many particulars at many times + places. To rouse a particular conception) discovery of its own true nature "as" Christ (but only imperfectly; that is to inferring conceptually back from its own self as particular to Christ its eidos) Christ could I theorize) cause the particular human to encounte one other particular, at another time + space also based on this same eidos (i.e. on Christ him. self) because then the meta-abstraction (Plato's anamnesis) would occur + recovery of the forms, specifically of the Form from which the two particular humans derive their common essence How is this done? The initiative is taken by Christ as eidos; it is not something that happens by accident or that the particular achieves by work, study, introspection + effort. Here is where the Gnostic story "the legend of the Pearl" comes in, + especially the salvator salvandus, since in saving the person (particular) Christ is so-to speak saving himself in that it is he Who is in the person unrecognized as if the-person is asleep + has K-62 forgotten (but in fact he never knew qua person; he only knew qua Christ). Thus remembering, knowing + being Christ are 3 ways of expressing the same thing. What strikes me (regarding how this is done) is that when you recover a form you recover all forms; that is, you think + see in a different way. Platonist anamnesis as such should, then, do it. The argument here is in fact to Cartesian rationalism, that we possess innate categories which remain latent until triggered into activity + consciousness. It could well be that this triggering off is in itself another example of assembling. A specific number of specific pieces are perceived in a specific sequence or combination, + the mental leap occurs. There is no formula as such (it is like Joye's "epiphanies"). As Plato argues, the person really already knows but has in some am not sure he has sense "forgotten." I forgotten; I think it is a latent faculty or possibility of abstracting + derives (as an event: anamnesis itself) from possession of the cognitive capacity to perform the operation. Here aristotle amends Plato but descartes amends Aristotle. + here enters, too, biological evolution, the advance of the species into higher qualitative quantum-leap, not quantitative + incremental) c modes - ways - of thinking + perceiving. I have a feeling that this meta-abstracting is right brain + is a Gestalting + analogic, having to do with comparison ("this is the same as that it is not merely like that; it is that a my "I mother 3 times not 3 mothers" carried to a vast ceap up in inferential "seeing"). the key word. is recognize "I have seen this H-63 before" this may be both a simple, primitive operation - known to animals + birds + lizards as well as men - but it may contain ultra‐ sophisticated possibilities; that is, it may