was both a folder 90 - 192 folder 90 - 192 G 136 disclosure to me of my own authentic einai - up to then unknown to me + separate from me; I was lost in the fugal flight of inauthentic Dasein; +, as well, a revelation that my essence lies in God's mind, + that I receive it from him; I exist because he knows me, + this [phylogon] is what he knows that is, in fact, truly me; all else about me does not pertain to my nature but is false + inauthentic. Thus the term "Tony Boucher" applies not to the person I knew -as if he came back from the grave- but to my own self as known to God hence given to me by God as my own nature. I understand (noein) my true nature "as" Tony: but it is me, not him. It is fundamentally interwoven with the Quaker-like heretical Xtian sect. These elements that I list supra are definitions of me, not of someone else, but I knew them, encountered them, in + as Tony Boucher. This was not someone else's nature taking me over; it was my own nature conferred on me -to me- for the first time; this is (1) the "born in the spirit" of Xtianity; + (2) Heidegger's authentic being (Sein). It was impressed into me from the divine mind that is its source, that it (my true nature) pre-existed in before I received it: it is the same as my soul; I recognize it as Tony as if "Tony Boucher" refers to my own true, higher genuine einai, up to that time lacking in me. + as my soul it can be recognized "as" the person I admired the most in all the world of all people I ever knew! Thus it is the ultimate gift that God could confer on me! folder 90 - 193 folder 90 - 193 G 137 By perceiving it -my own soul- in this objectified way I can know myself: be an object of self-knowledge - know who + what I truly am, +, to myself, become comprehensible + acceptable. (This may in fact be the only way that one can actually know oneself.) Thus my einai + my noein -the latter having to do with my self-knowledge of the former- are one + the same. But as I say, this einai Tony is derived out of the divine mind where it came into being; I did not create it: I received it, +, indeed, the proper term for this is soul. (Up until then I had no soul, literally + truly.) I am a certain notion eternally in the divine mind, + in 2-3-74 that notion was conferred onto + into me for the first time: I became. I was at that moment created. This is what is meant in the supra pages when I speak of Tony as my phylogon around which everything else in me constellates. It added some entirely new elements (especially in regards to Xtianity + the Catholic church); others it took away; others it changed. All this I knew as Thomas. For example, the "lake" dream actually gives information about my own nature: what I believe in + give allegience to (as was proved by my gift to the AFSC this week.) This is the direction of my spiritual life. Now, this line of reasoning even more confirms my conviction that my experience can best be understood in terms of Augustine + Malebranche. Here is something more arising from my participating in the divine mind: perhaps the ultimate purpose: that a genuine self / being / essence / soul be conferred on me (which from a practical standpoint would give me -for the first time- a center, an omphalos. folder 90 - 194 folder 90 - 194 G 138 + this in fact is exactly what for some time I've felt I have - + increasingly so. Authentic existence. A center is precisely what I lacked prior to 2-74, + this is linked to my boundless anxiety which was basically a sense of impending annihilation (+ accurately so!). Thus God who is being itself conferred being on me. (This goes far beyond extricating me from danger!). This fits in with my recent perception of the Xtian ceasing evasively to flee + instead confronting his fate. This analysis -that a genuine essence was conferred on me- certainly fits in with my realization of last night that I did indeed participate in the divine mind. It is a powerful argument that that indeed is what took place. Related to this is the performing of the heroic deed, such as Joseph Campbell relates in "Hero with a Thousand Faces." One ventures forth + after a victorious encounter returns with one's soul. This is a sacred journey + a vast rite of passage, mysterious + profound + of unparalled importance. But to discern that this soul is conferred by God himself out of -from within- the divine mind itself - thus this soul is related to + in fact a part of God. ___ I define God as the only true other, + until one has broken out of his private world of his own prior thought formations + experienced God he has in fact only experienced projections of himself; thus he has never truly been born. folder 90 - 195 folder 90 - 195 G 139 Thus he is a soul-less creature unborn in a private world; he is not. God, the "wholly other," is still beyond him + unknown, + the power to confer a soul onto + into him lies in God. To encounter God the person must cease to flee annihilation, +, instead, turn + confront it - + conquer it. Thereupon he becomes, breaks out of his private world, encounters God, + receives his soul for the first time; +, at last, truly is. This event is rare. + what is the purpose, meaning + value + use of this soul granted to him, granted because he cannot confer it upon himself, generate it out of himself? It (this soul) permits him to become an objective thing that he can know; +, knowing this objective thing, he has at last self knowledge; until then his efforts to know himself led only into perpetual paradox + endless regress. He is now something that can be known objectively, which is to say, he is real, to himself: objective to himself. He has, as it were, an independent existence. Up until then folder 90 - 196 G 140 his attempts to know himself, to understand himself, caused him to change; that is, upon perceiving himself he set his being into motion, an endless becoming, never stable, never real; he could not, then, scrutinize himself, + this gave him the disastrous impression that in fact there was nothing to scrutinize! Now, however, he confronts a durable in fact eternal thing, which survives all scrutiny, including his own. This is why I call it not just real but objectively real. + it is real because it derives not from him (from his idea of himself) but from God; he does not create or imagine it; it is conferred on him + he receives it intact. It is not he who knows it; it is God who knows it; his knowledge of it neither augments nor lessens it; it is not dependent on him + his knowledge -or lack of knowledge- of it. Thus it is not subjective; thus it is real. This is a radical doctrine: that the soul is conferred late in life + on only a few people. It confers immortality. It is what I know of as Firebright. folder 90 - 197 folder 90 - 197 G 141 What is most remarkable is not just perceiving one's soul in + hence derived from the divine mind, but to see that soul as a complex of ideas, interacting to form a coherency: one's soul as something that can not only be known but also thought: soul, then as idea - + taking the form of ideas or subideas clustered together: reduced to or derived from what may in the final analysis be words. That's why the term "thing" is the wrong term. It is information. It is a unique intersection by one idea of another, a crossing, an ideational intersection: certain notions about freedom, magic, religious beauty (as expressed by the Grail theme + the Good Friday spell), revolutionary covert activity connected with elements of the Civil War, animals as they appear in children's books, something to do with the old-fashioned countryside + light, music, writing; but most of all a sense of the divine as if not only am I a notion in the divine mind but I as its notion contain in + as myself a notion of it. In other words I fade off into it, + it fades off into me, as if each is aware of + related to the other. The element of compelling assent now extends to my assent being compelled to recognition of my own existence, my own existence emanating from + conferred by the divine mind - which is another way of saying that when I at last discover my own existence as an objective thing I discover it in the divine mind as if awaiting me. I + that identity existed apart initially. (The issue, then, is one of the coming together of two halves to form an intact wholeness.) (As if one part was created here on Earth + is temporary; the other, existing in folder 90 - 198 folder 90 - 198 G 142 the upper realm, is eternal; it actually existed before me, as if having always been there! It so-to-speak waited for the proper moment for me to assume it.) (+, having assumed it at last, I am not the person that I was; I am changed. My writing this exegesis, for instance, is an expression of that change.) That this soul was not identical with me as I had been is disclosed by the fact that when it was conferred on me I felt the presence in me of another person - he whom I called "Thomas" with his own tastes, habits, attitudes, interests + customs. But look: my eternal existence in the divine mind -as what I call a phylogon- is guaranteed; it will not be there; it is there + in fact was there already, from the start. As I say, it can be regarded as a unique message, a certain intersection of given, specific ideas that may never have come together to form one complex before. Although they do form a unity, a coherency, these ideas seem on the face of it beyond reconciliation into one workable whole; my soul is (or possibly may be) literally a point in the divine mind where a number of distinct + distinctly different trains of thoughts come together - come together there perhaps for the first + only time. Put another way, when these particular thoughts come together, I uniquely am created (but created entirely out of ideas already extant in the divine mind; this is the phenomenon of the emergence of the truly new). Thus I can view my essence as a combination of intelligible ideas, myself not reduced to this combination of ideas but as a person derived from + based on these ideas. To know these ideas + how they can + do interact is to know me in terms of my essence. I can be both the object of thought + thought folder 90 - 199 folder 90 - 199 G 143 itself. So I not only derive my being from the divine mind (einai) but I know what I am by perceiving this complex of thoughts in the divine mind (noein); so in the divine mind my einai + noein are one + the same. This is how