case he or is a saint or even Lord Krishna) Christ My dream showed me a hypostasis of myself which is also a genuine existence: in either today My conduct of am case Tagore is real when I look back on it suggests that I Tagore, + (as if to corroborate this) I note that do speak for the ecosphere; I do plead for it; it cries out through me (which is the role I assign to Tagore) Tagore is dying. have sensed for a while that I am dying. I yet I am not physically I'll but I become more + more tired, + where I feel it is in my egs, + I feel there is so much to do, to be told in my writing: novels about Christ show + Krishna + God. + for me, Christ (as I in "Valis") has become the ecosphere. This was my original primary vision in 2-74 + this mitivates + underlies all my efforts from then on My novels + in my exegesis as I try in formulate it all - why? In order to tell Thereupon t it correctly (in "owl," now) (+ began to die I what I am saying is that ever since 2-74 there has been one vast spiritual purpose - in fact kerygma - in + as my -50 c writing, concentrating on articulation of the good news of the return of the savior. + the fact is, beginning with "BTA" it either began to kill me or I realized that it was. I turned down finan cial security for the rest of my life to write "BTA," + out of it came my revelation (understanding) of Ditheon; it is described in the novel, captured already, in that novel, not in a novel yet to come. What drives me on is not even just (sic) an artistic vision but a vast spiritual vision + I know now that it is killing me; so not Tagore? s cim the letter to Ed meskys expresses a coherent, relevent, new spiritual vision which either was revealed to me by supernatural powers; or I fashioned it myself: basically it is a synthesis of Teilhard, Luther's ubiquitous Christ + contem‐ porary concern for the ecosphere; it is a third dispensation," there in that letter. As reread the letter tonight I perceived it not I as a lunatic vision but, rather, the kind of vision that the O.T. prophets had (that is, analogous to theirs for their time + place). It takes the most sophisticated + advanced concern for the welfare of the ecosphere (+ the perception that the ecosphere is in grave peril) + identifies the ecosphere as the soma + psyche of Christ; thus (as I say in the letter) when we wound the ecosphere we are crucifying Christ once again, out of ignor ance; furthermore, if we do not C-51 stop we will drive him from our world + Thus doom (Damn) ourselves forever; it is irreversible. This is a beautiful + yet terrifying vision: beautiful in the perception of the ecosphere as Christ, terrifying in what we are doing to him - unknowingly - + what may result - + this is what I tell, like an O.T. prophet. This is not the Kerygma I saw before my vision last thursday night had seen only, "Christ is here"; now see + say, "Christ is here; he has I We become the ecosphere by assimilation; wound - crucify - him; he is suffering + dying; if we drive him away we doom our‐ by selves; thus we must heed the warning Tagore to cease our wounding of him, our persecution of him. I say not "this is what +, strangely, saw" but "this is what Fat saw + i told me so that I would write it down - i.e. report it to the world. I, PKD, see nothing; I am not only not Tagore, I am not even the human who has the vision of Tagore at the time when, you would think, I would be sitting back + enjoying my money + prestige - my successes - I am driven by this vision + it is a spiritual, not merely artistic vision that is injuring me + perhaps - in my efforts first to formulate it (or receive it) + now to promulgate it - may kill me. + what do I as an individual gain? Ursula's reproach yet even more so! I teach the Parousia, I teach the sanctity of the ecosphere C-52 I teach that one again we unknowingly crucify our God, + this time he will not be resurrected + return; he - the total be spiritual principle of the world - will driven from the world; + this will doom I physically both + the us spiritually + decision, the power to choose, is ours, if we can be made to understand. I must ask what God wants of me to promulgate Tagore's Kerygma? Or to as of today I see sacrifice myself? only the latter as lying within my power; I do not have the strengts left for the i former, so he cannot want the former must emulate Tagore The vision of Tagore both is a Kerygma + contains a Kerygma. My receiving it changes everything. It is no longer, "the savior is coming" but (+ this is much more complex + is new): "the savior is here as the ecosphere; we are crucifying him by wounding the ecosphere + if we do not stop he will repart this world + abandon us to our doove. Thus the ecosphere is viewed as holy, sentient, unitary, + its psyche is Christ himself. We will find him there + now. Yet (as I say) we crucify him + if we do not stop we will drive him from the Earth, whereas if we stop. we sanctify + protect + care for the if ecosphere we will have him with us the choice is ours: higher life forever. incorporated into Christ, or no life at all i C-53 as I get some strength back, + reread + reappraise the letter to Ed, I see it for what it is: a consummate spiritual system that calls on us for right Acts calls on us to choose life, spiritual life, or death. That here at the time of the great assize we ourselves possess the choice as to which way we go - this simply extraordinary. Christ is here but provin sionally, depending on our choice, the bipolari ties of the choice are absolute. + it is possible to verify rationally the reality + significance of this choice (toxifying the ecosphere is real, literally real, not metaphysical) Thus the divinization of the ecosphere is tied into human choice + hence has moral it is contingent + existential significance on human choice; it will either be ratified by us as a species acting collectively or it will be abolished by us as a species acting collectively; in either case we will earn our fate, good or bad: it will not be imposed issue from our own Acts. on us but will This is a whole new spiritual, theological the Bible eschatological view not found in (it is, however, compatable with Zoroaster‐ This is clearly the greatest choice lanism!) that we as a species have ever faced, to choose rightly is to live + to live in total spiritual union with Christ, to choose wrongly is physically to die; there is no middle ground. + it is all literal + real actual + concerns this world. By virtue + of Christ's penetration of the ecosphere, the next world is brought here, + yet we can lose it by our choice we totally determine the future one way -direction - or the other (its opposite). will now be possible to see Christ in t if C-54 + as every living creature - not just humans - +, finally, in + as the totality of the ecosphere itself as an indivisible sentient, conscious, biological unity evolving + becoming more + more structured (negen‐ tropic) This all can be looked at two ways. 1) contemporary concern about preserving the ecosphere is supplied with a spiritual dimension that is both cosmic + absolute. specifically 2) Religion + the spiritual - + Xtianity with its eschatological doctrines - is brought down to earth -literally - + tied into realistic, practical matters. This is an amazing fusion, resulting in a vast new overview never before glimpsed - in particular, the realization (idea) that we as a species have the power of choice as to whether on the one hand our ecosphere will remain divinized. [Note] or, on the other hands we will by our own actions drive this spiritual + life-giving power away + thus doom ourselves to physical extinction. ➀ + we ourselves divinized by our participation in it Thus there emerges from this a doctrine of the final judgment being more correctly a final choice on our parts between life - spiritual life, a higher life - + death, physical death. C-56 uream: on a bank of to screens, scenes of a hunt in progress; the victim is a lovely large white bird. I become very angry at the hunt itself + at all the people watching in/as a video game/sport. I lash out at them, saying I won't watch, + I say, "Maybe Caesar will put in an appearance. This dream clearly ties in Tagore's Kerygma (about saving the animals) with Rome + hence with the Empire + hence with early Xtianity. Now not humans are the victims of the sports for the populace but animals, but blood it is the same cruelty. Sh - "Caesar" was said sardonically, in reference to reagan! good Lord! Look, then, what the dream shows, at least about my feelings/perception! about who is the enemy, + who we are. Xtianity in i its time sanctified human life ( the opposite of which was the Roman games) but now all life - animal life - the ecosphere itself must be sanctified, + this is done through its investiture by Christ. To "see" (understand) the ecosphere as having been penetrated + Holy; assimilated by Christ is to see it as Thus this 3rd dispensation is indeed the logical extension projected from the previous two could reason that my vision of Thus I Valis in/as nature (in 3-74) was to prepare me for the spiritual comprehension of Tagore's Kerygma; I did not think at the time - not until the 9-81 vision - that "world" or "reality really meant "ecosphere"; this has come as a complete surprise to me; a revelation indeed, Christ is a revolutionary. The ultimate revo lutionary. + he has magical (technological?) powers. + he is still alive. This explains it all, from "Tears" thru 2-3-74 to Tagore t s C-57 against the Empire. What is it really religious? Hat: "PKD,, PKD" + this is 2-3-74; PKD, surfaced. + this is Ditheon. there is literally a masterminis guiding this + it is revolution hypnagogic: I mad out the 85 "notices" - the mmothon runners ED Mesky, Xerox image: carring the Torch: two of them, picking up the Torah + running in different directions; there are at least i.e. out of the 85 people 2 of "the right people" whom I've now notified; but notified of what? Could the whole Tagore ecosphere revelation - like the dream in "Tears" - be cypher for revolution? Christ but what are the real the master revolutionary. was hizely thinking, "If this were a I goals? conspiracy I'd have sent one of the 85 letters to Robert Anton Wilson" - + then I suddenly realized with a terrible shock that I did. + the shock was because I did it dissociatedly; I saw derived the "Bob" - + did (I are the name "Wilson," not consciously know it was he. Yet absolutely sure) PKD, knew. I have two selves