is to clear from a careful reading of "DI"! + this fits in with my seeing apocalyptic constants, world in terms of Xtian apoca lyptic history - the secret Xtians vs the BIP (converted into - giving way to - the PTG) + the cypher in "Tears," etc. what if I boil it all down + say, the meta-abstraction of 2-74 was recovery through anamnesis of the [internal] eidos Christ (which is an abstraction possessing real, metaphysical existence, but only available via such a meta-abstraction)? Viz: was a realization about it Christ myself, world only secondarily common essence I t (but all the eide follow when Thomas PKD one eidos is recovered, because Acts USA 1974 the thinking needed applies to all). particular particular Thus Christ as particular 2 could be at Acts AD 70, + as particular, at USA 1974. It is not the two spatiotemporal sets that have a common essence but Thomas + I. There are many, many other particulars at other places + times (e.g. the Dutch wars) but the Golden Fish sign triggered to Thomas because the sign - + what the Girl said - is of that place + time. We are talking about a supreme supra individual mind; anamnesis produced Ditheon. + it is the mind I experienced as Valis in me which experiences the supra-temporal constants of the Xtian apocalyptic history - but, more, reads the arrangement of objects as info, the rest-motion binary modes, the MMSK, is conscious of the see the plasmate, sees time as dialectic, can put the Acts material + King-Felix in depth, am basing this on "Tears," etc. 3 things. the don' en is it K-98 realization that Christ is there; on the Ditheon dream, on russ' letter... applying to all this the meta-abstraction. "Either my body is in two places at once or my body in nowhere at all. from Christ's standpoint as an eidos this is precisely the case. As the dream showed, the two psyches are merely human; how then, if joined, do they become "theou"? By revealing Their common essence which is not human which specifically is Christ. This is like the Buddha nature. It is enlightenment (hence the graphic representation is the ajna eye). I say this is "anokhe -- consciousness pure consciousness replacing machine semi consciousness; + I say (from reading like that night) the Jesus was a great yogi + Magicia + miracle-worker teaching us how to break - absolutely - the hold of karma over us (called by Paul "the law"). Jesus' ethics are an internally consistent system of techniques for breaking the hold of severe justice + limitation which is not limited to the Torah but is expressed in India as Karma + in the ancient west as ananke or astral or planetary or sublunar determinism. Ah! "The secret stolen, through the angels, in one's hands" !!! It has to do with causation + time. ("He causes things + look different so it'd appear time has passed.") os one by one he drows us out of the world. these are techniques of liberation. not Christ-consciousness but Christ nature, as in Buddha nature then my seeing Valis externally may have been perception of Brahman after all (Christ to Buddha to Sankara) (+ such concepti t as Maya i the rope seen as a Se in 6-99 then by Buddha/Christ nature read "tat tvam asi" irreal or only semi-real. + world somenow moksa: the Ditheon dream plus my reading of Luke make more sense in n terms of Pan-Indian thought than in terms of Xtianity, because in pan-Indian thought the spiritual significance for anamnesis has meaning in terms of "Tat tvam asi," the illusory nature of sensible reality, the notion of Brahman the impersonal supra-individual self (Buddha-nature), + of course liberation from Karma, awakening, the ajna eye opening, cosmic resorption; + my notion of "Anokhi-" would be the pure consciousness of Brahman (as would be Valis both in me + in/as world, externally). This consciousness, supra-individual + impersonal would replace the idea of a creator deity My whole meta-abstraction makes much more sense (1) epistemologically + (2) internally-spiritually in terms of a vast supra-individual impersonal absolute consciousness as our real nature (Brahman or Buddha). Thus I human mind plus I human mind equals Brahman or Buddha nature: theon not anthropos. Once the meta-abstraction is viewed as pplying primarily to self + only secondardly to world, Pan-Indian interpretations invincibly follow + K-100 This is why Valis-in-me didn't think: it is an impersonal supra-individual absolute consciousness (atman) + is the same as Valis -outside-me, posing as the world of multiplicity (Brahman). There are strong hints of Buddhism at the end of "BTA": the bhodasattwa, the way of compassion, the deliberate return + setting aside Nirvana for the sake of those left behind - + angel compares "anokly-" to Brahman. now It would seem (1) the void; (2) "I."; + (3) Valis equal atman-Brahman, with Jesus a great yog's teaching us a system for over‐ coming the law of Karma Christ is an adapting to western common essenced thought (Xtianity) an idea X - PKD not even found in Buddhism Thomas Nobiary, but which is specifically Acts the braham Brahmanist idea of an underlying impersonal supra‐ individual absolute consciousness (i.e. hanokhe-") identical to world which is viewed as unitary, sentient acausal, conscious, posing as multiplicity (causation/karma being a kind of illusion Due to our being in a half-conscious machine state). This the meta-abstraction (viewed this way) applies equally + simultaneously internally as impersonal self (atman) + externally as Brahman the individual self is shown to be illusory, as is causation time + multiplicity. Everything internal + external is the one imperson (101 pure consciousness that knows but it is totally Does not think. aware (of itself), inwardly + outwardly. without the notion of the impersonal absolute pure-consciousness supra‐ individual nature (i.e. atman-Brahman it is impossible explain why 2 purely human psyches in me brain equal ditheon, + in fact how 2 purely human psyches can be in one brain, as in bill/tim at the end of "BTA." Only pan-Indian thought + Brahmanism in particular would account for it, at the same time this would explain Valis externally (as well as internally). World + self are both illusory: self to atman; world to Brahman, + atman + Brahman are seen to be the same, which was my impression about Valis inside + outside me it is pure consciousness enthralled by its own prior thought-formations, which, being thoughts, are information. It uttered the thought which became world, which it now perceives as real (+ forgets its own nature) see is two fields: a reality what I field - + a vast impersonal field of conscious ness able act directly on - perturb - the reality field, so the consciousness field the this in no way is o is the primary one sel ) 102 1) pure atman consciousness. (Valist (v.ttic 2) reincaration. But simultanes presents 3) Brahman as what world is (Valis it 4) Karma broken (i.e. the hold of Maya) 5) time, space + causation unreal for A 6) vast space the sound of bello. The Garden (I should say, the park with peaceful animals). 7) World seen to have been prison 8) related to #2, continuity of consciousness over thousands of years 9) world seen abstractly as the prior thoughtformations of #1, the vast impersonal pure con t sciousness, hence as information (thought). Every thing inner + outer one vast sentient unity outside of space, time + causation that says "anokhe --" i.e. it knows itself as an "I." 10) reincarnated savior (who has been here before]. The incarnation of Wisdom. He is not ) born; he is transplanted. (i.e. to this realm. individual self - selves - illusory, like the 11) illusory plurality of external world. 12) in summation: waking up from the felters of illusion: about world, about self. It makes + + perceives reality, its own prior thoughts (info coming back as world to enslave it, in its state of forgetfulness + ignorance. These are meaningful categories: forgetfulness, individual self, illusion Maya, time + causation - vs - anamnesis, pure absolute timeless consciousness, Brahman as this + as world (reality field) not a reduction to but a penetration of, as Tedsturgeon says. My act vis-a-vis Covenant House showed the possibility of my enlightenment 9103 So I was helped (by the last impersonal God-mind penetrating into my deranged mind; as in the Ditheon dream: an entry into - the man entering Nancy's mind; This is not Brahman-atman; this is God entering. It is a vast rational mind penetrating a limited individual psyche which is painful for that vast mind - as Ted cy Sturgeon pointed out the Ditheon drea not only showed entry of an adventitious psyche, it also alluded to Christ by the concept "Ditheon." This is exactly what Ted Sturgeon tacked about. I showed promise of salvation by my act vis-a-vis copenant House, so it was worth [trains to save] saving me. All creatur ascend, even animals. God/Christ helps them attain satori after satori (moksa). Omnial vial ad deum ducent. The dream clearly showed that as in "BTA" "de" is adding to (Greek dis) not sundered. This, then, cannot be reversion to a submind but the entry of an additional impersonal abstrace mind capable of entering many individual minds (as Ted Sturgeon spoke of). am not sure this is God. It is, however, a rational mind (it) penetrating an irrational mind (one). This is why in the dream the mind that was entered was nancy, to show that to this super-rational adventitious mind we are it entered my mind to help me irrational. (the Brahman theory doesn't account for the coincidence of it happening just prise to the Xerox missive, nor the AI voice, esp it saying "I am your tutelary spirit. You have been adopted because a what you did in giving to the kids at without inquirion into whether they House Covenant or bad." good help - o vere old see (104 what must be understood is the perpetual ascent by all living creatures toward lightenment, + that this macromind saw a as good chance for my final enlightenment indicated by my act vis-a-vis Covenant House; so it entered me to deal with my problems, esp. the Xerox missive for it all to times are now, are the present. It didn't want see me copped off before my enlightenment. Now as my permanent tutelary spirit it not only protects me but teaches me (tutor). Esp. it correct me when I'm on the wrong track (like this atman‐ Brahman tangent.) So I guess it does not regard the Judo-Xtian views as error think this macromind is Thomas. This explains an I the Acts material in "Tears"; Brahman does not essentially Buddhist view about all creatures must be held regarding harma + enlightenment in my p hypnopompic state I thought of a section from "Frolix 8" having to do with all creatures "crawling, walking, flying" toward enlightenment life, for all living things, in an ascending spiral perpetual learning, joyce's "epiphanies"; this of includes all creatures, no matter how low. It is in terms of this that the macro [rational) mind entered me, because I showed promise of being on the verge of a great leap, + my death would have unfairly truncated this. This explains the "why me?" It is more Buddhist than Xtian, but I see Jesus as an avatar of the Buddha. (When I read like that night.) This explains the explicitly Buddhist elements at the conclusion of "BTA. My God, this adventitious rational "macro‐ mind" is a brodasattwa: a former human who attained release + then came back to help it + the end I in "BTA depict as I cactly e other K165 this would be Thomas + is not reincarnation He is Christ-like but not Christ (I discuss this in "BTA"); he has become a Christos, a perfected man in the Xtian sense who