is linear - i.e. cumulative - but lacks the dialectic to drive it on in the manner expemplified in Beethoven's music in which each new composition suprasses & subsumes all - the totality of - the previous compositions; this is internal evolution. & its time is a new kind of time, to linear time as linear time is to cyclic time. I call it "synchronous" time since it is acausal.) (Viz: the future stage determines the past, not vice versa; it may even be a sort of retrograde or teleological time.) Thus Ditheon itself imposes itself onto the B psyche rather than evolving out of it, from it, as if flowing into it to use it for its own purposes. For the type A psyche the past rules. For type B the present. For type C, Ditheon, the future rules & tugs the present as a perturbation of the reality field. So rather than evolution there is an igniting or catalytic effect, as if it is triggered off from latency to active mode. Though there is bilateral hemispheric parity, psyche B (the wise horn) is smarter than psych A (the stupider horn). Nonetheless both are equally essential to the total unity. Type A is the Father, hence power. Type B the Son: wisdom. Type C: Love. 354K. Thus in a certain real sense the trinity itself is expressed here as & in a microcosm! 3 ages, 3 psyches, 3 types of world, 3 kinds of time (& the 3 levels of "the Commedia"). Hence when Ditheon is formed it is said that there has been "Birth in the Spirit" or enthusiasmos by the Spirit; i.e. the Spirit is present. {Diagram: A, Father; B, Son; C, Spirit; or, A, Father; B, Son; C, Spirit} The entire conceptual difficulty blocking a (my) proper understanding of 2-3-74 can be expressed as: why would the recovery (anamnesis) of an archaic, primitive psyche yield almost at once to an ultra meta-psyche associated with the future (i.e. Valis)? How does the distant past - 2000 years ago - relate to an evolution into or even from the future? In which a God-like extra-verbal pure knowing (associated somehow with a push-pull Dialectic) be accounted for? In other words, why, if you add the past [psyche] to the present, do you wind up with one future psyche? This now seems to be explained: this recapitulation or retrieval sets in motion a binary push-pull unitary meta-psyche that is properly called Ditheon; it has two parts, one from the past 354L & one from the present; added together they transmute into something new, connected with the future. Thus whereas the past was remembered, it was the future that burst in & took over (hence I distinguished THomas - the past - from Valis - the future; & Valis is supra human). Although the past (Acts) was seen, more important, timeless constants (literally outside of time) could be discerned. The twin ("di") viewpoint focused on reality discerned its real nature: information. This is what I have for a while called "temporal parallaxis" & this element must be taken into consideration. If 2 worlds (psyche A's & psyche B's) are seen simultaneously, world as such falls victim to a meta-abstraction which rolls it back to "pre-existant forms." As Eckhart phrases it: world becomes conceptual rather than substantial. The conclusion of "BTA" turned out to be absolutely crucial & essential in figuring this out, because in it I took psyche A (Bill) added it to psyche B (Tim) & got Ditheon Christ. & for the first time had an understanding - thanks to Russ - of 354M what all this (2-3-74) is about. It is Christogenesis, i.e.e Ditheon. & Ditheon is assembled out of two human parts. It is fascinating that I present Bill as blatantly type A: schizophrenic & concrete: distinctly bipolarized to Tim in the novel while Tim is alive. With the underlying theme (which I was conscious of) that Bill & Tim equalled some kind of complete (perfected) psyche, each offsetting the lacks, limitations, & deficiencies of the other precisely! So the analysis of psyche A & psyche B = psyche C goes throughout the novel, & merely is verified at the end, when the fusion of the two produce Christ. Much to my surprise! Yet my logic demanded it. -- By the logic of "BTA": since Bill is me & Nancy, he represents the type A right hemisphere psyche - i.e. schizophrenic (in my case utilizing the irrational intuitive function). The invasion in 2-3-74 for me then was the left hemisphere coming on with its 354N judging (in Jungian terms rational) thinking faculty (I had judged Xtianity to ber true, whereas my irrational intiutive facility deals only in possibilities). Hence Thomas was type B equals Tim equals Jim: rational. Thus I said to Charles Platt: "I was invaded by the rational, as if I'd been insane all my life & suddenly became rational." This is so. Thomas was a Christian, hence humane, hence type B. & this shows Angel Archer to be Thomas: type B rational (thinking) whereas I am Bill. Or is she the composite Chri union of both (i.e. Ditheon)? In any case Bill is me & this is right hemisphere type A. Hence for me - being type A - the apostolic Xtian experience of "Baptism in the spirit" - i.e. having the leff left hemisphere become conscious - was possible & did in fact occur. It had an archaic quality because this is a historically archaic experience that died out when type B became common. Thomas = Tim/Jim type B. Thomas was not humane; he was hard boiled & practical. Bill - type A - is humane. 354o This is more complete than I realized. see note p354Q. Type A - the more priorative psyche, right hemisphere - may be what I had been at least since 1970 when Nancy left me - i.e. beginning with my "mescaline trip" which was not a mescaline trip but schizophrenic psychosis in which my right hemisphere took over, & ruled until 2-74 when my left came back on & (it being rational) "invaded the irrational" as I put it in "Valis." But Ditheon resulted, but it was not A invading B but B invading A, exactly as in apostolic times. Pat identifies schizophrenia with right hemisphere (type A) & the schizoid with left hemisphere type B. The Greco-Roman empires may have been type B: the Judo-xtian type A. So "born in the spirit" was type A Jews encountering type B Greco-Roman culture & achieving Ditheon. So in 2-3-74 I did not suffer a schizophrenic breakdown but a recovery - more. I temporarily achieved Ditheon. Angel may be my left hemisphere; she is very much like Time in the novel - & knows it. I'm afraid I now know the truth: it is multiple personality - as in 354p "Scanner" - hence my amnesia. Hal was right: PKD1 & PKD2. One introverted & intuitive; the other thinking, extraverted & rational. Hence my dissociated acts vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. Two selves that briefly unified into one in 3-74 as Ditheon. Hence when I wrote - e.g. "Tears" - there is a latent self "ghostwriting" along with me. Thomas is the other self (Angel Archer?) there is A & B, but together they produce C (which doesn't happen in "Scanner"). Hence I said, "I am a machine" - i.e. I felt the control of the other self. It came out under the sodium pentathol. Its view of America as a BIP, as in "Tears"! The Xerox missive. Hence I wrote "Valis" as multiple personality: PKD & H. Fat. My other self figured out what the Xerox missive was. & took control to deal with it. This self didn't speculate; it knew (via logic). The missive had to be phony. Hence the AI voice. But as I say, this is precisely the situation faced by the type A Jews of the Greco-Roman times: a type B culture. The rigidity - as expressed in Torah - was the case with these Jews, but also they had the humanity lacking in the Greco-Roman type B (schizoid, as Pat says) psyche. 354Q It was the Greco-Romans who had the philosophy, the Jews (like Bill) who had the philanthropos. Acquiring a type B psyche meant becoming Ditheon, but (as I say) very soon they were simply born with the type B psyche, & Ditheon passed out of history. I am a rare case: type A: a throwback: humane & stupid & irrational, but this gave me a chance to experience Ditheon. The Dialectic is like inner time starting up in & between the 2 psyches. Thus do due to a peculiar set of circumstances I recapitulated an experience that was normally available only in apostolic times to Jews entering the more sophisticated literate Greco-Roman world. I was als ob Bill, & my type B psyche broke in als ob Tim (so at the end of "BTA" I described - deliberately - b my own experience!) Note: by consigning sedakah to the type A Jewish psyche I get rid of the contradiction listed supra. But it did require code ethics - the law - to navigate, for it could not pertain logical operations based on gernal principles & so it needed each role spelled out, as in Torah. Xtianity is the acute Hellenization of Judaism, then, as I have long suspected (Philo himself read no Hebrew, only Greek, & lived in Alexandria, not Judaea). This was a very primitive people coming up against a very sophisticated civilization that had long since switched over to left-hemisphere dominance (as Julian Jaynes points out); but this involved a sacrifice of their Sedakah or φιλανθροπια K354R It was a little like the American Indians vs the white man. Does Ditheon, then, always & only involve a type A right hemisphere dominance into which the rational left hemisphere type B psyche breaks? May well be; yes. So Jesus' "baptism in the spirit" was historically limited in time & place except for fools (sic) like me. Then the "Holy fool" is a type A right-brain pre-rational person guided by the Holy Spirit - the latter being his left brain talking to him! & because of the left brain's superior reasoning, it would see as God-like, supernatural, wise, all-knowing. In relation to it, the right brain is child-like, a primitive (like Bill). & in our modern world (of left-brain schizoids) the right-brain person is hopelessly unable to cope with the complexities, & fails to adapt. Z.B.: the Xerox missive posed a problem only my latent left brain could solve. Thus in the spring of 1974 my problems became too complex for my dominant (irrational) right brain. & my left brain broke in, upon rendering its initial judgment that xtianity was true (whereas, as I say, to my right brain, it was only one possibility out of many; no judgment was rendered). I was like an American Indian facing modern white man's urban life, & defeated by it; but I possessed Sedaḳah, wheras to me other people were "androids" - i.e. schizoids; yet such women represented by own missing part that I needed in order to complete myself, so I was drawn to them. But in 2-3-74 I found it in myself; this is Angel Archer, my completed self. My longing for wholeness. K355 Note for p. 352. Ditheon: Christ enters the mind of the creature confronting retributive fate (the death crisis) & confronts it with him, &, by the insertion of his own spotless white sheet of paper - as revelaed to me in my "messenger" dream, nullifies the claim, karmic claim, that the retributive fate has on the creature; thus the fate is avoided, & the creature lives on (astral determinism has been defeated). This, then, is what 2-3-74 was all about vis-à-vis the Xerox missive, etc. & this is the "spirit" or stegenographic secret of the N.T., just as φιλανθροπια is the