basis this "what" is precisely spelled out of in a way it is a truly logical projection on the axis of Judaism to Xtianity to it; can now see that; + yet simultaneously I it is new, I guess because of its pre‐ sumption that the divine (spiritual) element is here + is congruent with the ecosphere - but just when you grasp this, you learn that if "killed" this anima psyche) of the ecosphere will withdraw (presumably infact) to its home. Then did the ecosphere descend originally, as if coming here to live? + yet this precisely is said of Hagia Sophia in "Wisdom" I but in genesis it ant find it. I clear that man is custodian of the is world. So here is a cardinal element from Judaism. + if man fails as custodian, God will abandon him. This, too, could be Judaism; God will turn his back on man. but the suffering servant + vicarious atonement - why, this comes from (saiah! maybe my vision is simply (sic) a profound perception of the Hebrew prophetic basis of Xtianity bypassing conventional Xtian views about the 2nd coming. My view may be the correct one because maybe the spirit of Elijah in me, + roam C.65 I have reread the 9-81 Xerox letter over countless times + am convinced that This is the genuine thing: a new dis‐ pensation; perhaps there is an actual person (incarnation); perhaps not, but if not, "Tagore" signifies an actual spiritual presence or entity + There is a new + coherent spiritual doctrine however (conception) in the vision/letter literal or "symbolic" Tagore is. To me he is real + real as Jesus is real or the Buddha or Krishna is, + his Kerygma is my religion supplanting all others, especially the concept of his identification with the eco sphere. I see no fault, no flaw, no defect t in it, moreover, for me it is far more meaning ful than any known religion + strikes me as a logical projection + synthesis for today of virtually all previous religions. It is too late for me to regress. If this proves not to be Xtianity (i.e. if Tagore is not Christ) then I am perforce not a Xtian. Put another way, whatever + whoever Tagore is, for me he is the personification of spirituality (1) as Kerygma + (2) as a person (entity, being, deity, guru, teacher, Buddha whatever called: avatara, etc.; he is to me literal + real in every significant respect both in what he teaches + what or who he is) believe that when we wound the ecosphere I o (1) We wound him; + (2) he accepts this volun tarily, but if killed will die or "die" ascend out of our + world leaving us to literal physical doom C-66 Now, I will pose/offer myself one vast previously unsuspected puzzle to My "Christ consciousness" deal with: opened 3-74 state - when my "ajna eye" I saw the hyper-field, etc - I offer + shared Tagore's mind; Tagore I this: Then is Valis [Note] both in me in 3-74 (the dialectic, etc) + Valis external to me; when saw Tagore I saw Valis more truly I than even before, + perhaps saw Valis for the first time âž€ properly seen who is Tagore then? but answer: Tagore There has to be a premise. I stipulate Tagore as the irreducible premise. Logos? Krishna? Buddha? No: Tagore. "Tagore" + "Valis" are two names for the same mind/entity) being. another name: Ditheon. just figured out why ceylon + not There is no significant Buddhist is India. population in India; India is 82. Hindu + it Buddhist. But ceylon is 67. Buddhist, (that is, t So "ceylon" conveys: Buddhist Tagore can't live in india + be Buddhist even though Buddhism begin in india: it is a dead letter in india, now.) Weylon signifies "India with Buddhism," as info. C-67 + this fact was not known to me about Ceylon until I looked up up after the dream. - is the apocalypse, because we either accept God or death. This was never true of a serior befores It's either Tagore's perfect spiritual beauty or death; hence. The great assize as choice: Light or Darknes ( If I had had just (sic) the 9-81 dream to go on - but I saw Valis. + experienced its mind in mine âž€ I have it. This is the first savior ever it who could literally tell us - that is "literally meaning truthfully literally- that our choice was between him + death: this message has been proffered before but it was eitter fanciful or had to do with an alleged resurrection, life in the next world, etc. But this is literal physical life here + it involves man as a species. further, the sins that will kill us are sins directly against this savior because he has chosen this to be so, that our sins wound him literally (as Burns/Stigmata). Thus we are given an either -or law of the excluded middle Light - dark choice. When we wound the ecosphere we wound the spiritual element above over + over endangering our physical lifes; so spirituality + physical life are homologized; + driving away the spiritual + killing ourselves are homologized. This has never been the case before + this is the apocalypse! physical life + the spiritual have now become 3 one + the same; driving away (rejecting the spiritual has become one with physical whole species These are for our extinction bipolar mutually exclusive absolutes -68 c been the case before. This has never + the spiritual meant always in the past a better life compared with normal ordinary life but now a rejection of the spiritual means literal physical death. This is the apocalypse absolutely, + God has arranged it that way, for Tagore voluntarily takes on our sins, not to expiate them but in order (1) that he accept the fate of the ecosphere as his fate: its wounding is his, its death is his; + (2) so we will know about this + (3) hence stap what No: vision + we are doing. (2) the "Marathon" dream is terribly important: people it shows the news sent out by me to the 85 carried to others (as the news that has been waited for.) Perhaps even many othere. + it is good news ("rejoice"). Not By them (2) The strangest thought came to me. If I the spiritual principle has penetrated the ecosphere itself + assimilated it, we now can't turn down spiritual life - the spiritual principle - without forfecting our This is a whole t literal physical lives! new condition of the spiritual dimension; now, so-to-speak, has leverage - deciseve it leverage. For us the issue is spiritual life or no life at all. Could This be the strategy by Hagia Sophia since "she was not acceptable before As a now she's mandatory, as it were strategy vs darkness + the Empire it is invincible. (This presumes an on b going absolute war, + I do so presume!) C69 Holy Wisdom has outsmarted the stupid but powerful side of the dialectic; this is a winning - the winning - move! It is a fact accomple, + all that remains is to spread the word to us all + yet Tagore emphasizes that we have a choice; it is our choice: we are free to choose + must choose. + he reveals only love. Yes, but the choice is between life + death! Excellent strategy! What human being is going to turn Holy Wisdom down this time? Then Holy Wisdom (God, must know - through his a priori foreknowledge that the strategy will succeed. + it is done out of love; he would be forced to withdraw, + regretfully, not in anger or punishment, but as a consequence are odd idea came to me tonight; my Tagore vision + Kerygma seem, upon acute + prolonged examination, to issue from very ancient religious sources both Eastern + Western. The Eastern: pan‐ Indian (before Buddhism + Hinduism! split apart); the Western: quite old semitic notions of the role pre-fallen man held toward the Garden, when man lived with nature in harmony + was the caretaker of the Garden; thus an idgllic primordial state is sought for: restoration of that state depicted in Western (near-Eastern thought) but by means Pan-Indian acknowledgement of suffering of as the basis of all life, + that the spiritual being suffers for + with the totality of life the solution to which is withdrawal from the world - yet this Eastern view is neatly balanced by an appeal to man to repent -of his that ways man i -70 c brought suffering into the world + dis‐ turbed the primordial harmony... In fact destroyed it by plundering nature + the attacking it, rather than protecting + guarding t it. If man is the cause, man can by changin his ways, repair what he has done + restore the original harmony. What is to be done is a Western view; how man will be induced to change his ways + do This is Eastern (+ yet is found in isiash: the sufferent servant). But note: man is not commanded to change his ways + repent; he is enlightened by the paradigmatic suffering of Tagore: thus man the understands, + changes his ways willingly. recourse ( threat) by deity is not that it wi punish man but that it will withdraw from man who, without deity the world + abandon will wither + die; man cannot survive at all a yet even this without the spiritual element threat is found in early Judaism! Israel well understood the inevitable consequences of God withdrawing his support, turning his face away; 4 backed up by YHWH could israel only survive [in the face of powerful neighbors]. the I Covenant would thus be broken. Why, that is The covenant requires that, as God what I saw. (who is all-powerful) protects us, who are weak, we must in turn protect the ecosphere since we (man are the most powerful species on the planet, + this precisely what we have not done is my analysis: what I saw is the God of Israel. + Tagore is the word-wisdom entity (the suffering servant of Isaiah). Then Tagore is Christ p. this is the second Advent. + there is a threat of punishment when this is seen in terms of the covenant relationship with God because it is axiomatic in 21 C-71 the Covenant relationship that "This is my blood of the new covenant Jesus says this in matthew. We have broken the second covenant. The first advent didn fail; the fault lies with us. This is (the eschatological] judgment + it is a guilty verdict. (Viz: "unless you cease -" I neath the perfect loving beauty there is a under sentence of death for us unless we - as the Biblical terminology has it - repent; i.e. change our ways. This [the 9-81 vision] is clearly Judo-Xtian good thing I said so in my mail out. It is purely so. Tagore (as I say) is Christ; + we have broken the basic covenant. That underlies our entire relationship to God. The message is congruent with the mosaic dispensation not only are we covenant breakers we doom ourselves + all life by our destruction of the ecosphere; thus God is intervening to save us: the warning (Kerygma) is for our own good since we are part of the ecosphere we are destroying, + not above it. the ramifications of this Kerygma are extensive. God wishes to save us, but "us" refers to all life on this planet. It is not the wrath of God we need fear, God loves G8 - enough to take the burns onto himself+ is warning us of the consequences of our own Acts. The fact is, it is an ecosphere. its life is indivisible. The solution to