in pain + insury, is already - who, covertly here + is driven away by us according the the Bible, he will rule + judge as Christos pantocrator not only - the vision says - is he covertly here now, he is here as the suffering savior whom we reject by our own sins (evil Acts). This is very much like - + manis incarnation - except the first advent that if he is driven away we will perish; no further divine intervention will occur - which is a kind of judgment by Tagore. In any case the threat if given by a transmundane deity can readily be carried out, but from the standpoint of orthodox Xtianity - e.g. Paul Tillich - it would be bombast I inconceivable). (+ not within the province of the savior speaking for himself; for example, Christ's withdrawal (unacceptability, rejection) did not doom the world. Here the savior - Tagore - speaks as the sole + total spiritual reality here in our world; if deity is transmundane, this C-178 threat is intelligible, since except for the savior (messenger) there is no spiritual factor in this world. Thus (I say) Tagore's threat implies a transmundane deity not found in This world except in + as the several saviors who have come here. This is in fact a thoroughly d Manichaean view. The world, by reason of our choice, is abandoned to its own evil + to death. The spiritual realm (as was made clear in the vision) survives. Thus it is clear that the Messengers- saviors come here from far off: from another realm. But, again, this is not a spatial matter A final point. The several saviors must have experienced reality as the hyper-field AB intact fusion which is heaven + Earth reunited. {Note in this case, my experience of reality in 2-74 - 2-75 may indicate some relationship between me + Tagore (as Francie steiger pointed out); I am in touch with the "upper realm" + when inspired by it can speak for it (like or as a shaman). Thus there indeed may be no anthropomorphic Tagore (as Russ pointed out) but only (sic) Tagore in + now as the soma + psyche of the ecosphere, + I am the -or a human spokesman for that colossal Parousias prophet giving warnings in the traditional way with more or less a traditional message (repent, abandon your evil ways, or God will turn his face away from you + leave you to your doom). I don't know. It is an open question + Ditheon replacing mere fragmented, partial self, scattered here + there, + fallen in a fallen world. C-179 One could even opine that, like Elijah + Paul, I was bodily lifted up but I am suffering, + into heaven. do so voluntarily. Can it be said that I not only embody a spiritual principle but the spiritual principle. called by me Valis? So that Valis speaks not just to me but through me I am a mouthpiece, like (to others)? (!!) The Sibyl - which may explain my dreams of the 3-eyed people + the dreamed of my own Sibyl specifically, I my identity. Tears" would be a part of narration of the word (Logos). In the Tagore vision it - the message - takes on distinct form. It becomes explicit. + I realized this in the days following it; it was unique. guess I should clear up one very I major point where I vacuilate. I speak of world B being "Christified." but it's more likely that the presence of the divine - Christ, Valis; Brahman, God, etc. - occurs only in hyper-reall AB, i.e. when the two complementary mundane half-worlds a and B are superimposed (to form the hyperfield that is supramundane); then God or Christ is visible. This is the outer macroanalog of Ditheon, the rejoined twoupart self made again intact. C-180 infact self, intact world - this goes all the way back to Jeter's theory of "the second signal" + fits in with my "Eureka" insight of (B) upper realm + our composite world. ilower realm when A + B are superimposed the transtemporal constants can be extracted (that which is common to both worlds), + it is these that alone are truly real; + it is here that the divine becomes palpable. Realm B is a black iron Prison. Christ there was been crucified + has left; they are awaiting his imminent he turn. + in anthropomorphic form! Valis can only be distinguished from its vironment when the 2 complementary worlds are joined; then Valis stands am saying that world B is as I t out fragmentary + partial + fallen as This is a very great our own. realization: 1) Join two human psyches together + you get not Dianthropos but Ditheon. 2) Join two mundane worlds together + you get not a complete mundane world that makes sense but a world pervaded by the divine I see the logic in this, + what the Fall has to do with it both in terms of humans + creation as well, C-181 when the Fall (schism) occurred, God vanished from world; humans dropped from their "ditheon" state to their occluded, debased state. So maybe there is something in my 180" reversal of value-signs complementary "Parity" (worlds principle. world-schism + psyche-schism. Each of us is "half a man," as ornstein puts it, to which I add, "living in this precisely is half a world" the Fall. This coaxial tracking is not a clever "time-sharing" computer mechanism but a dismal malfunction There is another link to Gnosticism in This "sign-value reversal." Gnosticism is virtually a sign-value reversal religion; that is, it assumes the ostensible reality to be a fraud concealing the true story which is 180 opposite - hence the need for the revelation of the Gnosis. Everything must be read backward. we are secretly in a giant prison, secretly in thrall. There is a deliberate occlusion practiced on us by hostile warders. The truth is not just hidden; it is deliberately hidden to keep us in ignorance. Were we to know the truth, all would be turned around all that we see. There is, then, in Gnosticism a built-in revolutionary, subversive basis fighting the ruling powers of this world. So it is basic to Gnosticism that there is a 1800 reversal covert (concealed) from us. This is not found Neo-Platonism, a spurious overt world in within which - concealed - is a 1800 reversal covert world. C-182 in fact only Gnosticism teaches this "1800 real truth" world. So the 2-74 disclosure can only be Gnostic, + this is something I must not forget. This "veil" vs "veil off" situation is absolutely + uniquely Gnostic. In fact this 180° reversal of sign i values - by means of the revealed Gnosis the fact a is what Gnosticism is all about. that I realized the truth in one blinding it instant is an argument for Gnosticism, for shows the Gnostics to be right about our normal state (ignorance + deliberately kept so). is probably Zoarial mirror-opposite realities the basis of Gnostic revelation. 2-74 was, then for me the great Gnostic reversal. Were there nothing to reverse, Gnosticism would have nothing real to teach/do/achieve. (To reveal is to reverse; to reverse is to reveal; they are one + the same + I have argued that the pleroma must of necessity be here, not spatially elsewhere (folloming Plotinus' argument). Thus - as I say - I did not see this world pervaded by God/Christ; I saw the unfallen, repaired world thus.) just now read over the first 68 pages of "Valis." The most profound - + the most profoundly Gnostic - element is Zebra (the Jesus patibilis or messenger sent here + concealed here in world) + when I wrote "Valis I knew nothing about Jesus patibilie, that in describing Zebra (Valis) I was at the very heart of the Gnostic concept of soteriology by the transmundane God. It is very convincing - as Gnosticism! In fact (Look! had the vision/theme of Zebra C-183 not been included, the Gnostic slact would be hollow, forced + merely theoretical. i.e. faked, mere doctrine. Not reality but system-belief. But the opposite is the case. because of Zebra/Valis, the Gnosticism is a fact in "Valis" + is the core of the novel; hence ) the novel is made convincing. Zebra (Valis would have to have been experienced by Fat (myself) if indeed the Gnosis had in fact been revealed to Fat (myself) it did not know this when I wrote the novel the narration of fat's experience of Zebra I So convincing as to be - to me now is self-authenticating (+ Gnostic: it is the messenger here covertly as revealm). + what is Gnosticim without this revealm? Just empty words, just doutrine. In those pages dealing with Zebra the book takes a totally new + much more profound turn. The quintessential Gnostic vision is not that our world is a prison or that the creator is insane + hence our world is; the quintessention vision is optimistic: the luminous messenger has come here + is here, invisibly, to resul/save us. Thus we pass over from Paranoia + negativism to soteriology, the real Gnosis! "Valis," then, is not about Gnosticism; it is (an instance of] the Gnosis itself. Not I find myself totally convinced by it (Valis" is not about our condition; it is about the rescuel from our condition + hence is a VALId Gnostic revelation, indubitably. This is not a book by ➀ It is what it describes - hence self-authenticating C-184 someone who has read about Gnosticism or knows about it; this book is a Gnostic experience recorded: Gnostic soteriology itself suddenly the book throws aside its wraps; it is not about mental illness at all: it is an account of the Gnostic soteriological reality here (normally invisible) in our world. Our irrational e world has been penetrated from outside. 415 54 213 597-6631 467 4208 1470 Pamala monrue One could make up a novel in which the fallen categories of Gnosticism are shown because (as Heidegger says) these are in fact the conditions + happenstance that we do find our selves caught in. But the soteriological elements are something else because by definition (Gnostic definition) they are transmundane: supernatural in the purest, most absolute sense - + hence play no role in the quasi-Gnostic modern existential systems. Thus I could have in "Valis" pondered the irrationality of world, its prison-like nature, etc. But there would have been no mention of Valis, nor could there have been. Suppose, however, upon reading about Gnosticism I had elected to make up a soteriological element. But then we would have had a genuine fallen component + a fictional soteriological element, the two not it any way joining to form a coherent whole t one would truly pertain to world + world experience (Dasein), the other would be a patent fabrication merely imaginative +, worse a gratesque anachronism playing no role in the lives + experience, worldview + thinking of t C-185 contemporary man. The result would be absurd. The most critically Valis aspects of human existence would be juxtaposed with bizarre fantasy - +, worst of all, the latter would be introduced to solve the former - with the bitter result that the former (man's thrown + fallen Dasein) would seem just that much more hopeless. However, the problem (verfallenheit) + soterio logical solution are in "Valis" of a seamless whole. One must eithere accept both or reject both, they are indivisible. now, an ignorant reader rejects both as "madness" but this is a faulty solution; he does not know enough practically + theoretically to understand that the former (ver fallenheit cannot be dismissed (the problems stated by Fat + which he seeks to solve + understance). but the wiser reader in facing the reality of Fat's questions + problems - because that reader knows of Heidegger +