seemed to be Platonist + yet its content was Xtian. The mechanics seemed to be well the solution Plato's eide - yet - seems to be Judaism-Kabala-Spinoza the contents being Xtian because Xtianity evolved out of Judaism. + this solution nvolves me with the Great 17th century ost-descartes rationalists i.e. Spinoza folder 55 - 192 folder 55 - 192 D-142 my investigation of Faustian striving (seen via Hans Jonas' analysis of Gnosti‐ cism vs the Greek view of the cosmos) has opened up the most extraordinarily fruitful line of thought vis-a-vis my writing + my exegesis (two parts of one whole). Suddenly my own Faustian-Gnostic striving) rebelling ("the taste of the apple justifies the Fall") explodes in a compre‐ hension of Felix culpa as the ultimate solution, as the true source of the victory of the heroic (hence ecstasy) over the tragic (suffering due to heimarmene which I now identify with the will of the creator, he being both sides of the DI lectic). the explanation is: that which man on his own desires absolutely is finite (the apple) but God being infinite is more; hence God deprives man of what he desires (symbolized by the apple) knowing - God knowing - that this will ultimately bring man to him (God) which is of greater - i.e. infinite - worth; thus tragedy (suffering) is converted by Christ - as Felix culpa - into victory, hence the heroic; + the cosmos rejoices in bliss, singing God's praises. "Die hommed erzahley die chae gottes." As regards the Faustian striving it too like the acceptance of God's will expressed as heimarmene (physical + mosaic law) lead at last to God, so the results of the two roads - acquiescence + rebellion - arrive at the same end - to which pistis takes us now! folder 55 - 193 folder 55 - 193 this 3 attribute "loop" can readily be equated with Malebranche's representation of the pre-existeant ideas used in creation (there is a creation but we do not in fact experience it): *chart* pre-existent ideas in God's mind (thought) idea___word//writing__object (infinity) creation itself (Ding-an-sich) ----intersection with us (with our minds) *end chart* Thus I equate kabala, Spinoza, and Malebranche. This structure can be compared with Plato's meta-physics and plan by the Demiurge (idea). Parciulars (word or representation or extensions) and eide (object, creation itself, Kant's Dinge-an-sich). But in the Hebrew-Kabalist-Spinoza system, all these are one (and equally ontologically real; the notion of model and copy--icon--does not obtain.) Here in this "loop", Kant's distinction between the phenomenal world and the thing-in-itself maintained (found in Malebranch as representation versus on the one hand pre-existent ideas in God's Mind, and, on the other hand, creation itself) So in 3-74 I saw reality as information about reality, or, more accurately, reality in its information form or stage. The Hebrew-Kabalist equation in which idea, word and writing of word and object are one would mean that a representation in our mind--the word in information stage---would be as real as either of the two other stages (idea and object), hence the degraded interim copy--particular--in the platonist system, which is only semireal--this "free" would not apply. Our representation (in the folder 55 - 194 folder 55 - 194 Cartesian sense) does its verb; it is the object it represents. Just as a musical score is the symphony. Even if (as it may turn out) it is built up out of binary digits (bits). However, were we to apprehend all 3 attributes, surely this would be an enormously enhanced experience over and above experiencing but one attribute. "The universe is information" is not a complete formulation; it should read, "the universe we experience is information. But real objects exist as another mode (attribute) of what we expeirence as information; further, this information mode is not a description of these objects but one mode in a 3-part system of modes--idea, word and writing of word (information), and object--all of which are equally real. The information is the object just as the objects is the information and is the object. The object, the information (word and writing of word) and idea are a unitary hwhole to which the surname "substantia" is given, implying that it exists sua genesis, dependent on nothing, self-causing, initiating all its transformations internally, sentient, conscious, and the laws by which it operates physically are simultaneously paralleled by logical sequencing; likewise, the information (word) mode arrangesitself into meanginful patterns paralleling the logical sequencing and paralleling physical laws. There are not 3 systems but one, as with God, there are 3 personae (persons) but only one substantia (Being). " As a corrolary it can be said "we need only experience the information mode (attribute) to understand the place of the system, because each of the three folder 55 - 195 folder 55 - 195 modes (attributes) faithfully represent the other two point for point (what I call topological congruency). (or analogic correspondence) There can be no point (element) in one mode (attribute) that does not equally appear in the other two because this is not a cause-and-effect relationship; this is a single unitary substance manifesting itself equally and simultanesouly as and in its several (at least three) modes or attributes. It is one "thing" viewed three ways, each reality being as ontologically primary as the other two. The fact that substantia has an information attribute makes possible the feeding of substnatia (reality) into individual percept systems--to form what the cartesians call a representation. This solves the greatest of epistemological problems; not "what is out there?' but "how do we know what is out there and how can we know that which is out there and how can we be assured that our representation is adequate in relation to what it represents?" This problem absolutely defeated Descartes, who (apparently) was the first to recognize it (the best solution is probably Kant's, but his solution required a distinction between what we experience (the phenomenal world) and "the thing-in-itself" which is of its nature--and the nature of how we know is unknowable. Thus, as with Plato, this world must be postulated, and, since an unknowable world is hypothesized, of necessity. However, my system although postulating attributes and modes that we do not [normally] perceive--i.e. know--maintains that the attributes that we do perceive is a faithful, complete, adequate rendering, of all modes by reason of a point-for-oint correspondence between modes--i.e. absolute parallelism. folder 55 - 196 Here, then, is an alternative response (solution) to the problem raised by Parmenides: that our empircal --i.e. sensible--knowledge is not veridical (a response other than Plato's). I think that Parmenides's problem and Plato's solution [or idealic?] the Cartesian dualism of representation and what is represenated. Here (in my Hebrew-Kabalism-Spinozan system) is a view that information can absolutely stand for a thing, that no degradation is necessarily involved. It can occur, but it need not. The human percept system and brain can reconstitute (as if by transduction) the information back into the object because the information is the object (both modes are equal and primary). ____ To say that it extends into infinity does not imply immense physical size; it enters into infinite implications, significance, meanings which is to say it is as I saw in 2-3-74: it is typological (or archetypal). This is precisely the 2-74 meta-abstraction, for it has a permanent & ubiquitous ramification. Thus many places & times work at it. It applies over & over again. It is into this attribute that scripture taps. This is how sacerdotal performance works. The significance exis[ts] always the same. (1) (For each paradigmatic [...]ngs event, act, situation). (1) By "same" [wha]t is meant is: unitary. The key term is [...] or rather than resembles or is identical to... "not 2 mothers once wut one mother seen [t]wice" is a realization of this. Surely this [is] what Plato surnamed eidē. If what is involved here is that which is signified (by a thing, event, act, situation) then there is a sign-to-object relationship between the word & writing of word mode folder 55 - 197 folder 55 - 197 D-147 + object: the word (info) which we take to be the object - thing signified - does not in itself contain the significance that is in the true thing but only refers to it (the word "dog" does not itself have hair, feet, a tail). Thus when we see info as object it lacks the significance that the infinity attribute (true object) possesses, analogous to hair, feet + tail on particular dog. Now, in a sacerdotal act (a sacrament) the significance "in" the act is precisely what is sought for; the object + what is said + done in connection with the object is summoned deliberately - So in a sacerdotal act what I call the infinity attribute is apprehended, or at least the attempt is made to apprehend it - that is the entire point. Well, this is precisely what happened with me in 2-74 in seeing the Golden Fish sign: an object (that was really only an informational sign pointing to an object was comprehended by me in this sacerdotal [s]ense - which from a liters liturgical sense [is] comprehensible; but what is not compre‐ [hen]sible is that I saw all reality this way: sign not thing, whereupon (by definition) reality became a sacrament, every building, [p]erson, event. No conventional theological [ex]planation will account for this (since such a transformation should be limited to designated sacerdotal objects + Acts). What is obvious is that what is done - sought for - with the sacraments (+ often achieved) is equally true for any thing, act, situation folder 55 - 198 folder 55 - 198 D-148 event: all reality viewed collectively o as an aggregate of plurality; that I reality per se. This should not be s, a possible. +, more over, ordinary reality taken as such without this enhancement becomes "mere" information. So two things have happened: ordinary reality can now be viewed as a sign (information. word, writing) pointing to another kind of reality (object) entirely that is primarily defined - not by its trans-spatial + trans‐ temporal quality - but by its meaning. It is a significant reality in which meaning is everything, like a sacred drama. Now, this is not Plato's eide. This is something else. This means that everything extends into this dimension, but that the attempt to summon it, being confined to stipulated sacerdotal objects + Acts, does not reveal this to us. what I claim for this dimension or made or attribute is meaning or significance, + this definition when scrutinized really asserts that that which truly is is revealed; viz: the zaning is not implied, referring to something else, as in a symbol or sign that has been ten a referal value; the meaning is in the mension now perceived + this meaning is selfauthenticating + self-revealing: it discloses t own "story" by itself, requiring no inter i pretation or analysis: it is "open." In fact, it is "open" in the precise way that the ordinary object is not when it is taken to be a sign signifying something; with the sign There the meaning must be explained: it is not + folder 57 - 001 A-1 The meta-abstraction was: I saw that the many are the one, + the one the many. It pertains to the many to be in time; to the one to be outside of time. That is, the many come into being + perish, but the one is eternal. Thus I experienced eternity. This goes beyond the philosophical: it ushered in the sacred. Thus all of 2-3-74, being based on the meta-abstraction, was a genuine experience + pertained to that which was, is + will always be: "this ring the bridegroom did provide / for no one but the bride"; this was Christ's gift to me. Specifically Christ's. That this was noesis is indubitable. That this was more than noesis is also indubitable. It was, then, a true