kind of life, associated with joy and triumph. This is cosmogenesis itself; the old world wears out (during and as winter), and then in the spring cosmogenesis occurs, reoccurs; as a result the world is made new, which is why in 1974 I believed --and correctly-- that my original primordial powers, faculties and energy had been restored to me, that I was in fact back in the Garden; not I ontogenically, but I as the species was renewed, back thousands of years, phylogenic renewal. But you have to suffer and die before this can happen. It is very strange, and yet to a small but very real degree I reperformed this cycle this time once more. Put in rather mundane terms, more energy is added to the system (in this rebirth) than it had lost, and herein lies the miracle; how can this be, that there is a net increase in the amount of energy in the system, rather than a mere return of exactly the amount lost? The total system, by passing through this cycle of passion, crucifixion and death, actually gains energy -- this can only be explained in terms of the original act of cosmogenesis. The original miracle of creation in which something (man and the world) came into being out of nothing. When I study my "binary forking choosing" conception of total reality (universe and God) I should keep in mind that the model came to me without reference to A.F. Whitehead, that in a totally independent way I arrived at the same view of deity, process deity (although I was influenced by Hartshorne's pantheism, his folder 90 - 057 folder 90 - 057 -12- view, expressed in the E.B. macro article on pantheism, that we are cells within an enormous brain or brain-like entity. (That was, after all, my contention in VALIS.) But I have a detailed understanding --or detailed conception-- of how it works, and I really did arrive at that independently of Whitehead. My conception, which I arrived at suddenly last Wednesday night, is based in the final analysis on my encounter with and apperception of VALIS back in 1974. Now, the fact that my system is a detailed presentation of what turns out to be Whitehead's process deity defined as "A principle of selection that seeks to realize the good in the world order" (or "World process," whichever) prompts me to advise myself to be very wary of discarding it as just one more model that I've concocted in a line of models stretching over the last seven years. For one thing, this model adequately deals with the problem of causality, the fact that although we see it, causality does not (I am convinced) actually exist -- and I have thought this for over thirty years. So much more than 1974 and VALIS is explained; this model is really the solution to what has been a lifelong search for a comprehension of the universe and God and process: What is and what happens. At one point very recently I wrote that "this model, this conception, could not really have arisen before this decade, since it involves a comprehension of the indeterminate factor in reality, and, in addition, the computer serves as a model, and information-processing is regarded as primary in and to the total system; this model of mine, this conception, although drawing on e.g. Taoism and Pauline Christian mysticism, is really at the forefront of Western thought." If I abandon it, out of the force of habit of trying models and then abandoning them in a search for something better, I may find that I have turned my back on the first real solution, the first to actually work, in all these many years. I don't want to do like Bill Rivers and overpaint my picture. There is one particular element in this "principle of selection of the good" mechanism that I find fascinating; I have the envelope here that last Wednesday I jotted my first notes down; viz: "It's binary. Tries out a false move (0) then corrects to 1 which is actualized. The system shuts every trillionth of a second folder 90 - 058 folder 90 - 058 -13- (0); these are decisions. After each off (0) when it switches back on to 1 the "frame" is different (in terms of internal arrangement). There are revolutionary, far-reaching implications in this, especially in: "Tries out a false move (0) then corrects to 1 which is actualized" (which finishes up: "Has the effect of separate frames due to the off-on pulsation. Discrete: isn't-is. Nonbeing-being"). Omnipotence may exist, but not omniscience, since it has to try out a false move or branch before it can correct and locate the better one (actually even omnipotence is compromised in this model; its alternatives are apparently limited, qualified by the branchings, the forkings; the system is not free to come up with what it would like; it is strictured by the merely possible. I am not sure, but this would seem to be the case; anyhow, it is quite certain that it is not omniscient because if it were it would not need to try out zero moves, false moves, which it then corrects). This is a very different view of deity than has ever been put forth before (except perhaps by Jacob Boehme). For example, do these zero branchings add up to long chains of provisional realities, realities --perhaps even whole worlds or versions of worlds-- subject to later retroactive annulment? And if so, do we encounter them, which is to say, do we live in them but then forget it, our memory being cancelled out along with the worlds themselves? I conceive of the system switching on, off, on, off, the "off" consisting of what I call the zero phase of the binary flicker; I also say that it is during these off or zero phases that the system does its thinking. What else goes on at the same time, if anything? Is there a sort of parity counter-world to our own, perhaps invested with some kind of semireality that holds up only so long as the system takes to make up its mind and decide? Oddly, interestingly, this all seems to correspond with the doubts and premises of my ten-volume meta-novel: "Realities are subject to cancellation without notice" and, moreover, were not truly real in the first place (examples of this in my writing are legion). More interesting to me, however, is the existential aspect to this, which means to deity and how deity acts, folder 90 - 059 folder 90 - 059 -14- that in fact deity in this model is conceived in terms of this choosing, rejecting, choosing again, and if this choosing is its essence, then we have a whole new idea of the einai of God: an existential idea: it is what it does, and what it does is perpetually choose (Whitehead's principle of selection of the good in the world-process). Therefore (and this is what I experienced when VALIS occupied my mind) it does not think as we humans think; it chooses, then presumably watches the results of that choice, then cancels the choice and selects the binary alternative. If this is the case it would account for what, to me, was certainly most puzzling: if VALIS was God, why didn't I pick up either thoughts --words, in essence-- or personality? But perhaps to expect this is to project an anthropomorphism. Xenophanes is right, then, about God; he is not like us "either in his thoughts--" etc. What takes the place of thoughts is arrangement (of physical objects, how they are linked and relinked). It doesn't think in words, it thinks by patterns which form a nonverbal language. Our very universe is such an arrangement, such patterns. This was an initial revelation, an extraordinary one. Everytime there is motion, change in this universe, God (VALIS) has thought something new. Like everything else, this seems to be quantitative binary information, arranged in a sequence of offs and ons. Obviously, deity understood this way can in no sense be separated from the world order. In view of all this (and this is a point I've noted before) what was unusual in 2-3-74 may not have been God's intervention and overruling, but my anamnesis, that I recovered my memory of the provisional zero choice. I knew that it all had happened before. My "dissociated actions" vis-a-vis the Xerox missive were simply the one choice based on a previous trying-out of the alternative, then a rejecting of it and this sequence instead (where, say, instead of answering the Xerox missive or throwing it away, I send it to the Bureau). Look at this hypothetically: if you were to recover your memory of the previous zero choice, especially in a matter concerning your very life, your physical existence, a matter that in the previous zero choice has led to your death, well, you would be conscious per- folder 90 - 060 folder 90 - 060 -15- force of supernatural elements intruding in the form of a divine will and plan, divine wisdom and intent and power. You would be aware that reality was being amended. The situation would seem quite unnatural and even inexplicable. Pronoia, miracle -- but in fact this goes on constantly ... What does not go on constantly, however, is recollection of the rejected zero choice, the one that didn't work out well. As I see it, were you to remember the original prior alternate choice, you could not be unaware of the supernatural elements at work, nor could you ignore such things as provisional semireal realities, which is to say, whole alternate other worlds. That is what it is really all about, epistemologically-speaking: there is at least one other world, and it is a bad one; moreover, it has a common essence with this one: both are coaxial and you have lived in both, but did not remember the other until a stimulus triggered off anamnesis, the loss of amnesia. Whereupon an entire corpus of memory would rush back to overwhelm you, and inexplicably so. Now, having recovered these eradicated memories and the personality that went with them, you would sense that the choice you were making vis-a-vis the Xerox missive was in fact not you choosing but something ultrahuman in you, something divine whose will and wisdom were absolute. Anamnesis, because of what it implies and because of what it tells you in the way of the corpus of recovered memories, would (perhaps) account for everything else. Through what might be just a fluke, you would be let in on the central workings, the underlying normally concealed machinery of the world order and God itself; something absolutely intelligent, powerful and good makes decisions for you, in you and through you, as you. And the whole point of this is to ward off, abolish and dematerialize as if it had never existed a worse world --which you have seen, and it is a dreadful black iron prison-- that you once lived in as another person with a different personality. And because the eradicated memory of that world have been recovered in your mind, that other person is restored now to some kind of existence and is in you, in your head, brought back when the memories --his memories which are your own-- were summoned back into being. He was a better person than you --more resourceful and daring and vigorous-- but he had a folder 90 - 061 -16- worse world culminating in a truly dreadful fate. And that is why the system has cancelled that choice and gone for this alternative instead; if his world were better the choice, the initial choice, would be sustained. Anamnesis, then, of the kind I'm talking about, recovered memory of the prior zero phase, would have to be of a worse world; it could be no other way, by the nature of the thing. This may throw a new light on