figure out - since writing "Valis" - what seeing the Logos as the rational invading the irrational universe, subduing it, devouring it, transubstantiating it, signifies. The prior existence of the Logos is presumed; that is, I do not say "I saw the Logos, which is the rational, which is the Cosmic Christ"; I say "I saw it invading and assimilating the universe"; these are two different visions: the frame is mystical, conventional, static; the latter dynamic and asks the questions that it answers. Why is the Logos invading the universe? Presumably to subdude its irrationality. But then the Logos is not already immanent in the universe and, moreover, this is process. This is (it turns out) an antithetical dialectical combat. If the Logos is indeed the agent of creation, why is it not always already in the universe? Why is it necessary for it to invade its own creation? Or is the universe not its creation? But there is a doctrine that conceives of the Logos bipolarizing to creation and hence forced to combat and overcome it by invading it. Except the Fourth Gospel, in which creation is termed "Darkness" and the Logos "Light" - although it is stipulated that the creation was originally by the Logos (in accord with the Hagia-Sophia/Logos identification). Presumably creation got out of control somehow. I regard this as nonsensical. Obviously creation is a lower, sub-rational hypostasis that is being assimilated (spiritualized, signifying "made rational") C-30 I can suppose no explanation but the Gnostic one. Creation is not only irrational, it is only semi-real or [] only seeming, "rational," then signifies real; "irrational" signifies irreal. How we, the logical value of Gnostic knowing - Gnosis itself. "Knowing" signifies being able then to counter-distinguish the truly real. (These categories relate to Pan-Indian Doctrines of Maya: the Grand Illusion both inner and outer) What must be realized is that, like hallucinations, the merely seeming can exert decisive power over you, and it is precisely this deplorable state [of ignorance and hence enslavement] that is reversed by Gnosis. Now about Tagore. He is Lord Krishna. His presence here signifies the things, one good (rescue, extracation) the other bad (terrible danger: the on-going destruction of the ecosphere). This is a time of need; Tagore alerts us to our peril, warns us and the consequence, to us and to him - Holy Wisdom; we will kill him and cause him to depart thus we have a clear choice. This has a non-oriental zoroastrian quality: we choose good or evil, and, in choosing, choose life and God or death and God; [] us, Jesus: this is like the O.T.! Yhwh often speaks thus to Israel through the prophets! ach; This perforce makes me a Biblical prophet: "cease your evil ways or God will abandon you (ie the world); and you will destroy yourselves" and the N.T. comes into it as well in C-31 that our evil actions invade God - we again "crucify" him - and, in true N.T. fashion, he has taken on our sins (in the form of passion and death) voluntarily, this incarnation leading to his suffering and death is not forced on him, he is here for this reason as a protest, to awaken us to what we are doing; viz: if we understand that in wounding the ecosphere we wound God, we may - should thereby - know to cease. Hence, I see Judeo-Christian themes, here, quite beyond Pan-Indian, and I continue to identify Tagore with Christ (yet still he is Lord Krishna, paradoxically). My perception of this in terms of Teilhard: point omega and the noosphere correlate. My total exegesis, my 2-3-74 experience and "Valis" with Tagore and his mission as lex and anima of the ecosphere. But the final ultimate purpose of "Valis" and "DI" is not to analyze or report but to predict, as John the Baptist (Elijah) did 2000 years ago: the imminent coming - ie return- of the savior. This is clear from the internal evidence of the two novels. What this makes me think 1): remember how when Tom Disch visited me in 1974 I strongly suspected that it was Elijah whose spirit had taken me over (Being then also the Baptist)? (1) and I very soon realized the utterance derived from scripture. Elijah will return shortly before Christ returns, preparing the way. Well, hence Elijah shows up in "Divine Invasion" and his ability repeatedly to incarnate himself is discussed! (1) ie "Thomas" who so feared the Romans - well, they killed the Baptist. Garroted themes C-32 which is to say, decapitated him there in his little jail cell! Dio! And it all happened to me at passover! And ever since the eleventh grade I now heard the still small (low, murmuring) voice. Let me say this: if you start with Tagore as the premise and work backward, 2-3-74 - 2-75 et al. Becomes logical: Elijah comes before the second advent to prepare the way - []; not Elijah; the spirit of Elijah! Now, if this be the case re 2-74 - 2-75, was it futile? Well, I wrote the trilogy about it, and have already gotten the first two into reasonably good circulation, one a lowpriced mass-distribution paperback, the other an expensive hardback library edition; each read solo, tells of the savior coming. It was not up to the Baptist to teach the Christian Kerygma but, rather, to announce the imminent coming of the long-awaited messiah. There is (in "Valis") a vague Kerygma but it is only guess work (what Sophia says, and she dies anyhow). The savoir is still yet to come, at the end of "Valis" explicitly as if she, too, like the Baptist, only prepares the way "for one Greater." ("Who is yet to come.") Both novels are essentially anticipation! Even "DI"! Since in "DI" Yhwh has come but not disclosed to the world his presence [yet]. There was too much info in that dream about Tagore to be just a dream: Krishna, Christ, Yhwh and the O.T., the Kerygma it self (which I soon correlated to Teilhard's concepts and thereby back to 2-3-74 and "Valis") C-33 The Tagore revelation is so classically Biblical, combining both O.T. and N.T. elements. Calling men to repent, to give up the evil they are [already] doing, warning them that otherwise they will cause God to desert them (typically O.T.); Tagore has voluntarily taken on the sins of the world and it is causing him to suffer and die (the suffering servant, the passion and crucifixion); and the Kerygma itself: now that it is available to me I can see it as the logical extension projected from O.T. to N.T. to it (but prior to this I could not make the prosection to the new - 3rd - dispensation); moreover, it is sane, practical, testable, real, not imaginary or arbitrary (like, "abstain from eating beans") and would be so even if it did not collate with Teilhard (but it does, which fits with the vision in 3-74 of Valis as Teilhard; point omega) so: we already know what we are doing to ourselves due to nuclear waste dumping - this adds the categorical imperative of God; our command: cease or I will abandon you to your fate (O.T.) and: when you commit these sins you wound me (N.T.). Plus the elements pertaining to Krishna. Also thus we are told that of all the wrong-doing we do this dumping of radioactive wastes in the oceans is in fact the most harmful, although we tend to view it as merely a crime among a plethora of equally serious crimes - and yet it is actually far and away the most lethal! (When the ecosphere as a unified system is taken into account.) It may C-34 not immediately harm us humans. But the new dispensation deals with the entire life-chain as an indivisible whole; viewed this way, this crime assumes new magnitude. It occurs to me to ask: if, as I saw in 3-74, there is a secret true Christian underground (hence the cypher in "Tears") would it not know of Tagore? One would think so. Social Services Barry Spatz 834-2780 547-6767 Child Welfare 2030 E 4th 834 2583 Office 229 Let me ask: Did Jesus' crucifixion possess the effacacy or the news of it? And does Tagore's passion and death in themselves possess effacacy or the news of them? I don't know. And what would the effacacy be? Surely it lies in awakening us to what we are doing so that we cease (the nuclear waste dumping) then it is the news, the Kerygma, the ecosphere cries out in pain! These are the new peccata mundi. Oh my God; Tagore suffers and dies to abolish the Karma we humans have acquired due to our crimes against the ecosphere: his passion and death replace - serve as surrogates - for ours; thus his death is more than cautionary. It is salvific in two ways: (1) it causes us to cease our acts of destruction (2) it spares us from the Divine punishing wrath. The ecosphere is Christ. This is what we must learn: when we wound the ecosphere we literally wound him; hence the cautionary significance of my vision of Valis, the [] Christ, in/as nature. We must acquire this vision so that we will grasp why the ecosphere is Holy. (Because it is Christ.) (Put another way: "Christ" signifies the total unitary lifesystem of this planet as an indivisible living entity.) C-35 Thus we are not to dominate or exploit nature but to become part of it as the Corpus Christi - Christ and the ecosphere are homological (equated); he has invaded it and transubstantiated it into himself in a dynamic process in which his rationality (Logos) overcomes its irrational will. It has a mind (Noos) and he is both it as [] and it as psyche/noos. Hence I was quite right to see Teilhard's views in all this. Hence a macrocosmic passion and "crucifixion" is taking place, "out in the world" - not just transubstantiation but the passion and "crucifixion" - I saw the transubstantiation; the latter two follow, since we insure this ecospherebody of Christ (it can be understood logically not sensibly, given the macro-transubstantiation). The suffering and death of the savior- voluntarily, as vicarious atonement - now occurs not in one place to a human figure but everywhere (Ubique) to a macro-body. Tagore simply epitomizes it in order to reveal this fact to us; without Tagore it would still occur (to the ecosphere macro-Christ) but we would not know it. And the ecosphere (macro-Christ can be wounded, can be killed and driven from this planet - which would actually kill us as well. Thus the 3rd dispensation arises logically from my vision of Valis the cosmic Christ invading nature and transubstantiating it! Hence in "Valis" phagocytosis, the heavy metal particle, the toxin, are all mentioned. But perhaps this "crucifixion" must naturally occur, as part of the soteriological drama. The forces of darkness, as at the First Advent, not recognizing Christ, wound and kill him, but out of this he is once again C-36 transfigured (that is, the stages - steps - of the First Advent repeat themselves now in macro-form, are reperformed one by one in the proper sequence; they are essential. The resurrection this time would be the disclosure of the ecosphere as Christ - the unveiling much as I saw in 3-74! My 3-74 vision of Valis - and the set/ground. The plasmate, MMSK, etc - would be the new analog of the revelation of the resurrected Jesus: But now not man: This time as the total ecosphere itself, the transubstantiation complete: in victory for the invading logos, hence the end of time, the PTG - Millenial Kingdom. Then we are now in eschatalogical time - end time, and when Christ reveals himself he will be seen as the total ecosphere itself. He will seem to replace it, as Valis, unitary and sentient, initiating its own changes,