from "Ubik" wherein (the paradism) the "accidents" + harticulars are dropped out + the essential situation is "Ubik" is related to an overview seen that (as has been noted) I express in novel after novel + story after story, as if I am intuiting something having to do with the spuriousness of reality, a sense of acosmism but "Ubik" is to a degree unique in that they are dead + are (really) in the after life; which brings us back to Dante + the Commedia. to the "ontological evolutionary axis" by + which one moves from world to world due (apparently) to spiritual growth the Golden Fish sign "didn't belong," If how much more true this is of the in-rush of the world of Acts AD 70 in toto, a month later, the world of which that Golden Fish sign I confirmation of was the tip of the iceberg the meta-abstraction; Acts is the case. Does This mean that "the uncanny one-way intrusion from outside that don't belong" are the world of Acts? That would render AD 70 the "outside" or true reality + not just another spatio temporal coaxial set. + it would make me dreaming self; Thomas is PKD, Thomas" asleep + dreaming he is PKD in USA 1974. Ditheon, then, in which the adventitious "syche [of the man into nancy] represents the K200 day time actual waking self returnin that is, it did not invade; it returned just as when you wake up from sleep your self your conscious ego, which has been absent returns; it pours back in, + from the standpoint of the dream, pours in from outside; this is surely "an uncanny one way intrusion from outside that doesn't belong"! It cannot be accounted for by anything in the dream world. Is this not the centrol transformation when you wake up from sleep? Not the abolition of the dream nor the dream identity, but the rushing back in of the waking conscious self which during sleep is extinguished. This is virtually how we define we do not define sleep by what is sleep." present (the dream self + dream world) but by what is absent. By its absence it creates a vacuum into which the dream world + the dream "I" come. + this fits in with my is minute reminder dream of the AI voice as set up in advance to awaken me to the recollection of the situation. Anamnesis + the meta-abstraction are not two things, then, one cause + one effect but are epitomize by the in-rushing - not just of Acts - but of Thomas primarily: world the because there is a self whose world it is. term "Ditheon" then expresses the notion of a qualitative difference between the state of returned self + the dream state, just as in dream the dream self, the "it is not real a in the sense or degree that the waking self is it is a phantom self, merely there for the purpose of perception of the dream; one could say that the dream created it, rather than it 201 the dream. Dream + it are, then, alike, but Ditheon is of another, higher order. is Ditheon" a metaphor to depict qualitative difference, rather than accrued quantity + yet, oddly, in that dream it is clear that the advertitious psyche pouring in is a man + not God or the Holy Spirit or Christ. Well, the dreamer wakes up + is a man. But the dream self which it is supposes itself to be a man is not the two-psyche "bilateral only simulated. Hemispheric parity" superman is, then, someone asleep into whom the genuine waking self - + is able or psyche or ego has returned to say "anokhi." not because it has become conscious through evolution but has become conscious through waking up - i.e. conscious again Well, this certainly would explain the Acts material in "Tears"? The Holy Spirit didn't put it there; no: in my sleep I slightly remembered my waking life + world. Acts, then, is not the past; it is outside intruding on the dream + dreamer. Which is why wrote recently, "I didn't see the world t of the past, 70 AD; I saw the world of the Bible." now, herein fits "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time ha passed," which always struck me as uniquely important. The Golden Fish sign reminded me not of a past life but of the outsial my waking life, + soon caused my wakened - i.e. true. Psyche to return, as if from outside (it, too, would seem to invade from outside! Like the world of Acts itself). now, as to the plasmate: presumably 264 in other ways unlike it; the former permits union by reason of similarity, the latter is the valuable part, for from the dissimilarities the mutual override + correct between the two halves comes about. But can it now be meant to deal I regarded as one organism? what it with this in "the owl in Daylight." must do is project a higher resolving premise that subsumes both its halves while still permitting them to function (exist) intact, still "Di." This premise is precisely what the term "person" refers to re Christ: "two natures, one person." Because it is this person that possesses what I call "anoklie-" or pure consciousness. This very well may also be soul, projected out of the two complementary halves but possessed by neither alone, in fact not possessed by them at all, but, rather being conce projected) free + independent, as if (?) they are mortal + it divine: they are "Di" + it is "theon, + once projected will eternally survive, for it is of another order (the Golden flower, fire brightietc). Viewed teleologically it can be said to have utilized them retroactively in time; it brought them together to generate itself, so it - this divine soul- is the mysterious agency that engineered the entry of the adventitious psyche (this divine soul not being bound by - or in - time + able to work backward from effect to cause like Aristotle's prime mover). (Thus when it was I called Valis - I saw - as what present pretextual cause; + recently I speculated 265 that Valis was from the future. This speculation appears in "Valis" + is speci fically identified as "H. Fat's progeny highly evolved.") Hence when Valis was present I experienced a dysfunction in time, in fact time seemingly flowing backward good heavens; in "Valis" I speak of "interspecies symbiosis I (the crossbonding that produces the homoplasmate.) + have I not perceived angel Archer as supremely rational? This for me would define a higher species - then Valis' mind in mind (Valis distinguished from Thomas, a human) saw in total abstraction, saw the living info, saw temporal location, + Valis, the linking relinking, rest-motion, the MMSK, the supra‐ temporal constants: + I felt myself to be female (at one point), a host. It was in my mind, having introduced ("transplanted"! the adventitious human psyche I call Thomas. presiding over its own birth initially as Firebright the mysterious embryo but now Thus the t known to me as Angel archer divine agency causing all this is the result (offspring) of all this; it intro‐ duced Thomas the adventitious human psyche from another time + place) into me, + c the "theon" progeny of that "Di is that in itself is purely, merely human. Thus I repeatedly say, I did not evolve on the K266 contrary, a more evolved mind imposed it. self on me using me - to create itself, t I now think. Then Thomas + I are "DI" but not "theon"; "theon" results from us but we remain human. In the first version of "Valis" I end with a long weird study of this, + it would seem to be verified by "BTA." Russ' letter + the Ditheon in dream "He has been transplanted would refer to a human psyche. Thomas, but "+ is alive" signifies "is alive as the 'theon" offspring. Thus there was a lay of several years between the trans‐ plant (2-3-74) + the statement by the AI voice ... + is alive." Now, I have thought that angel Archer is suspiciously like (1) the AI voice; + (2) resembles my notion of St. Sophia However, from a more reasonable stand‐ it would simply say, she is the spiri point, I of my [our?] wholeness; she is the person projected by the two complementary parts which means it worked out. As I say supra, such a person must be projected by the two parts or there is no unitary entity + - the transplanting has failed - one psyche would either wither away or perhaps you'd get bilateral Hemispheric competition as in "Scanner." (216 t since the ability to discriminate set from ground depends on acquiring the capacity to see temporal location, would the detection of Valis - penetrating its camouflage, so-to-speak - imply that Valis operates perhaps at hyper change-rate velocity in relation to its environment have It is hyper complex (which I identified as being proportionally linked This would mean to change-rate velocity). that in the "block present that the Valis ability to see temporal location provides in place of a "spread-out present" is seen as newer, which is to say closer - + indeed is not Valis newer, according to my theory of its origin? It is the latest stage in bio‐ logical evolution; it is ultimate set in relation to which all else is ground. There would be a binocular raising, a moving toward the observer, the opposite of the doppler shift what I called "displacement" (as in the experiment Einstein conducted regarding the bending of light from stars by the suns gravity) would, then not be spatial dis‐ placement (but I would wrongly suppose it to be, because I would not have figured out "temporal parallaxis" + "temporal location"); it would be temporal dis‐ placement; the perturbation would affect time, not space, but I would see it visually as what I called "valence away from plumb this would locate the source of the i but displacement - which is outside the reality field, my "surd" - in the future, operating i 217 on the present, tugging at it as Aristotle's teleological prime mover tugs retroactively in time - "final cause," as he called it. did sense what seemed to be retro‐ grade time, did I not? Time flowing backward - effects coming before their causes be things out of synch; ach! "Pretextual cause, coming prior to their "effects" withou actually causing them: only a sequence hypothesized discrete time I from this frames, disjunctive If you could see temporal location through temporal parallaxis - i.e. the older something is the farther away it seems - what would final cause look like, since it arises from the future? Is not the immediate present seen as closest set? Then teleological cause would be as in a hologram; it would thrust itself out of the reality field entirely, toward you: more than set: closer than set. more important, you would see a displace. ment, exactly as I saw ("perturbation"). Have I not repeatedly said, "Valis was the effect of something itself unseen, like the patterns in iron filings that a magnetic field creates by which we detect the field"? Then the source of the perturbation lies in the future, not in some ultra level of reality This ala Plotinus or the Gnostic I heavens. totally explains pretextual cause; efficient cause was literally not true cause - it had been reduced to literal pretextuality. Then Valis was the future acting on the present t 9218 reality field. For years I conjectured that Valis was from the future, like tachyons ("Three-eyed aliens from the future"). As I say, I sensed retroactive time. + vis-a-vis the Xerox letter I was acting on the basis of knowledge I did not yet have