Judaism but from the Torah itself. Diraubporia" specifically means "love of mankind" + is mercy in the large sense of preventing suffering (at least in its English use contrasted to mercy, which is directed at extant suffering in individuals. qiaduoporic then enters the world directly from God. Thus God created what I have for years called "the authentic human" in contrast to "the android, the reflex machine." Is it then so absurd to suppose that he also creates are not these evolutionary stages Ditheon? willed by God + God's Diagudporia? gigauporia is the quality that differ entiates the authentic human from the android can trace it directly back to the Torah (in + I contradistinction to the Empires + to Greco Roman civilization - which - is it not - the Empire? Rome is the 4th Empire: Greece under alexander the third. Thus my vision in 2-3-74 is substantiated. qiadupotic is added + a qualitative leap occurs, Philo defines it as "providing aid + assistance to those in need." "Giving help to those who are in need of it "the E of Ph article says. It seems to me at one point in my published writing I defined human as "how quickly you responded to anothers need (for help)." This is precisely quadudpotin as Philo used the term. Is not my vision retified by this? My vision - put forth in "Valis" is not doctrinaire nor arbitrary but of a piece with God's unfolding sequence of revelation to man of what he is to be (ontology K351 The Torah teaches man Budduepotic, God has created my type B psyche; it did not resoice that come into being by chance wrote "the divine invasion" based on the I now, in Xtianity, the cex talionis Torah. is abolished; I construe it as the "negative prohibition" - that is to me that which is the negative in the Torah, meaning that but the true a epoche of grace has come! dividing line was in the Torah even before Xtianity; + I can verify this because it was from the Torah that Philo derived dibdupotive the Torah, then, He did not get it from Xtianity is the divine information transforming the machine psyche - however intelligent! So the origins of ) into the authentic human the type B psyche lie in the spirit (anima? of the Torah - 800 B.C. + certainly earlier, perhaps a that as early as 1400 be, but limited to Israel in my opinion it is not convincing primitive nomadic group of tribes without of even the rudiments of a philosophy could of without divine authority exced the totality I the Empires' concept of virtue - even that the Athenians. (Unless - as can be argued being a product of this Judo-Xtian ethic, my ontological reason in circles; but no discrimination is more incisive - my dis‐ tinction between the "authentic human + the android" - than my formal knowledge of Xtianity + certainly of the Torah! Could supply. I had never read the Torah esp. Deuteronomy Philo as a truly original thinker extracted the essential spirit of the Torah. He added 3 new virtues to the Greco-Roman list: faith qiarpotsia + repentance. 352 If Philo's concept of Quaaroporic is the spirit of the Torah, it is possible that the Reformer's concept of justific cation - including God seeing his own spotless son when he looks at the given individual human of the N.T is the spirit Philo's "spirit" is found in the Torah + the protestant doctrine of justification (vs the Catholic) is found in the N.T. I am especially inclined to this view because of my "Messenger" revelation. It is a thwarting of the mechanism of retribu t tive justice by divine surrogation precisely as lother taught. Then this is Joachim's 3rd age, + my "Messenger" vision is to some extent new - yet it is in the N.T. as its spirit, just as agapÄ“ is in the O.T. as its spirit Does this "Messenger" vision fit in with my sense that Christ literally replaces the dying creature + dies it (his) death for it (him)? The endangered creature - person - becomes ditheon at the moment of his fate-crisis, + Christ deals with the person's lethal (deadly) fate - thus (as I say) thwarting the retributive machinery now identified with Karma + fate in this life. the messenger dream referred to the Xerox they is this life, not just the nex missive a co (353 dream: there is a group of us. We discover that reality - the universe - is actually info one of us (a girl) recognizes the info as the own prior thought. With a groan I realize that this means the universe is based on our cha prior thoughts. We are forgetful cosmocrators, trapped in a universe of our own making "I wont without our knowing it. + I think, believe this when I wake up because the implica ims are too depressing + radical." It is like "maze." The trail which I relentlessl pursue in my exegesis consists of woozle tracks that lead back to -surprise -myself in discovering the laws of God I am doing nothing more than discovering my own nature dextreporld. The "Grand illusion" is as in in fact the grand tautology. Finally decypher the writing (info, messages as basis of reality) + discover I've written it myself: imprisoned in my own mind, with my recirculated thoughts as in "Frozen Journey" - solipsism. Thus no new knowledge is possible (i.e. synthetic propo t sitions) conly analytical). I thought, "prajapati the "wholly other" is not "other" at all: the mood of the dream upon the discovery was grim The drear implication here has to do with I call "prior thought formations" - but what It never occurred to me even for a moment that the informational basis of reality - that saw in 3-74 - starts out in my own brain I but this would explain why 3-74 resembled given that the phenomenal world, Ubik." i built in terms of time, space + causation is t but formed in + by the percipient's brain when I saw the info + thought I had pene trated to true reality. But (I noted) it did resemble a giant brain + I wondered of I were projecting my own brain onto reality 9354 the dream says this is precisely the case. Maybe there is (somewhere) an objective reality, but I didn't experience it, or was it perhaps the surd? that which perturbed the reality field. Then I've had it backward; I thought the reality field was ob jectively real + I had perturbed it; but maybe the field (reality) is a construct in my own brain but perturbed from without So the "rustle + glitter in the weeds of the alley" is my only genuine contact with the "wholly other + is known only indirectly, only insofar as it perturbs my construct This is certainly something I never would have thought of except for the dream. Then it was not world that Valis invaded but me in the sense of my world as construct: 1D10s not normally kosmos. This means that we are impinged on by objective reality - or not anyhow at a level of which we are conscious. This is so radical an epistemology that even I am startled. Yet, upon inspection, it is - however radical reasonable. My discovery of Gotaroporic is I sensed last night) circular reasoning; it is as C vast tautology - exactly as the dream says a all turns out that philosophically I agree with it self. my Then our karma is self-generated (not by it we are our own accusers. The by us). but set-ground pimate info was my own brain; + yet This is a great discovery! throughts world construct - brain (info in space + time; i.e. (substantial the brain thinks (generates) the thoughts which then in turn become or generate world: they are the info basis of world t n 3549 world "decompose" into - or get rolled back to in 3-74. Hence in "Valis" I not only say that the universe is [actually] info, but this info is thoughts of a brain expressed as the mutual arrangement + rearrangement of objects; hence I posited: world to info to thoughts to brain thinking the thoughts - but now I must add that this brain is my own brain - the part lying somehow outside of consciousness. moreover, [in the dream] the Girl (i.e. I) recog‐ nized this info as her own prior thoughts; she remembered them, + the act of remembering anamnesis) was precisely what 2-74 consisted i must have recognized something (the of. I Golden Fish sign?) as my own prior thought; put another way, I remembere world (or "world") as my own prior thought-formations. World was familiar; I recognized it. This fits "Ubik" via "Frozen Journey" - which was, after all, written on the basis of Lem's analysis of "Ubik." Then a memory-block is in place in our mind + must be. otherwise we would know the truth (about world + hence our condition); but is this not precisely the premise, really, of much of my co-volume meta novel? but the system is intricate memory does not simply recirculate as world. It is not truly memory (of past experiences once lived), thoughts acting as instructions in it is the sense of digital info fed to an LP groove is a "memory" is not the word; former thoughts hat The key term. There is no implication once lived these events before; the implication is, rather, that I am cosmocrator + program (no: did formerly program) this world for myself: I formerly constructed it as its K3548 creator deliberately. No other agency is involved am (therefore) I but my brain + my thoughts. not a human being but a mentational i entity - possibly artificial in nature setting up a program of thought- info qua instructions to be used for the purpose of (1) generating a world + then (2) feeding that world to myself. Why? Well, remember the sensory deprivation dream with the 15 minite taped reminder-voice. Perhaps we (it is a "we" not an "I" as in "Maze"; this is a group effort! A polyencephalic fusion!) had to deal with the threat of sensory deprivation, + our solution was to program a world to + for ourselves. Well, then; this explains what call "coaxiality" or "common essence"! I There is an atemporal aspatial matrix out There; this explains how USA 1974 + Acts could syntonically be unified - this would, then, be a "technological foul-up" such as Lem theorizes would be your only clue as to the true state of affairs. Valis, then, is the true brain-mind of which we humans are - well, epiphenomenal Foct, I guess; it is the vast binary info processing, world-generating system lying (1) in us + (2) behind world (atman-Brahman; it has a dual existence, since it both underlies world as unitary info-processor + is in us as the Kantian structuring mechanism that supplies time, space + causation). A complex system is involved: the true macro-brain - or brains! that generate the thoughts; the construct or transducer that converts these thoughts into is simultaneously) both in us + world - this external to us (exactly as I experienced (3546 Valis: in me + outside me - this is a unified system (observer participant: "a vast deranged brain that both makes + perceives reality!) + then we recipients/percipients who are whittled-down - i.e. occluded + forgetful - micro-foci of quasi-consciousnesss far short of the "anokhi." of the original brain brains that think/thought the pro‐ gramming thoughts for the purpose of gene‐ rating the basis for world but in "Valis" I reasoned (based on what I experienced in 2-3-74) all the way back from world to info to thoughts to brain; I just didn't see the loop effect: we as percipients are subportions of the cosmogenic