-- a world that Parmenides had reasoned cannot at all be what we perceive it to be. In one bold stroke of pure reason, the Eleatics had detected the great lie: the delusion of sensible world. & this posed a mystery (why, if it is irreal, so we perceive it or think we do?) that only Gnosticism was (I think) ever able fully to solve. folder 55 - 013 folder 55 - 013 Q-1 there are two absolutely brilliant correct guesses in "Valis"; now it seems they are (1) true & (2) decisive. 1) all the saviors -- even Gods -- are the same person -- "the immortal one" -- who returns again & again, who uses the human -- eg Elijah, Jesus -- as a host but leaves him "& is never killed or caught." & in some sense "we are that immortal man." 2) spurious time. "Real time stopped." In connection with this I now say that real time has started up again, hinting that it did so in 1974 because Armageddon took place & was won. 3) in connection with real time resuming, I should add the Empire, which is conceived of as having secretly ruled for millennia but invisibly & which was dealt "a decisive defeat" in 1974. Thus it would seem as if I am saying that Armageddon took place & was won by what I call "the Forces of Light." & now the savior comes. Item #2, spurious time, is a necessary concept if the eternal horizontal tracking and retracking is to be understood, hence counterfeit time is the instrument by which the prison is maintained. I'm sorry; I'm doing another enantiodromia & I know it. Valis is YHWH (hence the dangerous radiation, "the carrier"). Here's what: when I looked up Philo to reread about philanthropia (my giving to Covenant House was this, & hence in accord with the Torah, YHWH's law) I discovered that my "vertical spatial axis, the pulley of rope net that folder 55 - 014 folder 55 - 014 Q-2 suddenly lifts you up" is an exact description -- literally exact -- of Philo's idea of pronoia, how YHWH governs the world directly. Before Philo, pronoia was equated with the regular causal laws -- e.g. the stoics equated pronoia & heimarmene. But for Philo, God intervened by miracle on the behalf of "deserving persons for their safety or welfare by suspending natural causal law." I had forgotten that my "pulley" hypnopompic vision included my reading "The Guide to the Perplexed" & that God (YHWH) had found me "to be a worthy & pious man" -- & that I saw myself -- not as I normally do -- but as he sees me. & Philo fully accepted Plato's forms doctrine; Philo's Logos was "the place of the forms, the 'kosmos noetos', an intelligible world." so it is all there in Philo.: 1) Plato's Forms Doctrine. 2) Philanthropia. (Derived from the Torah.) 3) Pronoia as miraculous direct intervention as a contravening of natural law -- ie the "machinery of retribution." Pronoia "for individuals deserved of it" which has to do with (2), as I construe it re "the pulley" vision. Note: the whole social justice kerygma of sharing that B. Krem speaks of re the Maitreya is one sublime global philanthropia: "Giving to -- rendering aid to -- those in need." it is the moral basis of my life & it stems from the Torah. & since it stems from the Torah, YHWH is pointed to. I don't see how (if at all) Gnosticism can be fitted in with pronoia, esp. if pronoia is equated with the Government folder 55 - 015 folder 55 - 015 Q-3 of the world. By definition, the God of Gnosticism is transmundane, acosmic or even anticosmic & plays no role whatsoever in the Government of the world, now, pronoia in the sense of a suspension or overruling of regular natural law when it (the regular law) threatens the safety or welfare of a deserving individual, is part of the Government of the world; any & all conceptions of pronoia involved in the Government of the world, either directly -- as with Philo & his concept of miracle -- or indirectly, as with the Greco-Roman view of pronoia & heimarmene being one & the same. Also, I am told by revelation that the intervention of 2-(3-74) (& it was intervention) was due to my own later act re Covenant House. But the transmundane Gnostic Deity has no interest in Torah or/& social justice, & surely my act had to do with torah &/or social justice, & these stem from YHWH the creator. If God is able to suspend natural law -- if he is the God of providence -- he is de facto active in the Government of the world. He exerts his mercy, wisdom & power here. Perhaps the key word is the Greek term used by the AI Voice: Ditheon, (1) not "ditheism" but "ditheon" as in dialectic. this is Boehme's God, & Schelling's; God is a dialectic, with an irrational destructive will versus the "bright" or Logos side -- & the latter always wins. 2-3-74 was the latter, the Logos. (1) that is, it is one God (theon) but "Di" (the dialectic). This folder 55 - 016 Q-4 term, then, revealed to me by the AI voice, is the crucial concept I need. -- the vastly augmented space -- spatial volume -- in (3-74) was due to our time becoming a 4th spatial axis; there is from this a net yield in increasing the pure amount of space; & at this degree, in this many dimensions, it approaches being the Infinite Void that is the Godhead itself -- that is, it partakes of infinity. thus when you go from the 4D world to the 5D the element or quality or dimension of the sacred breaks in [to the mundane], a fact Plotinus was well aware of; this really was his whole point. well, then; Deity is not transmundane for I encountered it here, either as imminent or very nearly so. Hence this cannot be Gnosticism, for world -- this world -- was sanctified. However, I am going to take a stand. the 4D world is a maze that we must solve. Going to the 5D world -- if that occurs, you have solved the maze & either are let out (if you view it as a prison, as the Gnostics do) or in (if you view it as barring you from the Holy -- represented by & as the Grail). It is all (our life or lives here) one vast initiation ceremony or rite into the mysteries, & the solution is both cognitive & moral in this way: moral satori, such as mine re the Beetle are in fact cognitive operations, a form -- perhaps the highest form -- of epistemological knowledge. the solution, then, takes the form of a long series of steps over many lifetimes -- & this [view] is precisely that of Buddhism, esp. since the solution is specifically Buddhist: the way of compassion folder 55 - 017 folder 55 - 017 Q-5 what we call "pronoia" & "miracles" are simply the regular & Logic results due to our solving, sequencing, just as retributive karma has to do with errors we make; this besides being a puzzle & problem to be solved, the maze is (perhaps even more so, even ultimately!) one colossal teaching-machine & we trace & retrace potentially forever until we learn. But God wants us to learn; this is the goal: our spiritual/mind development, not thrall or punishment. the cognitive elements (in solving the maze) must not be overlooked -- ie the meta-abstraction; but it is necessarily tied in with & in fact based on moral salvation that seems to trigger it off; it -- the meta-abstraction - is (or is virtually) the reward of solving the moral problems posed by the maze. If the moral solution, then, is the true problem solving, & meta-abstraction the pay-off, due really to Grace, then this is a Judeo-Xtian situation & not either Platonist or Gnostic, although the meta-abstraction taken alone suggests otherwise. Here is my error: I have viewed the meta-abstraction as the problem-solving, but it is not; it was given to me as a gift, a response, due to a moral solution (that, ideally, comes later; the AI voice states this specifically. folder 55 - 018 folder 55 - 018 "Tears" is an account of hte power of Xtian God expressed several ways: 1) In terms of Jason: theodicy: the protection by heaven of the vast man. 2) In terms of Buckman: the power to effect a conversion from the motivation of power to that of agape. Also, to bring to power the plans of the injust man - the plans - while saving the man spiritually through the conversion. 3) To topple empires 4) to be active in human lives. Good + Bad Both, without discrimination: sparing the just (good) man from doom, obliterating the tyranny of the injust (bad) man while still saving him: + in secrecy as a whole affecting it by affecting those who make it up as love -- privately. Thus "Tears" shows God's basic rule fo the world 5) The acts of apocalyptic material verify that it is specifically the Xtian God (as does Buchman's conversion; here the Dream -- based on Daniel and Revelation -- is crucial _to_ the conversion and to an explanation of the true cause (source) of the conversion. 5) In cypher: reference to Jesus Christ. In short--an amazing Book virtually scripture. It is revelatory and apocolyptic. folder 55 - 019 folder 55 - 019 L-18 I have it now: Buckman Jason Alys Claudius Hamlet Gertrude Pentheus Zagreus Pilate Jesus Tears Joy Old Young Usurper Rightful king Tyrant Liberator What is being studied? A usurper is on the throne. The rightful king (who is younger) appears as a madman, criminal or fool; he is mysterious; his nature and origins are uncertain. He is arrested and tried. (I should say falsely arrested.) Interrogated by the old king (usurper). He is charged with a crime he did not commit. The resolution varies; sometimes he is acquitted and assumes the throne; sometimes he is killed. The white-haired old king on horseback may be the murdered father of the young man who is the rightful heir to the throne; he returns to seek justice: punishment of the usurper; the son placed on the throne. This story is told and retold. Why? What are we supposed to learn? That the ostensible ruling power of this world is illegitimate? The "King" is not in fact the true king? and the "fool" is not mad or a fool or a criminal but is the rightful king? My analysis: everything we see is a 180° mirror opposite of the truth. The ostensible "king" is not only not the true king, he also has no actual power: despite appearances folder 55 - 020 folder 55 - 020 L-19 his power is illusory. All true power belongs to the "fool" who is the true king (vide "The Bacchae"). This is all some sort of play -- which "Hamlet" very clearly alludes to. We are to guess the riddle: who is the true king? (And hence who really rules, i.e. who has power?). This strikes me as some sort of religious pageant or initiatory rite or ritual into a hidden truth deliberately concealed from the many. Only what are called "the elect" are let in on the true state of affairs. Who, then, qualifies as one of "the elect"? Perhaps one who before (i.e. without) knowing the truth, reveals his own true nature; that is, faced with a moral choice, even though he is deliberately misled as to the actual situation -- that is, who holds power, who does not -- he chooses correctly nonetheless. Once he has so chosen, the masks are dropped and the true state of affairs