around this concept of Ditheon because I have already done so —BTA— but (as I say and as Russ realizes) this (i.e. the idea of Ditheon) was not my conscious goal, point or intention in the novel. The dream was so obviously supernatural as to be grimly so; it was not a serene and pleasant dream. Nancy was so filled with energy that she was, it struck me in the dream, pure energy unleashed, not the energy of a person. Except for the possible affinity to Teilhard’s idea of convergence to and in Point Omega (Christ as the goal of the universe) this idea is new and not one I have ever entertained regarding Thomas and all of 2-3-74. I guess my reaction to the dream was one of terror (when I woke up), moderated by Russ' letter when I read it later on. This dream (even without Russ' letter but more so with his involved) ranks with anything that has happened to me starting in 2-74; it is a disclosure that is so profoundly vast that I can scarcely endure it. It is as if the dream answers the question, "How do you get (cause) Christ?" by what is almost a technological answer (as witness the schematics of the advanced weapons). It is fortunate and crucial that the dream made it clear that in no sense had the Godhead split, that "di" meant "asunder" but meant, rather, two. This may well be a neologism coined to express a concept never expressed before (and yet it is the theme of BTA, as Russ says; I am sure his analysis of BTA is right and mine is wrong — the dream confirms him). We have here a new divine revelation, and, as I say, the novel that expresses it has already been written. Timeo; libera me Domine in die illa. —4— We are now into the technical details of how the Parousia will be/is being accomplished; it resembles one theory: that an inner Christ-consciousness will occur, rather than the reappearance of an anthropomorphic figure, but with a totally new and unexpected and fundamental modus operandi: the fusion of a given extant/living human psyche plus a resurrected psyche (apparently) of a former living person, the right match, trait for trait, I would assume — not on a random basis. This, then, is not reincar¬ nation but a tandem psyche, oddly like what I present in SCANNER. It would certainly explain why I couldn't figure out if I had been invaded by an adventitious psyche (I had been) or if it were a former self intrinsic to me (apparently it was not). Also, this would explain why I could not tell if it was human (it was) or divine, e.g. the Holy Spirit (it was human but the result of the combination with my psyche was essentially supernatural. Ana this explains why it seemed to be someone from beyond the grave (I think it was), which is wny I thought of Jim Pike or Tony Boucher. I guess these are the firstfruits, the saints, the first to be resurrected at the End Days. Here again in the dream the motif of the substance eaten reappears, the pink margarine cube with the writing on it, apparently symbolic of the host. Nobody can tell me that the concept "Ditheon" or even the word came out of my mind. True, it may be in BTA but I didn't put the idea there; I never had theos or Christos in mind when I wrote it. My outline doesn't even call for it turning out to be Tim Archer who comes back, let alone Christ; that was the final point in the outline. Instead a wrote what Russ says I wrote, and what tne dream points to, and it points to me ana my experience, not just tne novel. I didn't just see the word as I saw, say, Aramcheck; I saw it in explanation of what had happened, and what had happened —the man's mind entering Nancy and joining with her mind— applied beyond any doubt whatsoever to 2-3-74, to myself; not just to BTA but to me. And this invasion by the man's mind proauced Ditneon, so there was and is in me Ditheon; this is what came as a result. -5- The term —the concept— Ditheon is the complete, absolute, total, accurate, definitive, final, ultimate explanation of 2-3-74. This one word conveys it all, and the concept may be unknown in religious and theological history. It is a concept that I would never have reached on my own; I have had over 7 years to work on my exegesis, and never arrived at it. Russ did, vis-a-vis BTA. But one could say, "Maybe Russ is wrong." He is not. No, it is not a unitary psyche; it is twain. It is "di." And because it is "di" it jointly perceives two signals (this explains the "second signal"). Two psyches, two signals — and the parallaxis that permits the set-ground discrimination. Just as bicameral means two, Ditheon means two. And the "on" refers to Ho On. Why did I never think of it before? Two psyches, two signals. Set and ground which the twin psyches blend together; one sees set, the other sees ground. So it is essential that they do remain "di" or twain ("asunder"); if they merged into one psyche they would no longer perceive/receive two differing signals, no longer be able to do a set-ground feature extraction. This is a totally new kind of mind! Twin push-pull psyches working in tandem. More than setground: two worlds (spatiotemporal?) based on a common essence; and the common essence can be perceived as archetypal constants (common to both signals or worlds; what I call "archetypes" or "eide" are those elements common to both signals, perceived by both psyches: what overlaps, is present in both (worlds) and to both psyches. Thus a wholly different kind of world is perceived by this double but mutually differing reception. It requires two parallel psyches working in unison to perform the meta-abstraction. And this is how the "anamnesis" works: it must be the memory of the other psyche coming on, and it is perceptual memory; this is how you get a slot present, rather than the usual point present: the "lag" between the two psyches. Temporal lag. There are three fields: left, right, and then the combined. What exists in the com¬ bined field is the supratemporal constants. There is also the depth perception which is not spatial depth but temporal depth. (I think.) The time-lag factor is turned into a perception of spatial depth or spatial-like depth; it is visible depth (hence set to ground). So it is not seen as flux but as visual parallaxis. -6- Only what shows up in both fields is regarded as real. So although the two psyches work in unision they remain —must remail "di." If they were to become one, the whole point would be lost, just as if our two eyes saw exactly the same thing, depth perception would be lost. They must remain "di" but also utilize a unified field out of the two differing fields. The brain does this with what the two eyes report regarding space. This is clearly an evolutionary advance, like the ability to distinguish colors. The "comnion essence" (of "the two coaxial worlds") is of course what both psyches report as perceiviny; my coaxial worlds and common essence have to do with perception —binary perception— as well as binary realities (if indeed the latter is meaningful at all; I have transferred the binary or dual aspect to perception, to, virtually, an anatomical dualism, now). I suppose there is something "out there" conforming to the two fields, and to the "common essence" which is what the two fields both share, both report. Through this perceptual parallaxis they —the two psyches— are able to distinguish Valis, to see Valis camouflaged; in fact they can literally see "pretextual" cause (i.e. as not being true cause). This is a kind of depth perception; Valis emerges through the twin psyches' feature extraction, its set to ground faculty (which is the main thing it acquires over mono vision). This must be where the "template" comes in that pretextual cause is "off" by. (Hence "valence away from plumb" can be seen because plumb can be seen.) This is why "Acts" ("A.D. 70") and USA 1974 could be super¬ imposed syntonically; the two worlds are really two perceptions of world unified in the brain, exactly the way Fercettion from the two eyes is unified although the two oroginal fields differ and must differ. Here two differing fields are unified, and something analagous to spatial depth is attained (apparently temporal depth). Then this does not have as much to do with reality as it has to do with a binary device for perceiving reality and performing feature extraction, which is why, often, I believed that in experiencing Valis in me I in fact experienced my own brain. The temporal dysphasing (dis — di) may, like the spatial one, be very slight, but it is enough by which to obtain temporal parallaxis. That this is bilateral hemispheric parity I consider indubitable. What is so extraordinary -7- is the realization of how three images are produced: one left, one right, and then a common field in which the durable archetypal constants stand out. Just as the eyes are divided in spatial terms, these hemispheres are, apparently, divided in temporal terms. Thus the purpose of these dual brains working in divided unison can be fathomed. What emerges is more theos than it is anthro. This must be realized. At no time in this 7 year exegesis have I ever developed any theory like this one. Temporal lag is utilized to produce an entirely new order of perception. For openers I am. now in a position to explain how Plato's recovery of the eide comes about (why, specifically, it comes about through anamnesis) and what, in fact, his eide are (the constants registering in/on both fields and hence discriminated by the brain as real. And indeed a meta-abstraction is involved, the "not 3 mothers but 1 mother 3 times"; more precisely, the same "thing" seen in/on both fields, hence: 1 thing seen twice —at two times and two places— not two things seen once). But this is not how man sees; this is how God sees (viz: "God does not experience time as we do, not sequentially but somehow all at once"; this temporal two-field lag method allows man to experience reality the way God does, although to a lesser degree; thus we do not have Theos, God, but Theon, God-entity). Man, thus elevated out of time (in a real sense) into eternity is no longer man but a God-entity. The double-God-entity. Thus the other self thinks, "There's someone else in my head and he's not living in this century," and he thinks in a foreign language, but this is not important; what is important is the discrete but overlapping fields of vision. The Bild that is received of reality. This also explains, "He causes things to lock different so it'd appear time has passed"; time, for this Ditheon mind, has become transformed —literally!— into space 1 The clues are all there in VALIS, but I never got near the real explanation. Staggered time-points forming a sort of extended slot, with two dissimilar images that come together to form a master image; unlike spatial depth-sense this requires dual psyches. So now one can say what the survival, evolutionary purpose of two hemispheres and two psyches is. -8- The fact that the arug or medication that Nancy (in the dream) took was marked DITHEON shows that the "Theon" (theos) element or state is produced by the entering of the adventitious outcome, so the God or more precisely the Christ element only occurs as a result of the two psyches; each psyche itself, then, is not Christ, is not God, is