seeing "the Elephant man" that for some reason I failed to write down. Viz: we are not linked to world directly as: (self world but rather: el world that is, there is world, objective + substantial + real; but between us + it there is God, so that we receive world through God. This makes it possible for God to control + arrange how we experience world what in world strikes us forcefully - that is, God acts as a medium of selection in our apprehension of world so that for each individual person world is not only experienced uniquely (differing from person to person) but unique in purposeful ways: certain elements stressed, others suppressed - this especially has to de with information patterns that impinge compellingly (or, conversely, not at all). Now, this resembles Malebranche's epistemology somewhat, + yet is crucially different. Viz: God + world are clearly distinct what emerges here (in this theory) is a totally new explanation of 2-3-74. Either there was massive selecting (for a time) or I became aware of massive selecting, that is, aware of the medium as interface between me + world. (I.e. such massive selecting always goes on, but we know it not, supposing all we experience to be properties of world + applying to the encounter with world by all persons uniformly.) now, a powerful but by no means invincible argument can be offered that due to my meta-abstraction in that is, due to a sudden titanic insight 2-74 ( ) something about world that made it comprehended the possible for me on my own to fathom presence of this selecting interface. the meta abstraction would (perhaps) then have been folder 55 - 091 2-3 that there was a pluralized signal system at the point of origin (world) but that only one set normally reached me, which says a lot about world, but also presumes a selecting interface. Thus "world" is radically redefined but, more, the interface is realized + its selecting (suppressing s enhancing) activity, + this is God (Valis). So what comes of this meta-abstraction pertains to epistemology c "ti to on?" in terms of world) but yields up by implication a much more radical notion - that in fact world qua world is less an issue than the interface itself that lies between us + world + possing the power selectively to determine what of world impinges on us + what contrarily, is suppressed whereupon (I think) I found myself dealing with the interface itself, + this is theophany, as if, upon my becoming aware of it, it could then "speak" as it were explicitly by means of open enhancing suppression patterning which clearly did not emanate from + in world but existed between world + my percept system It is possible that world qua world consists of eternal constants, + the interface modulates our reception in extraordinary ways + to extra‐ ordinary degrees (e.g. your "being" in AD 70 in Syria or USA 1974 depends only on the interface. On its selecting. World + interface, then, are quite distinct Malebranche's epistemological premise, then, is quite the case: "We see all things in God. o e a strange insight last night (hypnagogic). The person who - There is some relation between intelligence + the empathic faculty. but when I was tormenting the beetle + understood - that understanding (which t have called satori) was due to God's grace. For that knowledge cannot in fact be known. There is no actual (rational) way that I can know how that beetle feels or even that it feele; I know by the grace of God; it is a gift conferred on me, as were the later Satoris. This is the activity of salvation. t The prison of the isolation of the atomized individual is burs. thro o to folder 55 - 092 folder 55 - 092 2-4 God by this knowledge, + he who has this not is not evil but deprived. + he on his own cannot change his situation, for there is no rational way - only a supernatural way - that this knowledge can be obtained. I must not blame someone who possesses not this knowledge, for there is no way he can obtain or acquire it on his own is totally dependent on the grace of God. Here is re where the original satori is as the 2-74 metaabstraction was. But this shows that although the 2-74 meta-abstraction had to do with cognition it was given to me from outside, which brings me to the issue of socrates vs Jesus that Tillich speaks of. reminding the person (socrates' route) of what is already in him; or Jesus' way (midwife, as Tillich puts it) It is not probably that the meta-abstraction was truly an intrinsic (internal) cognitive act on my part - either viewed in isolation or in relation to The sequence of earlier Satoris. All one knows is that now knows what one did not know, but not one due to ratiocination: due rather to some element outside. + this is the key clue: outside. But I figured out last night that we do not know world directly but through God as lens link interface. So the stimulus in outside reality affords God the interface the oppertunity (to use Malebranche's term) (No: his term is occasion) to transfer knowledge (This is in conformity with "pretextually, as it were + my whole conception of clutch, selection, enhancement suppression + not a special situal, only - as Joyce a i calls it - an epiphany of regular conditions. It is if the pretext is clearly only pretext: effect - that which is known - far exceeding its ostensible cause. As to the transfer of information regarding Christopher's birth defect the situation is clearly + explicitly such that it is palpably impossible objects can give rise t than insentient plural the information, in which case something is there have always spoken of as camouflaged that I in + as ordinary plural insentient objects folder 55 - 093 folder 55 - 093 2-5 These various situations that I denote here are differing versions of one enduring underlying stable situation that by its very obiquity escapes our notice. Thus beetle, meta-abstraction, + Valis informing me of Chrissy's birth defect are in fact one + the same experience along an axis of revelation as follows: (1) with the beetle there is no reason to suspect that the knowledge does not arise naturally (unaided) from the ostensible situation; cause (the situation) + effect (the knowledges seem comensurrate. (2) in the meta-abstraction the effect exceeds the cause (the situation outside me) but it is not at all clear where the knowledge is internally retrieved in me (Plato's anamnesis) or transferred from outside. (3) But in the situation regarding Chrissy's birth defect there is now no doubt that the information (knowledge) cannot arise from or be accounted for by the situation (i.e. the Beatles' song, etc). In this case the satori I experienced a regarding the ending of "the Elephant man" is satori concerning satoris: not only is it perfectly clear that the knowledge is transferred from outside that (it is external in origin, + a free gift) but The source is not in world but as-it-were between me + world so that I am dealing with world indirectly but dealing with the interface (by definition. directly. This precisely agrees with Nicholas Malebranche. What is now disclosed was in fact the state all behaving so as to conceal itself + in the time, but existence. s fact its it is clear that here is now point At this the resolution to my total lifelong epistemology which strove from the start to resolve the issue it reaches the conclusion that while of Jokos world exists it is per se unknowable to us, but God on the other hand we immediately know now, a verification which is Malebranche's contention. This is the infinitude of space that I experienced a or not the physical in 3-74: I was encountering world in space (extensean, res extensal) but the infinitude of God. But here the problem + issue of epistemology collapses into the matter of grace folder 55 - 094 folder 55 - 094 2-6 because the power to bestow + withold knowledge of what is truly there (the answer to "ti to on?"). lies totally + absolutely with what is there, which is to say God, + no activity on our part will in itself ever unraved the mystery. (The nature of the situation dictates this, + Kant seems to be the first thinker systematically aware of this.) If on our own we try to plumb or even discern the interface we enter an infinite regress - as I've discovered for almost 8 years: since the interface is not so much (self interal or but in ate) world I which is to say that the interface is somehow in us + in world; so the interface simply recycles our own mind back to us over + over again; the prison gate of isolation - of the atomized self- closes once more. (This dealt with in "Frozen Journey.") Thus we know other is only through the grace of God (as in the beetle satori), This pertains of salvation: to know other - just as + Then knowledge of God as hell pertains to isolation other is knowledge of ultimate other + is the triumph consummation of the axis of salvation that began + for me, with the beetle satori. If again equall empathy then there is only one road to salvation, in its partial form it deals with + pertains to finite creatures (but is real); in its complete form (absolute, realized form) it pertains to God; this is what + who one has loved in world an axis. ("love" here being dator) has always pertained to God; it was always God who was loved, so that in the end all that was lost - all that was known + hence loved - is restored in + as God never would have come to these realizations except for Malebranche. Then upon seeing the film "the Elephant man" figuring out the interface. then, last night, realizing that all my satoris, back to the first, the beetle one, are due to grace + correct knowledge - that by involve knowledge its nature can only be revealed, whereupon I now folder 55 - 095 folder 55 - 095 - 2-6 see one vast axis of disclosure from the first (the beetle), culminating in 2-74 + they 3-74, + then tapering off in subsequent revelations 2-3-74 - + specifically Valis itself, in me + in external reality, centering around the transfer of information about Chrissy's birth defect - then is the quintessential moment in a pattern of revelation predicated on grace + involving salvation stretching out across my entire life. What, then, I have viewed as a preoccupation with epistemology turns out to be a search for - + a finding of God. folder 55 - 096 2-7 The meta-abstraction - which did make it finally had to do with world possible for me to distinguish world from the interface, as if the two pulled apart - i.e. were by me discriminated? the meta-abstraction pertains to world + not to the interface, which is a sort of lens now, in terms of this interface, "cognitive estrangement" + its rectification (reversal) becomes easy to understand, in the former the interface does not act to resolve world + in the latter it does. This is a very high-order of functioning on the part of the interface: it is most likely, its prime utility regarding world + experience of world. + the power to do this (rectify i.e. justify) lies not in the person + not in the world but more significant is the discrimina im of the interface itself in contra‐ distinction to world. Perhaps this is necessarily linked to the rectification of the interface in