(the reality of Christ + his power to save) it must be absolute to exist at all, at least as I see the situation. Such assent opens up what amounts to another, greater universe with radically different laws + purposes denced the person unable to assent h could the meta-abstraction been that AD 70 (that is the time of Christ is contemporaneous to any [other] time + hence to all times; viz: acts (time + place a with USA 197 i being just I colition one instance (essence of Y; any other time + place can be insected equally. This implies several things. (1) It is (in a certain real sense) always the time + place of Acts. (2) Acts is not a time + place like other times + places; it is unique 3) time cannot be what we think it is c (4) that Acts is always now + always here is an unparalleled realization, for it shows that the N.T. is true in a sense above beyond the historical sense. Acts is then, the real world, + anything else is only seeming can be reduced to Acts. This is verified + by the Acts material in "Tears." If a thorough-enough analysis of reality at an time + place is made Acts will be K329 here now revealed. This means Christ is + the passion + crucifixion take place c this way, in an eternal present). Viewed the enacting reality - the world - becomes of the Eucharist - + precisely this was seen by me a month after the initial world + the highest This realization? but sacrament become homologized. mystic vision is logically the case, given is the original meta-abstraction. This polecisely the "one thing seen at two times + places, not two things seen once" + is related to recovery of Plato's eide via anamnesis; it is recovery of The Eucharist as ubiquitous, at all times + all places: the Eucharist is the "one thing (or as I phrase it "one mother seen twice, + "Eucharist" refers to + not two mothers"). a coherent, dramatic succession of events involving Christ (passion, death + resur rection); + I did see this, in world, as I report in "Valis"! Then I did see Christ (Valis). There is an internal logic to all that I experienced, based on the initial meta-abstraction; this is not symbolic reperformance of the Christ story (as in the mass) but, rather, its actual, literal occurrance here + now (but equally my error was to confuse any place + time). saw with a given historical place + It what I time, but this error can be forgiven is the in-breaking of eternity. then my vision - reported in "Valis" of Christ invading + consuming the universe through transubstantiation is literally the case (330 o + this is the highest religious vision that one can have, I think. There is ot logical + necessary connection between seeing the world of Acts as now + seeing Valis. Acts is always the case. (For the Xtian.) Then Valis will follow logically for it is the core of what I call "Acts" It - as Christ is both + cause + the purpose of the ubiquity of Acts. It explains why Acts can be ubiquitous. Essentially, it is the Christ story that is ubiquitous: always here + always now; it can be recovered at any place + any time, through the power of the Holy Spirit But I have written: there appears in the Valis trilogy a progression from the seeing Christ to the becoming Christ (this only shows up at the conclusion of "BTA") am referring to Valis in my mind Here I rather than seen externally, i.e. Ditheon + the great miracle is that He is "assembles" from plural constituents in themselves mundane; I refer to Christogenesis. Impossible as this may seem logically, this is what happened to me in 2-3-74. perturbation. Displacement. Both doe to a gravitational field (pull) by an invisible body. Something was present itself undetectable except for the tug it exerted - but only metaphorically was it gravity; what it affected was 331 causation - efficient causation. So it must have been final causation. I.e. (1) from the future (possibly) + (2) purposeful (yes, by the definition of final causation). i last Saturday night I had a vision of how reality is constructed - a very mystical vision. Each discrete object is connected through an ultra-dimension (sort of linkage] axis which we can't see to one unitary thing which we also can't see Thus object A is not directly connected to object B or Cord, etc., but all are mutually linked through this third thing, which is unitary + ubiquitous; + the resulting diagram is as follows object a (object B). Look familiar? yes it does. + icommon essence This is how what "Third thing" we see as plurality + multiplicity is in fact a unity; a third thing must be posited for every twoobjects which, if it is not seen, leads to a misperception of multiplicity, the plural discrete. This third thing is not itself an object + not iden tical to the multiplicity of objects pro‐ jecting from it (we can see them). This is what gives rise to the conviction/intuition) quasi-perception that causation is irreal that is, object a does not really hit object B + somehow transfer kinetic force to it. what in fact really happens is also not pre‐ set synchronized clocks harmony (332 nor is that presumes discreteness too. occasionalism quite the case. What is the case is what I will call (for want of a better term) a ripple effect much like an undulation in which a passage of valence moves along the invisible third thing, + as a result, we seem to see the objects (which in a sense are discrete) affect each other directly: A-B-3C but in fact it is: t s a a t I 3rd thing physical law is involved, not something super‐ natural, or occult. God is not involved; a - the reality field - is involved. but we field cannot detect or measure the field - only the plural objects. now, in 3-74 when I saw Valis, this unitary field was perturbed from outside it. There was in fact something between me + the field (hence I inferred camouflage). It caused objects to behave strangely - they were displaced - because of something like mass, like (but only like) gravity exerted. But: refraction through a lens placed between me as percipient the reality field will equally account for it + a kind of astigmatism. What this means is, there is something other than the reality field + it must be considered to be an invader. The field is not sentient, alive or rational (Spinoza is wrong + the occasionalists are Wrong); it is governed by blind natural law 4333 but it is a field. So one invisible thing (the invader) perturbed another invisible thing (the reality field) + by doing so, made me aware of both to repeat: the perturbing disclosed that although I saw discrete plural objects They must in actuality comprise -consist + a unified field, for their displacement was that of one unitary thing perturbed + the AI voice confirms this. Viz: the objects + their change-processes were not affected individually; hence I saw unity in reality by reason of the perturbation. Still, I do not know what the perturbing agent is although I now know a lot more about reality For one thing, causation, as we understand it (the transfer from one object to another of kinetic force) is illusory (yet so is pre-synchronization). Spinoza would come the closest, but he cannot account for a perturbing agent outside (sic!) the reality field acting on it, in his system this is axiomatically impossible. I am almost tempted to think of the reality field as being sabotaged. is it possible that the reality of Acts (the Christ story) is impressed onto the reality field adventitiously, molding the field into conformity with the drama, rather than the drama arising intrinsically in + from the field? The field becon he hi asti (334 "- in the face of mind," as the AI voice said + Valis is that mind. it is like the potter, the shape the patter imposes on plastic + matter (the reality field) is the Christ story the Thus Acts does not lie hidden under surface but is impressed on reality from without hence Valis was so-to-speak between me + reality ( Valis as mind imposes a dramatic template that warps + displaces matter to conform to the template. Thus we learn the contour of the template by perceiving the perturbation displacement it imposes on reality; these or are hieroglyphs: inscribed, as a magnetic we field arranges a scatter of iron filing' perceive the magnetic field only as it perturbs the filings + arranges them, + I have discerned the contour of this template; it is the Christ story. This, also, in the plenary power of the upper realm over the lower. âž€ This fits in with the Acts lens/grid theory. As if inserted between me + reality as a mode of viewing reality - any reality but how does this manifestation of the Christ story - of Christ himself - differ from the Parousia? Which at once brings in the statements by the AI voice Valis as Christogenesis. pting the parts together correctly Alchemical transmutation. There is no way to anticipate it For the first time there arose in my mind the notion that Ditheon is a fusion of the two distinctly different i K:35 minds that I call android (machine, schizophrenic) + human; viz: we have not only android: human:: human; (ascending hierarchy related to Ditheon "Commedia") but: of the the 3 levels human android as Ditheon some ability BI machine a recapitulation to abstract schizophrenic of the two concrete t prior levels, the t Ditheon first being machine total ability (inferno, determinism to abstract Abs + human (purgatorio, some freedom, some ability to abstract), + that Ditheon sees paradiso: This indeed a (inferno) B (purgatorio suggests BI I lateral hemis‐ Paradiso) (ATB) c pheric parity. it also suggests one unitary new entity but unlike either of its two components: hence Paradiso is unlike both inferno + purgatorio. but that this is how you get paradiso - by alchemically combining inferno + purga torio by alchemically combining the two dis‐ is a similar psyches that perceive/ generate them new ideas (even for me.) The human psyche (B) replaces the android/machine psyche (A) as in an evolutionary sequence; but, con‐ trarily, ditheon (C) does not sequentially replace the human psyche (B) but is a unitary fusion of both prior psyches; so it is not A to B to C, but A to B followed by AtB = C. Here, now, the relationship between a schizophrenic (psychotic) episode psyche + (on the part of the B - human (336 the production of Ditheon can be seen; B (the human psyche) must abreact in order to recapitulate-recapture - an (the earlier psyche A - which I connect with the past (viz: A is past; B is present (is future); hence anamnesis occurs, a return to the very ancient past when the A or machine psyche existed; this is along a phylogenic axis, not ontogenic once the a psyche is "recovered" or "re prieved" or "remembered" - well, that is only the first step; then it (A) must fused alchemically with the later + ontologically is quite different B psyche to form ditheon (C). the abreaction, then, has to be into the Jungian collective or racial or phylogenic unconscious. What we call "schizophrenia" is this attempt ending unsuccessfully; it is a try at biological evolution, but it does not produce the "hierogamy" Ditheon Thus, for me, "Thomas" was the recovered/ retrieved a psyche from the age of "astral determinism," + it successfully fused with my B or human