its initial judgment that xtianity was true (whereas, as I say, to my right brain, it was only one possibility out of many; no judgment was rendered). I was like an American Indian facing modern white man's urban life, & defeated by it; but I possessed Sedaḳah, wheras to me other people were "androids" - i.e. schizoids; yet such women represented by own missing part that I needed in order to complete myself, so I was drawn to them. But in 2-3-74 I found it in myself; this is Angel Archer, my completed self. My longing for wholeness. K355 Note for p. 352. Ditheon: Christ enters the mind of the creature confronting retributive fate (the death crisis) & confronts it with him, &, by the insertion of his own spotless white sheet of paper - as revelaed to me in my "messenger" dream, nullifies the claim, karmic claim, that the retributive fate has on the creature; thus the fate is avoided, & the creature lives on (astral determinism has been defeated). This, then, is what 2-3-74 was all about vis-à-vis the Xerox missive, etc. & this is the "spirit" or stegenographic secret of the N.T., just as φιλανθροπια is the spirit of the N.T. Christ has entered the dying - or death- threatened - creature, literally, & dies with him, hence Ditheon. One seeing this, sees that it is a reperformance of the Passion literally; thus the creature does not die alone but is Christ, yet still retains its own identity; the creature is not replaced by Christ but is joined by Christ & becomes Christ (θεον); it is always & everwhere Christ who dies, but the creature is hallowed, sanctified, before its death: it does not face death alone & in uncomforted ignorance: this is the great gift of God: Death cannot be avoided, but Christ will join the creature & elevate it into a vast comprehension, of the meaning of its death & of the fact of Christ joining it; it is aware of - & transformed by - Christ's presence, which is literal, not symbolic. The creature has received Christ. There is a mystery within a mystery here. Who is it that dies? Has Christ become the creature or the creature Christ? Or are they both there, & if so, is this K356 two minds or one mind made up of two parts? There has been an apotheosis. Why, that is it! Apotheosis! Is this not perhaps the ultimate gift that religion can bestow? On its journey across to the next world, its God accompanies it - John Allegro mentions this: God holds the worshiper by the hand in this final journey. Hence: God sees not the creature but his own spotless son because in fact by a miracle it is his own spotless son at the moment of passage. -- Because I am right-brained & hence emotional & primitive, I view left brained people as machines. Cold & logical & mechanical - unfeeling. Also, since I am primitive, I experience shaman-like invasions of my mind (actually from my left hemisphere which stands guard over my right as a tutelary spirit, occasionally speaking - the AI Voice - and at the time of death-crisis (2-3-74) it took over - my "dissociated" actions. But then joined my right hemisphere to form Ditheon). I'll bet anything that my writing ability comes from my buried left hemisphere & its language skills, in which case when I wrote "BTA" Angel Archer was simply my left or writing hemisphere speaking in its own voice. My anima is in my left hemisphere so of course Angel is a woman; I associate women with logic: as my opposite half. Revelation: the true Xtian is Ditheon: the Sedakah of the right brain & the logic of the left. (As in Philo.) But gradually the true Ditheon Xtian gave way to purely left-brain people, as found in the Greco- Norman - 213 656 4555 K357 Roman empires Ditheon lived on in the Holy Fool, marginally. But the BIP, the Empire, reasserted itself in & as the left brained person; the Xtian balance (as exemplified by Philo) could not prevail. Thus it is said, "...she was unacceptable" - but: "St Sophia will be born again." The Holy Fool - right brain dominance - is periodically invaded by his reasoning left brain & by virtue of this utters wise sayings in the midst of his foolery. The true Xtian is Ditheon. But nobody is that, any more. I was in '74 briefly. - For the right-brain person, when the left brain invades it carries ancestral wisdom, that of phylogenic consciousness: it is Jung's racial (collective) unconscious but rational & judging, able to think. IF there is an intact self there, as there is in me. This is why in high school it was able to explain Archimedes' principle; it is supremely rational & logical & calm - it is the AI voice, yet (as I say) carrying ancestral wisdom - that of the ancient world. In moments of great crisis it takes control & seems - in relationship to my emotional intuitive irrational right hemisphere to be logos incarnate (& in a sense is!). But (as I say) my normally dominant right hemisphere possesses the Sedakah (φιλανθροπια) of the Hebrews, & views most other humans as "androids." K358 Which is to say cold relentless machines, able to reason but reason like machines, & I fear them. 2-3-74 was not just my left hemisphere invading but was - as a result of this invasion - "Ditheon" or "baptized in the spirit" as was possible in apostolic times: the logic of the left hemisphere & the Sedakah of the right hemisphere producing a God- like dual entity in touch with collective - phylogenic - wisdom without losing its φιλανθροπια. This is like a psychosis; very much so, but the invader (1) was rational; & (2) entered into a syzygy (hierogamy) with the conscious right hemisphere. true schizophrenia - Pat to the contrary - is when the dominant left hemisphere is (as schizoid hence with inadequate affect) overwhelmed by the unconscious right hemisphere which is not rational, does not have a rational logical judging function but is raw affect. "Schizophrenia" is an attempt by the latent (unconscious right hemisphere to compensate for the emotional inadequacy of the purely logical (i.e. thinking function) dominant left hemisphere - actually, the unconscious right hemisphere ceases to be compensatory & becomes antithetical & destroys the conscous ego of the one-sided dominant left hemisphere. So Pat is wrong. Now, my experience is quite the opposite. The conscious, differentiated function is right hemisphere & irrational, so it is invaded precisely by the rational - which fits what I say in the Platt interview & what I depict in "Valis": the rational (logos) invading the irrational. Pat is right correct in saying that one-sided over-development of the left hemisphere is schizoid, and almost right in identifying schizophrenia with the right hemisphere, but it isn't a right hemisphere dominant or conscious person who is schizophrenic; a schizophrenic is left-hemisphere dominant but this conscious left hemisphere has been invaded by the ego-less right hemisphere which has been latent & unconscious. True right-hemisphere dominant conscious persons are rare; they are those whose conscious differentiated function is one of the Jungian irrational functions - e.g. intuition. But for such a person, an invasion by the unconscious amounts to invasion by the rational, as if he has been schizophrenic all his life: but as if (als ob) is not the same as "is." Still, Pat is more correct than I havebeen; what I say is that right hemisphere dominance is an archaic pre-civilized "primitive" shaman- like psyche which hears - not insane voices - but the "hallucinated" voice of reason, the very function lacking from his consciousness, thus (ach!) he possesses two selves: this must be the case. He has created a self in the right hemisphere because that is the dominant conscious hemisphere, but in the latent unconscious hemis- phere another self has formed because it is in that hemisphere (left) that the rational, logical thinking-function is located; thus he is literally DI. & it was to precisely such people that Jesus was appealing - the Jews of his day: the primitive people of Palestine. Jesus knew that they contained buried in them a child God of reason (St. Sophia) waiting to be born: "Sophia" because it was the thinking faculty & "Holy" because it was - or was connected with - the collective archetypes of the phylogenic unconscious. &, wedded to the conscious Sedakah, a dual & divine loving yet totally wise entity would be created for surpassing the cold, android-like (in comparison!) "civilized" Greco-Romans. i.e. those born with that left-hemisphere dominance who would never possess the sedakah or agapē or empathy of the right hemisphere consciousness. This ditheon would be the Christian superman, but he disappeared from the world the moment right-hemisphere dominant people ceased to be born; for them "baptism in the spirit" was nothing more than schizophrenia! -- My 2-74 "meta-abstraction" was my [judging] rational thinking function buried in my left hemisphere (unconscious) realizing that xtianit was true, & now, & applied to me. It is precisely the B EB vol 15 p101e. What the Holy Spirit does - regarding justification. & the "messenger" vision proves this to be the case. -- The strangest idea came to me: that for each of the 3 psyche types, the info for higher types moves too fast to be visible. Viz: for the type A psyche, the N.T. "moves" too fast; for both the type A & type B psyches, the recombinant info for the type C psyche is literally invisible! This must involve a fundamental time sense. Or internal change-rate velocity. -- I am of the opinion that the meta-abstraction was an act of performance by the up-to- then latent left hemisphere's thinking function, with (1) the immediate result that I knew (jedged) Xtianity to be the case, not as a creed or doctrine but as world-reality here & now, in fact timelessly & (2) this brought my left hemisphere to consciousness out of which Ditheon resulted. Therefore I can say that a connection exists (at least for a right- brained person) between the act of knowing that xtianity is true & his elevation to Ditheon ("baptism in the spirit"). The recognition that xtianity is the case activates the second self necessary to produce Ditheon: as if this second self has been waiting for the proper signal to disinhibit it, this proper signal being the realization of the truth of xtianity - whereupon you are in another reality entirely, since you now have two points of view (what I call "temporal parallaxis"). Thus world becomes abstract; & you can discern the high speed recombinant information: which is to say you are aware of the rapidly evolving Corpus Christi camouflaged into reality but now visible to you as set to ground. Since it is negentropic - moving from disorder to order - it seems to progress retrograde in time. Its change rate velocity is enormous, now; as I figured out (supra notes) quantitative change rate velocity accelleration produces qualitative changes in it, in terms of flexibility & abstraction; we know it only as it perturbs the reality field (like a magnetic field to iron filings), since it is not substantial but is an organizing principle or pattern distributed (perhaps) ubiquitously. Expressed as a valence away from plumb. Thus it is in a sense latent form. It must be - as information - retrieved. This tug - is it not the Ch'ang Tao? But I conceive of an evolving entity whose change rate velocity is accellerating exponentially. This is expressed as structure, complexity, order, flexibility, freedom, self-consciousness, & abstracting (& a progression subsumation of its incroprorated environment into arrangements of info - why, this is a definition of s negentropy! An organism to survive (Boltzman) must incorporate negative entropy from its environment,