a seeing of identity of two or more things; that this could apply to Christ So that he is feature-extracted (set to ground) by means of conceptual reasoning is an idea simply beyond compare in its implications because what I have been supposing to be some kind of revelation or supernatural experience may in fact be a very high + unusual order of conceptual reasoning - i.e. abstracting a priori regarding what is seen empirically. granted have considered what I call the "ajna eye" higher faculty a K-69 But I have assumed it to be part of the percept system, not cognition. Well, here is my leap from "groove" to "music"; it has to do with conceptual thinking about what is seen, so that the conception (ab straction) feeds back into the percept system + out of this comes such transformations as set/ground discrimination, seeing objects mutual arrangement as information, Valis am saying but now I camouflaged, etc - something new: by discerning that Thomas derive from a common essence (this in + I itself a meta-abstraction) I then create the Ditheonic mind with its temporal paral laxis (as the next step; i.e. Thomas + I now function in push-pull parallel unison with our two fields - which in some ways are the same but in other ways differ - combined into a common field - + this leads to the recovery or recol lection of cognitive faculties of such a high order as to be both unknown to + impossible - + I designate this for mono-psyche brains as Christ, the eidos on which Thomas + I are based: hence Ditheon, not Dianthropos. So a o series of mental steps is involved + not, as had assumed, a meta-abstraction; that was only the beginning. Only so long as our two psyches were operating in con‐ junction could the set-ground feature extraction - everything based on temporal lay- be utilized, so eventually when we pulled apart, my normal "blind perception c the last days consisted of world returned of my seeing the Golden rectangle). In "Valis" K-70 I reported: universe as information; Valis, camouflaged, discriminated; set-ground; the plasmate; another personality "living in my brain at another time + space"; time somehow becoming space; a vastly larger universe; the AI voice - + a lot else, a confused mixture not understood by me but suggestive of Christ, perhaps because of the Judo-Xtian apocalyptic archetypes forgot to meation them, the eide, the (1 supratemporal constants). It has been virtually universal reaction that this a was all psychosis, but my exegesis from last october on, when I first discerned the meta-abstraction + soon identified it with Plato's anamnesis + recovery of the Forms convinces me that it was not psychosis. On the other hand it was not a theophany or revelation or the super natural. It had to do with what I believe to be (briefly stated) a bicameral mind in which I was only a part, capable of abstracting to a total degree + thus freeing itself of plurality, the concrete, of world as such + relating directly to what I construe as the source of reality: an informational entity of some kind, perhaps what is known as the Alexandrian Logos. That this represents a biological evolutionary leap I now have no doubt. The biggest drawback to a correct interpretation on my part was the assumption that the ontological source of the universe - its creator - is God; that its source is information K71 living information, I simply could not saw it + tried to report grasp, although I it in both "Valis" + "divine invasion." ) (Logos + Torah respectively. that the ultimate basis of reality is information, in fact living informa + that I saw it, is what I have I feel (now) that said in "Valis." I understand why I saw it (+ why we do not normally see it; you need two fields dis-synchronized in space + time, + to get that you require two psyches placed at differing times yet able to fuse their perceptual fields into one: this clearly in a bicameral or two-brained mind, + it is not human as we customarily employ the term. It is to the normal mind as the normal mind is to the schizophrenic mind, which I regard as a (1 would throwback to machine thinking tend to regard schizophrenic concrete thinking - failure properly to abstract - as the cause of the maladaptive "pathology" rather than a symptom, which is to say, the ability to conceptualize, abstract + reason is inversely proportional to what we call schizophrenia (this would explain why it seemed to me possible that I had been psychotic all my life, up until 2-74 whereupon I became sane for the first time; be more accurate to say probably it would that I triumphed over machine daseen). I distinguish three distinct realms that 2-72 t are the necessary worlds of the three modes of thinking; they lie along an axis of autonomy, freedom + rationality but can be viewed spiritually in terms of the they would evolution of the human spirit. correspond to the 3 ages of Joachim del Fiore + to the 3 realms of the "Commedic law + justice (which is mechanical), o mercy + love (which involves rational judg ment superceding fixed law, the age of grace; the age of decision rather than appeal to a rigid code - this is the age of the son + involves wisdom replacing the power of the to Father); + the third age just beginning hich dawn, the age of the spirit in the is ditheon comes into existence. Its relation not quite a relation to world at all, physical world as such, but, rather, the informational basis This or intelligence that is the source of world mode of being-in-the world involves a binary self-correcting two field, two channel dis‐ phased totally autonomous entity, self-regulating. that paradoxically is not separated from what it is not but is, rather, a participant in a common field; it thus possesses both an absolute consciousness, yet no ego or self as such, no identity or division between itself as percipient + what it perceives. It is a kind of focus of awareness, but there is no distinction between its awareness of itself + its awareness of its environment. It is, in a sense, its own environment, except that its level of internal organization (structure) tends to evolve at a faster rate than its G-73 environment. Its goal is knowledge, + it construes knowledge in terms of an incor‐ poration of the information on which reality is based. In Heidegger's terms, its noein the a is its einai - it is what it knows. key term is Logos (interpreted as plan, rationality or structure): it as Logos is an analog of world-Logos with the result that what it is, world is (inner-outer perfect correspondence). Thus it is neither created nor destroyed; reality, existence is its macro-existence + it is reality's micro‐ existence. It cannot lie, because lying would contradict its knowing (noein) basis (einai). Its strategy for survival is ever-increasing internal organization in terms of its awareness of itself / world; thus it says "anokhe --" or "I." which is the uttered word (Logos) on which reality is based; it is, then, this uttered word (infor‐ mation) recapitulated. It exists at no par‐ ticular time + place. Only when it is construed as a syzygy involving the not-it can it be comprehended; it knows a priori because it can incorporate reality without threat to its autonomy (since it possesses no personal identity). Each Ditheon is simul taneously unique (the "human" part of the syzygy) + common (the "theon" part of the syzygy which is identical to all ditheons). If the first age is power, the second age it grace (mercy, wisdom + love), this third age is characterized by wordless structural beauty. 9-74 It was the Torah that saved me vis-a-vi the Xerox missive. It is living info. It is The ruling life form here It is our creator. YHWH's word uttered before creation. It is rational It is Logos. the son. It is Ditheon is Erigena's #4 state of natura Torah / Logos is #2. i We can know God only in/as stage #4 (Ditheon); if we ascend + "roll back" the universe #3 we get only to So Torah/Logos living #2 Torah/Logos. info #2 is a lesser hypostasis than #4, which we find as a glint in the weeds in the a the 3 parts of God that alley. God (void) I was shown. a-"2 ran 2 I 1) Void s world 2) "I." s t Valis 4) Valis impinging on reality "Valis Christ I became Ditheon. The new with which o Valis biological species replacing man (as Christ) us goal. source God impinges Valis #4 plasmate universe the other side - below t from the trash of the alley Torah in a + the humble as in "Ubik impinges from ontologically supering it is one side un not (above ontologically) is to #2 but it. creator, but source, our prior to the universe after our destination. of -i.e. The universe #3, i.e. new Valis is consuming A4 superior ontology above the transubstantiating) c us, prior to us, our source universe which the Torah Dialectic: between superior ontology created. below us, following Torah (stupid powerfu us, our goal, taking horn) + it (wise horn us + creation away the thing contended over: from #2, the law the universe + us. H-75 have modified crigena's scheme. uttered the Torah + it created us + our God world Christ (below us) combats #2 Torah, not Logos or son, for possession of us, #3 God over-rules Torah. his t God own instrument Christ 2 Torah i combats our creator, Torah 3 universe (the plasmate). Purpose: his o Christ instrument, the Torah (plasmate has come between him + us. Christ will restore us to him (God). Torah = Yaldabaoth. Mechanical t but foreseeing this, God sent ossified Christ from before creation, to free us + restore is to God. Christ occurs here, is assembled out of non-Christ components, as Teilhard suggests. The Torah is good, not bad (not Satan!) but it (as I say) comes between us + God. How? By having created the universe; This is a fall, the Torah's (God's uttered word) act of creation. The dialectic is not a fight between God + evil but between 2 goods both of whom God created. But the Torah created the world; this act was the Fall. The Torah would keep us here - which keeps us away from God; hence this is a prison. Christ (Dionysus) as in "Tears" restores us to God: "one by one he takes out of the world." This is what Paul is us The Torah even exerts a tyrannical saying. power over God, because God can only know creation indirectly, through (by means of) (by reading? The Torah, so God has only an indirect relation to creation but Christ (Valis) is here camouflaged is He the crazy magician + fool + healer, miracle worker - pretends (I mean) to be crazy like Hamlet. To fool the Torah th is K-76 be: chooses he causes to appear (not them from appear) mad, so as to save the Torah, because if they are mad the Torah has no longer any use for them, it it is claudius the King. being sober. Hamlet the fool is Christ the rightful "King Felix" - Dionysus, i King the God (rightful King ming Felix Christ (Hamlet, Dionysus, the fool, the magician the madman the miracle worker + healer) will over come Torah, who rules (claudius, Felix Buckman in "Tears") + seize the throne; i.e. wrest creation away from him + restore us to God This is the dialectic. Torah does not know everything. Christ does. This is the story the whole Bible tells: the coming of the King disguised as a madman with