that accellerating time is involved in such a way that level, of ontology are involved resembling those that Dante describes, based on Juachin Finally, a new type of human is created by this who is a two-psyche entity plugged into this brd-level information as his control system, his guidance system. These 3 states or modes of this information entity explain why we experience God as 3 persons' each level is expressive of a different mode of one unitary being who (it would seem) evolves as we evolve (at least in relation to us). A close scrutiny discloses that each of its 3 stages takes the form necessary for human life at that evolutionary level + I: therefore logical + not K165 arbitrary (viz: initially there had to be a fixed law; later conceptual principle, + now specific unique combinations of info -instructions- for each separate individual person meeting ech crucial moral choice situation). By apprehending this 3rd + highest state (of the info entity) the relationship -in terms of affinity + of contraries- between Christ (not.) + Torah (O.T.) can be appreciated. Each succeeding stage is fundamentally revoluo tionary in relation to the previous one + yet logically evolves out of it (perhaps by the dialectic; this entity may be my "binary switching system"). Thus all three stages (expressed by Dante as hierarchical realms) represent modes -coaxial in time + space- of a unity thing or being (the underlying continuity may be what Echhart calls the Godhead or urgrund, which does not change). That all 3 levels are salvific + good can be seen by analyzing the lowest level, the Torah: it only displays defects when viewed in terms of later higher stages; intrinsically it is sublime, + is the "Father" of the next stage, the "son" which in turn is the source of the highest stage "the Spirit." in the third (highest) stage, human diversity + individuality culminates in an infinitude of unique persons dealing with unique situations by means of recombinant scripture pertaining to persons + situations on a strictly one by one basis; thus enormous amounts of diverse info must be swiftly generated + made available; there can be, then, no fixed canoni not even Gospels. 9166 all prior stages are morphologically contained in the highest stage, as if this is an ontogenic organism recapitulating its phylogony. Thus a human in relating to it can relate at any one (or suc‐ cessively several) levels or even fall out of contact with it entirely (the period of the Fall before Mt Sina: + Moses) A human at this point in history relating to its highest level would regard the "son" or human or N.T. level as Paul regarded the Torah; it was good but it has served its purpose + must be last off as ossified. This explains my religious anarchism. So the Spirit definitely acts as a decyphering lens/grid for scripture, as the Reformers taught (but they could not figure out why it revealed different messages to different people! 1) "Valis" is substantially correct about living info that crossbonds with us, + it is the Holy Spirit -i.e. the plasmate, by + through which all reality can be read as information. This is not info based on reality concerning reality but is the bstract ontological pre-existent source of substantial reality conceptually arranged in God's intellect as ideas (forms) in a structure called by Philo "Logos." These ideas, being abstract, would be or seem to be information 167 O.T. = letter (Torah). N.T. = Spirit of O.T. Then regard "spirit" as a conceptual bstraction that is not a break with This letter or a repudiation of it, but a fulfillment of it as conceptual abstraction of its essence - which implies that there a conceptual distillate possible, that is is latent in the "letter" - the totality of laws. The "spirit" is derived through process of conceptual abstracting or seeing the irreducable basis underlying the many laws. Now, certain key elements of the law are specifically repudiated in this con‐ ceptual abstraction or "spirit," specifically the Lex talionis. Therefore we are to conclude that as cardinal as the lex talionis seemed, It is not in accord with the "spirit" of The Torah + is padically transformed in the "Spirit." If N.T. is "spirit" of O.T. as letter, what is to N.t. as N.T. is to O.T.? Can another conceptual abstracting of equal magnitude be performed in which a further derivation occurs? + would this involved a dis‐ criminating process in which certain key parts of the N.T. are radically transformed as was the lex talionis? do, there will be no one scripture (narrative); it will perpetually recombine uniquely for each situation + person, so instead of one narrative there will be an infinitude of narratives; but for each choice situation the recombinant message will be appropriate. no one thing is right or true. The mind that (168 recombines the meta-morphemed is "in" the person, not outside him; it is him, as if he is the author of his own source of information he seems to inform himself as his own infal wable guide (this is due to the two psyches) Thus he programs himself as if he is both in time + space + subject to causation, yet also outside time, space + causation, as a Thus each unitary ubiquitous world-psyche. person has one unique psyche joined to this common unitary ubiquitous psyche. The info arises in the spaceless, timeless, common psyche, as if auto-generated: that is, it creates its own information which it feeds itself, so its world are its own prior thought formations + recognized as such, + its karma is the result of its own verdict as it sits in judgment on itself (although it cannot act contrary to its own nature). Instead of empathy (recognition of similarity) it experiences identity with other life, a trans-corporeal mind (the Atman which is the one true self beneath the multi‐ plicity of egos. It therefore possesses corporate info outside of space + time; at any giken time + place it has access to info not yet in existence that develops "outside" itself in the sense of outside it as an individual ego. What it knows it knows by direct experience as if a priori; that is, absolutely Here is where info seems to arise ex nihilo sua generis -i.e. causelessly + spontaneously Because this mind is both the recipient of the info + its source (this is why I felt I "was no longer blind" + on the outside of the universe looking in K169 what t am describing in quite Obviously Valis in me + external to me, + This dual aspect is the key: Valis was in me + yet was outside me. Viz: it was me; yet it was not-me. For this mind reality is known in total abstraction, as Thus it eternal forms which are intelligible ideas. -itself not in space + time- knows world outside of space + time. As its own creator it works back‐ ward from its state of perfect completion much It is a center like Aristotle's prime mover; that is concentrated consciousness that operates of retroactively to draw everything to convergence as itself; the closer [in terms of hierarchical stages of completion] the stronger its tug or perturbation in temporal terms this means that as its reticulation + arborization approacher completion its tug becomes stronger by exponental increments. thus the accelleration proportionally accelerates the closer point E2 gets. We are aware of this accelleration now (v. EB article on time). It perturbs the reality field from its future state of completion; it's like a film of Yet it itself is an explosion run backward. distributed throughout all time but steadily weakening the farther back in time (away from its completion) you go. It was at sinai that first became conscious of itself + could it eusk; o say guess what I'm saying is that the world created itself + it is some kind of self-conscious entity whose "blood" is living information. The MMSK could not have existed prior to creation, for it is completing itself through the reticulation + arborization supplied by the organizational flux process of creation as you approach (proportionally) the com‐ pletion point, since time is speeding up. the modality of the entity is shifting up the K170 levels from chaos to machine to human to Ditheon (inferno to etc). Now, it must be realized that these realms (levels) are coaxial (in some way that I don't under‐ stand, like concentric spheres rotating at progressive velocities - the image that came to me last night is an CP rotating faster as you travel from the center to the rim, yet it is one unitary thing, which if you think about it theoretically is sort of strange viz: we definite the disc as an it + stipulate a given rotational speed for it as a totality, the experience of the stylus in contact with the groove says otherwise. Ontologically (in a kind of Plotinusian concentric rings system) as you ascend ontologically you speed up - inner biological clock? Rate of neural firing?- + as this occurs, qualitative jumps in world-nature occur. It (MMSK) is building is the rate (increment of itself faster. I rate) proportional to evident animation the lower rate of change does not seem alive, we do not identify it with life. This is very suggestive of Teilhard's evolutionary concept/‐ perception in the machine mode (rate?) it does not accrue. Nothing new occurs. Is this why It is said that the first advent introduced linear time inplace of cyclic time? + yet cyclic time underlies linear time. There must also be synchronous time, in contrast to linear time as it is to cyclic time acausality replaces causality. K171 hypothesis: time flows faster -i.e. change occurs more rapidly- as you ascend the ontological levels; thus point II + high velocity change are directly proportional. This is like the periodic table: the heavier more complex atoms are less frequent (i.e. complexity inversely proportional to frequency). "the past" refers to slower change-rate; "the future" to faster change rate. Inferno (Acts BIP "Tears") is the past or "past" - i.e. it is the machine mode. Here the perturbation of the reality field is less, so there is a low excitation to change. Hence hell is conceived as down, as sinking, as below. (Nebelheim.) A perception of the past would axiomatically be a perception of machine-world hell. Color spectrum frequency drops toward infra-red. Since the reality we perceive is in some fashion the reality our own brain creates, we build reality heavily, slowly all the change-rates are simultaneous just as all the groove-speeds are simultaneous on a rutating CP Disc. Therefore the past + the future are here (?) or now (?) in the sense that variable change-rates exist simultaneously, depending on how you "track" or "where" you track. Vertical ascent is ontological -the axis is one of ontology, of kind - but there is a quantitative variable + it is that of velocity of change-rate. Both (ontology + velocity of change-rate) are directly proportional to complexity + to abstraction! (surprise. + proportional to organization (cosmos). So entry (?) could occur through a sudden meta-abstraction, + here anamnesis is K172 involved; how? It pertains to the past; i.e. slower change-rate; yet it advances you into faster change-rate: it carries you up + forward into greater complexity. Why do you see the past, then? You must be seeing your present locus as the past. Since these are relative terms; viz: did not see the literal first century AD, Acts, I saw my own world as Acts. That means I saw I my own present locus as the past - because had abstracted forward in relation to my normal world. My "velocity" relationship changed; in relation to me, it moved slower due of course to my speeding up (i.e. it did speeded not slow down; that is absurd). up so it