by justification. My view is a mixture of Gnosticism + Protestantism. Er machte mich unschuldig [Note]; dabei mein Ur-angst verschwangt. [Note] By the action of the Holy Spirit which made Christ's death contemporaneous with me hence for me; viz: the spirit caused me to know, to understand, the Messianic purpose + in terms of my own salvation (eschatology-soteriology); that is, it applies to me. The messenger vision clarifies this. ___ It came to me last night while stoned that 3-74 could be boiled down simply to this: reality exists in one more dimension than we know of, + I saw that dimension (as if added: reality enhanced properly). + this was due I realize today because of a cognitive act/event in my mind: the "not two mothers but one mother twice" meta-abstraction; viz: my brain/mind did it. Hereupon, all attempts to explain + describe + understand what I saw must fail, since world was radically transformed (it was other) However: what 63-2013 D-47 I think I saw is an insubstantial template that either is the eide or is like the eide: due to the meta-abstraction I saw the timeless eternal basis of what for us is ephemeral substantial phenomenal reality - the template, as I call it. Were I to guess what the template is I would say, it is an idea in a mind: something is thinking it. Thus I did not see God; I saw his thoughts - world as his thoughts (Kosmos noetos?) + -this is important- this was not revelation but due, rather, to an ultra high order of cognitive abstracting on my part: this "vision" was acquired through my intellectually "seeing". (I.e. seeing that -- etc.) Yet, there is a greater secret: the wound. World as injured suffering God (hence the Tagore vision, Jesus patibilis, the wound theme in "Valis" etc). (The wound in "Parsifal" expressed as "burning the ecosphere" hence the stigmata on Tagore's legs; why, Amfortas' wound is in his thigh! Legs - thigh. Paradoxically, it is from this wound that all life comes - arises. God gives birth to the universe through his injury, suffering + death; hence Jesus patibilis. Creating is a giving birth by him + causes him suffering; the Tagore vision shows that the suffering is now so great that he, the creator, may die - + hence withdraw from creation + creating, + it is our fault as a species. He has placed himself at our disposal, but 63-2013 63-2013 D-48 due to our crimes, his suffering becomes too great. He is the great friendly fish in Galina's dream, offering his body to us to eat: this is creation itself: the very world (reality) we live in. It (reality) is an offering, a sacrifice, but we respond wrongly + wrong him. This is not just the savior; this is God himself, converting himself into world - at terrible cost to himself. (This is, I guess, ecotheology.) Then my "extra dimension" is the God body as it really is. + we wound it. It manifests itseld substantially to us + for us, but is actually insubstantial, an idea; it gives birth to itself in + as the physical, substantial, phenomenal world for our sakes: but then we injure + destroy + pillage + exploit it + misuse it. Did it not will itself to exist in physical, substantial, sensible dimensions we would be unable to apprehend it (here is where Malebranche fits in: what we see is a representation of something else, but that "something else" is not creation but God himself making himself available to us as a physical body (reality, world); this is an act of will + effort on his part, this self-disclosure to us [Note]. + when I saw Valis in 3-74 I saw him (his body) as it really is. [Note] + by doing this he exposes his body to our crimes + misuse; he exposes himself to pain by this disclosure - pain inflicted by us. Under these circumstances he can be hurt. This is a new theology, neopantheism +, specifically, ecotheology. Out of his love for us he receives pain. + tears. 63-2013 63-2013 D-49 Thus it is not proper to say, "we are occluded"; we see -as reality- what he lovingly makes available of himself to us + for us. My vision of him in 3-74 was due to his own presence in me: self-perception by him, a further manifestation: one of degree; +, I think, so that he can communicate with us. Esp. the Tagore vision. He must make his real self available to us in order to stop the harm we are doing to him. Literally, God appeals to us for help, for medical attention: we must aid him, now, not vice versa. In this crucial situation he can extricate himself by withdrawing; however, before he resorts to that -which would doom us- he manifests himself fully (more than usual?) to appeal to us. The primordial "Fall", then, is the birth or manifestation of the divine (body) into time, space, the sensible, physical universe: a fall in the sense of sacrifice on its part causing it pain: a subordination of + by the divine, voluntarily done for our sakes. Not sin, not ignorance, but sacrifice, out of boundless (i.e. infinite) love. (Love, then, is the essence -einai- of God.) Thus the divine pluralizes into the world of creatures subject to the laws of blind necessity that Schopenhauer sees all creatures caught in: this is prajapati pluralizing himself into + throughout all creation, hence Jesus patibilis; hence 2-3-74 was anamnesis on 63-2013 63-2013 D-50 my part of myself as Prajapati: he as a sole unity has pluralized to give birth to us all as individual, separate selves at vast cost to himself (Jesus patibilis + Prajapati are one and the same + are the ecosphere! Which suffers, now, too much, at our hands; we have turned onto the deity -Tagore- itself + wound it beyond the point that it is able to endure [its normal condition is one of pain + sacrifice anyhow, but we add crucially to this: the wounds are becoming too great, like a cancer within an organic biological body where certain cells become malignant + destroy other cells]. The body can save itself by withdrawing, but (as I say) this would doom us; hence instead it makes an appeal to us. Galina's dream + the Tagore vision are one + the same (+ are Valis). This theme of grief, sacrifice, pain, loss, suffering goes back (in my writing) to "Tears" + this is what "Tears" is all about. "Valis" discusses this - the grieving, sorrowing Godhead. But I now see that this comes from its self-sacrifice in "falling" into space, time, causality, multiplicity + substantiality for our sakes: so as to both create us + world for us, + the ambiance of its sacrifice, its "fall" is in Dowland's music: pain + love. (Sorrow + love, which is to say love that generates for it distress.) When seen, it is perfect beauty. This is how it "looks". Pain + sorrow is what it feels. Perfect love is what it is. So beauty, love, pain, grief, sacrifice. + to emulate this path 63-2013 63-2013 D-51 is the stations of the cross + our imitation of God himself: we do what he has done + become (remember) what he is thereby. Taking this path causes the anamnesis that I experienced in 2-3-74 + this is the true + only real enlightenment. It was known first to Gautama. It is not just (sic) Xtian; it is also Buddhahood. Okay. Now I know at last what the significance, ontologically speaking, of suffering it: it is a reperformance of God's original sacrifice for our sakes. Suffering is the cost of -the price paid for, exacted for- the creation -i.e. existence- of reality + of us as plural selves. This has nothing to do with evil, sin, etc., but with divine love + self-sacrifice. "Tears" is a holy book. The greatest sorrow of all is abstract sorrow: the pure essence of the Godhead. This is found in Dowland's first music that is abstract - + from him to Beethoven. WHAT THIS IS IS COGNITIVE SORROW + IS the DIVINE ESSENCE ITSELF. It is pure knowing. It is not an emotion; it is awareness of its own essence: two mirrors: sorrow + awareness of sorrow, its own sorrow. We must save the savior: extricate the Godhead from its self-sacrifice "+ lead him back to his throne". He/it/she 63-2013 D-52 now appeals to us (for help - this help). I have now herein formulated the basis for the new ecotheology. To live I must sacrifice my joy. There is no extrication if I am to be: + thus I recapitulate the ontological dilemma of the Godhead itself. "The greatest thing that God can teach us is to emulate Christ + give up our life for another" - the primordial voluntary self-sacrifice + pain + sorrow is the fall itself, yet necessary (for einai itself to be: for being to be: this is the cost). This incorporates Xtianity + Buddhism + subsumes them into a new, higher synthesis of religion/theology. The creator now appeals for an end to this pain + injury, sacrifice + sorrow: + this solution would abolish existence itself: non being would have triumphed over being. [unknown symbol] leads to non being. ___ The mythological dreamtime reperformance situation is simply impossible to explain. All the times that the reperformance occurs is one time - hence my entry was through the "not two mothers but one mother [Note] twice" meta-abstraction. There are two ways of expressing the same thing. [Note] Seen. Seen twice. This cognitive realization is at the essence of the sacramental act of reperformance by which time is overcome. 63-2013 63-2013 D-53 Thus the sense or perception that it was really the time + place of Acts also lies at the essence of the situation. I say, the "not two mothers but one mother seen twice" + the perception of Acts as now are a single unified experience: the meta-abstraction is the source of Acts being here + now: this is how it can be; i.e. that Acts is here + now. The meta-abstraction makes it that way, not vice versa. If this is not the eide - but: why, if it is the eide, does it occur with + by + in sacraments as such? Why not cars + hats + battleships? For it is not just the dimension of the eternal + unchanging that enters but the sacred per se. Eliade makes this perfectly clear. It is always + everywhere thus. Why? IN MY OPINION this discovery that my "not two mothers but one mother seen twice" meta-abstraction is the sacramental reperformance miracle in which time is abolished - all the times it is performed is one time; i.e. once - is: My analysis last Feb on the two postcards of the coaxial common essence realization of last October ([picture of two rectangles connecting to one rectangle]) is in fact an analysis -+ a correct one- of the sacramental miracle; in February I conceived it abstractly independent of religion + sacrament: a pure cognitive event - as I call it, a meta-abstraction. 63-2013 63-2013 D-54 This relates back, then, at once to coaxiality, which is how reality works + to which the cognitive meta-abstraction pertains. It is not only a conception; it is how actuality is (cf Anselm's ontological proof of the existence of God). What is conceived is physically extant (as compared to a triangle which can be imagined as such without existing. + here is the quintessential point: that it is both a conception -expressed as meta-abstraction- + how reality is. What does this tell us? That there is an intelligible or abstract way-of-being (basis?) of what we know as physical reality; if arranged conceptually this conceptual arrangement turns out to be how in fact it is