what Russ calls "disparate Christ. they come loose parts that only when together do you have Christ" - as in "BTA." No one particular (human) on his own, solus, is Christ. It takes at least two (+ othese two particulars will be at different times + different places + so will "have" different worlds). In other words, in a sense I have no direct relationship to Thomas; I was never Thomas" in a former life"; my K-48 relationship to him is: ns so to "gather together PKD) s Christ you do so in term. etist of a Platonist eidos + its particulars . (This accounts for my sence of somehow having participated in the war of the lowlands in the 17th century 1) a Thomas is not Christ. I am not Christ. but am a human. Thomas is a human. i (as I realized the Friday following the Ditheon dream) Thomas + I together are Ditheon which is Christ. How? Through Plato's eide (which explains my anamnesis + meta-abstraction). Thomas is adventitious psyche to me, but I am adventitious to Thomas - which I have not realized before. Hence his thinking, "then is someone else in my head + he's living in another century." Thus it can be said truthfully that I as PKD will perish (just as Jesus perished) + Thomas will perish - as particulars. But it is equally true to say that he + I are eternal in that we are instantiations of Christ + have our true, real essence (being) in + as Christ. Thus the perplexing fact that when I "remembered" Thomas I (more accurately he + I together!) "became" Christ, i that is, recovered our Christ nature which was always in us. Christ is the first eidos within the human species (not in any way identical to the species but con‐ tained in it) + as such is eternal + (p51) can impart immortality to those he chooses [for "baptism in the spirit"). Hence: "where -49 two or more are gathered in my name, There am I" + "the Kingdom of God is among/within you" etc. (+ as Paul says, "the secret is, Christ in you. Jesus was the first instantiating of This eidos; his two natures were: human (particular) + God (eidos) forming one person. The eidos exists in its particulars but it has independent existence from them that is, they are dependent on it for their real existence but not vice versa. So the meta-abstraction + Platonist anamnesis were essential to my recovering my Christ nature, an event which took the shape of remembering myself "as" Thomas which I have steadfastly misunderstood, until s the Ditheon dream + rust letter). This explain why USA 1974 + Acts AD 70 were syntonically superimposed; Thomas + I as particulars of the same form could of course be blended together, whereupon we shared a common world didn't just remember Acts; I saw Hence I (experienced) Acts as here + now. Now, this recovery of this form (Christ) is the Parousia. Hence I say, "Christ is in a way identical to those whom he calls" but in another sense he is not; he is eidos to am "really" Christ insofar as is particulars truly exist, but he is not me, nor is he all of us who are instantiatings of him. But I say, my true Sein is Christ; I have no other Sein, + it is this sein that broke through in the phosphene disinhibiting: firing of 3-74 + K-50 It was my Christ - nature (sein, esse) breaking into consciousness (bound up with my adventitious psyche, Thomas). I did not become Thomas who is another human being no more supernature than I; what broke through - was recovered - was my eidos Christ, + that is supernatural, whereupon I perceived + thought in a supernatural way (I came very close to figuring this out recently when I conjec tured that operating in conjunction thoms + I could extract essence from accident in world as set/ground discrimination + could by our common field discern the archetypal constants because they exist at both our spatiotemporal sets - my concept of temporal staggering/lay I depth). But the personality who took me over was supernatural, not human Thomas was there - for we had joined to This "it) gether temporarily - but out of came not 2 but : Christ (for the put another way, there reasons I give). is no mechanism - means, way - by which the living psyche of someone who lived 2000 years ago 8000 miles away can merge with yours in one simultaneous present) world except through a common essence the term/concept we have for this is eidos: the meta-abstraction, by I which, in which + though which your own essence (in contrast to spatiotemporal accidents) time. So is inwardly experienced for the first The 2 post cards I mailed pat to K-51 were indeed my crucial conscious insight into 2-3-74; however, I did not understand that I + Thomas were the "I thing seen twice" I did not apply it to myself + hence could not see how Xtianity fitted in this other. wise Platonist schema Thomas, then, had not died + been resurrected (like tim in "BTA"). He is living in Rome now, or was at the time he + I merged in 1974. note: the term "Christ" (to be accurate about it) expresses this instantiating in a particular (the first being the man Jesus); i.e. what we call "Christ" involves two natures: the divine one (eidos) + the human one (particular in which the [divine eidos is instantiated. So supra I have been wrong to say that Christ can exist apart from the human particulars. The eidos, then, can not properly be called "Christ" for it in itself lacks the human nature; it has but one nature. Would this eidos be, then, the Paraclete, the second comforter? Of course, + this is why the Paraclete can pour itself into several - in fact many - humans, e.g. the Eleven There is such an eidos as I have been describing that I have inaccurately callel "Christ" + it does instantiate itself in humans as particulars which "two nature one person" entity is Christ is I a think this question of semantics. I what Thoma as two human psyches t added up to ie I K-52 was Christ for the Platonist (eidos to its instantiating in particulars) reason given. a (1) There is one immortal component common to all the particulars You can call this immortal immaterial eidos "Christ" or you can call it "the second comforter" or "paraclete" or "Holy Spirit" - the important thing is that it is t God + it Acts as an eidos + instantiated itself in plural humans here + there in time + space as its particulars, whereupon the ditheon is created because for the (any] given particular to self-know its Christ nature it must merge with at least one other particular (hence I say, "two human psyches, one innate + one adventitious Form Ditheon or Christ"), through anamnesis - except which is the meta-abstraction that the perception is self-perception; it is turned inward; it is "anuklie -" I mean, the sequence of ratiocination is first to anamn nesis of another particular, comprehension that you + he are "I thing seen at two times + 2 places" + from this comes the leap to the eidos Christ. So, e.g., Thomas is not dediced from my knowing my Christ nature; I know My Christ nature as a result of "remem bering" Thomas. Hence 2-74 consisted of seeing the Golden Fish sign + "remembering" Thomas + his world - since we are both contained in Christ; then later, in 3-74, my Christ nature broke through to me + it was my own true essence K53 It is no wonder I confused this with phylogenic memory + a phylogenic entity but what this "eidos" view points to is Christ as a meta-abstraction in the sense that all eide are meta-abstractions: to see" Christ is a matter of comprehension of something intelligible; it is a mental operation of a higher kind, such as I have discussed; it is connected with what t call an abstract view of reality where physical sensible reality gives way - is rolled back - to the uttered word. then I am equating "perception" of Christ with the "seeing" as is involved when you "see that if "I cow + I cow = 2 lows," it 1-2 This has to do with my 3 levels of straction: (1) the purely concrete (the old Babylonian astral determinism + schizo‐ phrenia); (2) concemporary man who some what abstracts but is still a semi-machine; This + (3) "Anokhi --" pure abstraction. i has to do with what is called intelligence hierarchical orders (stages) of intelligence. If I can "see" that Thomas + I are "one thing seen twice, not 2 things" I can "see" Christ, not just logically but also metaphysically. This answers the question as to, "where is Christ? Why doesn't he return?" For him to "return" we must evolve mentally to the level of full ab straction such as Plato discussed vis-a-vis the Forms. Hence in 3-74 I (actually I + Thomas) could see Valis: discriminate what resembled camouflage K-54 This is species evolution - perhaps to (as recently conjectured) to what amounts to a new species. Equipped with this t particulars dual mind (Ditheon) the enti two not only knows Christ inwardly (Valis in mylour mind) but also can distinguish him externally by use of some kind of temporal depth parallaxis. where does this process of escalation to pure abstraction begin? For me, long before 2-74; it has a long history in terms of my conceptions + realizations ("epiphances"). A I I so well put it, what is involved is making the conceptual leap from "groove" to "music" from substantia to information from universe to word. involved here is schiller, beethoven Goethe, the Aufklarung. Beethoven's 3rd period is abstract - involved, too, is a conversion of time into space, left brain hemisphere to right (or parity). I am saying that Christ is - not an abstraction, like a universal. But an abstract real entity that if properly conceived can then be discerned by a sort of inferential apperception (what I call "displacement"). This is an eidos like no other; it is the uttered word on which sensible reality is based + derives from ontologically. Objects are viewed in terms of their arrangement, as information; this expressed early in "Valis") is the meta abstraction perse! It is precisely the seap from "groove" to "music"! voila! H-55 Then Valis' mind in mine is my own mind working at the level where (1) it is Christ; + (2) can apperceive Christ both inwardly + externally; this is self knowledge because there is no distinction Thus it between observer + thing observed t apperceives itself. This is "anokhi--" the apperception of objects as arrangement constituting information is not any more just a viewpoint or an opinion than discovering that an LP groove is a carrier for music is an opinion (if indeed this is the case). Also, there seems (+ it is reasonable to assume this) that a mind exists that modulates sensible reality into informa‐ presumably can extract it back out: encode it, store it + retrieve it Further, this mind + the information may not be sharply separated, if indeed they are distinct at all (they may be modes, states or versions of each other). This is a discovery, + when it is made it is "seen" as a mental act (event) of the highest order, having to do with rational faculties + not the occult or even (in a sense) religion. not unless you would call Helen Keller's intuitive leap to the realization of the relationship between the word "Water" + water is religious. the information I refer to is not a descen ription of reality