of the Empire (Rome/CP/USSR). (The dream clearly rejects pisces + ushers in the new age of sharing + brotherhood: the pitcher of water + the pink cube are owned by the settlement in common. It is a group of idealistic Soviet scientists who have developed the psychotronic gun, referred to repeatedly in "DI". The ideals of Share International are the ideals, the goal, of the CP, that is communism ("to each according to his needs"). These idealistic goals can now be achieved. The theosophy is (as the Steinmetz dream showed) only a cover; the reality is technology + communism-socialism. The Soviet scientists work with their counterparts in the Benelux nations. Thus as a group they transcend the East-West bifurcation + polarization, but the discovery was made in the USSR; but it is not -repeat Not!- an instrument of Soviet (USSR, Russian) national policy; were it, the dream would have come to Bulkowsky + not Galina. folder 57 - 042 folder 57 - 042 R-3. How do I feel about this? I say, it is superb + wonderful + it is our sole salvation, + I give it my absolute assent; I devote everything I have to it. This is why I sensed CP-USSR from the start + this is why I, specifically, was selected; I am the sole US s-f writer who is sympathetic: one of the few in the West that they could trust. In a very real sense we are the anti-Christ: Soviet technology, the Benelux nations, the common market. But here is the explanation, the great secret that appears in "Valis": it all has to do with masks. The creator YHWH is irrational. (I.e. God is irrational.) Thus "anti-Christ" signifies true rationality. This is clearly put forth in "DI" where Harms views himself + the CIC (Catholic Church) as good, + the fetus as a monster. Hence fundamentalist Xtians call Creme "the anti-Christ". + this is so. Hence Gnosticism is right. + Share, although technically the "anti-Christ" is rational; + the creator is irrational (the status quo); everything is in actuality the mirror opposite of what it ostensibly seems to be. Hence the true symbols of the divine show up in the trash stratum. The "Ikhnaton" 3-eyed super race I've seen are graphic metaphors for Soviet scientists: they possess the true spirituality. folder 57 - 043 folder 57 - 043 R-4 This community of scientists -whole core is in the Warsaw pact nations- has totally shed such national identities as "Russian". This is an international group in both East + West; it thinks -not "East vs West" but "North vs South". Here is the precise key. What does "Steinmetz" signify? Scientists with a social conscience. That is not just clue; it is actual solution. Scientists with a social conscience lie behind Share International, + they are Soviet. The Party does not control them; they control everything through their technological breakthrough, + this is what the "Steinmetz" "dream" tells me. The ideals of the revolution. Hypnopompic: "Thy mother of old, Arjuna." (Written text. + also written: the new dharma: "The need to..." etc. That which Maitreya teaches: Krisna. That is why when we see the Maitreya we will remember him as our old friend; he is Krisna; we all are Arjuna. "The fourfold path." "Noble... right deeds, right thoughts..." [Note] Arjuna pronounced correctly; accent on the first syllable; I just checked. folder 57 - 044 folder 57 - 044 Q-11 There is a sort of mental algebra involved. Something is known before it can be known; that is, that which is to be found is used in the equation as premise. Just as my act re Covenant House which followed 2-3-74 stood as cause (premise). The effect is fed back in at the start. This may be some kind of reasoning backward. It resembles a heuristics reprogramming. "They pointed out the indispensibility in creative human thinking, as in its computer simulations, of what they call 'heuristics'. A large number of possibilities may have to be examined, but the search is organized heuristically in such a way that the directions most likely to lead to success are explored first. Means of ensuring that a solution will occur within a reasonable time, certainly much faster than by random hunting, include adoption of successive subgoals + working backward from the final goal (the formula to be proved, the state of affairs to be brought about). ___ S-1 [?] Satori: Once again as I did as Thomas almost 2000 years ago I await his imminent return. Will he come this time? He did not before. Even so - this was the best moment: this sense of his imminent return. I relive my life step by step. This, now, is precisely what I remembered in/as anamnesis. Then this is the second coming (my logic is intuitive). This is how we did it before: by word of mouth. It is a sacred drama, + what Share asks ("You have heard..." etc) is correct + proper reenactment of this the most sacred drama. folder 57 - 045 folder 57 - 045 S-2 We -such as I- we are the disciples. Not analogic but literally - who waited almost 2000 years ago. Here we are again: reborn for this (hence I remembered being Thomas + doing this); thus Jesus said to his disciples, "You will be alive when I return." This explains 2-3-74. + Creme is right: he has returned. + this is what Maitreya means in #88/89. I did this all before! + I know that he has returned: I saw him (3-74, in 3 ways: as unitary, the macrocosm, + in micro-form as Pinky, pluralized, +, 3rd, I saw him as Valis; that is, the fact that he warped reality as if exerting a gravitational force proved that he was physically there, + not an ethereal or astral or avatar body; this was physical resurrection. Hallucinations + sirits + holograms don't exert gravitational tug on the reality field! It was real (viz: I could + did not reason this logic out before now: it took me 8 years to see the significance in this perturbation.) This is a lot. That I am one of the disciples returned. That I saw him. That I know he will return soon - reincarnated; my God, in '74 when I saw him these 3 ways he had not yet reincarnated in a physical body! But he was here. Viz: I saw him before 7/19/77. Without Christ what I do (sharing) is just schizophrenic + irrational; but because of him, because he is here, he transforms it. It is his imperative +, moreover, it -what I do- proves he is here i.e. returned. This is a prima faciae miracle. folder 57 - 046 S-3 I have it now. Sacred time -the dream time- is fulfilling itself. + my proof is, all our actions are ritual acts in a sacred drama. Each single step must occur + in sequence + at exactly the right time. Elijah had to come first - + he did, in '74. Okay: '74 too was sacred time -i.e. 3-74- but I had to ascend into it out of normal time. But now normal time is sacred time; so in 3-74 had came but did not come in the profane world, only in sacred time (the upper realm) but now he comes here in this time + this realm. My normal world is what the "two signal" world of 3-74 was. What happened then (in sacred time) happens now in regular time. The disciples -ourselves- who said back then (almost 2000 years ago) "he will return" now say "he has returned". Then sacred time has advanced! Does this mean that Thomas + the other disciples died without their hope + expectation being fulfilled? No. Their time + this time (2-74) were laminated together through the "one object at two times + 2 places" lamination - + found themselves here, as if by time travel due to that to which the meta-abstraction pertains. Thomas came directly here - + remembered just having been in a cool, high, moist climate! __ Next morning: I reread this + tended to dismiss it - until I happened to catch sight of the Corgi cover of "Valis" + also remembered "Thy mother of old, Arjuna". folder 57 - 047 folder 57 - 047 S-5 I had an extraordinary insight in the middle of the night. [illustration: starting from "PKD", an arrow with the text "Yin the dark side of the dialectic i.e. the irrational" proceeds, until another arrow "Yang, Logos, the bright side 2-74 Thomas" joins with it; they proceed with the label "together" until reaching the final point:"Synthesis of Yin (PKD) + Yang (Logos or Thomas) into what I am now: expressed in + as the sharing, service, simplicity ideals that are the new age: the Avatar of synthesis"] What I realized is: true existence requires experience of both Yang + Yin: I saw them as two rings, a bright one of light (Yang) + a darker one of Yin, but the latter still real + necessary. The above diagram is expressed dramatically + in macroform in "Valis". I experienced it as the dialectic. What was expressed last night in my vision of the dark -or darker- ring -or circle- of Yin is that, as Ted Sturgeon speaks of, you voluntarily incarnate (e.g. as I did in 1928 as PKD) to deliberately experience Yin, creatoreal, irrational existence here (as Bodhisattva) in order to know + to be Yin. The Yang side is the bright unfallen side + in salvator salvandus, one's other -+ rational- self, who enters in order to rescue the Yin or limited or darkened, incarnated self. This is why the in-breaking of the Yang side (2-3-74) is anamnesis: recovered memory of one's own lost true self. This also explains why, then, the two-signal reality is seen, upon the cojoining of the two halves of the total self. This is also an extricating yourself from the maze by first being outside the maze - i.e. having solved it. Otherwise, fruitless horizontal tracking goes on forever; once [voluntarily] incarnated you are stuck there (here) forever. So I am a unitary whole now, with one part as a direct antecedent from the upper realm (Thomas) + one (PKD) from the lower realm. folder 57 - 048 folder 57 - 048 S-6 __ If indeed I -as Thomas- am one of the Eleven, this would explain the Acts [Note] material in "Tears" (I was one of the apostles), my hearing the AI voice (I heard it originally at Pentecost) (That is, it is the Holy Spirit). + of course all of 2-3-74 + Thomas. [Note] Acts + specifically Acts. You know, there just might be something to this! Even though I realized (sic) it while ripped. ___ I've got proof of it. (1) Share is absolute Joachimism: the inner voice + the age of communal sharing. (2) But Share speaks of the 2nd coming (3) It is too much of a coincidence that Joachim's two elements should show up in a fake -that is staged- return of Christ (fake or staged, either). Therefore this is the Return of Christ. The key, here, is the millenarian dispensation + the millenarian coming: the King of the Just -5th- Kingdom. This is what unites Joachim's vision with that element he did not deal with: the second coming. So all this develops by inner logic + necessity. This dispensation under these conditions (i.e. Christ's return). 63-1 D-1 The greatest heroic act ever: to publish in "Valis" that the universe is info - i.e. there is an info life form between us + [true] reality percipient - info life form ("universe") - reality (universe) I did not see reality in 3-74; I saw the life form in our brains + in reality posing as reality. + I spoke out: this that I said is the true Gnosis stolen from heaven + brought to man to help