to the cosmic order (e.g. justice - i.e. Ma'at); there are not many Ma'ats, just as there are not many justices, but one Ma'at + one justice. Thus Ma'at links the macro- + micro-cosms into a volitional unity. ➀ This wake-sleep-wake cycle could be what was meant by the "through all this, Siddhartha slept (in part one)" dream. Thus in the wake part of the cycle god comes into being. ----------- When the universe passes over from the mechanical to the volitional the person (for whom this happens) is no longer part of a machine or artifact but within Ma'at herself: the female, personalized cosmic (+ micro) order. Now there is intentional resonance (response) to his micro-Ma'at by the sentient + just cosmic order (structure, not entity). His relationship is now to a "you," not an "it." This "you" is emblemed to me as Diana the AI voice who is my advisor, guide, helper, comforter, advocate, + spirit of my religion, + tutulary spirit. The cosmos has at last disclosed its volitional, free nature + in doing so, frees the person. (25) My concept of reward as indicating that the rewarded person has correctly guessed the true nature of reality recalls the Maze model, with the reward intrinsically valuable but moreover functioning as a signal of successful problem-solving. Thus the reward acts as information signifier, within a framework of the appropriate (theodicy). Just as my crucial moral act was a deferring to the helpless (the innocent of Vietnam) so the resonance was a deferring to me in my helplessness, involving the active suspension of natural law in favor of the moral. So the first suspension of natural law took place in the microcosm (me), to which a later macro-resonance occurred. ---------- Perhaps the Q. is not, "Why would it disclose its intentionality?" but, "Why (previously) did it disguise its intentionality?" There was a theophany (the modulations of causal trains) (+ VALIS!) a theolepsy, + the low murmuring voice. Once this becomes the norm, the prior inertness is inexplicable. YHWH's thinking is non-linear: we can't follow it. He has conversed with me. The Gnostic contention that nature does not disclose God is incorrect. He is a God of nature + of nations. In, in fact, the trash layer, as in "UBIK"; another advance - milestone - in theophanies, as was the one at Horab. Deprived of the element of necessity the world would become dream like. Deprived of volitional deity it would be a machine. (26) He (YHWH) has built something mighty, something greater than world: VALIS. (I also thought, "+ it is his body; God's body, rather than an artifact with him as artificer." This now seems worth writing down, inasmuch as it agrees with the doctrine - from Paul - of the mystical cosmic Corpus Christi - + my belief that VALIS - which I saw - is the mystical Corpus Christi thus world is being transubstantiated into Christ/God; + in relation to the body of God. World is irreal - but being made real. Also, the mystical body is alive, + volitional; the world is not. Then the disclosure of intentionality is the disclosure of the mystical cosmic body of God camouflaged - via mimesis - in with mechanical world, as it stealthily devours it - which, as presented in "VALIS" is an invasion of the irrational (or subvolitional) by the rational (volitional). Thus I wrote, "I did not see causal processes as intentional, but interference in the processes." + VALIS was not all reality, since I saw it "cannibalizing" the antecedent universe as a stockpile of parts out of which it constructed itself. + this was the plan from before creation, "hidden throughout the ages" from the thrones, dominions + powers, etc.; viz: to replace world-asartifact with the cosmic mystical Corpus Christi (what I call VALIS). (Thus is it still kept disguised? As a secret? Camouflaged? "Through all the ages, this has been kept hidden in God, the creator of everything. Why? So that the sovereignties + powers ➀ should learn only now ... how comprehensive God's wisdom really is, exactly according to the plan which he had from all eternity in Christ Jesus our Lord." ➀"The evil spirits were unaware of God's plan... (27) So I have my first clue (insight) into why the "intentional" universe is kept hidden: so as to be a surprise to the evil "planetary" powers who control the cosmos + who Christ will strip of their "ancient authority," who he is now dethroning, + has been for some time: i.e. he is an in-breaking of God (v. the dream in "Tears"). Thus my 3-74 trap + bait + hook of divinity situation can be viewed as a supra temporal re-enactment of the archetypal Christ as baited hook situation - which would explain why, shortly before 3-74 i.e. in 2-74 I experienced anamnesis back through time to the sacred origins of that sacardotal drama (i.e. 1st century Rome/Syria AD). It is always re-enacted outside of time (v. Eliade). It is always, so to speak, 45 AD, every time it happens: every time the "powers, thrones, sovereignties + dominions" - i.e. the evil spirits - seize the bait of humanity + are caught in the barbed hook of divinity - divinity disguised even to itself. (Until the moment - the re-enactment - comes.) Well, this would explain why my anamnesis to that particular time + place occured just then (2-74). As I had figured out, the evil spirits (powers) are lured out into the open, to disclose who they are + what they are - in relationship to the divine. When they close the trap, I am not there. Christ is there. "Thomas," then, is indeed Christ: he vanquishes the evil powers who have created + closed the trap - only to find him in it, not me. I was merely bait, + innocent (but on my own, helpless to defend myself), this explanation accounts for the "Little boy Philip on the raft" dream, (28) Then to say, "The purpose of 'Thomas' replacing me was to extricate me" is not quite correct. The purpose was to re-enact the sacred drama of Christ in human form as the hook of divinity hidden in the bait of humanity, which acts to unmask + defeat the evil forces in their pluriform disguises, to identify them + then to route them. Saving me served a sacerdotal purpose: a timeless confrontation repeated + yet itself always (outside time) in which the divine triumphs over its evil adversary; thus my jeopardy served to restore a prototype or archetypal situation which had the effect of correctly stigmatizing where the evil forces had gone at this time + this place, calling down heavenly doom on them once more - as always. It is necessary (inevitable) that this exculpating - salvific - eternal drama be perpetually re-enacted at all times + all places - secretly. Now I fully + precisely understand the dream in "Tears": the King of Light with his host ventures boldly - openly - into the domain of darkness + slays the King of Darkness. Thus the deposing of Nixon is a natural (re)enactment of a timeless drama on a vast historic scale, whereas my sacred re-enacted drama was in microform but still sacred, still part of the overall confrontation between the King of Light + the King - + forces - of Darkness, in which Light wins, macro + micro. (29) This is why Acts shows up in "Tears," for the same reason that it showed up in my anamnesis: Acts is the timeless location of the primordial sacred event (drama). In my 2-3-74 situation the forces of darkness attack the King of Light (by mistake; they are lured) + are defeated; this is the micro-drama. In the macro-drama the King - + host - of Light sallies forth + enters the domain of darkness + attacks the King of Darkness - successfully. In both the micro- + macro- dramas the King of light wins, whether defending (micro) or attacking (macro). In "VALIS" the conflict is characterized further: the rational invades + attacks (i.e. devours) the irrational. It is as if all of "VALIS" is a full expression of my 3-74 head on encounter, + the "Tears" dream one: specifically the latter: once again the King of Light invades the domain of darkness successfully to sober it up (which carries out the theme of "Scanner"). The rational invades the irrational + promptly breaks the chains which bind us + frees us. This is symbolized by the King of Light killing the King of Darkness. The dream time. In both the micro (me in 2-3-74) + the macro, the King of Light has penetrated the kingdom of darkness, but in the micro the King of Light is disguised ("the little boy Philip on the raft" dream). His presence here goes undetected. (30) So "Tears" says, "It is the time of Acts, + the King of Light has invaded the domain of darkness to slay the King of Darkness." When I saw Zebra/VALIS I saw the King of Light. (As I say supra, the account of VALIS - the rational entity - invading the irrational domain carries out the narration of this soteriological drama). Acts is the exact space-time where this penetration into the domain of darkness occurred, not the Gospels, because in Acts the cosmic Christ first appears - upon + after Pentacost. We are no longer dealing with the man-God Jesus, as in the Gospels, but the discorporate mystical (body of) Christ; i.e. in Acts. Acts is the "dream time," the "sacred origins," where " the deeds of the heroes take place." For the evil powers to attack (+ kill or try to kill) the divine (hidden in the bait) is the ultimate overstepping (of their authority), + convicts them of absolute violation of cosmic order. Those who take on this role in the eternal re-enactment of this sacred drama doom themselves (just as those who take on the bait role are saved). For Xtians, Acts is the "dream time," the sacred supra time. It is always the place + time of Acts - but an amended Acts: the Savior returns + does successful battle against the King of Darkness. It is being corrected. I see that in my notes (supra) I say, "YHWH conversed with me." I wasn't feeling well enough to amplify, but I had come to realize that "Diana" was a gift + hence tailored to my conceptions + desires.