of it beyond reconciliation into one workable whole; my soul is (or possibly may be) literally a point in the divine mind where a number of distinct + distinctly different trains of thoughts come together - come together there perhaps for the first + only time. Put another way, when these particular thoughts come together, I uniquely am created (but created entirely out of ideas already extant in the divine mind; this is the phenomenon of the emergence of the truly new). Thus I can view my essence as a combination of intelligible ideas, myself not reduced to this combination of ideas but as a person derived from + based on these ideas. To know these ideas + how they can + do interact is to know me in terms of my essence. I can be both the object of thought + thought folder 90 - 199 folder 90 - 199 G 143 itself. So I not only derive my being from the divine mind (einai) but I know what I am by perceiving this complex of thoughts in the divine mind (noein); so in the divine mind my einai + noein are one + the same. This is how I can exist in the divine mind eternally. I am known to God in this form, + this form is my true essence from which I was separated until the spring of 1974. That is why I call 2-3-74 a "second birth" or "birth from above" or "birth in the spirit"; those terms are now for me intelligible: they refer to something specific + real that both pertains to me + to God. This is very important, that it refers to God as well as to me, for this shows my necessary, not contingent, relationship to God. I literally am in God, + always was, at least potentially. Upon placing that unique complex of thoughts into a human body -as when God breathed life into Adam- he sees that idea-complex act existentially: he sees not just what it is but what it does. These actions provide reticulations (in the form of accretions) to the very phylogon that underlies them (this is the purpose of creation: to reticulate the phylogons; thus they are completed). Thus in my returning to God I bring more with me + as me than that which originally left God. My situation (experience of/in 2-3-74) was the reverse of the one feared + often described: I did not lose my soul during this life, as the result of an action or a combination of actions; I gained my soul. (I have even been told what specifically I did folder 90 - 200 folder 90 - 200 G 144 that caused this gain to occur, + why). (This must be the "adoptionist" soul that God conferred on Jesus when he was baptized.) (Put another way, this, then would be the "bright nature" of which Adam was deprived upon his Fall. (It would be this bright nature or soul that could see - the "I am no longer blind!" matter; set to ground, Valis, the rest of it, the Acts lens/grid. "You have been adopted," then, assumes new + enormous meaning; it describes a participation in + a receiving of the divine nature itself: which is an eternal thing, an eternal idea. This would explain my impression in '74 of being a female host for Firebright, of "interspecies symbiosis," etc, the "crossbonding," etc. What then we are dealing with is not just (sic) an event (3-74) but a substantia: something added as well as done. Again: this is much more than rescue from danger, or a mystical experience, or even, illumination. It is, literally, a birth. + this is the paradigmatic way by which the Messiah is "transplanted"? Except that in his case not just a phylogon but (apparently) the entire mind is transplanted. I can't help thinking about this in terms of the Messianic expectation, +, specifically, the promise to send back to Earth the spirit of Elijah before "the great + terrible day of the Lord." Would Elijah, as he did folder 90 - 201 G 145 before as John the Baptist, foretell the imminent coming of the Savior! Because that is what I did in "Valis." Two elements pertaining to the Messianic expectation: 1) Ruah: its prophecies. 2) What may be the spirit of Elijah: "Thomas". These two are distinct. "Valis" is not an account of a supernatural experience as such; this element is subsumed to the Messianic expectation. 3) The cypher in "Tears". ____ I just thought of another link to Tony in the "He lived a long time ago..." + "lake" dreams: Ward Moore's "Bring the Jubilee" which was the issue of F + SF with the first story of mine that Tony published. As far as I'm concerned this cinches it: both dreams refer elliptically (by association) to Tony. The specific element is Jesus (as Lincoln) in terms of 1) political action in the US (Jesus as Lincoln + abolitionists) + 2) freeing the slaves - which equals attacking + destroying the BIP. (By Xtians specifically.) In the "lake" dream, 19th century wizards refers to "Unknown Worlds" - another reference to Tony (since he was linked to "wizards" - i.e. Fantasy. In watching "Star Trek the Movie" tonight I realized that my feverish intensity the night folder 90 - 202 folder 90 - 202 G 147 I played "Gotterdammerung" through + figured out the existence + nature of what I called my phylogon in the divine mind was due to the fact that I had perceived my source - not me as a physical body; that is not me - but me as a mental, spiritual being. I had not only seen that I was based on a certain cluster of interlinked ideas (forming one complex) in God's mind, but, even beyond that all the constituents or component subideas making up the complex by their intersection. I knew that my essence was a certain complex of ideas; I knew that that complex had arisen in God's mind, + I knew what subideas the complex was compounded of. Thus I knew myself, my source, + my creator. No wonder I was stricken with wonder + excitement! Who has ever had this happen to them before? It must have taken me almost five hours to write those few pages of notes - notes in which certain simple statements are in fact repeated - I lost all sense of time, + it exhausted me; +, in the notes, I petitioned myself, my later self, to believe at last; it was so important that I believe this: what my source was; that it is a complex of ideas; what the ideas turn out to be + how they logically interlink. "Know thyself," Apollo said. Here, that night, for the first time I had before me the basis from which I was built: not molecules + atoms but concepts woven together into an integrated structure: a conceptual Kosmos, harmonious + beautiful. When I read the notes over the next day, sure enough, I no longer understood. "Star Trek" brought the understanding back: the wonder + awe. folder 90 - 203 folder 90 - 203 G 148 I am a certain notion -not of freedom- but of freeing, freeing others, by a certain kind of magic that is a transformation due to the power of beauty. This is beauty at the service of freeing men's minds in order that the obdurate mechanical cease to compel them to repetition. Beauty informs + by doing so frees. + what it frees evolves into the unique + the unexpected. The purpose is, then, to allow the new to come into existence by itself; the goal is to abolish restraint in the manner of Dionysos releasing the wild animal from the snare. I see two things: the BIP which is world under the aspect of the tyrannical power of the past; + the PTG, which is the future. Motion from the past to the future is motion from the BIP to the PTG. Beauty is the final freeing power because it is beauty alone which can + does correct the BIP into the PTG. The BIP is black, square + ugly + monotonous; the PTG is color + change + differentiation + light. These are the bipolarities of the axis of experienced reality. Beauty frees; ugliness imprisons. Freeing is the goal; beauty is the means to the goal. The freed creature is allowed to go where it wishes + do what it wishes. There is nothing required of it, + that is the whole point. What it does is its own business. K-2 At the end it is not tim come back; it is the Holy Spirit revealing to Bill his own Christ nature. Bill is me. This is the parousia: Christ in individuals. This novel is not about the return of Bishop Archer, but the return of Christ, i.e., the parousia, and it is him. Sophia, Emmanuel & Bill the Savior. "Not 3 stories, but 1 story 3 times"!! Like Horselover Fat, he is clinically crazy: So he (Bill) is Fat & Sophia combined: the seeker is the Savior (whom he seeks) Bill, by the Holy Spirit is justified into Christ. Which explains 2-3-74 The Christ-to-be becomes the Christ who is (by the presence - entering of him by the Holy Spirit). This is what the "2nd Birth" i.e., "Birth in the Spirit" and "Birth from above" accomplishes. the Christ-to-be becomes the-Christ-who-is. Christoi are going to start coming into existence here & there. The adopted sons of God are through the Holy Spirit, Christoi. "Christ" is someone the Holy Spirit gives birth to, based on the right raw material. There is/was no other Christ "He is transplanted and is alive" refers to this birth/event in which the Holy Spirit gives birth to Christ using me. H.S. host, fitting host (not arbitrary) I have solved the mystery of what 2-3-74 is, & what Christ is Hence what the term "parousia" refers to. Jesus is paradigmatic of the first, "Co-heirs with Christ." I can see how clear this mystical idea underlying the N.T. is. It is simply incredible that I could write and read the "Bishop K-3 Archer” novel and not realize that Bill is Christ (more accurately becomes Christ)(through the Holy Spirit.) Angel reveals the virtues & the limitations of reason. Tim misuses Scripture he places it (like a lawyer does) in the service of justifying what he does. He is essentially a dishonest person. Bill is honest; he is the only one who speaks the truth. When I read Luke last night I found myself reading something written now, & as if it were my own writing - an extraordinary experience (esp. in view of Acts showing up in "Tears") no one 1900 years ago could have written that. The Holy Spirit wrote it. So what I realized light night (via Luke & the "Bishop Archer" novel) is that when the Holy Spirit descends on you, it creates a Christos out of you permanently as the final birth in evolution of what you already potentially are (Bill is a perfect example of this) it is the culmination of what must be a series of Growth-steps. But this final one requires the "Birth in the Spirit" no matter how far along you've advanced in enlightenment, the Spirit Then, in 2-3-74, didn't enter me just to decypher call or even rescue me (pronoia); what we have here is "Birth in the Spirit" & son of God adopting as co-heir (with Christ) & son of God (the spirit being God's spirit ). I guess this is a hierogamy. I discuss this in "Valis": the interspecies symbiosis with the plasmate to form the homoplasmate, the metaphor of Bride & Wedding may not be metaphoric at all. It just seems to me that the N.T. is really clear about all this - this is not a forced