meaning is in the mension now perceived + this meaning is selfauthenticating + self-revealing: it discloses t own "story" by itself, requiring no inter i pretation or analysis: it is "open." In fact, it is "open" in the precise way that the ordinary object is not when it is taken to be a sign signifying something; with the sign There the meaning must be explained: it is not + folder 57 - 001 A-1 The meta-abstraction was: I saw that the many are the one, + the one the many. It pertains to the many to be in time; to the one to be outside of time. That is, the many come into being + perish, but the one is eternal. Thus I experienced eternity. This goes beyond the philosophical: it ushered in the sacred. Thus all of 2-3-74, being based on the meta-abstraction, was a genuine experience + pertained to that which was, is + will always be: "this ring the bridegroom did provide / for no one but the bride"; this was Christ's gift to me. Specifically Christ's. That this was noesis is indubitable. That this was more than noesis is also indubitable. It was, then, a true + real religious -holy- experience + was, as I say indubitable (for it all derived from the meta-abstraction). This being the case -this being established- then Valis was either God or Christ - most likely Christ. + therefore the statements by the AI voice are true. I have it. What I called Valis was the final expression of -experience of- the one: hence "reality field". Prior to that I saw universals (eide): each is in itself uniform, but there exists a plurality of eide: the term itself is plural. Valis, however, was the sole one (+ would then be Plotinus' One, above time, space + multiplicity). It is the unity, the one, of which all the eide are like instantiations. folder 57 - 002 folder 57 - 002 A-2 Valis, then, is the final + ultimate extension of the perception that was the meta-abstraction itself: thus: As eide : plurality :: Valis : eide. Valis is, then, precisely Philo's kosmos noetos (by definition), + Philo surnames this intelligible realm Logos. + thus I speak correctly in "Valis": Valis is Logos. + if the 4th Gospel is right in saying that Christ is Logos, then I saw Christ when I saw Valis. + the whole system is self-authenticating back to the original Fish sign. There is even the possibility that I saw something lying outside (above) the reality field that perturbed the reality field + does not in itself exist: hence - particulars (the many) : eide :: eide : Valis :: Valis : the void or Tao. folder 57 - 003 folder 57 - 003 Q-7 ___ Okay. The one billionth fresh start. All of it - 2-74 - 2-75 - + what the AI voice has said, + all the revelations + visions - it's all indubitably this: soteriology. That is clear. (1). 2-3-74 per se was soteriological (pronoia + miracle, intervention). (2). The "Messenger" vision deals with soteriology. (3). The "Covenant House" AI statement is soteriological. (4). The "pulley" vision is soteriological. (5). All the prophecies are soteriological. (6). The "Parousia + Holy Mother church" dream is soteriological. So whereas the theological structure remains vague (Monotheism, or Bitheism, Xtianity or Judaism or Gnosticism), one thing (as I say) is indubitable: everything that has happened + that I have been shown, told, every revelation - it's all one vast soteriological engine/program. (7). Valis itself is Soter. Okay. Then that's it. I can't discern the big picture - God (theology) + universe (epistemology) but there is palpable + indubitable (1) individual soteriology directed at me that saved my life, saved me; + (2) general soteriological disclosures involving manking + savior. So probably the savior - the 5th savior - is indeed here. + he will explain the rest. folder 57 - 004 folder 57 - 004 Q-8 Not just what has happened is soteriological but that it has. (viz: what the AI voice says + that it speaks to me in the first place.) Is, in fact, there any thing about it that is not soteriological? Not only is it soteriological, it constitutes what I know to be the very essence of classical soteriology: interventive miracle that saves my life; my welfare is secured permanently; I am told "you deserved it"; I am as it were taken up to Paradise; I see God (Valis); an angelic voice guides me; I am told it is my "tutelary spirit" + that I "have been adopted"; it is mystagogue; + it tells of a savior to come - + finally I am told that in fact the savior is here - not "born" but "transplanted + is alive". This is indubitably the very engine of utter soteriology itself, utter + absolute; it reveals the apocalypsis, the Parousia + the Millenial Kingdom; it speaks of a vast war against evil in which evil did not merely lose, it was seen + it was "brought to justice". So this soteriology is set in context within the classical Judo-Xtian end times: it is, then, an historical drama played out on the world stage. Now, it is interesting that this congruence to -adherence to- soteriology can be viewed as a scale indicating veracity; it never strays from its topic: the savior + salvation. While my mind veers from topic to topic, it stays constant. folder 57 - 005 folder 57 - 005 Q-9 It wants to talk about soteriology + so it does, whatever I may wish to know. + it acts as Soter, + began that way back when I was in eleventh grade physics. By pure chance I happened to read the E.B. micro-entry "soul". Since I postulate (1) endless horizontal tracking (i.e. again + again, with the memory erased each time); + (2) my being lifted up (vertically) by "the pulley" (i.e. extricated) due to a moral act on my part (operating in conjunction with an extraordinary intellectual act, the meta-abstraction) then according to this article I am down to 3 + no more systems: Orphics, Hindus + Buddhists. Okay. The moral act springing me (i.e. causing my salvation) is of course Judo-Xtian - but the endless horizontal tracking is not. Conversely, the endless horizontal tracking is found in Gnosticism (imprisoned + forgetful) but in Gnosticism there is no moral act serving to spring you; it is purely cognitive. What is most remarkable is that I was sprung during my lifetime + not between births; justice was executed on the spot. Now, this is strange. This is Dibba Cakkhu; this is Bodhisattva. + since it is Bodhisattva, then, I say, is this not evidence for the real presence of the Maitreya? Because I was folder 57 - 006 Q-10 not alone: Valis was there. Because of the reverence for all life that permeates my developing spiritual doctrine, I think I will settle on Buddhism + upon doing that I will assume that the 5th savior is the Maitreya. Do I not have my Tagore vision? ____ Dio - There is a common theme in the 2-74 meta-abstraction + 3-74 vis-a-vis the Xerox Missive + the eleventh grade physics class: ultra cognition. What I have regarded as Pronoia (vis-a-vis the Xerox Missive) can be expressed in terms of an ultra cognitive act just as the 2-74 meta-abstraction is an ultra cognitive act + the 11th grade physics class solution was for me at that time ultra cognition. It is pure reason. Reason. It has to do with thinking. Now, consider Angel Archer. She represents pure reason. Here now I say, my Moksa concerning the beetle was an act of intelligence, of reason, of cognition, even though we would not regard it so. It has to do with epistemology. Specifically it is reasoning by analogy + this is how I reasoned that day + reason now. These are qualitative leaps in intelligence. Counsellor. folder 57 - 007 folder 57 - 007 Q-12 I move orthogonally from universe to universe til I come to the one in which the info is known. 1) Hence my subcortical memories of just now having been in a cool, moist, high climate. 2) Hence I saw "Acts": not the past but an alternate world. 3) Hence Thomas - an alternate me. 4) Hence "Tears". Concerns just such parallel alternate worlds + specifically depicts at least one + possibly two [such parallel] presents I'd been in. (To tell me how I was doing it - to answer "how".) 5) Now as to the prophecies concerning the 5th savior's birth. I want this the most of anything out of all the possible parallel worlds. This is the utmost -to the max- use of my talent. Hence it follows (since the info not just is correct but must be) I am or will be in that one. 6) "The perturbation in the reality field" -Valis- has me moving orthogonally +, as I did so, acquiring info about Chrissy because I love him; I generated that info. 7) The "second signal". For one whole year I was able to move orthogonally to a universe in which Christ had already come back - as I said at "Metz". ___ Ach: the "pulley" vision shows how the info is abtained in advance. The horizontal tracking represents normal human thinking, folder 57 - 008 folder 57 - 008 Q-13 where you don't arrive at your solution until the end. The vertical axis "pulley" is how I do it: move at an orthogonal 4th [spatial? temporal?] axis. That vision was a diagram of how the AI voice works: it was a revelation about all my revelations, how they are acquired - including that one the "map paradox": several of my info solutions are to the q.: how do I acquire this info [in advance]?" since this is one of my main questions. Viz (1) I have a paranormal faculty. (2) This faculty provides me with info I cannot know. (3) Therefore I ask it, "How do you work? How is this done?" + thus acquire that info before I ask that question. In e.g. "Tears". Clue by the AI voice: "The 'two-mirrors phenomenon, inner-outer, Atman-Brahman. Positive self-correcting feedback.'" This is the answer re how my mind works + the meta-abstraction in which I did with the universe (micro-macro) what I normally do between my own two brain hemispheres (micro-micro). The Xerox Missive + all else were left-right. 2-74 was self-world, inner-outer, Atman-Brahman, micro-macro. (When I came up with the theory "heuristics" I was trying to explain 3-74 + the Xerox Missive not 2-74 + the meta-abstraction, but 2-74 is also heuristics, not left right but inner-outer; + the goal wasn't info in advance, as in left-right, but, rather, absolute self-knowledge, i.e. authentic sein. folder 57 - 009 folder 57 - 009 Q-14 Part-whole compatibility. 2-74: Light (sunlight reflected off the Golden Fish sign). 3-74: [Valis] Light ("Beam of Pink Light" is what I always say, but it was sunlight, as in 2-74, only this time it was the [illustration of the Fish sign, with the word ICHTHYS written in Greek letters] sticker of the Fish sign in the living room window. The Ypsylon became a palm tree. The pink part was the phosphene after-image of the Fish sticker. So Fish sign both times: in 2-74 (the meta-abstraction); + 3-74, VALIS, the info about Chrissy. It's Christ. In 2-74 there was no pink light as such. But sunlight. Fish sign + light. Like Boehme. + mr. Tagomi. ___ Cape, tolle - at the end of BTA it is Christ / it is Bodhisattva; he is here: who is he? Christ / the Buddha - i.e. the Maitreya Christ. This is how my trilogy ends: (1) he is here; + (2) he is Christ / the Buddha homologized, i.e. the Maitreya (i.e. the Maitri Buddha: he who has loving kindness, not