lord of the world; to remember, if it is to serve any real purpose, must lead to this new (ex nihilo) deed; + the determinist mechanism that he built + then fell victim to (as mere percipient) is overcome, he has broken world qua world. It is himself in the present overpowering his own folder 90 - 186 G 130 prior thoughts (just at the point where they as world boded annihilation for him; but having from the start absolutely foreseen this a priori he established -also from the start- the self-reminding device that I know as the "AI" voice. He is, then, his own redeemer/savior, operating out of the past before he fell into forgetfulness + the role of mere percipient - hence victim. This is why anamnesis deals with -or seems to, whichever- a very ancient self + time; however, even more so, it gives him access to, understanding of + participation in the true order of reality (i.e. Plato's eide) which are/is his own memory in his own mind. He is Funklein to Urgrund, then, + knows it. Inner - outer, small - large are now unified; he has tapped into his own mind, which is in + small, outer + large all at once. The introjection of the "new deed," the "heroic ex nihilo act" emanating from anamnesis can, then, be seen as everything; restoration of memory + identity accomplishes nothing unless it leads to this act. He is, then, rescuing a lot more than his immediate hide (although that is involved, since this is world-as-fate [annihilation doom] catching up with him. I guess this is in essence his last chance to reverse polarities between himself + world. This is all dealt with in "The Tibetan Book of the Dead." Gnosticism, then, is the correct model with its view of the soteriological value of Gnosis in terms of restoration of the Godhead itself. This is, indeed, the salvator salvandus, the savior who saves himself - based on having from the beginning foreseen his own fall [into forgetfulness] + having from the beginning brought into being the method of his own rescue. folder 90 - 187 folder 90 - 187 G 131 This was all very clearly, cleanly, economically + simply expressed in that "clock-timed voice" dream. {Note} The Lamptons' "maze" explanation of Valis is substantially correct - + very Gnostic, although not so labelled. {Note:} Thus the 2-74 disinhibition can now be seen to have been (1) no accident; + (2) quite obviously self-induced (in the broadest possible sense). I will conclude this nightmare marathon analysis by noting that my 10 volume meta novel can herewith be newly -+ perhaps finally correctly- understood. + it serves a very valuable [Gnostic] purpose, to emancipate the cosmogenator from his own world, to which he has fallen victim. In terms of this, "Valis" can be seen as the logical culmination of the total corpus. Likewise "Frozen Journey." On p. G-116 I [think I] show how falling under the power of this reality system is a hazard so likely as perhaps to be inevitable, the fall by the creator-mind could not be avoided. This is an interpretation of the "crisis in the Godhead," "the primordial disturbance in the heights" never proffered before (that I know of). This, then, is the dialectic that I saw: the creator-mind outwitting the "thrust" -mechanical height- of his own creation which is in essence his total antecedent self. What I took to be someone (Tony or Jim ) coming back "from the other side" was in fact my recollection of my own phylogon in God's mind, the true basis folder 90 - 188 folder 90 - 188 G 132 around which everything in my life constellates. It is my omphalos of meaning, an eternal notion in the divine mind from which all other meaning to + for me is derived. + to which all other meanings are related. Thus when I wrote in the article in "The Real World" that Pinky was really Tony come back from the other side I was fundamentally correct, but for reasons I could not at that time explicate. (In fact, however, he did not so much come back here as I went there.) I had lived through the Xerox missive crisis once before, when it was the present not the past. As the past it came as inexorable Karma. To change it took great power + skill, + my own "supernatural" help, as if perturbing time. What must be supposed is that the actual structure in no way resembles a space, time + causation ostensible structure. My initial insight came when I perceived that because Acts AD 70 + USA 1974 were morphologically alike if not identical they were stored as a single "essence" in some way that superimposed them in actual reality - rather than separating them by 8000 miles of space + 2000 years of time. This "common essence" is of course Plato's Forms which lie outside space + time + causation + never change. Although a meta-abstracting on my part was involved, this meta-abstraction was not just my way of organizing reality but in fact the way it is organized in itself; thus by reason of my meta-abstraction I apprehended reality as it truly is. folder 90 - 189 folder 90 - 189 G 133 This is what is meant when it is said that the Form doctrine has a metaphysical significance as well as a logical one. Given that Tony is my particular phylogon of meaning, elements logically-meaningfully related to him would occur for me -impinge on me- prior to 1950 +, in fact, years or even decades later (in terms of the irreal category of linear time). These would seem to be acausal coincidences, + indeed in terms of strict causation they are; but they are generated logically + hence do have cause, but a necessary (i.e. logical-meaningful) cause, not a contingent one. Realizing this was my big breakthrough of last night. The world I was in circa 3-74 becomes comprehensive when viewed in that "phylogonic" way, rather than viewed in terms of space, time + causation; particularly the Xtian element makes sense. This explains why at the time (3-74) I felt there was some connection specifically with the Catholic church. In 1974, then, Tony is dead only in space-time reality; put another way, the only way to apprehend him is to break out of space-time reality. All the elements on the supra chart are merely contingently related until the phylogon is discerned, whereupon their relationship becomes necessary + logical. They all had to occur. "Valis" in a certain real sense is all the elements connected with Tony turned into a book. The greatest intersection is of course MM337. G119 note. What is going on here is sudden total free-association memory of the full dream in which the newspaper with that headline appeared; I don't have the reasoning down on paper here - it came too fast, but that while folder 90 - 190 folder 90 - 190 G 134 dream opened up (last night like a door). I saw that the ambiance + the milieu, the time + place of the dream (I mean the "He lived a long time ago..." etc dream) is the same as the "lake" dream. I could see in my mind either Stanton or Lincoln, as if I were still dreaming it: the stove pipe hat, the beard, the type style + format of the newspaper. The mid-19th century USA, the Civil War. This was not a figuring out, a logical reasoning (last night); it was pure understanding (as when I got the info about Chrissy's birth defect). + it all came back because of Kitty's visit + the business about smuggling out those in Central America marked for death. I saw (last night) into the total world that the "lake" + "newspaper" dreams are doorways to. My associations were already there in my mind; they didn't occur last night: they surfaced, lightning fast: Lincoln - newspaper - "We print the truth" - Jesus - Torah - fantasy - F + SF - my writing career - Catholic church - music - 78s - Parsifal - Good Friday - the headline ("He lived a long time ago but is still alive" referring to Jesus - Lincoln - Quakers - freeing the slaves - the work of the revolutionary secret heretical sect of Xtians - wizards - wooden cradles - technology - the "magical" power of God - miracle - freedom versus slavery - I saw, I saw, + the "center" of it all from which everything else issues logically + by necessity (not just contingenity) is Tony Boucher ("wizards" refers to Ed Cartier + "Unknown Worlds" to technology disguised as magic, probably Celtic magic, hence "Parsifal" - the Grail - words - Torah - plasmate - the written pages that I saw in my dreams. Stanton - abolitionists). There is a deep meaning + logic to all this. What I am saying is that these two dreams refer elliptically + in a very disguised + cunning way to Tony. Not only folder 90 - 191 G 135 that, certain terribly important things are thereby conveyed having to do with Christ, freedom (by equating Jesus with Lincoln the element of political activity in America for freedom is introduced), the Holy Mother Church, God's "magical" power - + of course a third dream is referred to: the "Tony the Tiger" dream which also refers to "Ubik" + to medieval German (the poem) hence perhaps Catherists + to Winnie-the-Pooh, which leads to "Willows" - what I see in combining these 3 dreams is a very clear + distinct theme: that a Quaker-like Xtian nonviolent revolutionary group, perhaps quite secret, exists now, + is allied to the Catholic church. + the "lake" dream appears in its entirety in "Valis." Here, a mild, heretical, Quaker-like Xtian group -with suggestions of a long history, that it is not new- is stipulated; + there are wizards involved (connected in my mind to technology). Am I saying that Thomas was Tony? The devout but frightened Xtian. He found the climate too hot - Tony had to have it cool because of his asthma. Could this explain (1) the Acts material in "Tears"? + (2) Thomas' wanting to get in touch with the Roman Catholic church? I was so pro-Roman Catholic at that time - for months! (I have reread these pages.) Tony as my phylogon is not Tony Boucher the person. A phylogon is a permanent unique constituent of corporate meaning, which I associate with Heidegger's Sein; it is my essence expressed in + by the divine mind. This phylogon contains every element that makes up my essential nature. That this intruded onto me in 2-74 was both a folder 90 - 192 folder 90 - 192 G 136 disclosure to me of my own authentic einai - up to then unknown to me + separate from me; I was lost in the fugal flight of inauthentic Dasein; +, as well, a revelation that my essence lies in God's mind, + that I receive it from him; I exist because he knows me, + this [phylogon] is what he knows that is, in fact, truly me; all else about me does not pertain to my nature but is false + inauthentic. Thus the term "Tony Boucher" applies not to the person I knew -as if he came back from the grave- but to my own self as known to God hence given to me by God as my own nature. I understand (noein) my true nature "as" Tony: but it is me, not him. It is fundamentally interwoven with the Quaker-like heretical Xtian sect. These elements that I list supra are definitions of me, not of someone else, but I knew them, encountered them, in + as Tony Boucher. This was not someone else's nature taking me over; it was my own nature conferred on me