entelechy. If this is so, then justification is achieved by revelaing to the person - & compelling his assent to - the missing truth or truths - needed to complete him (in the manner of Joyce's epiphanies or sequential satoris). Such a high speed flight (motion) along the time-corridor would resemble the Bardo Thödol trip; but the main impression would be that inhibited neural circuits had been disinhibited & had fired: the person's mind is fitting all the remaining pieces in place & the more he puts in place the faster & easier the process becomes. So time accellerates to infinity & then exhausts itself, all the pieces being in place. K386 Thus the truth presented to him, to which his assent is compelled (not by force but as a comprehension) enables all the remaining truths to occur to him as a result: it is the crucial realization upon which all else depends. It unlocks - frees - biological growth-time, cumulative time, for him: sets it in motion (the opposite of what a complex does). Expressed as a conversion it is superenient, that is, he could not on his own infer (come to know) it. It is not, then, based on any combining of elements already in him, but has entered from without. Thus it is given to him, added to him (as an unmerited gift). He therefore knows he has been shown something (as in "what is in the mind is first in the senses"). Expressed dynamically, he has absorbed (incorporated) a very great amount of negative entropy (as new info) from his environment & hence is given new life. I tend to view this meta-abstraction as pertaining - not just to world, i.e. the not-him - but to the very same intelligible idea in the mind of God - himself as Logos - that is the ideal him; he is thus confronted by confirmation of his own individual essence expressed conceptually, hence intelligibly; behind the sensible that has revealed the truth to him is something conceptual & intelligible: he now knows (that it exists, & if it exists, he exists for he in a very real sense is it) (as the Reformers saw. The Christ story is experienced (1) as now; & (2) as pertaining to the person. It is "his" story. This awareness is, then, self-awareness. As I said about anamnesis, he has recovered his own last story: he knows his origins, his home, his situation, his task, his dramatic story & his nature, all at once; thus he now fits into reality as a comprehensible part of it. K387 NLE 4155484208 He has, then, like Parsifal, been told his "name." "Anokhi--" then signifies "I am such-&-such" ("I know where I came from, I know where I am & why, & I know my own destiny - which is to say, what I mustdu" - & he then does it (in my case, re the Xerox Missive). This act & his identity are one & the same. Like the word- bird in "Siegfried." Satori: in my life (prior to 2-74) my essence did not determine my deeds; my deeds determined my essence; this is the law of karma. In the act of justification I was compelled adventitiously to perform a certain deed (vis-à-vis the Xerox missive) & this determined my essence for all time & brought it into conformity with myself as an intelligible idea in the mind of Gd God; this, then, was Heidegger's authentic seeing as a result of the deed. God recreated my essence anew, & different. -- If Valis is for sure a biological organism (with an environment) is it not possible that due to the fact that it is advanced far beyond us (in terms of evolution as a life form) it possesses ultra-sophisticated powers &/or technology, in which case this is not a theological matter after all? No, my gut feeling is that Valis is Christ - evolving & extending his dominion progressively in an invisible K388 battle (in the Zoroastrian fashion), & that somehow justification (in perhaps the Protestant sense) lies at the heart of God victories; that is, each act of justification is a victory for God in this war; perhaps it is how victory for & by God is measured. We may be talking about a very prolonged process, with virtually an eternity involved. (But that now time is running out; Christ's change rate velocity is enormous at this point.) -- Not structure but hierarchical structure (hence: "subsume" & "infor incorporate" into "arrangements" of "information"). This is the key - missing - term: hierarchical. Therefore it is not a biological organism but the way reality itself is actually arranged in levels of subsuming complexity. Hence what I call (correctly) complexity = lr levels (ascending) of hierarchy. Unities is another key term; by subsumation, a unity is structured out of what had been seen as discrete plural things. I saw how they fitted together (minking & relinking). This relates precisely to the "not 2 mothers but 1 mother twice" meta- abstraction. Eidē? As Bateson says, "Circularity seen, not ceramic plate." Here is the source of my transformed perception: all circularities seen as real; all ceramic plates seen sa what Bateson calls "spin-offs" (what I call "epiphenomenality." Like the Necker cube flip flop set-ground flip flop (1) plate as set; cir- cularity as ground. (2) [flip flop]: circularity as set, plate as ground. Structure hence order (^negative entropy) hence information. If you did a plate-circularity flip flop to (2) you would see sudden negentropy. (Since the eidē are perfect [in terms of order].) What I call "environment" is that which is not structured. Premise: it is extending its structuring, & its structure is becoming more & more complex & evolving more & onve more rapidly. Plotinus. The original meta-abstraction 1) lifted me out of the spatiotemporal world (2) into the intelligible world of forms, through anamnesis. Valis was a touching of the one (multiplicity having disappeared). The template: total order, hence total negentropy, structure in contrast to substantial content. Mutliplicity is proportional to disorder hence to entropy (& vice versa). The "1 mother twice, not 2 mothers" meta- abstraction was a memory (anamnesis) of a realm of more unity & less multiplicity, hence Neo-Platonist. The mut meta-abstraction returned me to a realm above the spatiotemporal, so it also had to do with what I call "coaxial realities" i.e. with time (as illusion). Eternity entered, that day I performed (in 2-74) the meta-abstraction (& again on the "two postcards" day). & unity (expressed ultimately as Valis seen externally). The anamnesis discloses it as Platonism passing over into Neo-Platonism. K391 Forms - Geometric forms - right hemisphere. Ditheon. K-1 XXXVI The specific text used By the info encoding & decoding entity explain who & what this entity is: this Cannot Be coincidence. Even when It made use of "[tla..]" it did so By inserting sections from the BiBle. See how this fits together? The code proves that the content is true, the content explains (accounts for) the code: Jesus & the Holy Spirit This the BiBle is Seen - authenticating in a way no other Book is, & in a way few suspect thus instead of speculating endlessly as to what this vast info knowing entity is, all I need do is Look at the content (I ask the Gospel, & acts). _____ The real story & meaning of the "Bishop archer" Novel is that from the start all along Bill - Not tim - is the real Christ figure; hence at the end he truly, i.e., correctly says - "I am the resurrection & the life" - not as tim But as himself; the Holy Spirit has made him aware of his Christ identity. Christ is with Bill not with time. This is not the ultimate irony of the novel; It is the ultimate story. Who cares if Bill is really tim archer? Who is tim archer that it matters; Bill is Christ & always was (But did not think it). angel in her rationality never thinks of this possiBility J-63 Constants, in such a way that at any Given moment what is happening can only really Be understood in summation of accretions of constants, not intrinsically. Yet this is precisely the function that the eide are intended to perform, & what area of human experience is more significant than history, which can be defined as the procession of all human ideas? To declare that the apocalyptic thinkers were in essence discerning Platonic eide is now a reasonable view to take. But although this is the case, more is involved that recovery of the eide through anamnesis; an obscuring curtain has been removed - the shock to the perception is vast. The fact that we are dealing with eide (historical constants) would explain why I thought I was seeing acts (since they are constants they undergo no change). "The Kingdom lies in the Form world." _____ Well, here I go again. I've got it nailed down at last. The Matrix of my experience is what I call Set-Ground Discrimination (? "the Acts Uni-Grid?"). I discover that the Great reformers (e.g. Calvin & Luther) taught that the spirit of God (Holy Spirit) put stegenographic truths such as veiled Disclosures about Christ in the O.T., & that these veiled messages are not only God himself speaking (Augustine called the Bible "Letters from home") But that since the Holy Spirit put the messages in, only the Holy Spirit at work in the reader can extract them back out. so what J-64 You have is a vast Living Sentient encryption deciphering entity, & when extracted, these messages or meanings apply to the reader's own life & times, as if Lifted up out of the historical context of the actual passage & somehow applied typologically or allegorically or apocalyptically to the reader's place & time. Now, this of course is precisely my experience with "tears" in its relationship to the Bible via the Acts & Daniel & King-Felix [ ] material. Moreovr, the [] is that since God planned on the strategy of Christ from Before Creation, Christ is the Key to unlocking the "Mysteries" of the O.T. (as Paul says) at the end of Romans; VIZ: "...I proclaim Jesus Christ, the revelation of a mystery kept secret for endless ages."). Thus my Set-Ground Discrimination is conncted with the apocalypse; the J. Bible wrote in this passage of Paul reads: "the idea of a "Mystery" of Wisdom long hidden in God & now revealed, is borrowed by Paul from Jewish apocalypse.". True, Platonic eide are involved but they w a biblical apocalyptic "eide," & are theapocalyptic vision & esp. that of the End times (the Parousia). After all, "apocalyptic" means revelation of whatis hidden & this is the essence of 2-3-74. I am saying that the "scripture" (ie "tears") is not tangential but cardinal to 2-3-74. Beyond doubt, King-Felix refers to Christ - in fact to the Second Advent. In "Valis" that is essentially a correct exegete. J-65 The disturbances of time & space have to do with the apocalypric disclosure, the revelation of the true situation, involving long-term constants. ("eternal" may be the wrong word - just long term.). As to Valis' Mind in me: why, it is certainly the Holy Spirit decyphering back out what it itself originally put in (hence the linking-relinking, rest-motion, etc). The covert message - traffic is real & does relate to the divine strategy involving Christ's return. The "AI voice" is either Ruaḥ or the Holy Spirit (in any case it is the spirit of God). When I saw Valis outside me I was probably seeing exactly what the AI voice said, "a perturbation in the reality field" produced (I think) by the invisible presence of God (itself unknowable: known by inference, by its perturbing of reality; what I used to call "the surd"). What I am saying is that it is all true - including my seeing my