the perception of this? Not something to do with our senses, our physical percept-system; it has to do with our capacity to understand - the problem is one of envisioning, of conceptualization. We are not physically blind, any more than when someone hears a Beethoven symphony or reads a Vaughan poem + does not respond -understand- it means he is literally deaf + blind. What is involved is the brain's capacity to construct an inner analog or model -as Wittgenstein points out- equal to the sensible perception. A cat, seeing a printed page, is not cut off from the meaning of the words by literal blindness, but by something deeper, something to do with perceptual intelligence + conceptualization - model building. What is out there has no meaning unless the brain can organize the representation of it, the data streaming in, into an analogous Gestalt. What I have achieved during these past seven years is to deepen + augment my mental ability to conceive of + comprehend what in 3-74 I perceived, +, ultimately, this is an apprehension, a comprehension, of God, of the divine nature + being. I do not know God sensibly; I know God a priori, comprehensibly. It has to do with the next step up from the aesthetic + the logical; it is the ultimate comprehension beyond which nothing is. Thus my "binary switching system that perpetually chooses" is not a literal perception of God folder 90 - 043 folder 90 - 043 empirically, but an understanding of how reality works, "is" + "does" regarded as one + the same. "A total system that perpetually chooses through a binary process of rejection that is cumulative" is my way of envisioning what I experienced; it is my model which I am able, first, to summon up, + then, finally, to contemplate. Thus through it + in it I have God in me, as a mental construct of my own devising; but it is a devising derived from + rooted in experience; it is not imaginary: it is an interpretation of what I construe to be the case. It is reality incorporated into me, reality at the highest level at which I am able to understand it. Here my ability to understand reaches its limit. This all has been a vast effort. I am not concerned with traditional definitions of God, attributions + doctrines + creeds + dogmas; I am concerned with the conception I have arduously arrived at based on experience. My conception does justice to my experience, it is the best I can do. It turns an otherwise incomprehensible encounter into a coherent image or model. This has been my task. Whether it is "true" or not depends on what you mean by true. It does justice to my experience; in that sense it is true. What if the experience itself is not true? To me that question is unintelligible; it is my experience: it belongs to me, is a part of me, + by constructing a model adequate to it I make it a permanent part of me, not something that escapes. If my model works, if it is an adequate representation, I can by means of it convert it back into some- folder 90 - 044 folder 90 - 044 thing like the original experience; so it is an encoding, an informational analog of that experience (to the degree that I have been successful). I am a device on which God renders an impression, hopefully a permanent impression; it will be permanent if -+ to the degree that- I function correctly. It is not a doctrine or even a theory that I am fabricating; it is an impression, a change in me as to what I am. I have become not the same, due to what happened, + this has been a task, an act stretching over years on my part. I want to be different because of what I saw; I want to be changed as much as possible (without, of course, falsifying what happened). The last thing I want out of that experience is to be the same as I was prior to it. + I can only change insofar as I comprehend that experience; + I can only comprehend it (as I say) by actively building an inner, adequate, appropriate model [of what happened]. So this is not a passive rendering. This is an artistic, spiritual, conceptual task involving years of work. My conception grows; it is not static. As it grows I change. This is what I want: to thus + thereby be changed. This is what I have devoted myself to; this is my purpose for existing; it is what I want to do - like the binary choosing of the system my work on my model is cumulative. I choose; I discard; I perpetually arborize and reticulate: I build. I am very happy. I sense + grasp + perceive the no-yes dialectic that continually results in higher syntheses (which is what Jakob Boehme understood); I understand God in process, God perpetually choosing and rejecting: "not folder 90 - 045 folder 90 - 045 this but rather that," so that he surpasses himself in + at each new stage. ("Nicht diese Tone; sondern...," as Beethoven wrote; the foundation of creation is to choose, to reject, to choose again: Boehme's dialectic ceaselessly at work, blinking off-on-off-on). Dio: creativity begins with an unvoiced no, not a yes. "Not that; [but rather] this." A rejection of the is in favor of a better alternative (that is as much constructed as chosen - perhaps more so!). The essence of creativity is to reject what follows inevitably, because that is an entropic cause-+-effect splitting, a disintegration; in place of this the creator builds something new that does not follow. + he bases what he constructs, he derives his conception from, in response to + in rejection of, what is. So in artistic endeavor there is something of the ex nihilo: something somehow engendered out of nothing. Following Whitehead I affirm that the essence of God is to discern + select a wiser or better choice than the one dictated by causal process - hence my envisioned disjunctive binary switching in which the mechanism is repeatedly uncoupled. God + causation are essentially opposed. This is my recent perception: where causation is, God is not; where choice based on rejection is, there is God. In a certain sense God is new energy poured into a material system, so perhaps, as in the Gita, God (Krishna) is time; but time properly understood: as cumulative, not disintegrative. This is a vast becoming that at every instant fully is. Time, then, is not involved; only choice. folder 90 - 046 -1- The BIP world, Acts. The zero phase sequence, which is absolutely causally determined; this is the alternate world in which Christ did not intervene at all (put another way, how our world would have been --in fact was-- without his intervention). Since I remembered it (anamnesis) and also wrote about it in TEARS, I --we-- must have been in it; however, it was abolished by reason of Christ entering the strictly deterministic causal chains and adding the element of what I call the binary forking choosing. As a result the BIP world altered into this world, which can be defined as one in which Christ, the Cosmic Christ, has entered to save us. But an even better world, the PTG, is possible, one totally delivered through and by Christ, the Track C world that I saw in 2-75. So we are somewhat delivered; there was intervention by Christ. But by no means is our liberation --salvation-- complete. Our world is no longer hell, but it is not the Kingdom. This explains why the secret Christians were absolutely a part of the BIP world; that is the world --the chain of events-- in which they were/are most active, because that is the world they had to convert (transform) and in fact did. So it is logical that I should associate the golden fish sign with the BIP world; there, they are a secret revolutionary underground, as they were in Roman times. Then this answers my question as to whether the world-order is in fact evolving (toward more choice and less determinism) or whether only our perception of it is evolving; the former is the case, and the Cosmic Christ really has in fact penetrated the workings of the universe. He whom I called VALIS entered the machinery and converted the BIP world to the world we know -- this one. TEARS is a very deliberately fabricated datum from or at least referring to, depicting, that "previous" world, but it --TEARS-- is here in this world. Therefore it not only depicts the BIP world, it also contains covert information about the Christians themselves, and, in fact, about Christ, the presence of Christ (the KING FELIX cypher). Now, when I saw the PTG world, I did not remember it, as I did the BIP world, because I had never been in it. It did not folder 90 - 047 folder 90 - 047 -2- come prior to this one; it comes after. Anyhow, this is what my meta-abstraction was all about, I remembered the alternative present, the BIP, I --we-- had been living in. Of course these worlds have a common essence, are what I call coaxial. They are alternate versions of one reality, that one reality consisting of Platonic eide onto which different attributes can be cast or projected, whatever. Obviously Christ intervened before August 1974 (when he overthrew Nixon); this is evident from the fact that when I saw him involved in the world machinery, in world itself, camouflaged as world and interfering with its blind causality, he had been there for some time already, so presumably his salvific activity began before August 1974, which is to say, in our past. This would certainly explain what my meta-abstraction was all about, what I realized and remembered; and I was right: it had to do with two coaxial spatiotemporal realities --worlds-- based on common essence. And although it is true that the BIP one that I remembered was in the "past" it is not linear past but an orthogonal past (as I figured out in my Metz speech); the fact that I remembered it fooled me (normally we remember the past). But, as I say, if it had been memory of the past, I would not then have seen it as present (I would think). The reason I assumed it was Acts is because of the secret revolutionary Christians there, but they would be there in the BIP alternate present because they would be overthrowing it in order to convert it into our version of the present, just as they overthrew Nixon to change our future (I have certainly pondered the very real possibility that time travel back to this period from the future was involved, or from the past). In VALIS I theorize at one point that the three-eyed people are from the future, and so is Zebra; I had the distinct sense when VALIS' mind was in mine that VALIS was moving retrograde in time. Plus all the technology (which would include the plasmate, the covert message traffic), all that cyborg stuff. I distinctly felt that a dazzlingly superior future technology had broken through into our world to change history; that was its purpose: to overthrow tyranny. I was thinking about Nixon, but when I review, as I have done, the BIP and my memory of it, and construe it to have folder 90 - 048 folder 90 - 048 -3- been an alternate previous present, then suddenly the argument for this intervention from the future gets very strong. Now, narrowing it down, we get back to the Xerox missive. Could this not have been (and indeed probably was) an override from the future come here to my rescue? What if we strip away the religious obfuscation: we