link to Gnosticism is established if my meta-abstraction is equated with the Gnosis, i.e. a cog‐ nitive act. This does not answer all questions but it answers the specific question that his been bothering me: the Greco-Babylonian closed cosmos vs what Hans Jonas calls the Faustian or Gnostic: in favor of the latter. The key word that occurred to me as I drove home is: ewth. Orthodox Xtian or Gnostic, this is the common element of the two: + it means P18tos is the Messianic age. 2-3-74 is this may not verify Gnosticism but it verifies the o - soteriological being whom we know as Christ. The Messenger vision implies (by reason of the term "Messenger") Gnosticism ("angel" is not meant, t think). Thus the insight (moksa) I had on the freeway tonight identifies Valis as Christ i just had a terrifying insight: the man shut up in Darkness in "Tears" who emits the "single dreadful shrick" is the crucified Christ - Jason Taverner (who is also Dionysos/Zagreus.) yet also the E-94 white-bearded old king on horse. back is Christ as eschatological judge! He presides over his own sacrifice. This is the old Christ of revelation + Daniel sacrificing himself - himself as Thus Felix Buckman is Jesus patibilis. quite obviously the Roman procurator of This is Rome Judaech (i.e. pantius Pilate). Hence in versus Christ: it is Luke - Acts. the narrative "Jason Taverner" must be killed for the Biblical (Gospel) narratie to be complete: to tell the full intact story. + due to this ritual murder, Felix Buckman is transformed: he experiences -at agapē for the first time. This scene the all-night gas station - must also be there: it is the spiritual form of the (that is the crucifixion resurrection. the killing of Jason Taverner - does not t end the narrative; the killing is per‐ ultimate: Felix' conversion is ultimate is the Gospel story is told: the life, the arrest the crucifixion, resurrection it is all there: like + Acts blended together along with "the Bacchae." The arrested Jason Taverner is both Jesus + Paul arrested, just as Felix is both Felix Thus there is much more of the o + Pilate. N.T. in "Tears" than I realized; not just acts but also like (the Gospels: the Christ story). The suspicions of Jason by the authorities is a reperformance/retelling of the authorities' suspicions about Jesus. leading at last to arrests to framing him E95 with a false change, then the killing (crucifixion) + resurrection (expressed as the ontological conversion) transfor mation in the procurator: Christ (Jason has won, putative victory is by the authorities but real victory is by Jason! the stranger, priest of Dionysos/Christ "Tears," then, primarily is a Gospel, secondarily Acts (+ underlying the N.T. narrative is Daniel + Dionysos!) King-Felix is bipolarized to King-Pentheus (King of Tears/unhappy or sorrowful king who is - as in Hamlet - not the t rightful king; Jesus/Dionysus/Hamlet is the rightful king A varient interpretation is that the white-bearded King leading the posse is God who ordains Jesus' crucifixion (as with the ancient of days there is dispute as to who is referred to: God or Christ). nonetheless, I say that the King-Felix cypher not only refers to Christ but is Christ now, all this (that is "Tears") passes over into 2-3-74 itself in which the extant actual situation is disclosed to me directly (the stegenographic covering removed from My sight). + this is not all: there is a third element: the statements by the AI voice (e.g. "St. Sophia is going to be born again; she was not acceptable before" etc). E-96 I think what the dream in "Tears points to is that the 7th battle [of the Essenes] has come: God This is himself takes the field ( the bearded King leading the posse). in "Tears" the man "shut up in Darkness" could be Zoroastrian Essene symbolism for the sons of Darkness, God's adversary. didn't get my "freeway" insight quite down. It was: the radical transformation in one's status in the cosmic order that justification represents is precisely the leap or jump sought for by Faust ian man (+ thus cannot occur within the old closed cosmos; the Greco-Babylonian one, as an internal adjustment within a closed system). So it is possible radicall to change your status in precisely the Faustion - Gnostic way - although whether it can be said that you yourself did it or it was done for you is not clear. My impression of 2-3-74 is that (in view of what the AI voice said) it occurred as a result of something did (i.e. vis-a-vis Covenant House). I not I only is the change/leap in unprecedented (as an event) but the new status qua status (Dasein) unprecedented, I think. It is a new way of being in the world based on a new cognition-perception. I reiterate that this leap. This upward E-97 qualitative transformation, does not occur due to efficient cause; it is not the result of prior states in the world-order: it is introduced from outside - which is the whole point. Precisely in this regard is it truly Faustian (i.e. that it does not follow as an effect - a result- of prior states within a closed system that is internally adjusting itself). I think this quality i that the leap is not mechanistic + deter‐ ministic; i.e. it does not causually follow from prior states in the system - that lies at the heart of the matter + correctly earns the term "Faustian" - as if ex nihilo: truly new. in fact, it seems to me that if indeed this event is truly new + does not occur as an effect of antecedent causes - any + all prior states within the system (the cosmos, the world-order). you de facto have discerned + are pointing to a transmundane realm or entity does reach into the precisely because it cosmic world-order from outside; this is what "transmundane" signifies! + it is the essence of the Faustian ideal to strive to surmount the world-order + be more than a function within it, governed + controlled the Faustian goal ("programmed") by it: is to break free of the mechanism + become a whole in + as oneself. This has to do with autonomy + is, as Jonas rightly says, a component in Gnosticism forming modern man, in contrast to t a part of the Greco-Roman-Babylonian antique man. E-98 Thus there is in this a revolt against the cosmos - carried out on the basis not of nihilism but on the basis of moral promptings urging one to break off from + move antithetically toward as the world-machinery: pitted against it, it were, due to a transmundane ethic (this ethic may be the key, for the ethic, logically, leads one to inexorable doom t -destruction - at the hands of the world order as exemplified by the Governments yet s + physical power exerted by them. paradoxically, it does not in fact lead to doom at the hands of the enthroned powers of the world-order; it leads to emancipation from these powers + this order, as if (but only as if) they were not quite there, not quite real, in the first place, + this could only be discovered by of the act - in the existential act challenging them. It is axiomatic + evident, then, that if this were the closed Greco Roman-Babylonian system, doom for the rebel would inexorably result: the fact that his revolt is ratified, then, + he is not only not destroyed but, to the contrary is emancipated from that very world-order, does point convincingly to the existence of + in fact entry of the i transmundane. This is perhaps the only the existence of the transmundane can way be verified: due to ratification of an act of rebellion (based on an other-worldly ethic) against the world-order. E.99 This means that in essence Faustian man - whether he knows it or not betting on the existence of a transmundane power or entity that will ratify his revolt, if none exists, he is axiomatically doomed, for the closed system of which he is a part will make adjustments to compensate for (i.e. against) his revolt against it - his revolt being in itself a "perturbation in the reality field." + in adjusting + compensating it will most likely destroy him (in its pursuit of its own internal equilibrium). Thus a ratified revolt carries with it much theological + even epistemological significance; he has tested the cosmos + - not exactly won but been caused to win (i.e. ratified). but he could not in advance count on this; it was a gamble in which he risked his life. In the final analysis he staked - risked - his consigned/assigned status in the cosmic order, + would as a result either drastically sink or equally drastically rise; in any case his assigned place in that order is lost to him: for better (if he rues, is ratified) or worse (+ he falls, is not ratified). This is precisely the Faustian act: to revolt against his assigned role in the Cosmic drama, a role (a place, Geworfenheit) that he did not choose. His revolt, however, is choice. True t E100 existential choice viewing 2-3-74 as a radical qualit tative shift upward in the role assigned to me in the cosmic order - this violates the very premise of the Greco-Roman-Babylonian closed cosmos that gives rise to the tragic conception of man, underlying all antique philosophies + most especially stoicism Here more than fate as outcome (dooms is involved - i.e. where + how I end up; my actual life role itself is also involved, My basic place in the cosmic order that obtains (i.e. the place) throughout my life with my death (fate) simply being the final Heimarmene, step in a long sequence then, is not something that closes in on you in the end - i.e. at last - but is with you defining + governing you through out your whole life. by construing our condition of birth as Geworfenheit the Gnostics indict the very concept of one's place in the cosmos; one has no place" in the sense that e.g. Stoicism construes; thus the most fundamental premise is challenged: how can one act out one's role of this role is by its nature an acciden tal hurling or flinging, pointlessly, in an alien environment in a realm that not only enslaves but Acts to perpetuate + 7 by challenging insure that enslavement i E-10) the very premise on which the concept of cosmos depends the Gnostics generate the Faustian stance automatically - just as the Greco-Roman-Babylonian view of cosmos + man's assigned role in that cosmos obviates - makes intellectually impossible - the Faustian view; this is a major issue + irreducably fundamental. It is an axiom. The Gnostic axiom brings into existence a person whose Dasein is fou away from the G-R-B axism (since the two axioms themselves are not only mutually exclusive but diametric opposites, + at so basic a level that for the life of me I can't think of any axiom more basic - that is, underlying them). Look: Xtian justification is [only. purely] a moral shift from a state of sinfulness to righteousness; heimarmene, as causal law, is not involved because to the Xtian as to the Jews causal law is the workings of a world-order created + maintained by God. In Xtian justification, the soul is rendered spotless + is saved from punishment in the afterlife. But for the Gnostic, punishment is conceived of in terms of the workings of the extant world-order, i.e. the physical universe in which we now exist - it has nothing to do with hell. It is as if eschatology is transferred from the flas life to this life here. (Which explains why in regard to 2-3-74, I often have the E112 conviction/intuition that this life here is Thus