on its own because now world will be experienced radically differently; 180" differently. Gnosticism has hidden its ontological psychology within a weird + grotesque mythology that successfully obscures both real purpose + real means to that purpose: to bring the two parts of the self back together (the in-gathering of the light by the Messenger who is "the savior saved," clear evidence that this divine champion is the person himself rescuing himself). Calso "in-Gathering" as remedy points to dispersion as original malady; the bipolarities are disper‐ sion (the malady] + in-Gathering [remedy] + that which in-Gathers is the person + that which he in-Gathers is himself. The radical, basic ontological "fallen" category of ignorance is - it turns out- ignorance of one's own true, full, intact self; all other ignorances stem from this. The in-gathered restored self will on its own know all it needs to know in order to reverse its ignorance + transform it into knowledge; thus the salvific Gnosis arises within the intact self once the parts of that self rejoin for the pieces of the self in themselves know the full story +, in their restored intact state experience world as it really is + hence understand it + the self's relation to it. Thus in a very real sense the saving Gnosis is intrinsic to the self - taken as a whole. What it does not know is that its normal state is in fact not normal but a fallen, debased, C-170 fragmented state involving the fragments in such partial Dasein that world for them is uncanny, alien + even unreal os The absolutely basic key to Gnosticism the encounter with the familiar in the midst of the alien landscape: the partial self recognizes something that it has seen before + yet cannot have seen before because by definition this is a fremd (unfamiliar) landscape, not the self's "own." With this recognition comes unavoidable returned (restored) memory, which is memory of what the self- once was. What it is remembering it is its true nature (the relation to Orphism is obvious). But it is missing half of itself; it now knows itself to be a partial fragment self that is now somehow of a once intact scattered. Thus although anamnesis is not primary - it is predicated on recognizing something familiar in the uncanny world - it is the crucial event, because it is in + through anamnesis that the parts of the self, separated for aeons, come back together. This means that all the pieces comprising the total, restored, intact self are somehow "in" the self in some way, as if split or dormant or mutually estranged this would explain the drop in GABA fluid, the blocked neural circuits disinhibited + at last firing. This literally occurs, as an organic, physiological brain-function involved (simultaneously) in this process is an additional absolutely crucial ingredient -event, realization -171 ( that I call the "meta-abstraction which Plato calls noesis. The partial (incomplete) self on its own cannot perform This cognitive operation because it requires two vantage-points by the percipient (what I call ditheon), analogous to spatial parallaxis. That which is recognized as familiar must be, by definition familiar to the estranged, severed part of the total self since by definition it has never been seen before by the con‐ scious self - which is only a partial self. That is, for the sense of reco tim to occur, the conscious self cannot avoid being aware of its own banished part that for it is precisely that banished part is knows what is seen, recognizes it. There here a hint of the primordial, suggesting that the original schism did occur in but the prenatal past, as Plato taught. the situation is more complex, because at the level at which the total self operates the concept "past" must be redefined. Here Platonist epistemology enters with its Forms doctrine. Unless the universalia ante rem are envisioned, what is happening cannot be fathomed. The two parts of the self are not in the same spatiotemporal world. their relationship to each other comes through - occurs because of - a trans‐ temporal constant (Form) that because it is trans-temporal + -spatial exists "simultaneously" in both realms: the C-172 realms sharing at least one constant, the one seen + recognized as familiar. It is as if both realms, at two times + two places, are operating off of a common matrix + this indeed is how Plato depicts the Forms: they are not in time + space + somehow instantiate themselves at this time + this place yet without losing their unity + intactness. much of this is palpably Platonist + Neo-Platonist, but what is truly the self Gnostic is the idea that is fragmented - broken - so that part of It is at one time-+-place + the other part at another time-+-place; thus Gnosticism adds a radical ontological psychological analysis lacking in Platonism + Neo-Platonism, +, logically following from this premise, a soteriology based on a successful rejoining of the fragmented parts of the self (Plato + Plotinus know nothing of this). From the Gnostic viewpoint, each fragment of the broken-apart self is not experiencing world at all, in the strict sense, + only will do so when rejoined; meanwhile the situation of the fragments is one of alienation - primarily from self, +, following from this self-alienation alienation from world - or worlds, since both halves of the total self are independently tracking (experiencing) C-173 different partial realities connected only by the Platonic forms which by their nature are in all worlds at all times + places, or anyhow capable of being so the in-gathering of the self, Then, is due accidentally to the perceiver Form (one form seen twice; that is, in two different spatiotemporal worlds) but deliberately to the "salvator salvandus" which the total intact self operating on its is own severed parts to rejoin them: external in a real sense, internal in a real sense since each severed part is external to the other part, + yet each internally drives toward reintegration. Thus each part both internally seeks whole ness + is simultaneously aided externally in this quest by the other part, only when the parts have come together successfully does the total motivation seem internal. but now rejoined, the two parts become a unitary totality experience a radically different world than either part previously experienced. Space, time. causation + multiplicity are gone; what exists now is world as unfallen pleroma, because upon the self being reunified. world ceases to be the alien, irreal pseudo‐ world the parts knew - were "thrown into. Restoration to + of self + pleroma Then occurs here + now (as Plotinus speaks of). This unified world defies normal ordering categories + expresses the Ditheon it G-174 experiences it. It is familiar, intelligible + permanent +, most of all, permeated by the divine (whose realm it is). It is a kind of after life world. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts + radically different from them). The gulf between "Earth" + "heaven" is abolished (which explains why the Orphics + Gnostics assumed a literal spatial fall! There is But t an absolute impression of vertical ascent. what is most striking is that he "transmundane deity now reveals its presence in reality precisely as it failed to do so before - hence the Gnostic This is a conviction that it is transmundane So remarkable as to defy description. The world now discloses God indubitably where‐ as before, as the Gnostics point out, it did not; this is not a matter of degree, it is absolute. World + God were before the restoration totally other in relation to each other; now they are fused. Only if This experience of God + world fused is understood is it possible to appreciate the Gnostic insistence that as we normally know world it absolutely shows no traces of God - giving rise to the Gnostics' insis tence that God is transmundane (hence never found in world); the Gnostics are in possession of contrasts that we do not possess by which to assess the absolute absence of God, normally, from world; put another way, from world as we normally know world. The conviction that God is transmundane, then, stems (for the Gnostics) from experience, an experience C-175 we know nothing about. Without this contrast we suppose traces of God in, say. design + purpose, but this is inference + speculation, + the Gnostic knows this because he knows - or knows of - the real thing: deity indubitably palpable in world, absolutely unmistakable + vivid. The explanations given by the Gnostics for this are blatant absurdities because of their drastic error in supposing literal space + literal spatial Fall + distance to be involved but they believed in a geocentric solar system + had no way correctly to assess these "levels" (despite the difficulties, Plotinus figured it out, however). what serves as a better model is the orthodox Judo-Xtian concept of the Fall, resulting in a schism between God + world, hence God + man (for "you are on Earth + God is in heaven"). But I see a valid Gnostic point: the theophany at mount sinai did not reverse this fall + the deity that manifested himself is not the true deity; were he he could + would reverse the Fall. The Torah did not have this effect; in fact it ratifies the retributive quality of causal law/Karma + thus reveals itself as a product of fallen world, not restored world. + if the Torah is a product of the fallen world, the revealm of The Torah is probably a product of it + perhaps even a cause of it. Hence the anti‐ retributive Xtian dispensation, as well as the rejection of Jesus + the dispensation But what compels my attention now is the Tagore dream. The spiritual principle, if it withdraws from our world, would doom it ipsi fac to C-177 This is the ultimate threat, given a transmundane - the deity. His manifestations here are Form of saviors who descend + then withdraw; God is not here except in this invading, inter (from an orthodox viewpoint t ventive sense. This threat has a different meaning. would amount to a radical transformation that is eschatologically unintelligible; Christ instead of returning (from an orthodox viewpoint he has been gone for the past 2000 years) would leave (this makes no sense at all if he is not here: it not only renders void the promise + concept of the second Advent, of all Xtian eschatology, but it doesn't even make sense, for it supposes a covert presence rather than absence; everything is reversed: instead of coming in glory to judge + rule he leaves in pain + insury, is already - who, covertly here + is driven away by us according the the Bible, he will rule + judge as Christos pantocrator not only - the vision says - is he covertly here now, he is here as the suffering savior whom we reject by our own sins (evil Acts). This is very much like - + manis incarnation - except the first advent that if he is driven away we will perish; no further divine intervention will occur - which is a kind of judgment by Tagore. In any case the threat if given by a transmundane deity can readily be carried out, but from the standpoint of orthodox Xtianity - e.g. Paul Tillich - it would be bombast I inconceivable). (+ not within the province of the savior speaking for himself; for example, Christ's withdrawal (unacceptability, rejection) did not doom the world. Here the savior - Tagore - speaks as the sole + total spiritual reality here in our world; if deity is transmundane, this C-178 threat is intelligible, since except for the savior (messenger) there is no spiritual factor in this world. Thus (I say) Tagore's threat implies a transmundane deity