from madness to sanity (the Logos), from Despair to Faith despite everything. But most of all: 1) 2-74 -- 2-75 was a theophany. Indubitably. 2) It is the God of Moses: YHWH 3) This in turn is connected with the Apocalypse, Daniel & Revelation (the Dream in "Tears"). 4) I have captured it thoroughly in words; not only did I experience a theophany by the God of Moses, but I got it written down in a novel that in fact is not a novel but a kind of modern-day Apocalyptic Book, like a fusion of Exodus & Daniel, literal events & symbolism: facts & visions combined. folder 53 - 023 folder 53 - 023 C-11 It is simply extraordinary that amid all my confusion I went on and wrote "DI" as the sequel to "Valis" & explicitly declared Valis to be the God of Moses: YHWH, for in "Valis" this is neither stipulated nor even speculated about. In fact, YHWH is defamed - bipolarized to the Logos: stated to be irrational. But what comes of this, finally? Not Gnosticism at all, but a presentation of the vast Dialectic within God that Boehme & Schelling & Whitehead speak of - that Tillich finds so important in the understanding of God as he really is. It is simply impossible, what I've done - experienced the God of Moses, which involved me in madness & brought me to the verge of physical death, survived & wrote about it. Why, then indeed the AI voice is Ruah ! speaking of the messianic expectation -- which is why Christ is designated by the O.T. hypostasis: Hagia Sophia! Now, I ask why this theophany? Pronoia was indubitably a major factor. However, the material in "Tears" indicates strongly that my writing is a factor. I did manage to write it up - one must include all three volumes of the Valis trilogy, here. Also, I have sought to write about God for years (this especially includes "Stigmata" in which I encounter the demonic side of God). "Valis" is a very Great Book. & the inchoate quality only points to the veracity & the power of the vision (experience) on which it is based - as John Clute so clearly recognized! All the side-trips, all the speculative & theoretical excursions, the asides, etc. in "Valis" only make it more convincing, more real. (as Art Spiegelman realized: that I neither know what in fact happened nor presume to say.) Clearly, all this happened, & clearly it almost destroyed & consumed me, & yet like Horselover Fat or folder 53 - 024 folder 53 - 024 C-12 As Horselover Fat I survived, secure in my faith, keeping awake for the Savior who I know is soon coming, and may already be here. I have known the terrible side of God. But it was not Directed at me; it passed through me and possessed me to both reveal and defend: God as my strength and source, God knowing absolutely and Destroying, But not destroying me but for me. YHWH, the God of Moses, broke out in me and in "Valis" speaking as & by & in Sophia he warns the regime. Valis was YHWH. The AI voice is Ruah. Ruah is the spirit of God. Therefore the AI voice is YHWH speaking to me. therefore the AI voice is Valis speaking to me. This seems never to have occurred to me before. & then, too, as regards "Valis" dealing with YHWH (or as it is said, "the Godhead"), as I realized the other day, the Dialectic that Boehme experienced as the dynamic inner life of God - this dialectic is the whole theological basis of "Valis" even though it is put forth as a dialectic between two Gods: the irrational creation God vs. the rational Logos that enters the scene -invades as it were- and converts all, assimilates all to itself and triumphs. this is precisely Boehme's and Schelling's dialectic - this is Whitehead's process theology and only ostensibly seems to be Gnosticism. For the dramatic purposes and framework of the book this inner Dialectic would have to be put forth this way: externalized onto and into the world-stage. folder 53 - 025 folder 53 - 025 C-13 It is clear from the "brain, thoughts, info, mutual arrangement of objects," that (when everything is considered) they -the characters- & world itself are in the mind of God; hence this dialectical combat between the proto-prerational creator deity & the intervening -& triumphing Logos- is really going on within a mind (1) (brain), & what else can this possibly be but the Mind of God? (1) i.e. within one mind: the two sides of the dialectic -irrational & the rational Logos- are the dynamic bipolarities of a mind, & the latter progressively triumphs over the former (the former "moved" -acted- first; then the rational Logos "moved"). (Moved as counter-move.) Then in 3-74 I experienced Boehme's dialectic internally (in my mind) & also saw the same dialectic externally as the invading & transubstantiating Logos, which I called Valis. The main point is that the irrational is construed as emanating directly from God, & the rational, identified as the Logos, likewise, to combat it - & victoriously in progressive steps: cumulatively, a conversion over & over again by Logos of the irrational. Thus the broad theoretical Dynamic Drama of the novel is the dialectical inner life of God Himself. Thus, "Valis" although defectively structured, shows God from the inside, and were someone like Paul Tillich to read it, he would know that the author had not only experienced God, but God from the inside of God - not God objective & other & external. By the way: my concept of the struggle (dialectic) between the irrational and the rational (Logos) is not Gnosticism. These categories (irrational-rational) are not the Gnostic ontological categories folder 53 - 026 C-14 Pertaining to YaldaBaoth & the trans-mundane God. The formulation is my own. However, I now discover from reading Paul Tillich, they are derived from a line of thought (revelation) deriving from Jakob Bohme & pertaining to the inner dynamic life of God - specifically the identifying the rational side with the Logos. & I knew that my formulation of the Dialectic wasn't Gnostic because I remember telling Charles Platt that it was a formulation original with me. It isn't, but at the time I didn't know that. Thus in "Valis" even when I speak of Gnosticism & deal with Gnosticism as the conceptual framework I am in fact dealing with some else & something more. Christ -as holy wisdom & the Logos- saves us from the irrational will side of God - as expressed in my "James-James" dream. That God could be split in twain and divided against himself - this is the theme of "DI" is it not? I guess Emmanuel (in "DI") is the irrational will (of the creator) and Zina is holy wisdom or Logos, the "Bright" side. Hypnopompic visions: We live over & over but because it is erased each time, this paradox results: it is als ob only one time (that is it is again & again & it is but once. So Xtianity is true - & also the pan-Indian doctrine of reincarnation is true; both are equally so. Now, this is a linear journey, & it is eternal (goes on & on forever) until we are saved. & when we are saved we are lifted up folder 53 - 027 folder 53 - 027 C-15 very abruptly without warning vertically, at right angles by a pulley (as in the 17th century poem "The Pulley") like cargo on a ship, all encompassed in a net of rope, like a little cage of extrication & salvation - lifted up to safety, & what causes this? anamnesis: recovered memory - loss of (more accurately) the loss of memory of all the previous times; the instant we remember (fail to forget) all the previous times, why, at that instant (2-74) we are saved - lifted up, by Christ. & what causes us to remember? to know. to know (i.e. Gnosis) & to remember (anamnesis) are one. & why do we know? through the training of the intellect; it is an intellectual matter. & why did I remember? It has to do with time, the illusion of time & the breaking of that illusion (which is the dimension or receptacle in which this journey that is linear is repeated throughout infinity); I broke it when I was about 21 years old by reading Maimonides' "Guide to the Perplexed" an old Hebrew book. & because it was old, & pious, & Hebrew, two things happened: two "trackings" (lives, reincarnations) became identical due to this common element; that is, in two of them I did the same thing: read this book, & so, because of the way two coaxial worlds can operate off the same common essence or matrix they became one & thus converted over or passed over each into the other, as if I had traveled back in time. folder 53 - 028 folder 53 - 028 C-16 That is one of the two causes of my salvation & it is literal and real: by reading Maimonides in two different lives, at two different places & times, these lives became one (v. my meta-abstraction); this is because of Plato's eide, the fact of a given eidos instantiating itself multiple times & places, & yet being -remaining- unitary. (Viz: there is only one "Guide to the Perplexed"). This is what 2-74 was all about, anamnesis & the meta-abstraction. So half of the reason for my salvation had to do with the fact that (1) we live lives again & again but forget; (2) Plato's forms metaphysics ("coaxial worlds") is the case; (3) There was a single object at two times, (now & in the distant past) & two places (USA & Syria/Africa). (Viz: the PTG world that I saw is the Africa of the far past where I first read the Maimonides' book, perhaps at the time it was written - it was written in "Felix": Arabia!). But there is another & equally necessary reason for my salvation. & it is not a "natural" reason but has to do with Grace; hence the God of Moses (the God of the Prophet Moses & of Moses Maimonides, YHWH); By voluntarily picking up and reading this particular book two times in two lives I found favor with YHWH & it was He who through His Mercy (i.e., Grace) caused me in 2-74 to remember - & as soon as I remembered I was instantly lifted up at right angles (vertically) to the way we live horizontally for all eternity & yet only once, until through his Grace are folder 53 - 029 folder 53 - 029 C-17 saved. so it was YHWH in me, the God of Moses, Valis is YHWH. But also it has to do with the Platonist elements of anamnesis, reincarnation, the intellect, the Forms; so these two elements are both equally true & equally necessary: YHWH (which I have always called the "Xtian element"); & the several Platonist elements (anamnesis, reincarnation, & the Forms -which is to say reason- the meta-abstraction). Thus neither alone will suffice. It is a world constructed along Platonist-metaphysics lines, but it is a world created by & governed by YHWH, & our salvation is due to His Grace; so reason (noesis) & Grace are both equally necessary & both were equally involved in my salvation in 2-74. & it was salvation & I did remember a past life. & we do live over & over but forget (& so, paradoxically, live but once). & there was a superimposition of two spatiotemporal continua; I was saved by YHWH -Valis is YHWH- by & through His Grace, & this was due to an act, a voluntary act of Piety on my part - due, then to merit, to a little extent; &