Look: here is a point. At each junction, the one possibility is limited to a range of possibilities that exist as efficient predecessors. That's it, every binary forking is constricted within the antecedent given, at every point along the line. The system cannot work an ex nihilo choice; this is the sort of unfree mechanism that Spinoza rightly apprehended. What 3-74 represents, vis-a-vis the Xerox missive, is God Himself entering the situation, without regard to the efficient history at that fork. It was not I who acted; it was God. Here a sharp distinction, normally made in classic transcendental theism, must be utilized to appreciate what happened, a sharp distinction between God and the universe, between God and his creatures; suddenly pantheism vanishes from my model and classic Judeo-Christian theism enters. This is precisely the in-breaking at the time of the apocalypse, at End Times, that the Judeo-Christian millenarian thinking supposes. And of course this tallies with my revelation of Christian apocalyptic history and, moreover, with the prophecies by the AI voice. (It is, then, as I present it to be in VALIS.) And with my 3-18-81 revelation that indeed "the Parousia is here, the Holy Mother Church knows it, judgment has been passed, subliminal instructional information traffic flows toward the true Xtians, the others will be allowed to rush over to cliff to their doom." Golly. In other words God will intervene only for the true Xtians, and world conditions being as they are, this spells doom for everyone else (or the in-breaking would not be significant; i.e. if things were routinely okay; again this conforms with traditional apocalyptic thinking. I am saying that anamnesis had to take place if the in-breaking were to occur and work. Rethinking all this I am going to shoot for a total intuitive overview and say, In 2-3-74 I remembered (somehow; I can't be sure folder 90 - 008 folder 90 - 008 why, but this was the anamnesis) a discarded zero branch of the forking, that this forking, this zero choice and rejection, then a shift to the one or on fork instead -- this goes on constantly but we don't remember it. I remembered it. Anamnesis is, then, the key. Had I not experienced anamnesis before the arrival of the Xerox missive I would not have been aware (1) that the Xerox missive was coming; (2) exactly when it was coming; (3) most of all, that a previous response --the zero, cancelled response-- was being replaced by the alternative one or on response/choice. I would not have been aware that choosing was involved or that God as he who chooses was involved, so anamnesis was the key to my perception, finally, of the workings of the divine machinery that we call God in/and the universe. God defined as A.N. Whitehead defines him, "A principle of selection of the good in the universe." So the event was normal, but the memory of the discarded choice, the zero choice, was abnormal. After all, this is how my experience began: under sodium pentathol, when presented with a shiny object, I, like Jakob Boehme, perceived the divine machinery on the basis of restored memory -- which means that we normally suffer from amnesia, and this amnesia is of the zero, original discarded, voided choice, not made by us but by the Mind of the total system. Thus I saw VALIS externally and thus I experienced VALIS internally. It was due to memory of the zero phase of the binary pulse-flicker. The Principle of Scientific Parsimony must be applied here. Would restoration of lost memory of the discarded, cancelled zero phase explain everything? I think it would. For one thing, it would make me aware that God/VALIS, not I, was making the decision, the choice, the response, to the Xerox missive. Moreover, I would literally (upon remembering) apperceive the mechanism because I would comprehend how the mechanism works (in its repeated forkings). After all, I am saying that one half of the totality is forgotten by us: every zero, cancelled choice, every tentative choice that gets discarded. Anamnesis, then, is not memory of the past (!) but memory of the missing contemporary half of reality; added to the half we see, we apperceive --perforce-- the mechanism and the way the mechanism (constant forking binary choice) operates, and if it operates this way --by constant binary choice-- there is a mind that does the choosing; it is unitary, sentient and volitional. folder 90 - 009 folder 90 - 009 Well, unintentionally, I proved the point I made in my Metz speech. I remembered a discarded alternative track, that depicted in TEARS. When I saw "Acts" in 2-74 I was seeing an alternate present; this is why the two "spatiotemporal sets" blended together syntonically. I was seeing the alternate present I had written about; this alternate present, this dystopia, was one massive zero. As I said supra, my anamnesis was not of the past but of the present, of a rejected choice. Much more than the Xerox missive was involved. Hence, obviously, the common "essence" of the two worlds meta-abstraction, what I call two sets working off a common axis: coaxial worlds. Coaxial alternate realities. And, as I said in the Metz speech, there is also a Track C, one even better than this. Orthogonal time, is what I spoke of. I haven't entertained this theory since 1977; I had totally rejected it, and never considered it in writing VALIS. Mr. Tagomi, sitting on the park bench, staring at the precious-metal shiny piece of jewelry -- and finding himself in an alternate universe, a dark and smoky one, "like the Bardo Thodol trip" -- that turned out to be me! Ten years later. Then all these years --probably explaining my ten-volume meta-novel, my epistemological preoccupations-- I have subliminally remembered another reality. Is this "the secret stolen, through the angels, in one's hands"? That an alternate present exists -- and perhaps two? One worse, one better; we are moving from A (worst) to B (this one) to best (track C, the Kingdom of God)? The worse one, A, is behind us; it is the reality that was. The best one, Track C, the Kingdom of God, is breaking into our Track B. It will replace this reality as this one replaced A, the Black Iron Prison described in TEARS. That is the apocalyptic in-breaking of the Kingdom. Hence I correctly say in VALIS that the rational invades the irrational, i.e. breaks into this world; yet we can't discern it. The Palm Tree Garden. Oh Jesu! I was in the Kingdom and am now exiled, not just from you but from your Kingdom! O weh! The "Kingdom" is the Kingship where God is, where traces of him are visible in the alley! The BIP and the PTG battle is out: Satan versus Christ. The Garden versus the Cave of Treasures; hence I said, "I am no longer blind." We are occluded, exiled from the Kingdom, the Garden; Calvin was right. folder 90 - 010 folder 90 - 010 Then there is an occlusion, as Calvin says. And only Christ can lift the occlusion. Burroughs, too, in his own way is right. I was right when I wrote SCANNER. Restored memory, too, is involved. Visual perception, cognitive faculties, memory -- Calvin is right. These are what is known in s-f as "parallel worlds." What I call "coaxial worlds." Today is Good Friday and today I understand this once again, as I did in 1977. Inferno (Track A), Purgatorio (this track, Track B), and Paradiso (Track C, the Kingdom/Kingship). That which is revealed in COMMEDIA; that which the Sufis know. Christ restored me and then, after one full year, I lost it. O weh! Verlorendes Heimatsland! As Tess correctly said: I relived Adam's Fall, the cruelest fate to overtake a person; to see God and then to see him no longer, to know what I have lost! And then not even, finally, to be able to remember! No wonder I cried when I read about Pan in WILLOWS. It set off memories, that night, and since then I have been bitterly wretched, and wondering why! I just had a very startling realization. When I saw VALIS, especially what I called "pretextual cause," more was involved than discrete time frames that our minds turn into a flow by the projected modem of causation. I saw the very binary forking that my system envisions: instead of an A, B, C, D, etc. causal train, I saw (which is why I call it "pretextual cause") something initiated on the spot, not derived from antecedent reality; this was, apparently, the one phase amounting to a decision located at that point: newness, so-to-speak, entering ex nihilo (or giving the impression of entering ex nihilo). I saw volition, sentience -- which I've always realized -- but, more, I saw what I now conceive to be a decision, a choice, so that there literally was not, in fact, a causal chain. But since (as my view declares) there is an interruption in the continuity of the reality field, we are perceptually unaware of the disjunction during which, in which, the binary decision-making takes place. So it is possible that my accurate perception -- as if an occlusion had lifted -- was related to my anamnesis, my abnormally remembering the zero spaces between frames. I suppose it could be argued that very simply my neural firing was so rapid that I literally saw these folder 90 - 011 -7- spaces, so it was a simple biochemical neural synapse matter. But even so, well perhaps more so, what I saw then was real and significant. And at the same time I confronted a palpably unitary field. Thus I confronted a very large unified thinking, decision-making machine, in which the decisions --the thinking-- arose at the points where the changes (events) themselves occurred. The thinking was distributed throughout the system. Now, this collates absolutely with my apperception/revelation of the dialectic, not just that a dialectic exists, but how the stupider horn moves first and then is "gathered up," so to speak, subsumed, by the wiser one. This amounts to a repeated correction, which tempted me at one time to view it as an alignment to an invisible template that I at once construed to be Logos (as blueprint of creation). Put another way, the wise horn, if indeed it corrects, could be a sort of monitoring circuit; but I think the decision-making model is the right one and I should stick with that. When we see a given effect we infer back to cause in this way: the cause must explain the effect because we are using the terms "cause" and "effect" in such a way that to say that the cause is not sufficient to explain the effect is in fact an oxymoron. Hume is right, that we are indeed inferring back from effect to cause, i.e. retrograde along the temporal axis, and this as reasoning, a priori reasoning, is suspect; we will always perceive the antecedent "cause" as cause because our argument is a sort of perceptual, inductive tautology. Nevertheless I saw in 3-74 when I saw VALIS that what we suppose is in fact not the case (I had figured out the logical fallacy back in the late Forties; all that remained was to undo the perceptual fallacy on which the logical fallacy, stigmatized as such by Hume, is based). The problem with demolishing merely the logical inductive-reasoning fallacy is that you are then left with no explanation of why things happen, what causes events to occur, so you trade in a totally determined system for mere chaos. You might say: More comes out of each forking than is put in (the effect is greater than the cause). Hence this is a negentropic system, gaining, not losing, vitality (expressed in terms of internal order and complexity, i.e. structure). folder 90 - 012 folder 90 - 012 E-30 Boehme yes