the universe functions - but, then, what we know as "world" is not in fact "world" at all but a representation in our minds that God compels our assent to (this last is my contribution; God does not have to make the world real qua world, only real to us). folder 90 - 123 folder 90 - 123 G-68 What this all adds up to is that for which Kant is so noted: that we do not experience "world" but only a representation of world (+ I say each of us probably experience a somewhat different one). (+ I say, too, that God does not have to make world real but, rather, real to us, which means that -in my system- he compels our assent to the representation by his acting directly on -more precisely in- our minds; thus the representation does not directly impinge on us but rather the representation in + through God - a view that Malebranche would heartily approve of, for it goes back to Malebranche's own source, Paul's statement that "we see all in God.") I suppose this, then, is what my meta-abstraction was actually about: that I did not experience world but world-in-God, hence not world per se at all. I am -as all men are- totally dependent on God for any notion of things outside me. I do not see corporeal things nor am I even capable of existing except through, in + by God, + he is in truth in me so-to-speak as me - this is Malebranche's primary view / insight. What I myself perceive (comprehend) is that only God -God alone- can compel my assent to the representation of world (intelligible archetypal ideas) which he impresses on me. Without God, even if I would somehow in some way discern things outside myself (the reality field) it would not be convincing - + this precisely is the topic of my 10 volume meta novel, this problem (linked to plural subjective private folder 90 - 124 folder 90 - 124 G-69 worlds; in other words I would be totally encapsulated + soon go crazy; I would be imprisoned by myself, knowing only myself. God + the "other" then are one + the same. We take our knowledge of the "other" (objects / reality outside us) for granted which is naive; + I point out (this is particularly my contribution) that even if we could somehow discern creation on our own, say through our senses, it would fail to compel our assent; i.e. it would fail to convince as real. One clue to all this -to this as a problem + genuine issue- as Malebranche himself realized is the phenomenon of hallucinations. +, with it, to a lesser but still genuine degree, the distortions known to us as delusional perception - in contradistinction to pure hallucinations, my point being not quite Malebranche's: my point is, when a person hallucinates, he not only experiences -perceives, sees, hears, smells, etc- the hallucination but is ineluctably compelled to take it as real; viz: it is not merely ghostly, phantasmic, only semireal, like static - noise versus signal; he is compelled to take it as signal. This shows that the issue confronted here is profound + important + not either merely technical or frivolous. My 10 volume meta novel right up to "Frozen Journey" is one colossal study of this problem, with no solution given (because I had no solution! The solution I see now is the only possible one: that some absolute agency compels our assent to what we folder 90 - 125 folder 90 - 125 G-70 experience - first causes us to experience it + then compels our assent; I have thus broken the situation down into two parts, in what perhaps is a further analysis of the problem vis-a-vis Cartesian analysis. For example, while on psychotomimetic drugs one experiences delusions + hallucinations but is not necessary compelled to assent; this is a matter of staggering importance; it means that the experience of + assent to can be distinguished. So more than perceptual involvement is involved; the cognitive system of the mind, over + above the percept-system is engaged. Thus (I reason) God must be in us (were he not, only the percept-system at most would be engaged, we might experience -perceive- but retain the option of rejecting as irreal what we perceive; however this is not the case. Thus there is no way I can distinguish myself from God-in-me. Now, my 10 volume meta novel can be construed as (as I say) one vast titanic study of this, with an awareness built into it that perception + assent can be separated - just take "Frozen Journey" alone! First Victor Kemmings perceives the irreal + gives assent; later he perceives the real + with-holds assent! Thus it can correctly be said that my corpus of writing is one long search for God, + that in "Valis" I have found him - in two ways: in my mind + in reality. One could correctly say that Phil Dick writes about what it would be like without God. So my Q: "How does God relate to the universe, + if he did not exist folder 90 - 126 G-71 what difference if any would we notice?" I have already answered my own question in + by means of my total corpus of writing. The difference between the "realities" of my writings + the actual world is that God is absent in the realities of my writing + present in the world we actually know. Well, then in 2-74 God palpably entered my field of perception, which means that, as I theorize in the Platt interview, for the first time in my life I became sane. I became as other people are ordinarily. But I got the experience of him rushing into my experience of world, my percept- + cognitive-systems, from which in a certain sense he had been absent. Viewing world for the first time (hence I said, "I am no longer blind!") I could discern him, which people "sighted" from birth have lost the ability to do. In other words, my phosphene-activity trip was world bursting in on me for the first time, because up to then I had been in one vast flight from it, but, at last, through primal Angst, I turned about-face + looked at it. Which is why I have supposed Heidegger's inauthentic existence being replaced by sein. I truly saw, because I was no longer running (my "chain ... web" satori). This is indeed Heidegger's sein, ushered in -as he says- by absolute Angst. Thus I did indeed throw off an occlusion in 3-74, but it was not truly perceptual (it was cognitive) + it was lifelong, due to running, not to drugs. folder 90 - 127 folder 90 - 127 G-72 "Valis," then, contains veridical perceptions about reality + God (amid the rubble, as it were). Perceptions that only occur to someone who had been cognitively blind his whole life long - + then, suddenly, became sighted (this explains why my "two signal discrimination" eventually wore off; I adjusted). (My inner visualization of the true Xtian facing Fate / death / reality was of a person (woman?) with absolutely still, calm eyes, as in a Renaissance religious painting.) (Like Michelangelo's Eve seeing Adam being brought to life by YHWH.) (Pure, undivided, unflinching observing; interesting: the true Xtian views destruction / annihilation (Fate) with the same impassive calm as he does creation!) My corpus -up to "Valis"- chronicles a lifelong flight from [seeing] reality due to chronic fear. "Valis," however, chronicles a turning-around + facing / seeing / confronting reality - Heidegger's sein, or, as I conceive it, the authentic Xtian experience per se. + in fact I actually say this in "Valis": "I had, I realized, always been a corny cartoon character, always running." Out of fear of annihilation (das Nichts) I endlessly ran, + so never was (had sein). This explains the time dysfunctions in 3-74 + then the vastly spatial world (vide my analysis of time as tyrannical, the axis of flight; whereas space is the axis of being); this might also explain why I could discern pretextual cause - i.e. occasionalism because of a stupendous ontological conversion of time into space. folder 90 - 128 folder 90 - 128 G-73 My good God - in the Cartesian system (esp. Malebranche) I literally had been blind all my life + could in 3-74 for the first time see! Only when understood in Cartesian terms can this be fathomed as intelligible (viz: the problem must first be apprehended; what is truly meant by "blind" + by "seeing"!) The significance of the compelling of assent looms large for me because of my insidious chronic doubt ("you are not the doubter; you are doubt itself"). I suppose that this somehow involves pistis, although not as normally envisioned; my doubt is, for very evident reasons, Descartes' philosophical doubt (allied to questioning, + to skepticism, the search for something indubitable, in terms of rationalism, this is, sorry to say, a rather sophisticated form of doubting, hence obdurate). I had asked, "If God is going to perform a miracle, why does he go through pro forma causation?" This is indeed a vigorous question, since "miracle," by definition, refers to a suspension of natural law (i.e. why wait for + depend on a pretextual cause when he would know -being omniscient- that you the percipient could / would discern it as merely putative?). To obtain an answer to this question would have eternally baffled me had I not happened onto occasionalism, which put me in mind of Hume + my own intuition about the spuriousness of causation (back c. 1948). What I experienced in 3-74 (1) as Valis + (2) the "Strawberry Fields" info about Chrissy folder 90 - 129 folder 90 - 129 G-74 were in a sense not a miracle at all but the regular way changes + events come about. But, at that one time + place, seen by me properly. (The difference, then, was in me the percipient.) What I am led to assume is that I correctly saw the regular operations of the universe. Now, this fits in with the Cartesian-Malebranchian version of how we come to know objects -the world- outside us - fits in with my own complex view about plural subjective differing worlds (more properly, representations of world) - + to this I have added an element related to Cartesian epistemology but with a new twist: how can we be sure, since it is [only] a representation, that it is true (i.e. how can we know that the reality we experience is in fact real? In view of the possibility / probability that each of us experiences a somewhat different reality or representation of reality? My 10 volume meta novel deals with this, of course, as I eternally point out. However (as I say supra) I now see the issue or problem -or in fact solution- this way: How are we able to assent to the representation? + I believe that only God is able to compel that assent, + this is essential - that he do this for us, since otherwise our experience will be with something unconvincing (I do not deem it within the power of the representation in itself to compel this assent, but since God always -or almost always- compels our assent we are unaware of the problem + presume unquestioningly that there is no problem, the representation seems self-authenticating. But I, having seen representation as representation, construe the semblance of verisimilitude as something compelling us - not something done to the representation but directly to us internally - compelling our folder 90 - 130 folder 90 - 130 G-75 absolute assent (what I have formerly deemed a perpetual-cognitive occlusion. While this is in a sense correct, on the other hand, we have to consider the purpose of this tailoring of our