not essentially Buddhist view about all creatures must be held regarding harma + enlightenment in my p hypnopompic state I thought of a section from "Frolix 8" having to do with all creatures "crawling, walking, flying" toward enlightenment life, for all living things, in an ascending spiral perpetual learning, joyce's "epiphanies"; this of includes all creatures, no matter how low. It is in terms of this that the macro [rational) mind entered me, because I showed promise of being on the verge of a great leap, + my death would have unfairly truncated this. This explains the "why me?" It is more Buddhist than Xtian, but I see Jesus as an avatar of the Buddha. (When I read like that night.) This explains the explicitly Buddhist elements at the conclusion of "BTA. My God, this adventitious rational "macro‐ mind" is a brodasattwa: a former human who attained release + then came back to help it + the end I in "BTA depict as I cactly e other K165 this would be Thomas + is not reincarnation He is Christ-like but not Christ (I discuss this in "BTA"); he has become a Christos, a perfected man in the Xtian sense who turned back from heaven as the brodasatua does (here Xtianity + Buddhism come together; Xtianity has no bodisattva concept). Thomas, then like archer, is not from the past but from the other side! This is why he + I together form "Ditheon"; although having been a a human, Thomas is not now a human. but a perfected spirit who turned back to help others still on the path - I got it right in "BTA" & the Ditheon dream wished to explain it to me. The dream shows there is something you the recipient ("nancy") must do that this would occur; it was my spiritual act of giving to covenant House. The prototype for this is Elijah sending back part of his spirit to (This is why originally guessed.) Elisha. (as I t I thought it was Elijah So in "BTA" at the end I solved "Valis no wonder I long supposed it was Jim returning what must be rejected to me from the other side. is the Xtian idea of you being judged upon death sent to heaven or hell; apparently it is (1) a + much longer climb, involving many rebirths" i but (2) it is always up - then is no hell; there just nirvang + attaining Nirvana; + (3) all creatures participtite. It is not so much a matter of judgin, but of learning why, this is Buddhism! Xtianity subsumed guessed when I read likes by Buddhism as I "you have to work Russ' letter is right-on. at becoming Christ" ie a Buddha. Did not God himself tell me that (1) there are many dharmas ways, rootes; + (2) they all lead to him sooner me that. My route is: or later? He did tell ove of the situation th in very deopt B 9106 any mind the bhodisattra returned to would seem violent + disordered + unrational, in contrast to his own; it would have to be a painful situation, an ordeal correspondingly, the invaded mind would experience the adven t titious psyhe as supremely spiritual + rational + wise. This is why Thomas was/is both an actual human who lived at a specific time + place + yet is supernatural. God-like. + this is why Ditheon is formed - Thomas is a Bodhisattva. He is a former human but now being; apparently he was he is a celestial an apostolic Xtian. This explains why I have conjectured again + again that the early saints ("First fruits") are now being resurrected; I was close to the truth. Had I combined this with my "Jim Pike" theory + my "Elijah; theory. would have had it "Buddhist" thinking of last night So my wasn't all in vain. My God: Thomas turned down his opportunity for Nirvana to come back + help e.g. me, plunged into what for him is a disordered irrational mind in trouble (but a mind showing promise of nearing enlightenment; thus he now is in me teaching me: it is an ongoing process) now, this explanation tells me why Thomas a was such a devout Xtian; he was in fact saint + had attained perfection - which by its very nature involves the idea that compasson i is as important as wisdom I'm forgetting a vitally important realization I had originally about Ditheon: how + why 2 psyches fused together are theon human it in "BTA" & Russ' letter the answer is of the I th addin by out 1707 adventitious psyche God justifies (as in the printing sense) the first one: He picks a psyche containing specifically what is needed - hence lacking. In the first to make it perfect; thus bill/tim as a unified psyche is a perfection which neither alone could be. Thomas, then, justifies - completes - me + the result is Ditheon: the two-part God I cannot seem to hang onto this idea but it is clearly there in "BTA"; tim + bill are as if two halves of a perfect whole. So there is, as in Jesus Christ, "two natures, one person." A distinction must be made, then, between Thomas + Thomas-+-me together; I had something to con‐ tribute to Thomas, + this is proved by my spiritual act vis-a-vis Covenant House. Thomas brings me to completion; he is all that is needed (for justification). Yet it is not Thomas who is justified but me; I am the irrational, incomplete. disordered psyche in need of him. Thomas, for all his perfection, is still a man albeit a perfect man; but he + I together form a Ditheon: more than a man. This is how men become divinized This is indubitably the chemical wedding of the Hermetic alchemists + R.C. brotherhood. 11 Ditheon" certainly refers to this conunction mysteriom this hierogamy, in which all the missing compensatory elements (in the collective unconscious) join in a conscious hierogamy Hence my dreams about mercury. Wholeness, complete ness is the goal (this is why I thought the Rosy cross was involved!) you can see this drive toward "Jungian wholeness in "BTA" where bell + tim are compliments to each other + together form an in tac 108 each on his own is one-sided, only half of what he should be; was, in writing this novel, analyzing myself + my own -our own? - experience. + very archaic material from my collective unconscious came up, esp. the Shiva-Sibyl Archetype! the Xtian symbol (Golden Fish sign) served as an omphalos around which both my conscious mind + my unconscious could form a unity as one individuated entity the hierogamy of yin + yang - hence the dialectic! the dialectic expressed the tension of oppositess in me, but suddenly unified + reconciled higher a through the Golden Fish sign, as in by integrative synthesis, subsuming both means of a transcendent principle acceptable to both. + out of this hierogamy (of opposites) is born (get ready!) the child Sophia (in This is the "Valis") who is Holy Wisdom! Golden flower, the mysterious embryo. She is the infant new self - + she reappears as (as I've realized before) angel archer, no longer a child. This is where I got angel; yes indeed She is my rational soul. She is the divine offspring of the hierogamy between me (my conscious mind) + Thomas (the missing elements which lay as potentialities in my collective (both zing Pallas + Linda Fox unconscious). are way-stations between Sophia + angel.) Thomas is probably the wise old King on horseback in "Tears" - an archetype of my collective unconscious. Very old, very wise, very spiritual + yet totally practical. The danger in this process was expressed by the figure of Shiva with his/her 3rd eye. 9109 the prophecies by the AI voice refer to the Golden flower" in me being born: angel o + "BTA" proves that this redemptives archer psychosis (as John weir perry calls it) proved successful: out of it came a hierogamy chemical wedding) + birth of Sophia-zina‐ wasn't quite a psychosis; it was Angel. It the mysterium conunctionis based on my seeing a symbol around which - as omphalos i by conscious + unconscious -collective union halves could unify. + this is precisely scious! - the the pentathol came in; it weakened to my w barrier to my unconscious. Angel arises in me/us as if ex nihilo; it is a true birth of something new that never before existed in me that this represents I am sure now bilateral hemispheric parity: two psyches operatia as one "person" but with the psyches still somehow in a distinct; it is, then, an evolutionary leap. particular there is what I call "temporal parallaxis." No: this all fails to account for the "music to groove" meta-abstraction, which is pirotal, althoug This may derive from the transformed way of experiencing time + causation. Memory temporal lay s + slot present are involved: an integrated single field registering "perturbations which are coherent informa Conless im, as if the field is a modulated carrier reality is experienced as a single integrated field these perturbations can't be "read." The two brains are picking up two times simultaneously + combining the two fields into a master field (which is what 2-74 was all about: realizing that two times were present simultaneously but blended together that is, one psyche working solo has no way of discriminating the two patterns, each from the other Hence information can't be extracted on the basis. parallaxis. perceptual a K-10 in my opinion Eckhart's analysis of the 4th stage of the soul (1) verifies my 2-3-74 experience as genuine; + (2) shows that higher or enhanced faculties of the human mind or soul are involved having to do with meta abstracting. Conceptual awareness, then, as Moksa is involved related to Plato's recovery of the eide through anamnesis. What could be more thrilling than to experience reality as pre-existent in God's intellect (intelligere)? + then the experience of God's mind itself (Valis). My exegesis has not been in vain; I know now what happened. Ursula's concern was wasted, + timid, the figment of reductionist empiricism. to experience God, now, does not earn you respect but rather suspicion + disapproval; he who en counters God these days is a moral leper to his compeers moreover, he can convince no one. This t is, then, a private transaction between him + God you see the CP; I hear the music Ditheon: was a man. Is now Christ (due to someone coming back to him). Is Christ due precisely to the two (double) natures. This is the essence of the Xtian miracle: man becomed Christ (Ditheon) due to someone coming back + entering him as I depict in "BTA." Bill/Jion is knew it when I reread it. It was + I Christ dot Christ who came back; it was a mass Christ is the result. The prototype is Elijah + Elisha This is why Jesus is suspected of being Elijah. something mysterious happens (results) when a man's spirit returns to his living friend you get ditheon, not Dianthropos. All tell you what else get immor tality K123 the concept "homoplasmate" may be very real + the key to it all. My Q. is: is i t always the same man who returns? The dream seemed to say yes; there is one particular man in all cases. Surely this must be Jesus, + the resulting crossbonding chomoplasmate) is Christ. (In contradistin ction to Jesus!) Thomas is Jesus, but Thoma + I together are titheon: Christ! Jesus is a constant; the other half is always different, so each "homoplasmate" is unique, yet Jesus is always involved. Jesus was a man, a great miracle-worker, magician, healer + yogi, + his greatest trick was this coming back, out of which occurs Christ (when his returning spirit crossbonds with human after human