by the Messenger, + now I have him not. Hence I simply become more + more weary as world becomes more + more seek to regain, powerful over me. I to recapture, the liberation of 2-74 to 2-75. whereupon world regained its power over me: the vision was lost t I I fell back. do not seek to + gain Gnosis + liberation but to regain it; I had it + lost it! This hy trying to write "owl" broke me: it is this that is the topic of "ow)" I Although my effort seems cerebral having to do with thinking) it is really existential... but failing. (erebral = knowledge - Gnosis; typically Faustian, as in Goethel "Faust" part one "Valis": built the maze + fell into it. The maze changer because it is alive. it is alive because it draws on + from the very thoughts of the creator trapped in it; his efforts to solve it are thoughts, + it is these thoughts that "fuel" it - i.e. it is one I vast Chinese finger trap; the harder powerful world try to get out, the more becomes. Hence Hex 47: my increasing exhaustion. What, then, should I do folder 55 - 157 folder 55 - 157 D-85 the solution does not lie in ratiocination but in the meta-abstraction. So last october + last February represented genuine victories - but I can't seem to follow them up! was treated to a demonstration of I YHWH: thought, word + reality were one, with no ideation separate from the word + no difference between the word - what I said - + the deed it was moreover, there was absolute the deed. a priori knowing (about so, about Tess) + this unitary thing" (thought, word, act) is his power (omnipotence) wedded to his knowing absolutely (omniscience). He willed it so, by the use of Holy Wisdom, a separate hypostasis who is never apart from him + what he knew, I intuited [only); which explains how I've felt Fri, set + today Her letter is a lies again it has to do with a letter! As on 3-20-74! Now I know what my anxiety was about St Sophia when I was in balboa on thurs. God tent me his absolute knowing of (without ratiocination) for a seconce time - No: 3rd, when you count my physics test. not only did he extricate me but (again) he revealed himself to me: his notchal, not just that he exists. folder 55 - 158 folder 55 - 158 D-80 He gave me the missing cognitive part of the emotional state I've been in since her call from lax. Plus the anxiety attack on us thurs when she didn't invite me for dinner. She was expecting someone. Then the "not 2 mothers but I mother twice" meta-abstraction was YHWH as Holy Wisdom. the really extraordinary thing that although I was terror-stricken I experienced absolute a lucidity; I saw + understood my total situation perfectly, without degree + without reasoning it out. It was utter knowledge. I was - had been - destroying that which was of must value to me in the world: Tessa + Christopher: they are all I have. However good or bad Sandra is intrinsically; that was secondary + tangential: God summoned me back to what was morally right + what existed: it was right + it was real. I had been occluded + severely jeopardized this most precious element of my life. This was no vague intimation; YHWH summoned me back from the lip of the abyss. What I stood to lose by my wrong actions was that which my very physical life devended on. t was on the brink of literal doom, yet indirectly so: Sandra would destroy me not by what she die but by what I did. There was in this folder 55 - 159 folder 55 - 159 t D-87 a vast moral summons, for in Judaism God + morality are one + the same. This was the Lord God of Israel not just a vague God but YHWH - + knew it. This was the God of the Torah summoning me back to moral reality, with no choice; he willed it; he commanded me to return to life + what was right (in him + by him the two are one + the same). Thus morality + that which gives + sustains life stood bipolarized to immorality ( sin) + that which takes life. Sin + death then were sinned + I died. Abandoning Tessa one + Christopher meant my death. Moreover, he gave me words to express all this to them (rather than just an understanding of it) so deed was cojoined to knowledge: what I knew I did - act + cognition being one, as morality (the law of God) + life were one. knew, said things I never knew, said before. My stipulated stand has no precedent in my life. Secondarily, I was to abandon my relationship with Saudra - secondarily (because it was destroying my relationship with Tessa + Christopher). What was primary was what I said, did with Tessa + Christopher. Having said, done this, the matter of Saudea would de facto take care of itself. It would be seen for what it was, that is, the effect it was having on my life + the lives of Tessa + Christopher This was the resolute carried to the absolute, here God compelled assent not just to the real but to the moral as well folder 55 - 160 folder 55 - 160 D-88 It was 3-74 all over again but with moral overtones carried beyond the irresistable to the terrifyingly irresistabl in this case I had fallen into mortal sin (this was not the case in 3-74; there I was in peril but not in peril of mortal sin; I could, then, lose my freedom or life, but here I lost my soul; I not only doomed myself - I damned myself. Here, power + wisdom prevailed; in 3-74 knowledge + love prevailed: this yesterday was YHWH, not ABBA. the situation was intricate, unstable. ambiguous. There was a single right choice + it had to be made then + no later. God made it for me, based on his wisdom, power, +, because it involved morality, goodness (as exemplified by the law). Thus, having justified me in 2-3-74, he forebade me from sinning any further; he intervened absolutely. He prevented me from falling from my state of grace by making my moves for me: regarding Tessa + Christopher + regarding Sandra. Also, but think secondarity, he saved my life. It was the moral fall into sin that was the primary issue. He is the Lord + his will is law. as I wrote last night, at the time, I was presented with an indubitable demonstration of the power, the wisdom + the goodness of God. It was more convincing even than 2-3-74, + yet followed it up... there is the common theme of a dangerous lying etter from a woman that required that act -jact immediately - in a certain way folder 55 - 161 G-89 a way I would not act on my own (because of weakness, folly + lust). (+ just plain ignorance.) never before have I understood what Spinoza knew so well: "His will is law," as inexorable as physical causal law. Thus he rules the universe + wills all that is. There is no way now that I can believe in Gnosticism. What I experienced is what I had just been reading in the notes on "sepher Yezirah," that for God, "thought, word. This writing of word + work (object) are one." unity I had understood a little, + in an intel‐ lectual way, but then last night I experienced it. the unitary nature of it surpasses intellectual understanding, because for us, thought, word + act are separate + sequential. Nor do they possess (1) absolute force or (2) are based on absolute a priori knowing. For God, to know (thought) + to act (will, power) are one. Our knowledge is dim + our acts feeble; we never know truly + never achieve perfection in choice or execution of the act based on the knowing (+ the knowing + the acting are separate; we know + then act in sequence). God abolished the basis of my whole erring life - literally abolished it so it ceased to be. This was the apotheosis of 3-20-74, its utter culmination, yet of the same nature. Terrifying as it was (after all, it induced absolute terror in me) I thank him from the bottom of my heart, in two regards: 1) the extrication + solving of my problem which I had not the wisdom or strength or mored insight to solve on my own folder 55 - 162 folder 55 - 162 D-90 2) Even more important, the revelation of his wisdom, power + goodness (which of course certifies his existence as active, but God, Lord of creation - not God YHWH, the God of Israel). + this was not just a display it power but of moral power. it is this unity of wisdom, power + morality that invincibly argues for YHWH. Here is the difference between this + 3-74. Any number of divine entities could have extricated me from that trap, but here this time, I experienced the moral force that is unique to Judaism. (In which the nature of God fixes the law as its that is, first necessity regarding man; YHWH discloses himself to man in + as the law.) Now it is possible to add this theophany to 2-3-74 + perceive that it was YHWH then + Hagia Sophia; then it was loving, but here it was angry yet both are YHWH: in 2-3-74 mercy, here justice. Yet This was also for my benefit, to save me (but as I say, from damnation more than from Death; the peril was the peril of sin + death whereas before I was a victim). (Here I was the guilty transgressor.) just realized something. Until my terror last night I actually believed that I should have - + pursue- a relationship with Sandra, over + above the issue of my enjoying it (i.e. wanting to). I had been told should have "an affectionate" relationship, I folder 55 - 163 folder 55 - 163 t -91 suddenly (last night) I had absolute knowledge that it was wrong - + why It was wrong (because of Tessa + Chris). There was no ratiocination leading to This insight; the insight was wordless + infinite + absolute + 180° from what i from the beginning I had believed should do (to create balance in my life, etc., a whole bunch of reasons, very complex + intricate, but spurious). + this was no enantiodromia. This was an invasion it of my psyche by absolute knowledge. bore no relation to what I had up to that moment believed, wrongly believed. There was not even a sense of insight, of satori; it was pure knowledge, like a sort of seeing: a vision of the situation as it actually was. + it was primarily a moral seeing. Absolute guess I moral rectitude occurred in me. It simply I took place. All at once it was. saw it as God saw it. + how different that was! + absolute! It was not a viewpoint It was knowing what I have been calling "the metaabstraction" is in fact knowledge - the act of knowing - as God knows (i.e. knows what is, i.e. world). In 2-74 + more fully later in 3-74 I saw as God sees + understood as God under‐ stands, that is, absolutely + a priori, in which what is known is exactly the same they are assimilated to each other is as what folder 55 - 164 folder 55 - 164 D-92 that the mind of God was at that time in my mind - I