Like Klingsor's castle, the BIP is somehow illusory; its powers of thrall depend on some kind of occlusion in you, as if the very perception of it causes it to be real; its existence is connected to one's perception of its existence -- as if it has no ontology, no existence-in-itself apart from our perception of it. But then arises the mystifying realization that it enslaves us without us seeing it; paradox upon paradox. My opinion of how it exerts power over us without us seeing it, and without it possessing any intrinsic ontological being, is that what it does is to act to debase and occlude our experience of the pure yang world, the PTG; that is, add the invisible BIP to or over the PTG --which is real-- and you get our mixed world! The yin world, inferno, is, then, for us not a separate world but an occluding film between us and the PTG, cutting us off from it; our world is a composite, one source of which is irreal (as in my two-source cosmology). folder 90 - 034 folder 90 - 034 -23- Now, this raises a whole new idea: that the BIP having no true existence -- okay: when one perceives it as I did, one is not in fact perceiving a world --at least a genuine world-- but is discriminating the PTG --yang or Form One world-- from the occlusion, extracting the PTG out of the two-source mixture, and I think indeed this is the case. Hence when I saw what I called Acts (which just recently I identified as Track A, an alternate present) I was in fact unscrambling two signals: the PTG Yang world, which is genuinely real, and the occluding delusional "world" of the BIP. This would point to my two-signal (source) cosmogony as being quite correct, but there is more: since only one realm truly exists, the yang or Form One or PTG or Paradiso realm, then inferno, the BIP is totally delusional; our middle realm which is a mixture of the two is half real and half delusional, so that ontologically speaking we are in paradiso always, endlessly, and all that stands between us and knowing this is a deluding curtain (dokos or maya); to say, "I am in hell" cannot, then, be true; what is really meant is, "I believe I am in hell; I experience hell"; but this experience is a demonic delusion, of uncertain origin. Salvation, then, has to do with lifting the occlusion, and this of course coincides totally, absolutely and precisely with 2-3-74. First I unscrambled the two signal-sources and then, finally, I abolished the BIP, the yin world or Form Two source, which in VALIS I stigmatize as noise. Now, this corrolates with Boehme's conception that evil is the no stages in God, which are ultimately rejected by a higher synthesis; which is another way of stating my contention that the yin or zero moves are provisional, tentative, and get cancelled. So all this adds up and is self-authenticating, by virtue of its internal integrity. As to how the deluding, punishing BIP yin signal arises, let me go back at once to my concept of how inauthentic existence consists of an evasion, a flight into time in order to escape --paradoxically!-- time itself, an escape that dreadfully transmutes space (freedom) into tyrannical time, hence causation, which is the instrument of time. One runs right into the BIP, as if it is a punishment for the failure to have the courage to look directly at --and integrate with-- reality. folder 90 - 035 folder 90 - 035 -24- I sense a positive feedback loop, here. The evasion of reality delivers you over to tyrannical time, and tyrannical time carries with it the inevitable promise of your own annihilation, which is of course the very thing you are fleeing in the first place (das Nichts, nonbeing). Fate, then, as dismal destiny, is generated by a fear of fate. One would have to say, then, that in some real sense the BIP is autogenerated, not (I mean) by itself but by the percipient/participant, like his own prior thought-formations coming back as demons during his Bardo Thodol trip. In this context the message of the cross is: you can be annihilated and survive -- more than survive -- be lifted up newly made, made into a higher thing by the very act of annihilation. Again I perceive authentic Christianity as an antidote to the malady of evasive flight... which would make it an antidote to the malady of having to live in the BIP; in theological terms, then, Christ delivers you from hell; or, if you are in purgatorio, from that. Now, this brings me back to what I said to Michael Bishop about Gnosticism being a sort of "paranoid Cartesianism." Since we do not experience world directly (which Kant certainly verified) but rather a representation, is it not possible (and this argument was in fact presented to DesCartes, although I did not know it when I wrote Bishop) that a demon could insert a false and misleading picture of creation in our mind? I seem to be talking about exactly this; creation is the PTG; they are one in the same; we fell in the sense of suffering a sort of perceptual occlusion that cuts us off from creation as it is (which is what the First Book of Adam and Eve is talking about); this is all that is necessary to arrange our expulsion from the Garden, for the reasons the Cartesians give. How we see reality is going to determine what reality we are "in." So by having our faculties debased we are de facto expelled from the Garden; the Garden is still there, but we can't see it. This analysis suggests that our occlusion is adventitious. We did not do it to ourselves; it was done to us (there's no help from Sankara in this matter; as to the origin of the veil of maya he simply says, "It floats; it simply is there," for unknown and unknowable reasons). A restoration of our primordial, original senses and intellect would, then, reverse folder 90 - 036 -25- the fall, the expulsion, and this is in fact what I discovered from 2-74 to 2-75; the garden is located here, as if on another frequency (hence my concept of coaxial worlds, plural worlds possessing or based upon, derived from, a common essence); well, this really argues that what I called Acts, which indeed was the world of TEARS, is not the past but is a version of the present, as I said in my Metz speech and as I realized (or came again to believe) very recently). My analysis here would certainly explain why these worlds would have a common essence, be coaxial; that is the whole point (whereas it is very difficult to explain how Acts if it lies in Syria in AD 70 could be coaxial with USA 1974). Again we come to Heidegger's authentic being which is based certainly on his Gnostic sources which in turn are based on Christ. This whole line of thought strikes me as impressive, convincing and fruitful; it was to have been the basis of the third novel in the VALIS trilogy, but I am so puzzled by it that I had to give up. I conceive of three realms (one real; one semireal; one totally unreal, the middle one being a compound of the other two, but since the last one is totally unreal it can only serve as a contaminating, occluding agent vis-a-vis the first realm! Well, here we have Adam losing "the bright nature" that God gave him, and here we have the salient terms of the Fourth Gospel and the Qumran people: light versus darkness. And here we have that dreadful dream in which the child, the Spinner, is losing his vision, peers at the sun through a thick magnifying lens and sees less and less until finally "he has lost his vision" a sort of reperformance in my head of man's original fall -- not something I very much enjoyed. Well, this explains why in 3-74 I kept exclaiming, "I am no longer blind!" If we are to believe the Bible, the God who created us occluded us as a punishment; however his secret plan from the beginning was to send Christ to restore us, and this (I think) is what was done for me in 2-74. As I wrote previously (during this "binary" insight section), my vision in which the system renders each zero or yin or Form Two or immutable cause-and-effect move provisional, trying it out and then cancelling it in favor of a wiser alternative (the yang, Form One, or one move) is a vision of a folder 90 - 037 folder 90 - 037 -26- (or rather the) restored cosmos; and the old Babylonian astral determinism universe of inexorable fate and immutable cause-and-effect is the fallen cosmos -- from which we are saved. This would explain why I have been haunted by the impression that these binary forkings (where the indeterminate two-slit "freedom" element enters) constitute an invasion and penetration of the world-order by the camouflaged Cosmic Christ; what I have written on these last few pages actually points to that as a probability. Christ and causation are, then, at war; here is another form, perhaps the ultimate form, of the dialectic; the wise horn is yang; the wise horn is better; the wise horn is selected; the wise horn is, in essence, Christ himself penetrating the mechanism. But have I not said, Isn't it very possible that nothing has changed but our perception? Reality per se, in itself, is constant; only our experience of it changes. So all we need to do to get back into the Garden is to perceive the Garden. Yet we are incapable of doing this. In what sense, if any, can Christ be distinguished from our perception of reality-as-it-is? There is a dreadful circularity here; if we could experience the Garden we would be saved, but in fact we can't experience it so we are not saved. Something from outside must enter to remove the occlusion and this is Christ. It resembles what Heraclitus said about the necessity of discerning true reality by a process something like guessing a riddle or translating from a foreign language into one's own; that although men have the capacity to do so, they do not. This week I was, that one afternoon, back in the world of space; I don't know how I did it ... and then I was back here under the power of tyrannical, destructive time once more. And I don't know how that happened either. Someone must teach us how to do this or else do it for us. I who know about the Kingdom, who knows it is right here -- even I can't find my way (back) to it. Yet my "binary" model of the universe apparently calls for it, specifies its existence. It must be, it must truly be, that Christ does not in fact penetrate --invade-- the workings of the universe but, rather, invades our perception of the workings of the universe, the inner folder 90 - 038 folder 90 - 038 -27- representation that the Cartesians showed we experience as world; this (as I said before) is Christ as Christ consciousness: the occlusion is not lifted from the world --it was never in world-- but from us: it is in us. In my recent dream the Spinner, the little boy, went blind; the sun itself did not go out; it was still shining but he could not see it. He "lost his vision." This says it all. Even with a thick magnifying glass he could no longer see the sun, shining as it still was. He had been poisoned "by heavy metal" contaminating the soil under his feet. Then Christ detoxifies us. This goes back to SCANNER. This