impossible - the Faustian view; this is a major issue + irreducably fundamental. It is an axiom. The Gnostic axiom brings into existence a person whose Dasein is fou away from the G-R-B axism (since the two axioms themselves are not only mutually exclusive but diametric opposites, + at so basic a level that for the life of me I can't think of any axiom more basic - that is, underlying them). Look: Xtian justification is [only. purely] a moral shift from a state of sinfulness to righteousness; heimarmene, as causal law, is not involved because to the Xtian as to the Jews causal law is the workings of a world-order created + maintained by God. In Xtian justification, the soul is rendered spotless + is saved from punishment in the afterlife. But for the Gnostic, punishment is conceived of in terms of the workings of the extant world-order, i.e. the physical universe in which we now exist - it has nothing to do with hell. It is as if eschatology is transferred from the flas life to this life here. (Which explains why in regard to 2-3-74, I often have the E112 conviction/intuition that this life here is Thus I somehow the after life. am using the term "justification" to describe a deliverance from the retributive machinery of/ as this world: which presumes a hostile cosmos. This is precisely what punishing now, it could be Gnosticism is all about argued - as I ofter have - that 2-3-74 was pronoia, but why, then, the vast cognitive insight, the transformed perception of world especially world as prison? These cognitive elements (transformations) could be attributed but then it was not pronoia, to the Holy Spirit - since the latter comes from the Pantocrator, conceived either as Christ or God - i.e. the Lord; the Holy Spirit is not pantocrator + there is no external holy Spirit - + I did see Valis also the miracle was specifically externally. the overpowering of heimarmene, which brings us back to Gnosticism + its perception of a hostile, alien world-order that punishes. would seem to have presented very I arguments, here that my experience strong in 2-3-74 was Gnostic - this based on a rather thorough study of Gnosticism, far beyond any study I have ever previously made or been able I cannot prove it was Gnostic to make. but there is ample evidence +, I think, definitive evidence. If the retributive is machinery in the messenger vision identified as heimarmene then I have decisive proof (because heimarmene + the punishing nature of the world-order are E-103 one + the same). (Thus the world-order itself is referred to.) (+ equated with the lex talionis.) - Q: Does someone (divine) speak to me A: Yes. Q: Do I remember (my true identity)? A: yes. is: this is Gnosticism. The voice that speaks is the call. My true forgotter dentity is primal man or a spark thereof. + it is myself awakening myself i Q: Did I see the many become the one? A: yes. I called it Valis. This is Gnostic restoration Q: Did I remember past lives? A: yes. Q:: + see infinite space? A: Yes. ss; I experienced vast time + vast space. This is Gnosticism Q: Did I see a prison around us? A: yes. is: This is Gnosticism. i after I write this (if a.m.) I went to bee thinking, "it is Gnosticism t sure." the explanation almost fits E-104 + yet - it occurred to me almost then that a much simplier + much more would be the convincing explanation following: No, it was not Gnosticism was Christ the real presence of t I - the actual Christ + an expression of the power of Christ to bind + to pantocrator loosen, to save, Christ as the t + eschatological judge (hence hence the Good Friday + Easter overtones; role of my moral act vis-a-vis Covenant House) F-22 the Atman-Brahman equation may be the case, but the use of the term "subordinate" (by the AI voice) points more to the macrocosmos-microcosmos model, i.e. my part-whole (cosmos) model (as in my typed notes dated 11-12-81) t since atman is not subordinated (that know of) to Brahman. {Note} Well, then; the Hermetic macro-micro-cosmic correspondence would be the case, as in Hermes Tristmegistos. My 2-3-74 experience, then, may be one related to, or even be, the chemical wedding of the Hermetic alchemists, which brings us back to the Rosy Cross brotherhood. Hence my recent dream of the pink rose associated with the beam of pink light ("Valis." Then, is correct!). ➀ No: my reasoning regarding atman Brahman is correct; it is "tat tvam asi"; This is the advantage of deductive reasoning: However, It is indubitable + I did employ it. we have here a in the Hermetic macro-micro‐ cosm correspondence an analog to the Brahman I never realized Atman correspondence (which However, in both cases -east + before) west - for the reasoning to be indubitable it must be deductive, not inductive; there begin with an apperception must fore it of Brahman, the whole (or macrocosm) from which one deduces (learns) one's own nature the subordinate part all of a sudden it strikes me a fortiori term "subordinate suggests that the + he was a Rosicrucian system Leibnitz's s F-23 2 What may be the case is neither the Greco-Roman-Babylonian cosmos (but the truth is close to this) + also not quite The Atman-Brahman model (almost, than o I but a Hermetic macro-microcosm corres pondence best expressed in + by Leibnitz my God; it was Leibnitz who is best known for the "pre-set harmony" model replacing causation, + "harmony" is another term Also it was for my term "compatibility." he who coined the term "theodicy." folder 53 - 001 A-1 If people prior to the Atomists saw the void (+ comprehended it) as we do, it would not have been necessary for Democritus to say of the void (kenon) that it, although incorporeal, is existent + real. Because what is he saying that is new? He must be saying something new or he would not say it. A previous, differing view of kenon must have obtained. What could it have been? In a way the question is not, "what did the Atomists mean by these assertions" but "what were they speaking in contradistinction to?" If kenon is called existent + real, then that which is existent + real is everywhere, so a continuum is presumed made up of the corporeal (to on) + the incorporeal (kenon or to den). All I can presume is that the concept of continuum must have obtained prior to the Atomists or they would have simply called the void what we call it: empty space containing nothing. But this is meden. This is what the Atomists refrain from calling the kenon. This is what they denied it: the status of meden. But it has in fact that status. To call the void "existent + real" is inexplicable, as Aristotle realized. Something is wrong. It, as an assertion, can only be meaningful in terms of prior perceptions + conceptions, because it is not meaningful to those later on (such as Aristotle). What I see is that the Atomists had to yield pro forma to the continuum view while still making their point. This was the only way they could make their point within the conceptual framework of the time. So those prior to the Atomists must have seen a continuum, +, if so, what did they see (or conceive) when they saw kenon? Physical objects? That literally touched each other? I can only speak on the basis of 3-74 at the time when I saw what I called Valis. How shall I describe it? I can't. There was one "thing," that is, unity. +, being perceived + conceived as a unity, space (kenon) signified something other than what it signifies -ie is- in the discontinuous matter view. The key term is Gestalt. Each thing (what we call "thing") was not a thing at all; it was a part, + functioned as a part (of a whole). folder 53 - 002 folder 53 - 002 A-2 My mind filled in the kenon functionally. (1) The kenon had no significance. Here is where the Atomists enter. They consign significance to the kenon in contradistinction to to on, physical objects. The two are bipolarized. Kenon is viewed as existent + real in order that it divide off the physical objects (to on). This is its sole function + it is existent + real because it does this + because it must do this. But in that case, kenon must not have done this before. If it was not existent + real it could not do this. Then when we today conceive of space (kenon) we conceive of something real (without realizing it) because if it is not conceived of as existent + real it cannot serve the purpose it must serve. Kenon as I saw it when in 3-74 I saw Valis is truly meden. What we learn about our own present-day conception/perception of space from studying the Atomists is that without realizing it we are a fortiori consigning some reality to it (to den). Space conceived + perceived as we suppose we conceive + perceive it (meden) would be as I saw it when I saw Valis. If it does not exist at all it does not even exist as separation between objects (to on). The percept-system + cognitive system does not even show a register of "zero"; the recipient scans to on + to on only. For him, space is like an ellipsis in the attention of the mind (as if it lost consciousness in its scanning). (This reminds me of the frog templates: if its smaller you eat it; if it's larger you retreat.) We scan space. We see space. We are not aware that we see space. In 3-74 I saw augmented space, but what could this signify? More nothing rather than less! What I saw was depth: distance, parallaxis. Not space (1) That is, kenon was read as "on" the way a Gestalt is always read when it contains an ellipsis. The mind fills in each ellipsis functionally, as if it did not exist. + this is the point: space (meden) does not exist, so filling it in (not reading it) is a correct reading. folder 53 - 003 folder 53 - 003 A-3 Here is a very clear assertion: the true cosmos (as correctly defined) cannot exist in the atoms + void discontinuous matter universe -model of the atomists; it is a concept perceived in + derived from the continuum model be it Ionian, Eleatic, Stoic, Taoist, etc. Therefore since all universe-models in Western civilization after the decline of Stoicism are discontinuous matter models, there is no way that the true concept "cosmos" can be retained or even comprehended. We use the term (as Hans Jonas points out) but use it wrongly. When the continuum model died, the concept of true cosmos died with it. Now, the AI voice said "long extinct," not just "extinct" but "long extinct." Clearly, the AI voice is referring to Greek thought, + prior to the Atomists it said "true cosmos" + not "cosmos," + this clearly refers to cosmos in the correct, strict, + precisely accurate sense that e.g. Pythagoras employed it. "+ it's still there." Thus, it must be the case, therefore, that the continuum model is correct, is the case, for were it not, true cosmos could not be there. I am told, then, that I am right: the Atomists -+ hence all discontinuous matter physics- are wrong. To know this for a certainty is to know a fortiori more than most living westerners know. What I see is (as I told Tessa) one of the greatest revolutions in Western thought starting (with quantum mechanics + field theory), greater than the change over from the geocentric solar system to