but the lamb does die: he is endlessly slaughtered. A I am therefore not a docetist; Christ actually suffers + dies as our ransom. it just came to me with full force: 1) I write a letter (sept 23 1981) saying that in a vision I saw that the Parousia is here. But that is not the whole story: 2) + last night or day I realized that in 3-74 Christ was actually + really + genuinely present somehow in world, as world + yet more than world as if psyche of world. Literally present. So perhaps (1) is true. Since the Tagore vision is predicated on an actual encounter with Christ + this was distinct from the vision. Yesterday for the first time I really knew emotionally, not just intellectually, that in 3-74 that was Christ himself there: an epiphany. C-214 the fusion of the Gnostic idea of heim armene + the breaking of heimarmene (which implies a transtemporal deity. man + God against world, etc) with the Orthodox Xtian view of man in bondage to Satan by reason of sin (in fact original sin) creates an ultra‐ system, for it abolishes the issue of God the creator + God as transmundane in contradistinction to a blind demi‐ urge creator, + abolishes the issue of Gnosis versus justification - as well as abolishing the docetist contraversy. Orthodox Xtianity is amended substantially along Manichaean lines: world + Satan are equated; Christ stands opposed to world just as providentia is bipolarized to fate I destiny/ natural law, which is to say heimarmene (here, however, the Gnostic vision of heim‐ armene is drawn on: natural law - which is to say causality - + the mosaic talion low, the common ingredient being the karmic theme of retribution). Christ becomes Christos pantocrator, able to void necessity (in Spinoza's sense); this concept goes far beyond common ideas of providentia but agrees with the Pauline doctrine of justification + ransom + surrogation; it draws on some of the most profound themes in Paul + yet, para‐ loxically, it is indubitably Gnostic in its man + God against world" perception - world + the power of Satan are construed + one, whatever the origin of this state; his is Geworfenheit: man born into this captivity always, with no exceptions G-215 so that he has nothing (ordinarily) to contrast it to. (This relates to my arch -theme of occlusion: that man does not see - is not allowed to see - his real condition + the real nature of world). the theme of acosmism comes in this way: Just as the Gnostics say "astrology is right until Baptism" I say "world is real -binding + absolute - until the "transaction of justification - in which through the ransom man is freed of the binding power of world, whereupon a kind of functional acosmism enters; this very clearly relates to the Pan-Indian idea of the "grand illusion" + the power of Maya + Karma. Christ is the master of both, in the sense of being able to obliterate their power over us. This view, then, also brings in pan-Indian thought as well as orthodox Xtianity (Pauline) + Gnosticism. Here enter the themes of enlightenment anamnesis, birth in the spirit, awaking noesis, the ajna chakra, etc., however described or pictured. +, for me, the heroic deed (defined as the new act) vs tragedy (the power of the past) both of which are somehow connected with time (progressive vs dead) + slavery vs freedom (victim of, instrument of "things" vs autonomy, what Tillich calls the tutalege theme - which leads me back to Beethoven. here the answer lies, could I but understand it. Somehow it has to do with abstracting my meta-abstraction which either transforms reality + time, or, perhaps, even C-216 abolishes world + time as we know them + this brings me back to my "two 1800 mirror opposite "coaxial worlds operating off of common constants" - which both understand + yet do not understande (some kind of parity? Viz: one object (?) can be at two places + two times (1) this noesis or rather something else or more? But related to Plato's Forms? That is, the eide make these coaxial parity worlds possible; this (the eide) is the how the poo mirror-opposite coaxiality is the what (it would be impossible for Plato to view the eide as means to some other end! + yet this seems to be what I am the twin simultaneous-tracking saying. "Mirror" psyches when reunited are Dithein + free of the coercive power of world because "world" now signifies only one half of the total reality - the two 180° bipolarized coaxial worlds which together form something quite ontologically else. This is a restoration This rejoining of the two opposite halves of 1) psyche; + 2) world the thing we call "Karma" may be related to necessary "reactions" in the 1800 opposite coaxial reality; the two "halves" ceaselessly affect each other reciprocally according to invariable laws that are de facto unknown to us because we do not ie sce" or see the other world - do not even know of it. We (sic) impinge on it; it impinges on us, forming one self-adjusting totality that maintains stasis (total homeo‐ stasis? Internal sufficiency? something to do C-217 with balance as in "equal + opposite reactions" etc. As when the unconscious portion of a given human psyche Acts in a complementary relationship to the con - sciousness to form a self-regulating unitary totality only one "half" of which is visible: the unconscious can only be inferred indirectly - as when it "perturbs" saw, then, in 3-74 consciousness. What I as Valis may have been a perception of the totality of the two 1800 opposite coaxial halves - that is, reality as it world is composed of these two truly is. complementary halves - + each human mind is in that it tracks both halves simultaneously. i.e. I exist in both coaxial worlds, but "th does not signify PKD; it signifies PKD plus Thomas (i.e. Ditheon). What the apostolic Xtians knew as enthusiasmos by the Holy spirit may have been the barrier between the two coaxial halves breaking down the two halves rejoining; this would be "birth in the Spirit," the whole purpose of the of Messianic mission (v. J. Bible note). + course this would be salvator salvandus: the divided halves are anthropos but, when unified, become/are Ditheon (Christos). true karma may "lash" back + forth (palintropos oscillation) between the two mutually opposed or complementary 1800 coaxial worlds (halves], + we, being totally unaware of this parity situation, have therefore no power at all to control this system for the simple reason that we have not the slightest understanding of it! what we perceive as "fate, causality, G-218 providentic may be: Half "A Half "B" s s the 1800 "coaxial. our "world" balance to our half (in "A") viz: an act here impinges on the 1800 coaxid opposite half ("B") but the pushrod action does not end there; "B" responds + reciprocally reacts on us, on "A" - this total system being lawful + yet to us totally inscrutible, because we see only our half of it. Thus we are welded to "B" even though we see it not - + know not of it (except in dim + imprecise terms such as "Karma, ""Fate" "justification," "provi dentia," "God's mysterious will," "the power of Satan," etc. within the total system, every act does have its reward or punishment according to a lawful, coherent, logical basis of mutual reciprocality + interaction, in order that there be balance (stasis) in + for the totality the schism into two parts each unaware of the other (or ourselves as life forms bifurcated into two "trackings") may i represent a "fall" or malfunction; or it may be simply the case unless rectified ley by Christ). If all this is the case 3-74 can very simply be described as the breaking of "B" + Thomas due to my metaabstraction in 2-74! it seems to me that the best (most adequate + accurate) perception of this lies in Taoism: in terms of how the Ch'ang G-219 Tao works. The Ch'ang Tao is so-to‐ speak either the other half of total reality (world "B") invisibly impinging on this world ("A") or is, perhaps, a perception of the totality, A", "B" combined. Lao Tzu sees the Tao in the terms that I see the actual Laws governing the complete system viewed as a unitary whole: the answers t "work" the total set as to how t system lie in the "Tao Te Ching" total system: Tao hei dialectical interaction within (subsumed by ae i the total system B because half of this - i.e. "B" - is concealed from us, it follows logically that this causes the totality (the Tao) as such to be concealed from us; it impinges on us (+ the dialectic between A + B) both operate -outside - our awareness. wathout this, then, is precisely what I saw in 3-74, i.e. Valis: the "perturba in the reality field" - the "surd" I was seeing the total reality (At B or Tao). In "MITHC" there world t (where the axis won) + our world C-280 are the two compensatory halves A" + "B, hence togome, by gazing at the silver blob (pin?) when the sun strikes it, passes over tem i porarily from his half "A" to our walf "B"; this is a matter of complementaries + parity + has to do with the wholeness (completeness) balance - utilizing the inner dialectic of yin + Yang so that the two coaxial halves interact impinge on each other to obtain a dynamic, not static balance my God. Noe of the Tao in its entirety "justification," then, is a mutual correc by the total system (Tao) of one polarily (or half/side "A" or "B" in terms of 1) its mirror opposite, + 2) in terms of the whole; the justification is the result of a decision by the whole, hence the Tao itself; to establish its own balance - the word "balanc" meaning "Tao"! (I just realized; wholeness, Ditheon + Tao are one + the (the BIP world is same. "The yin world of immutible cause + effect" - the other "alternate world" that Tagomi saw; it is also what I saw. Hence (the sense) for C-221 both Tagomi + me the Bardo Thodol trip - to the complementary normally invisible Yin world coaxial within the whole. So this is how the chian, Tao maintains its internal balance (Tao): by two 180. complementary coaxial worlds (2 halves that operate in/as the yang-yin dialectic): the principle of parity. I got it right in "MHC" yearsago! If one under‐ stands Taoism one understands that logically wholeness t [parity) must be the case. This i + two are one + the same (mysterium conjunctionis): + I achieved it in 3-74. This "wholeness" experience - the sum‐ Ma bonum of Taoism - involves reversal of polarities, a reversal of sign values: i.e. sudden, total enantiodromia The word I'm looking for is equilibrium. (it's also self-winding, like Pythagoras' Kosmus. folder 55 - 001 O-1 Reality — inc. the percipient as part to whole — is experienced as one, unitary, interested structure (Which is "true kosmos" as Pythagoras used the term; hence "an extinct true kosmos & it's still there.") Reality valued this way — 5D & a single continuum — is such that "the void" (mēden) no longer is accorded existence, as it has mistakenly been from the Greek Atomist on down. Hence there is no void, no nothing; thus all things are seen literally to be connected, & there is what I saw that I called Valis. Not a plurality of atomized discontinuous pieces of matter but, rather, one interconnected whole. If the void (mēden) is accorded no reality — it is not regarded as existent — then it follows logically that by definition there is