stage one: that was not Ditheon (or Christogenesis). the "Acts" is the way Thomas would see world per se: as the BIP. The machine world is his world. Hence The 2 superimpositions were syntonic (344 they were 2 ways (inferno + purga thio) of seeing one reality. + the 8 PTG is Ditheon's way of seeing that same reality; these are my tracks A, B + C. Hence I correctly identified Thomas' vision as the past. + this explains the "supra-temporal constants"; he will see all places + all times this way: it is the machine This is how world looked to world people in ancient times; it had to do with "astral determinism." but it is precisely this dual view of one reality that C, the meta-abstraction, arises, since the mind grasps enormous implications of one + the same reality being "two" places + "two" times hence "two" worlds. Have I had the "meta-abstraction" backward? It is not seeing that two places + two times are one place + one time; but vice versa; one place (here) + one time (now) are two places + two times: AD 70 + USA 1974; + the instant the mind perceives + understands this since both hemispheres + both psyches are involved, ditheon is created by their unified act of perception so its I've had it not: i t s t but t t as backward) a I i (345 the mind realizes that USA 1974 + Acts are two ways of viewing - perceiving - one reality, + the mind draws a very important conclusion from this about space + time. USA 1974 + Acts are not projected onto reality but, rather extracted from it (by two psyches in one brain). The early Xtians in breaking the hold of psyche A by elevating psyche b to dominance must have experienced this same "superimposition" or "steres" view, llactly what I saw, only they went about in in reverse vis-a-vis me: they (the apostolix Xtians) augmented psyche B (A was already extant), whereas for me, B was extant + I augmented psyche A, which was latent (recessive). But would not the results be the same - be identical? Each of us starts with one of the two psyches + then contrives to augment the merely latent one. So perhaps Ditheon was, then, "baptism in the spirit, but achieved, so-to-speak the opposite way around. For them, B was latent. For me, A. In both cases the result is perhaps) the fused psyche Ditheons The original apostolic Xtian experience would not be involved with anamnesis since no archaic personality from the past would be involved - only a new self from the future born again. K346 However, the Xtian experience - like mind did involve the two psyches A + B (but with B coming on, not A, as in my case) so it may have culminated in Ditheon, since the two dissimilar psyches ATB were involved. It is as if I had the Xtian experienced reversed, i.e. starting with B from birth + then retroll the archaic psyche A. But all the evidence in Paul points to a transfer from A to B being the goal (by Paul's time); this alone not Ditheon, would seem to them legitimately to be" rebirth," since it (B) is - was for them‐ the psyche of the future: much freer, much more independent, much more flixible, much more able to abstract. This is a great advance, but it is not Ditheon... although there may have been a short historic interval in which Ditheon occurred. But then people began to be born with psyche B dominance, + the "Baptism in the spirit" would no longer occur. It is not until the time of the hermetic alchemists that Ditheon recurrs, + this is about 1400 years later Then in a strange + inverted way (the only way available to me, to a later person) I did duplicate the original Xtian apostolic experience of "baptism in the spirit" - this is clear, now. It was done in quite a different way than they did it: through Platonistic anamnesis. Hence in the N.T. there is no mention of anamnesis nor an archaic former - psyche recalled. do I realize what I've done? I've put This all on a scientific basis, much along the lines of Julian Jaynes book. Xtianity can be said to have achieved a mind mental success - by achieving left brain K347 dominance rather than right brain dominance, but this is not the end of the story; Ditheon is the end, + was probably what the very early Xtians [+ they only, alone] shot for. Where the loss of the true, original Xtian Gnosis occurred was when, upon left brain dominance began to occur naturally, historically, the Xtians forgot the goal of Ditheon, + the idea of "baptism in the spirit" ceased to mean anything. By the time of Paul the topic is left hemisphere dominance + nothing more. So there is a very real possibility that nothing more than left-hemisphere dominance - freedom from the control of the right - was intended. Yet (as I say) both hemispheres would be active for at least a while, since the right had been there dominant - in contrast to us now. may well have been a brief period of bilateral parity: Ditheon. This would be when "the Holy spirit entered you + formed Christos." This would not be permanent, nor was it permanent with can it ever be permanent, + if not why me. the second Advent would be the return not? of bilateral parity (achieved now by anamnesis, recovery of the long-latent original (archaic] right hemisphere). The contemporary creation of Ditheon by the revival of the archaic "A" psyche involves a risk that firing up the "B"psyche 2000 years ago didn't entail. On the other hand, the archaic a psyche possesses a backlog of knowledge because at one time - former time - it functioned 348 It is an experienced psyche, not new + pristine but dedicated + shrewd (withough limited). It is not "like a little child," as the B psyche was 2000 years ago; it provides an enormous back log of practical experience, rooted in the Judo-Greco-Roman world. It is the Judo-Greco-Roman world. It is the mind of antiquity personified: truly adult. So its machine - limitation is somewhat offset by its grounding in practical experience. This is a fully developed man, already formed, molded, completed. Whereas Ditheon contained one seasoned psyche in apostolic times - + one newborn psyche- today it contains two seasoned psyches; therefore the Ditheon created is totally seasoned, + probably is quite different from the Ditheon of 2000 years ago which was probably child-like. This in many respects the child like Ditheon of apostolic time, has now grown up. Once it occurs It is (in contrast to the Ditheon of the first advent) completed. + it has a history (the apostolic Ditheon did not, at least not in the same sense). surely Jesus foresaw this. The Christos of antiquity has come of age. During the past 2000 years it grew up. What we have now is not what we had then. For 2000 years the B psyche has developed + learned: time for it has not stood still. It is now as developed as the a psyche: 4000 years of history summed up - these last 2000 years were not wasted, the in fant B psyche learned + matured. + for its time is accretional! (linear time.) This all may be as it was supposed to be it may have been necessary for the B psyche to 349 learn + mature + complete itself, in which case the original Gnosis was not lost: everything went according to plan. but what is most compelling is the search by the B psyche for its ancient lost self the A type psyche, a search involving great peril: confronting the 2 ophrenia), finding disorder monster (schased the lost treasure (, Grail) + returning to the present with it -psyche A - which when added to psyche B results in psychological/spiritual wholeness. As guide (psychopomp) there is the mystery voice -giving - what I call the "AI voice gryptic clues + reassurance; this is the voice yet of the future, the completed whole psyche the type a psyche knows the story to come. that has been lost; that is, it possesses the ancestral knowledge unavailable to the B psyche - a story which turns out [Note to be the Christ story, + is applicable to the whole (restored) person. It is his story; it is for t him + about him. (This Ditheon is Christo genesis). The recovery of this story + the recovery of the ancient lost self are one + the same. A cryptic sign has caused the B psyche - who has no history, hence no to roots, hence no place, center, omphalos‐ begin to remember; he is reminded that he has a lost self + forgotten history + knowing this, he must go in search of it to recover it - or he will not regain his lost soul. (For me, angel Archer + Like parsifal or ➀ In my case siegfried I who does not know his names or ho t 350 It (psyche B) recovers more than its history; it learns it origins + from this knowledge becomes self-aware; it knows its own nature, which it had forgotten. psyche a possesses the knowledge of its - their - true identity (as with Parsifal its name). Its name is Christos. It moves against the time-stream, sees cosmic resorption, the return of multiplicity to primordial unity (Shiva or Brahman). from cosmogenesis in reverse This is this primordial unity it seizes its own lost self + returns with it intact to the present (the way back to the present is as perilous as the journey back to the origins). It learns the original sacraments ( + reperforms them exactly as they were done at the beginning, the way the ancestors performed them. Not knowledge now lost - forgotten. This it recreates primordial time - illo tempore it now knows the nature of the cosmic battle, the sons of light against the sons of Darkness, +, further, knows its own historic role in this soteriological drama a my view is a world (USA 1974); Thomass is a world (act) our combined view is sit ground info arrangement 9118/81. My type B psyche - which I have always spoken of as the authentic human (vs the android) - entered western civilization from the Torah when Philo added philanthropia (351 as a new virtue under the heading "Justice," based on the Torah, specifically on Deuteronomy ("mercy," "Aums") a Thus my authentic human derives from not just (sic) Judaism but from the Torah itself. Diraubporia" specifically means "love of mankind" + is mercy in the large sense of preventing suffering (at least in its English use contrasted to mercy, which is directed at extant suffering in individuals. qiaduoporic then enters the world directly from God. Thus God created what I have for years called "the authentic human" in contrast to "the android, the reflex machine." Is it then so absurd to suppose that he also creates are not these evolutionary stages Ditheon? willed by God + God's Diagudporia? gigauporia is the quality that differ entiates the authentic human from the android can trace it directly back to the Torah (in + I contradistinction to the Empires + to Greco Roman civilization - which - is it not - the Empire? Rome is the 4th Empire: Greece under alexander the third. Thus my vision in 2-3-74 is substantiated. qiadupotic is added + a qualitative leap occurs, Philo defines it as "providing aid + assistance to those in need." "Giving help to those who are in need of it "the E of Ph article says. It seems to me at one point in my published writing I defined human as