over & above the logic involved. Since it did pertain to world & world alone!) But (as I say) it was revealed to me tonight that the meta-abstraction (noesis) & anamnesis break the power of the tracking-mechanism to bind, to enclose & enthrall; the person is de facto released instantly, whereupon time, space & causation evaporate as if they were illusory from the beginning : they no longer pertain once one remembers (anamnesis) & understands (noesis/meta-abstraction) : but this comes only as a Gift from God : & , in time, this Gift comes due to adjudication - &, finally, this has to do with the person having God's Law (Torah) inscribed on his heart & acting to fulfill that Law voluntarily. Love of God's Law is love of God himself : in fulfilling that Law, man shows his love of God the source & author of that Law. & thus I have been shown how to put it all together at last. Almost 8 years, & only folder 53 - 035 folder 53 - 035 D-5 did I understand through divine revelation. The synthesis was just too vast for me to encompass on my own, due to my own powers. Now what I see is the MMSK. As if we are in the mind of God - world itself is in the mind of God, + thus, in "Valis," the dialectic that is the dynamic inner life of the Godhead expresses itself in world. + this is the final + most profound part, + clearly put forth in "Valis." (This is clear from the "bright" side of the dialectic, the rational Logos, "invading" the irrational world based on the prerational will - God's inner life + the absolute dynamism of world are one + the same. This both explains the MMSK + also shows how important the MMSK is in understanding it all. God is not in world; world is in God (here we come very close to Spinoza, but this simply shows once more that we are dealing specifically with the God of Abraham; the extrication + salvation - what I call "the vertical pulley, the net of ropes that lifts you up from the otherwise eternal horizontal tracking + retracking - is an Orphic-Platonist-Xtian element. God - I have my synthesis at last! + it is a revealed synthesis. The pivot point -king pin- being Moses Maimonides' "Guide of the Perplexed"! It is the "not the two mothers once but one mother seen twice" object seen at two times + two places + yet remaining unitary. It is I who saw it at two times + two places: at two different trackings - thus fusing them, abolishing the separation between them + restoring my lost memory, thus permitting me to understand the actual situation, world, +, finally, God. + folder 53 - 036 D-6 really, myself; not as I see myself, judge + accuse myself, but as God sees, judges + approves of me (+ specifically why, in what terms - which leads at last to the sublime + eternal Torah, the framework + soul of all creation). A final note: the meta-abstraction is a comprehension of the conceptual basis of the organization/structure of creation + leads then to a comprehension of the mind in which it exists +, finally, to experience -actual not theoretical experience- of that mind itself. What began, then, as an act of ultra-cognition becomes in the end knowledge of the inner life of the mind of God Himself. folder 53 - 037 folder 53 - 037 D-7 The pulley: net of ropes - as the divine fisherman fishes for the pious man who obeys his laws willingly, from the heart - + lifts him up to safety + extrication: man redeemed by infinite grace, for, in keeping God's law he shows himself to be in the image of his great moral creator, + is saved forever; the endless tracking + retracking is abolished. As I told Isa, this (justification) happens once + once only. God is patient. He waits + then when the time comes, he acts. I understand myself. It is not my verdict, my conscience indicting me that matters; it is God's judgement of me; he knows me better than I know my own self, +, seeing myself as he sees me I at last know myself, actually + truly: absolutely. He sees me as I really am. I see myself reflected back from him: the two mirrors into infinity. The relative is all at once stripped away. His pronouncement is forever. Through revelation I have been able to do what Philo + Augustine could not do: reconcile the Judo-Xtian belief-system with Plato's anamnesis; viz: what was revealed to me is that there is in fact only one life until (or if) anamnesis occurs; only when it occurs can it be intelligibly said that there have been "repeated - in fact endless horizontal trackings"; at that moment not only does the situation change but the present track (life) + the recovered one merge into a unity (of two spatiotemporal continua); so in an ontological sense there still is only one world or track, even though it occurs at two spatiotemporal continua; folder 53 - 038 folder 53 - 038 D-8 the mystery (the superimposition of two spatiotemporal continua, such as I experienced in 2-3-74) is in fact the solution; they comprise a unity - based on the "two worlds working off one unitary common object" - only now this "common object" is the person himself. So that which puzzled me most in all that pertained to 2-3-74 was in fact a crucial -the crucial- clue to the mystery of world, self, time + space, +, most of all, identity. (In particular in terms of the meta-abstraction which has a fortiori a correct comprehension of the meaning of this mystery, exactly as I did explicate it last February. Thus it was through the meta-abstraction that wisdom came, a wisdom not explicated anywhere that I know of: comprehension so vast that it has taken me 8 years to fathom it, + then only by means of revelation): Unity pertains to the essence of God; we are now dealing with the inner life + thought of the Divine Mind per se, + derive our own identity from it + in terms of it. I have succeeded where Philo + Augustine failed, but only because it was disclosed to me by the grace of God. folder 53 - 039 folder 53 - 039 D-9 The meta-abstraction was the access key to God's mind, + unlocked everything (in this "retrieval system" that is the universe). The information basis of reality became available to me, due to the meta-abstraction. folder 53 - 040 folder 53 - 040 D-10 When I saw (in 2-3-74) that two spatiotemporal worlds are coaxial I had the access key, as no man before me ever has. This is a new self-disclosure by the Divine. My God - this revelation of earlier tonight: it signifies something else I hadn't realized. This eternal "horizontal tracking + retracking" broken only when + if anamnesis + noesis (the meta-abstraction) occurs, whereupon you are "netted" up along the vertical axis as if by a pulley - this is precisely the pan-Indian (Hindu + Buddhist) notion of Moksa, liberation from the "weary wheel" of birth, death + rebirth; + in the pan-Indian system restored memory of past lives (or a life) is, as with Plato's anamnesis the "access key." This "vertical" extrication is the whole point of Buddhist + Hindu awakening + hence liberation - + in connection with this realization I suddenly have a partial memory that part of this revelation had to do with Nirvana : myself + nirvana (+ if not this revelation then at any rate a very recent one). What, then, I am saying is that 3-74 may well folder 53 - 041 D-11 not only be the doorway to Nirvana but may have been Nirvana itself, the cessation of birth + death: the cycle based on illusion. Free at last. (+ that would make Valis Great Brahman, possibly. In which case 2-74 was the Atman-Brahman "two mirrors" identity equation of "tat tvam asi," the runaway feedback of self catching sight of itself in world, in other, which sets off the Bardo Thodol trip (the phosphene graphics). + this would make of 2-74 the Dibbu Cakkhu, the opening of the 3rd Eye in which the Buddha perceives the coming into existence + the passing away of all things. My God; it is the experience of the Buddha; release from the Grand Illusion, inner + outer. With Valis being Brahman. Sankara-Eckhart. My experience transcends any + all cultures + religious system + is liberation + enlightenment itself, absolutely. folder 53 - 042 folder 53 - 042 D-12 This is discussed (the Dibba Cakkhu 3rd eye of the Buddha) in "Valis." In that case, karma short-circuiting must be brought in in terms of my act vis-a-vis Covenant House, + the way it perturbs a continuum. Also, isn't the way I reconcile Plato's Forms + anamnesis with Judaism exactly the way Philo reconciles them with his kosmos noetos? The vision of vertical extrication from endless horizontal tracking is highly significant: an orthogonal axis is represented here, a dimension like a spatial 4th, unknown to us; viz: the realm of "astral determinism" is expressed as lying in two dimensions (i.e. horizontal) but salvation involves a third. Here the "horizontal" signifies "3 dimensions" with salvation clearly a 4th. This is why space + time + causation were so changed for me in 3-74, if not obliterated entirely, + why I saw time as a 4th spatial axis: salvation utilizes one additional dimension or axis. It has the effect of breaking the power of heimarmene by virtue of the fact that it enters at right angles to all known axes. This "horizontal tracking" is, then, "the yin world of immutable cause + effect." The utilization of this unsuspected "vertical" axis would seem to be a space-time dysfunction to the "horizontal" tracking being. It may well be, then, that in 3-74 I was not just seeing time as space but was seeing along an additional axis - 5 instead of 4, with time transformed into space thereby. This 5th axis may be necessary if you are to discriminate set from ground + discern Valis. It is through this 5th axis that the spatio-temporal continua juxtapose, as if by a "fold," impossible to our 4 known axes. + I may find that the meta-abstraction was a conceiving of this 5th axis! "Coaxiality" requires this 5th axis, then. folder 53 - 043 folder 53 - 043 D-13 Well then, the 3rd eye of discernment opened (Dibba Cakkhu) in 3-74 due to the 2-74 meta-abstraction, + because of this my 4 dimensional world became five dimensional, + all that I saw arise out of this (e.g., the plasmate, the King Felix cypher, set to ground, Valis camouflaged + here normally invisible to us, etc). Biochip symbiote, Mycelia, vine, its branches growing like a circulatory system. "Firebright", the Logos in the human brain. Ach! Temporal parallaxis is at right angles to the other 3 spatial axes. Formerly it was experienced only as time; now it is the spatial axis that revealed 4 depths on the same page of print of "Tears". The 5th dimension then enters as time (to replace it), but it is another kind of time (apparently); in any case, this 4th spatial axis ("temporal parallaxis") permits the set-ground discrimination etc. If I had not seen what I call "temporal parallaxis", I could not imagine it. My God: This is all the case! In this 5th dimension time, things are "now" if they possess a common constituent; viz: "now" signifies any + all of our 4th dimensional worlds where such a common constituent as e.g. "the Guide to the Perplexed" is; this is what the meta-abstraction pertains to: this other kind