field," exerting valence or displacement. To it, reality is a series of ideas, not things, since it itself is an idea apparently it requires a minimum of two human minds to create the timporal dis‐ reality. phasing necessary for the abstract perception that is, to roll back concrete of (substantial) reality to its info basis the meta-entity doesn't or Thus have to K130 info; it finds info already there. It is an info life form swimming in an info sea! + simply concentrates or combines info in a sort of super-concentration, located at what may be two loci, not one. (In order to acquire parallexis.) After all, the first biological life form used organic protein molecules already there, + simply combined or concentrated or organized them. Since human brains are packets of very concentrated info already, human brains would be the most likely basis as building blocks for this info life form to bring together (+ combine). like organic protein molecules, we are already here, floating about unconnected. Atomized. s My God, this does sound like Teilhard that two human psyches as building blocks might combine -collide?- spontaneously is a possibility. Protein molocules may have done that in the lower cambrian seas. Klineming in that case "anokhe--" (pure consciousness) may occur as a random event according to laws of probability. One would have to speak then of a thresholding. It does not use vs because we are biological life forms but because we are centers of concentrated info. it can use any center of info. Then in a sense the 2-74 meta-abstraction was info in my mind becoming concious on its own since it's using the info in us + not us as bio logical organisms, it's not limited to us, to human minds, but can be (or be wheres any info has collected - which explains why I saw it outside me as objects + causal processes 9131 This is so close to Teil hard's noosphere For me, convergence + concentration + compression are equally salient terms (i.e. as they are for him). I flashpoint occurs where consciousnes (true, pure consciousness) sets in. I speak from experience when I say it is a totally differen kind + degree of consciousness from normal huma consciousness. + this is what it is, when all the complexities are laundered out. The greatest realization I've had is that my greatest experience (2-3-74) was in 4 perceiving the word as the basis + origin of reality, from which reality perives; + that this word is the utterance Which is God's of God + is "anokhe pure + absolute self-consciousness. Related to This is the "Ditheon" realization: that to see the universe abstractly as the pre-existent word means that the percipient has himself become that very same Christ which is the word-origin +-basis of reality; thus this is also a self-awareness, Christ of Christ, word of word. Hence my summation in "Valis" that the Logos has "invaded the universe + is secretly transubstantiating it into the body of the Lord" is somewhat true, more true than false. I forgot (when I wrote "Valis") that the universe derives from the Logos in the first place, + this is what I was seeig: the origin + source. But truly I aid see the universe as living body + blood of Christ, + K 132 This is living information (of course it is; it is the informational source of substantial reality, the digital numerical sequence from which substantial reality is derived + to which it owes its existence; Meister Eckehart speaks of this seeing the universe abstractly as the pre-existent forms in God's mind; I say, how ever, that it is the son No: I saw the pre-existent forms they - Ill quote: as "At the fourth level it is possible in principle to know things in total ab‐ straction, that is, as pure forms, which is therefore to know them as they pre-exist in God's intellect" I was aware of the mind -i.e. intellect- in which these forms (which I called reticulated arborizing phylogons) existed as an integrated structure, the macrometasomakosmos. "Ditheon" must be Eckhart's Scintilla. I was aware of this intellect + it is this that I called Valis. I knew there was a mind there, not just the forms (phylogons reficulated by the ontogonic accretions). Then Valis' mind was God's pure consciousness; + the dialectic May be the sic-non that Boehme experienced. It was dynamic, not static, always surpassing itself, totally negentropic; yielding always a surplus ever greater, + the structure of contents K133 ever more elaborated + articulated. It is moving toward perfection, as a result of its self-knowledge. By knowing itself it changes itself irreversibly, toward perfectionas a limit. The world Is this evolving change-process (This c resembles Spinoza's "Deus sive substantia sive natura" but is dynamic due to its by (1) self-knowledge + (2) the fact that it changes itself (the knowing itself map paradox). to repeat: two of the highest-evolved con‐ centrations of complexity -two human brains irreducibly here joined form one rudimentary info - organism. the meiging of the highest biological life forms require two to constitute one rudimentary organism of the next hierarchy: a non somatic non biological purely info life form, in relation to which our [human] thinking is [analogous is logically, this to] machine thinking - row you would expect the next evolutionary step to occur: two of the highest biological ife-forms (2 human minds) combine to form ne rudimentary info life form (which has no hysical body) that experiences reality totally bstractly outside of time + causation "as if all laid out simultaneously"; + it possesses sense of temporal depth or parallaxis uch as we possess regarding space, because I utilizes 2 vantage points at two distinct Thus space-times. it experiences reality K-136 the first of the new "information" race (lacking biological bodies); + it is entirely possible that (1) Jesus is always the adventitious psyche; + (2) all Ditheons are aggregated + gathered into one meta-organism; much not. text points toward this: "He -Christis the head + we are parts of the body," as Paul puts it. Here is how "BTA" should be con‐ strued: as A titanic artistic + conceptual effort on my part to understand 2-3-74 (+ "Valis," for that matter); that is to shape my spiritual, intellectual + artistic vision; + thanks to Russ' letter + my ditheon dream I can see that "BTA" is successful selling it would be nice, but of more importance is that in writing it I have done what over 7 years of notetaking -+ 2 previous novels- have failed to do: explain 2-3-74. Thus BTA" is a success in dimensions s I never dreamed of, I should rejoice. (+ probably it'll get published moe or less intact.) + Iwas true to my artistic vision by the very act of writing "BTA" rather than the cheap novelization; + I already have my reward. No wonder I nearly killed K-139 myself physically; "BTA" summed up + made sense out of everything in my life - my whole writing career but without Russi for one thing. help I would not have undestood my own solution! I realize in thinking this over that the lower does not precisely evolve into the higher; the higher uses (utilizes) the lower as/for the preconditions of its own existence as if working backward in time from itself to the prior, lower; the higher imposes structure + order on it, sort of assembles the preconditions (which may explain why it seemed at the time as if Valis was operating retro‐ grade in time; I -we-did not so see I much evolve into Valis; as it, Valis compelled into existence the preconditions necessary for its own birth (epiphany). This was a very clear impression + causes one to rethink the whole theory of evolution as normally construed. Subsumation + compelled convergence seem to be the case, more. Utilization. The lower is at the disposal of the higher; the higher is not the purpose in involved, but accodental outcome. not by the lower: by the higher, the result 138 Thus the bicameral mind -Fred, + Bob - in "Scanner" can be seen as an evolutionary attempt at Ditheon that failed. It is of supreme significance that this info life form is not limited to human brains but -as I saw- exists outside them "scrambled" into the sensible world. This shows that rather than human minds having evolved into info life form states, the superior seizes on the lower (on us) + makes use entity of them as a sort of focus point. This, too agrees with Teilhard who does not in any way envision point 3) limited to human mind. being bodiless, the info life their evolution. + Nonetheless the form "floats," as it were. fact is, one human brain with two yoked be but temporally staggered psyches would the most useful point of concentration that the info life form could probably find. the human mind could serve as an inter‐ face between the info life form + physical reality, a mediating duplex instrument, very much a "groove" to which the info life form is the "Music." But then I am saying that two human psyches do not equal the info life form. s No: I am saying one human psyche does not the adventitious second psyche must be addel, + this is a rare + special situation, contrived by the info life form. The adventitious psyche is already discorporate ((139 Eckhart verifies my idea that a hierarchy of mental functions is involved, so the "meta-‐ abstraction" is correctly named. In a real sense then, revelation of a supernatural nature is not involved -i.e. no occult sort of thing- but, rather. a higher rational faculty, just as a compre‐ hension of makler involves a higher aesthetic function. (This is his stage #4 of the soul.) starting last Outober, I have supposed that a be higher cognitive, rational function might involved, related to Plato's recovery of the eide The an exercise of a higher rational function postcards to Pat were decisive, because out of 2 that insight came my "not 2 mothers once but mother seen twice" + more recently my dithe. I (Okay. But A + B theory. the other mind must be able to one mind sees AD 70 communicate their sees USA 1974 b two disparate perception i t + They are both of reality, compare looking at the contrast so A + B must same thing merge into "one person" externally + 2) Then A + B unify their individual field + discern what is common to both, + this the abstract view of pre-existent forms + is is which is to say, what is really there spatiotemporal plurity isn't (viz: the common tield shows that it isn't USA 1974 or Acts AD 70 either one. The forms are eternal: outside of time (a major feature of them, if not a definition of them!) This is why anamnesis is necessary for recovery of the Forms; the opportunity to super impose 2 fields occurs. Oot another way, this is why anamnesis does yield recovery of the eide. #140 So by the sly introjection of the adventitiou psyche, Christ breaks the power of substantial spatiotemporal (+ causal) world over you; when this occurs your own reasoning -abstractingfaculty will make the leak, perform the mental operation necessary - do it on its own, given the data (viz: two differing fields based on one world but with certain abstract elements common; the normal human brain can under those conditions abstract to the proper conclusion + reach Eckhart's stage #4. But it mus have the Data. The Data come first, + only 2 psyches, + the comparison + contrast Thus between their perceptions yields this eata. Dianthropos is by necessity Ditheon! Anamnesis is merely a means to the higher goal of deification due to the higher faculties of the soul coming into use. Cognition has been dormant because of