is organized; therefore no falsifications are folder 57 - 017 folder 57 - 017 Q22 necessary. The reason for this identity of organization is that in point of fact the human mind does organize thoughts and memories the way world is organized, and the realization of this leads at once to the insight that what exists outside is contents (ideas) in a mind isomorphic to one's own (reasoning from contents to that which contains - and structure - the contents, which is reasoning by analogy... But may be none-the-less correct. This involves an earlier theory of Mind that there is a critical point in Gestalting in which enough data -"Dots"- are known so that all the missing data -"Dots" that form the Gestalt/shape/outline- can then be filled in without the need for any more adventitious information; hence if the "seeing" of congruate sets in (isomorphism) it does not set in due to a methodical bit by bit process but abruptly all at once. Note: Specifically it is the conversion of time into space - for the purpose of reasoning heuristically - that leads to both isomorphism and (later) realization of isomorphism, and this is how the right brain, which is merely appositional, works. So the right brain and its spatial sense is correct; the left brain and its time sense is not. ___ "Sadasa" (ulna) is Hebrew: a fusion of Sahakah and Hadasa. But we are not dealing with e.g. telepathy; it is, rather, synchronicity deriving from the spontaneous generation of appropriate info in the folder 57 - 018 folder 57 - 018 Q23 part when part-whole compatibility occurs (reversing cognitive estrangement); it is acausal parallelism between part and whole. Thus the Universal Language is as natural when there exists part-whole compatibility as is inscrutability under the conditions of cognitive estrangement - and the former is based on the meta-abstraction in which this part-whole isomorphism not only exists but is recognized (setting up the "two-mirror" sequence of more and more precise approximations in which the self -part- winds up absolutely compatible in fact rather than just potentially). I guess mere (sic) compatibility has become total isomorphism, so that the part (self) discovers within itself a priori the whole in terms of information; the structure is created and maintained by + as information - as our new theories about entropy show, structure -negentropy- + info are two ways of expressing the same thing. The generation of + applicability of info within the part only seems causal; actually it is acausal parallelism due to part-whole isomorphism (the upshot of part-whole compatibility - i.e. "true kosmos"). It is the supreme instance of the pre-wound clocks that all chime in unison: harmonie. Yes: as the Maitreya speaks on TV, in each viewer/listener, an acausal parallel verbal analog in his own language occurs + this was what happened at Pentecost. That tells me that the Holy Spirit is the agent of part-whole compatibility culminating in part-whole isomorphism, reversing cognitive estrangement + restoring true Kosmos: this is cosmic repair + folder 57 - 019 folder 57 - 019 Q24 as it pertains to the part (individual) it is salvation, but salvation as a restoration to the unfallen state, in which obviously true kosmos disintegrated (cf notes in the J. Bible on the Captivity Letters: "the old decomposing kosmos"). This is the soteriological mission + work per se, + it clearly pertains to the new savior, The Maitreya Christ. Hence I saw Christ as the Cosmic Christ unifying the atomized plurality of discrete objects + their causal processes into a unitary self-moving, living, sentient structure (kosmos); then Valis was Christ but it is now Kyrios kai Pantocrator, where "Kyrios" formerly pertained to God (YHWH). This part-whole isomorphism is also Joachim's 3rd status. The total kosmos is somehow "in" each part, which is a diagram I drew years ago: [Illustration of three concentric circles: the outermost labeled "Macrocosm", the middle one labeled "Microcosm" and the innermost labeled "Macrocosm".] Now I see how this works. The Hermetics were indeed onto this, + the Taoist alchemists + Leibnitz (because of his involvement in R.C.). Or [Illustration of two separate circles labeled "Part" and "Whole", and a third circle which intersects both the aforementioned circles, with the label:] Interface half in the part (person), half in the whole (world) + thus modulates each to the other: Advocate for the person in terms of what he does (acting toward the whole) + how he experiences world (the whole acting on him). In this case the part is not directly engaged with the whole but indirectly, + this is what I felt to be the case when Jeannie was folder 57 - 020 folder 57 - 020 Q25 on the phone. This fits Malebranche's model. It is related (as a model) to Cartesian epistemology having to do with world experienced as representation. This would seem to imply that what Kant calls "the transcendent self" -which maintains the ontological ordering categories- has been seized + occupied (by what we call Soter. The Holy Spirit, the Maitreya, Christ.) This would de facto create Kosmos. It would be total soteriological victory: it would possess the parts + create out of them the whole; thus individual salvation + restoration of the cosmos become one + the same thing + pertain directly to my 2-74 meta-abstraction (an instance of it). This gives a very + precise account of what salvation + restoration consist of + also how it is done; +, moreover, it is (not "resembles" but is) 2-74. + this interface would be precisely the Acts - "Tears" - i.e. apocalypse - lens/grid so: QED. This is why when I saw world transformed -2-74 itself- although it was radically changed, it was absolutely comprehensible, + this is the whole point; world as it had been was enigmatic + in fact Fremd; world changed was both comprehensible + familiar: it was "my" world. Hence I say, part-whole compatibility. But could this be a purely cognitive act + if so is it noesis? The pragmatic, utilitarian way of seeing - that is, by correcting time into a 4th spatial axis in order to reason heuristically - turns out to be the way reality in itself is in fact organized. folder 57 - 021 Q26 Because it looks to me that this is a purely cognitive act, it does create part-whole compatibility which leads via the "two-mirror self-correcting sequence of ever more precise approximations -a positive runaway!- to part-whole isomorphism, whereupon info of the whole arises parallel + acausally in the part: self-generating info as a basis of structure -negentropy- itself, by which the whole maintains itself as Kosmos in the true sense: unified by affinity, not coertion or violence. The "universal language" is of course heard directly in[side] the mind of the person; this is the crucial index of part-whole isomorphism expressed in terms of info - info pertaining to the structure + not to anything outside it; thus the info pertains to itself; it is not only self-generating, it is the "thing" that it describes. + this is precisely what "The Book of Creation" notes say: "With man, word + thought refer to object, but with God, thought, word, writing of word + thing are one + the same." + this is of course the plasmate! It is info, but it as info does not pertain to -point to- anything other than itself; thus King Felix does not point to the Savior; it is the info-stage of the life form "savior" itself, just as St. Luke is the info stage of a world (the world of Luke - Acts). I'm hot on the trail, right now. Since nothing exists outside of Kosmos by definition, all info in it pertains to itself + permeates it + is self-causing. + identical throughout, at folder 57 - 022 folder 57 - 022 Q27 all loci. Then the info is eternally + ubiquitously retrieved + retreivable - as in "Ubik". Hence the rest-motion binary modes, the collage. The linking + relinking, +, most of all, the MMSK. In the dialectic: the "bright" side that wins: the rational left hemisphere; the darker, irrational Yin side that loses: the right hemisphere. They mutually correct each other, push-pull, offset + balance - the "chemical wedding" or "divine syzygy". AI voice + plasmate: one + the same "info metabolism". My God, the plasmate does crossbond with a human + replicate. But it's not an info life form; it's the metabolism of the whole (i.e. the true kosmos; this is how it can be kosmos). The plasmate is not in reality; no: reality is info. There's a crucial difference. This is why the mutual arrangement of objects is info or language. [Note] Dynamically, in turns of activity, things are info - changing info. "The whole of him thinks", as Xenophanes said. [Note] My "groove to music" leap. "Valis" is a very valuable book. Even though it doesn't explain why the universe is info it does say that it is (the why is: by being info it maintains its negentropy-level, i.e. its structure, expressed -as always- as/by info. It is true kosmos so it must maintain negentropic structure -hence info- throughout; if it ceases to, it ceases to be true kosmos + unity is lost in favor of atomized plurality. It is unitary precisely because it is info. folder 57 - 023 folder 57 - 023 Q28 So since we can't see the info we can't see the structure, so we see plurality; when I saw Valis I saw unity, structure, hence info; what I was ultimately seeing was Kosmos (as field, as opposed to the atomists' discontinuous matter, which is anticosmos). This is both Plato + Pythagoras. + totally Greek. It was lost (became "extinct") after Parmenides - hence the Fall. So the statement by the AI voice, "Extinct true Kosmos + it's still there" is crucial. In a sense, to see Kosmos -i.e. unity- you must see arrangement syntactically, as I noted ultra supra. The linguistic connectives, not "causal" connectives. But by this analysis, the AI voice's statements about the Savior must be veridical, since the statement (info) is the reality it pertains to; it is oxymoronic to speak of the possibility of this kind of info as "false"! folder 57 - 024 folder 57 - 024 Q29 __ re Q14-16. "It's YHWH" - strange. I thought when I read it over today I'd laugh. But I'm not laughing. It is true that when I reread "Valis" I realized Valis is YHWH (the radiation, the 3rd -ajna- eye). + in "DI" not only does YHWH come to Earth as the savior but Valis is specifically identified as YHWH. Now this latter is interesting; the AI voice said only that "...He has been transplanted + is alive" (i.e. the savior) is YHWH; it never said Valis is, + yet I explicitly state this - i.e. that Valis is YHWH not in anthropomorphic, incarnated form. + I make a crucial point: YHWH has, as process theology teaches, become ABBA, the Father of whom Jesus speaks, whose nature is agape. + the Maitreya's nature is loving kindness. But I add two points. 1) Perhaps, since we accept process theology, YHWH has evolved further; that is, this is a 3rd dispensation (viz: as ABBA the N.T. God is to YHWH the O.T. God, this is to ABBA. + what has he evolved into now? Why, the ecosphere itself, as I saw (Valis). 2) The AI voice is "the low, murmuring voice" that Elijah heard. "He teaches schoolchildren". He first spoke to me when I was in school. Okay - that day in Nov '80 when Kay was here; I saw blue sky, + then God was there: a terribly old man who loved me + yet admonished me, reproved me. I see the most profound argument of all: the stewardship over all the Earth as depicted in Genesis: Judaism is for all creatures, man, animals, the ecosphere itself, as Paul