- in "BTA" - of Christ deflecting a person's fate by seizing "the book of the spinners," reading it + tipping off the person? All I've done as of last night is equate torah with the book of the spinners (i.e. the plasmate) which it obviously is. + the "Christ vs the Torah" equation is right out of Paul. Specifically the idea that the Torah has come between us + God, which is precisely the situation that Christ rectifies. + my research shows that Christ overcomes astral determinism which the Gnostics equate with Torah as heimarmene suppose this living info is occluding (for instance, does it not occlude us to its presence? Christ restores our lost faculties + we then see the plasmate. It programs us, + this is why I called myself "a machine" + felt the fetters melt away. It regulates the world, e.g. through causation - + through the inner-outer synchronized tapes. the "machine" level of functioning is due to it; before Jesus it ruled totally, keeping humans at a robot level. In stages he breaks its power. Have I not always spoken about opening the message - one's death sentence + reading it? + is this "message not the G-84 Torah, which programs the world? This is info of a topic I feel a lot of anxiety about. control is a frightening idea, as is the idea that our normal existence may be that of occluded, programmed machines - programmed by instructions we can't see, whose existence we do not suspect. It has the power to compel our assent (to reality). Then the meta-abstraction is: a realization is that my assent is compelled to what in fai only information (what I call, "achieving an or abstract view of reality replacing the concrete semi-concrete view"). Thus viewed, the meta abstraction takes on new meaning + goes even i beyond Plato's anamnesis + recovery of the eide it is essentially an abrupt realization (restored memory?) that world is not real but is only information fed to us that we are compelled to take as world, as if we are dreamers; this is precisely Gnostic! My "meta-abstraction" is a waking up - not just to the fact that what I took to be world is in fact info, but at the same time the power to compel my assent (to it as world] is de facto broken precisely by this realization (meta-abstraction). As info (which is what it is) it lacks the compelling power; thus to see it abstractly is to be very suddenly freed of its coercive power (to ) compel assent is there, then, an acosmism built into this abstracting, going far beyond Kantian ordering categories (time + causation)? World itself is Here, then, is the saving Gnosis perse involved its ontological power to reverse the with primordial fall into ignorance + forgetful ness + enslavement; this is the great reversal K-85 sought for by Gnosticism + it is accom‐ plished by Gnosis itself. Indeed, it can be truly said of the meta-abstraction that abruptly I knew something + this knowledge had to do with world + the reality (concreteness) of world - + this in turn referred to its power over me to compel my assent, which is the same as world enslaving me Thus when I read like I understood Jesus as a great yogi/magician/miracle worker who as if they t flacted the very laws of reality t were maya. Hence my sense of magic am back to Gnosticism + gead that I I based "Valis" on it. Hence my 10-volume meta-novel: intimations that substantial reality is only seeming but Angel, without Christ, is a machine. at the end Christ returns + she becomes human again. More so than even before I know nothing of sinful man; I only know of machine thinking vs freedom, + this freeing involves acquiring knowledge. It has to do with levels of abstracting. The axis concrete to abstract is the same axis as enslavement to freedom. This has to do with progressive conceptual insights + this has to do with man as thinker + knower, homo sapiens, which I suppose is wisdom; so equate enslavement with machine with ignorance + freedom with wisdom + awareness. In all This, information is crucial info denied, info provided 1-86 te the savior is he who brings the saving knowledge (expressed as lightning-swift non-verbal [conceptual abstracting] insights. not logic but grasping is involved: comprehending. Thus it is clear that Buddhism zen have influenced me. I understand karma + forgetfulness, unheimlich fremd, anast, + das Nichts, sein, sinking, rising, anamnesis even understand what is signified by I the term "beauty." I understand the notion Fate vs destiny as deed: the new act of understand autonomy s n vs necessity understand empathy + sacrifice + the will. right now I am struggling to understand what "ditheon" signifies + how (if at all) it relates to Christ, + to species evolution (the term "evolution" is to me intelligible. am interested in what I call "temporal parallaxis," the two-psyche entity able to perform a double-field superimposition + thus break free of time + causation. Ditheon The mind seeing by clit means of me + Thomas y (temporal lay) is not PKD primas me + not Thomas but up one o two! Christ; we are his eyes. Hence Ditheon In other words, Thomas + I don't add up to Christ; we both mutually derive from Christ. He exists prior to us. This is Plato's eidos, not aristotle's universal; it has a metaphysical existence. It is a dividing of perception (by him) routed through two disparate channels. The aggregate (unified) field is his/him, + I would be aware of Thomas because 987 the combined fields of This is an extraordinary model: Christ as eidos relating to world through two particulars located at two quite different spacetimes, combining The two fields so that constants become visible. There is set to ground - + this (i.e. Christ) is the mind I call Valis with its pure consciousness, with time con‐ verted into a visible depth. It is probably not mere coincidence that one particular is at the time + place of Acts. Could the other particular always be to located at Acts? It would identify the mind using the two particulars. since the 2 particulars derive from t Christ they do not create Christ by linking up; they are already linked but don't know it anamnesis would be involved: recovering the Christ ultra-nature. This would explain my sense of phylogenic memory, +, necessarily related to that, a phylogenic self/personality / entity t I do not see how, unless such existed; I (sic) could have had the dual viewpoint (two disparate foci) necessary for the perception of reality that I had in 3-74. What I find difficult to explain is the fact that the two spatiotemporal worlds could be syntonically superimposed; the only possible explanation is that Plato is right: the only reality that the flux world has is derived from the Forms. Thus my experience was Platonist both internally (having to do with myself as percipient) + world itself (what I saw) If Christ existed, would he not have the permanent supra-temporal, supra-individual "phylogenic" mind amounting to an eidos? He could scarcely be an ontogenic self! Throug K-88 This multi-focus "phylogenic" self he would be able to confer temporal immortality org his flock in an acutely literal way, the correct key term being physical resurrection (+ this would also explain where his Kingdom is: Among/within you). That a cursory brock with this would cause you to suppose - incorrectly i reincarnation is understandable... there being two major differences: (1) the past life is not remem‐ bered but exists now" (2) a supra- human mind is involved transcending the plural human minds involved. This would be Valis. (Also in regard to #1, it isn't remembered at all; it is another human being, not you, with quite a different personality yet somehow you are both linked together. Anyhow, reincarnation would not explain the radically transformed perception of reality; such a transformation has, as far as o This is not how a know, never been reported. human - or two humans - experience reality. Hence "Ditheon," not "Dianthropos." participation (to repeat) in a human particular creates what we call Christ "two but one natures - wholly God + wholly man person." Thus we use the term "Christ" for this precise situation of instantiating, Jesus being the first one. However, only the human nature is pluralized (differing from particular to particular) the God-nature is unitary, is one for them all This the organic "body" model that Paul proposes, in which we are parts but Christ is - + supra-spation This supernatural the head temporal - body is distributed across space + time but possessing one ruling psyche; to there is but one Christ. Thus (as I repeat, conceive it) a superorganism is created, not space, time, causality, by any one bound b I K-19 locus, gathering in more + more "particulars" as history unfolds. This vast psychosomatic organism grows ever more complex. It is its own Kingdom; hence the more precise word is "Kingship," expressing its rule, rather than a geographic spatial area/region, with frontiers. This it does not merely invade + transubstantiate the physical universe but humans primarily, incorporating them in the camouflaged way that I saw Valis doing (which is why I also experienced Valis in me as a super-mind as well as something very vast outside). This line of reasoning is not nonsense; for one thing it renders clear many crucial but is puzzling statements in the N.T. Now, here another point unless or until I figured this "inner" part out, "Christ in us," as Paul puts would not really have understood 2-3-74 it, I that is, my belief that in seeing Valis exter‐ nally I saw the cosmic Christ is only half the story + perhaps the lesser half. However, it is just as well that in writing "Valis" I did not claim to "be" Christ, only to have seen him psychotic inflation of the ego is frowned on, even by the amiable). This all of course collates perfectly with "receiving the Holy Spirit" at the reperformance by the apostles of the Lord's supper. ("Baptism in The Spirit," etc. "Born in the spirit," "born from above," "born again," etc.) actually, "Valis deals with the less familiar aspect of Christ: as Logos underlying the cosmos itself. This that I now see ("Ditheon") is more traditional 1190 what all of it adds up to is Christ/Logos existing in + as humans, + also possessing a cosmic "external" existence as he tran substantiates the universe into his risen body out of this dual role - in men + in world one single field is brought into being in which "inner" + "outer" are homologized the issue then, of Christ's location is totally explained. The Parousia would amount to a sort of saturation point in terms of the world-order + of humans, in which the old passes crucially over into the new qualitatively due to incremental, quantitative growth. In us + in world the resurrected body grows ever stronger, brighter, more real + more in control. Yet we see nothing outside us + seem to experience nothing inside us, for we cannot see this "Form of Forms" - we do not apprehend forms at all, failing to perform what I call the meta-abstraction. To perform it (I now say) is not merely to see Christ but to understand ourselves as existing in Christ (or Christ in us); thus Christ is seen as the all in - all I recall now a strange idea that came to me in hypnopompic state: that the Torah, unknow ingly - unknown to itself - would contain a hidden account of "the mystery of God's plan kept secret for alons, Christ" since Torah must by its nature conform to the universe + vice versa. + in fact (I realize) this