world to a 5D world, but for them, phosphenes are their sole relationship to music; & this transduction is essentially misleading: it is only conversion from one medium to another - it still is not music. This whole light-color thing has to do with the true Xtians - & with Ikhnaton's Aton (that int'l community of Christ had a sense of this; light & color - the esoteric meaning of the arts; viz: "I am the light of the world" the light-darkness terms of the 4th Gospel, of Zoroastrianism & Mithraism & Manichaeism. Something in sunlight that we can't see. Fiat lux. Hypnagogic AI voice: "she turned into an ape," the ape I saw this morning - one of "our friends" - I've been hearing as the AI voice & seeing as Diana; my tutelary spirit. folder 53 - 077 folder 53 - 077 G-11 Book idea: Sketch: human composer like Beethoven ETI feeding him math ideas (symbiote) What the deaf ETI symbiote feeds to the human as math ideas become musical compositions, & return to the ETI symbiote. The human does not know where his ideas are coming from. The discovery of the symbiote is a great revelation both to him & to the reader. The problem arises when the composer begins to wear out from exhaustion; the symbiote is still feeding him math ideas. At the end of the 3rd period the human can't go on. But the symbiote wants a 4th period. The human has the choice between living (& not composing) or composing & dying. Which is more important to him, his music or his life? It is suggested to him that the symbiote - a biochip - be surgically removed. Clearly, this is the Faust theme, & also deals with Beethoven. Also, there is his responsibility to the alien civilization that so venerates his music. The math ideas are the product of a whole species. What is finally offered to him - to repay him for his having to die - is that the symbiote will trade him for the music participation in its color experience: color as language-concepts, as cognitive abstraction. This will destroy his mind, but he will have thought non-verbal concepts no human has ever thought before - nor ever could; that is, he will be a biochip symbiote to one of the deaf & mute non-verbal aliens: an apotheosis & ultimate Faustian experience: he will cease to be human, limited by his species boundaries. folder 53 - 078 folder 53 - 078 G-12 This is the greatest revolution in thought possible: not human thought, for it is impossible for human thought to think this (ie (B) instead of (A).) (A) The human scale: top - [world of light] Paradiso color trinity middle - [world of sound] Purgatorio music voice (B) Their scale: top - [world of sound] Paradiso music voice middle - [world of light] Purgatorio color trinity One cannot go from (A) to (B) without stepping outside of the human species. & yet the EB says of Beethoven that he was the greatest creative genius who ever lived. IF this is so, then is not scale (B) the case? The whole "Commedia" is predicated on (A), for (A) is species wide, not a cultural matter. & yet in 3-74 I heard bells, & what I heard was more beautiful than anything I saw. This is a revolution of the profoundest sort. (For example to Atomists said, "Music is necessary..") To go from (A) to (B) is to overthrow God, our God, the God of our species (planet!). Thus I have now seen from the standpoint of a race other than any from our world (planet or domain or realm; for it is a fact that, as the Greeks taught, vision is the primary sense - not e.g. hearing). The profundity of this revolution is so vast that axiomatically it cannot be accomplished within our species or even our ecosphere - the total life of this world. I am saying, Purgatorio is preferable to Hell (on the (B) scale, & this subordinates God Himself - to what? To the human singing. All human spiritual & religious & moral & cultural life presumes the (A) scale; the (B) scale is utterly alien & other. & yet - what about the Beethoven third period? Does this not refute the folder 53 - 079 folder 53 - 079 G-13 (A) scale & overthrow God? Then Beethoven is the most revolutionary living creature ever born in our world & in fact may represent another world & species entirely. Literally: the illusion of a different universe - & yet one predicated on Pythagoras' equation of music with "substantia" (einai): structure, which is to say, math, number, proportion, harmony & ratio. The issue here is so radical that it has never before been discerned; if I seek the ultimate context, this is it, even beyond noesis, perhaps. What I am saying is that (as Schopenhauer was the first to point out) music is the highest art, for it is the most abstract; & yet this fits with Pythagoras' equation of number - einai-music! But last Saturday night I realized that Pythagoras' equation was the inbreaking into our world (4D realm) of another & higher (ie 5D) realm; therefore the priority of music over light (hearing over vision) is from - & represents - a higher realm: one whole dimension higher. That is, music is beyond the 4D realm, but light is the elimination of the value-system of the 4D realm; yet, paradoxically, light exists in the 5D realm as the supernatural & transcendent "upper realm" for us of the 4D realm; yet those who live naturally in the 5D realm, for whom light is natural, possess a better, superior perspective & comprehend that what we have here naturally in the 4D realm - music - is superior to what they have, eg color & light. To repeat, our 4D realm is Purgatorio & deals with sound, hence music, & is superior to the 5D realm which deals with light, color & God. They know & see what we do not, for they are wiser. Thus I can know a truth beyond Dante! & Ikhnaton! Is there a hint here of Orpheus & his lyre? Is the golden rectangle best expressed by music; rather than the Parthenon? This is not even esoteric wisdom - it transcends our species & even our very God. folder 53 - 080 folder 53 - 080 G-14 If we overthrow the ascending trinary realms of Dante we overthrow our own species + world, perhaps even universe; thus the other (5D) universe appears to us to be superior to ours. But from their 5D standpoint ours is superior - + they know more than we. We are more limited, but in our atmospheric world, limited as we are, we have found something superior to God + heaven itself! Those in heaven look with envy on us. There is an assumption too so fundamental that only Pythagoras + Schopenhauer + Beethoven questioned it: the primacy of vision over hearing. Why, this even overthrows Plato's noesis, the Forms themselves (which are color) The wisdom of heaven, once attained, points back down the ladder to Purgatorio. "The Garden of Earthly Delight: Mathilde singing." This is revolution beyond conception: it cannot even be thought! There is something superior to the King of Light(s) + it is the lyre. What I saw on 2-3-74 to 2-75 is the 5D world, Paradiso, God = but Purgatorio is superior + the 5D world knows it, as if the icon (copy) is superior to the model (Form, archetype), which is impossible. From the standpoint of our species this cannot be thought. At the very instant that "they" broke in last Sat. night with their "math-color" world I then saw how they see us; I saw from their viewpoint, + to them, we are the God, + they are apes! Yet we view it the other way around. On Saturday I as a 4D human saw them + their world. But this morning I saw us as they see us. As if Paradiso is only penultimate. But to know this you must transcende our species. + this is why the soul (in Ted Sturgeon's schema) "descends" into incarnation in this, our world: Purgatorio. Our world is superior because here there is atmosphere, hence music. This is the motion for the voluntary fall, + it is quintessential wisdom. folder 53 - 081 G-15 Now I think both views are equally correct: ours of them (ie of Dante's Paradiso) + their view of us (Music, Mathilde). It is very evident what has happened: last Saturday night for the first time I entered 2-way dialog with them. I saw their color world, which is our Paradiso, the King (God) + kingdom of light (heaven), but for quite natural reasons as a spin off because of this genuine fusion of my mind, a human mind, with their mind (an extraordinary event) I then presently saw us as they see us. First I as a human saw them: then I as if one of them saw us. They are God, to us: we are God to them. What this proves is that this was indeed an interspecies inter-world contact. From a purely objective, neutral standpoing. Both (A) + (B) are equal: [Diagram:] Math / \ Music Color Us Them This morning was a sort of backlash of last Saturday night. They venerate us/ yearn for us: we venerate them + yearn for them. It is as if when we die + go to our just reward we go there; + when they die + go to their just reward they come here, as willingly + voluntarily + eagerly as we go there. It turns out to be all relative, then, color vs music. + the profundity of my insight is evident + the Manichaean, Zoroastrian, 4th Gospel light element is scrutinized; this is the core of our species' spirituality; but theirs reverses it. So to them, to go to their light world is a fall! A sort of Einstein spiritual relativism! But you would have to cross species lines to keep this. If instead of a triune division, you utilize only a lower-order binary division, our lower realm is their upper; + our upper is their realm - to them it is the lower. Earth is the afterlife reward of the other, so an eternal dynamic transfer continues as we seek "liberation" from this realm to go there. + they to go here. Thus folder 53 - 082 folder 53 - 082 "spiritual" + "physical" all at once can be construed as relative terms. When I die I will go there, but, once there, I will yearn for this world of sound as now I yearn for that realm of color + light. + the common basis of both is: number + rates + proportions i.e. math. So the truly ultimate solution is to prefer music while you are here, + prefer light when you are there. This accomodation suprasses Jesus, Mani, Dante, etc. It is a truth that can only be acquired after Paradiso in Dante's terms is reached. It is as if while "fallen" here, one must die (or "die"), return home to the pleroma (heaven), view this fallen world from that vantage point, + then arrive at this realization - whereupon the Faustian striving is at last quenched; then + only then does true wisdom + peace come. Amazing. Otherwise, while here, one always seeks to go there. + while there vice versa - never content. + my discovery of this may have been purely accidental, for as I say, this surpasses God, who is after all "the King of Light" + predicated on the viewpoint of this world + our species. + hence only part of the story. I am saying, there is something beyond Nirvāna. + it is right here (but equally there,