all levels, micro and macro. What I have been calling "binary forking choosing" is simply the "two-slit indeterminate phenomenon" but at a larger level, and it is a level that embraces all change. I am saying, some kind of mentational volitional sentient mind or mindoid entity --perhaps that of the total system itself-- has some kind of steering or governing involvement folder 90 - 029 folder 90 - 029 -17- as to which of the two slits is the selected one at each of these forkings. This may be linked to Pauli's Synchronicity; it is acausal but ubiquitous and genuine and important. Here we turn to A.N. Whitehead's definition of process deity "as a principle of selection of the good in the world-order." And we don't see this "two-slit" phenomenon for these reasons: (1) up until now we didn't know about it and couldn't conceive of it; and (2) according to my theory the total system, which is to say the universe, switches off during this selection process; being pulse-phases into nonbeing. There is a crucial, repeated, ultra-brief disjunction in reality, in world-process. When I look over these pages at the extraordinary view -or model- of reality -the world-order- that I have developed I am even more delighted when I realize that I developed it (over a period of seven years) to explain certain singular experiences between 2-74 + 2-75 that (1) were real; + (2) could not be explained by any world-view or system of thought that existed (at least insofar as I knew of). Thus this radical new model is not speculation but arises out of a genuine encounter with what must call a new aspect of reality, a new way of being-in-the-world. The old models simply could not account for what I experienced; this does. The model (theory) is derived from experience, it was not first conceived + then imposed on reality. It amounts to a fundamental reorganization of worldview ushering in a new age. Yet it is rooted in some of the most profound elements in Western + Eastern traditional thought, as well as utilizing the most advanced contemporary discoveries. It is the summa of my intellectual life. My apologia. Good Friday 1981 folder 90 - 030 folder 90 - 030 -19- Premise: Christ consciousness produces a worldview (Dasein) so radically different from what we normally experience that it is almost impossible to communicate it. Absolute space, a vast diminution and weakening of time (time qualitatively transformed) and no causality, as well as reality experienced as a unified self-governing field (it initiates all its own changes acausually in synchronization); moreover this field makes use of --or operates by means of-- a binary off-on switching involving an indeterminate element so that it is perpetually disjunctive; thus it does not flow through time at all but always is. Also it either is based on or generates quantitative binary information in a cumulative fashion; i.e. it develops in one direction and one only. As a total field it ceaselessly makes off-on choices at each forking or junction; thus it is free (again, indeterminacy is involved at its basic level of operation). The receptacle in which it exists is space, not time. When it pulse-phases to its off position it ceases to exist; when it comes back to its on position it is slightly different. (I feel like someone trying to interpret the Sistine Chapel Ceiling to a blindman.) Thus in a certain real sense it abolishes and then re-creates itself at a very rapid rate, a sort of flicker. Each time it re-creates itself it is different, hence in a real sense new. I somewhat hesitate to add this, but since with Christ consciousness there is no clear demarkation between the observer and the reality field he participates in, world is in a certain real and palpable sense affected by his involvement with it and perception of it; thus he is conscious of perturbing the reality field in the very act of participating in it; world, then, loses its reified, stubborn quality (associated with rigid determinism, cause-and-effect) and responds to him not as an It but as what Buber called a Thou. Within this one total schema involving the observer and his world together, it becomes impossible to distinguish Christ in him and Christ in world; there is only one total reality: himself, Christ, world. Put another way, then, "Christ consciousness" is a certain way of being-in-the-world, related to Heiddegger's authentic being; it is a way in which the observer and his world are unified. This may be a very new sort of Dasein, without historic precedent. folder 90 - 031 -20- Whether the universe --the world-order that includes God-- is evolving (process deity) we can't really say, because we have available to us only our perception of it; but this perception of it and involvement with it --participation in it-- is evolving. So from a pragmatic standpoint, it is evolving, since that is our experience of it: as a developing entity moving from blind irrationality and inexorable mechanical causality to indeterminate rational decision-making. Some kind of evolutionary process, then, involving us and world is taking place. As Kant showed, following the Cartesians, we really have only our representation of it to go on, but it is that which evolves and it is that which, for us, counts. (Rather than the world-order including God evolving, our clarity of perception of it, the accuracy of our understanding of it, may be evolving.) I will now make what may be an ultimate affirmation: what I am describing, although in more modern terms, is Malebranche's idea of universe, man and God: one continuous field embracing the three. The great element of Malebranche's system --not recognized at all for what it is-- is that it abolishes the pernicious distinction between man and world, man and God, God and world, unifying them into a continuum; thus his system has in it the basis for a very modern view compatible with and in fact essentially related to contemporary physics. For example, Malebranche says, "It is not I who breathes; it is God in me who breathes." This unitary view of total reality by Malebranche has never, in my opinion, been fully appreciated; God is in man and outside man; God is in world and is world; this being the case, man is a participant in and of world, not an isolated observer outside it. And it was Malebranche and the other occasionalists who first realized that causality was not the case: 3-74 (perceiving VALIS) was a verification of Malebranche, and my recent successful model is obviously based on a thorough study and understanding of him; he was the first to crack the mystery of causation in terms of God; that is, what we see that we call "causation" is God acting. I owe Malebranche and the other occasionalists a lot. folder 90 - 032 folder 90 - 032 -21- If the system stuck --had to stick-- with the yin or zero move, we would have causality, because this initial (zero) move is indeed inexorably determined by the antecedent cause. However, a system constructed this way would soon run down (entropically speaking); it would simply progressively degenerate. The binary switching permits the introjection of newness at each forking; as a result the system not only does not run down but accumulates energy expressed as form, contour, complexity, integration, articulation. The one or yang switchings overcomes this. Obviously, this is the system that the yin-yang school of Taoists perceived as the basis of reality; the mind of the system that makes the decision at each forking is quite obviously the Tao. (The fact that the initial yin or zero move is tentative and is cancelled out in favor of a superior alternative is what gave rise in Parmenides' system to the notion that in some very important sense Form Two --which is certainly yin-- is not real; that, ultimately speaking, only Form One --yang or the 1 position/choice-- is truly real.) (It is as if Parmenides examined the universe and understood all the yin moves or elements as a sort of network of falsework, provisional in nature, which is precisely what I say it is: provisional in nature.) (If Parmenides' perception is correct, our reality is shot through with these yin moves or falsework, against which the truly real yang moves, Form One, operates in a dialectic.) (It is as if Parmenides caught sight of the merely provisional nature of the zero or yin moves and now they are annulled, which is exactly what I am talking about; the yin or zero moves seem to be but are not. No wonder Parmenides saw a changeless monistic world! The yin or zero moves are necessary if change, which is to say cause-and-effect, are to exist, insofar as they can be said truly to exist. What matters to me is that herewith I find some verification, although perhaps dubious, of my understanding that the system only provisionally utilizes the zero or yin or Form Two moves in the creation of its permanent structure; these yin moves (I hold) are there only to be cancelled, overtaken as it were, by the one or yang or Form One moves.) (Another and very persuasive correlation is the Tibetian notion of the yin world as one of "immutable cause and effect"; this fits perfectly.) folder 90 - 033 folder 90 - 033 -22- If there were only yin moves we would have causality, immutable cause and effect; it is yang that interrupts this (also we would have an inexorable decay into entropy and death). So my apperception of the switching to one from zero at the branchings is a perception of the yang world of freedom, in which inexorable determinism is overwhelmed, literally interrupted. Put another way, the perception of a strictly deterministic world is a perception of the yin world where there is causality, but this is not in fact the case. I guess there are three choices possible: (1) Perception of the yin world of immutable cause-and-effect. This would be Inferno, the BIP... and there is no escape. (2) Perception of a mixture of yin and yang; this would be Purgatorio where liberation is possible but only potential. (3) Perception of the yang world of total freedom; this would be paradiso. And this would be the PTG (the middle realm, the mixture of yin and yang, is our normal world; you can sink down from it into the yin world or you can rise to the yang world. This analysis fits Parmenides' absolutely). In respect to this triune division, Parmenides' statement that in a certain crucial sense Form Two, yin, only seems to be real but is in fact illusory is of extreme importance; it is, perhaps, the key to salvation. Like Klingsor's castle, the BIP is somehow illusory; its powers of thrall depend on some kind of occlusion in you, as if the very perception of it causes it to be real; its existence is connected to one's perception of its existence -- as if it has no ontology, no existence-in-itself apart from our perception of it. But then arises the mystifying realization that it enslaves us without us seeing it; paradox upon paradox. My opinion of how it exerts power over us without us seeing it, and without it possessing any intrinsic ontological being, is that what it does is to act to debase and occlude our experience of the pure yang world, the PTG; that is, add the invisible BIP to or over the PTG --which is real-- and you get our mixed world! The yin world, inferno, is, then, for us not a separate world but an occluding film between us and the PTG, cutting us off from it; our world is a composite, one source of which is irreal (as in my two-source cosmology). folder 90 - 034 folder 90 - 034 -23- Now, this raises a whole new idea: that the BIP having no true