of net yield (production) of information. more + more info progressively arise 304 info has become capable of self as if generation; info behaves as if alive, generating + regenerating itself on the spot ex nihilo - out of nothing, and all things "become" - are ultimately expressed as - information, the final form of reality toward which the universe tends. Thus the level of organization at any given moment in what we call "time" can be expressed best in terms of the amount of info coming into being - how much + how fast its change-rate. This is the key factor: its change-rate (more so than the mere amount; that is, it does not accrue, it permutates, combining + recon bining. I thus define the info of this 3rd evolutionary period as characterized by recombinant information, applicable for one situation regarding one person at one place + time. It has no absolute or abiding applicability (viz: for the first period [of the law or Torah] there were fixed rules, in the second the not there were general conceptual principles amounting to the spirit of the law, the law as letter; is This 3rd period is to the 2nd as the 2nd to the first + states no general principles; each situation (instance) is unique; there are not merely exceptions; there are only excep is). To deal with this, into must be t 305 perpetually newly generated on the spot must arise ex nihilo + then pass away, to be at once replaced by a new combination of constituents. Thus the total structure is never twice the same; this is not relative dynamism but absolute dynamism. + curiously, in this state of high speed change + uniqueness, the percipient -conscious mind - is so vastly advanced in his ability to abstract that he discerns literally the supra-temporal constants that Plato posited (the eide) but whose existence he could not verify. Thus vastly accellerated change reveals otherwise hidden regularities as if lying outside time + change organizing change into intelligible structure (the MMSK.) Change-rate velocity, sufficiently speeded up, collapses back onto itself as if exhausing itself. our word for this is eternity. the most pronounced aspect of this one evolutionary ontological axis is a motion from rigidity to flexibility (as "time" speeds up). This the total biological organism becomes progressively less ossified + more free in its options + range of choices: less determined (esp by the past) + more voluntary. It is as if it is becoming younger, + as it does so it engages progressively more + more in play. Thus I see the final stage (or at least what is the new third stage K306 characterized by joy (so the sequence labor is repetitious, accumulating work then play. The 3 ages represented are: justice + imposed by power - then mercy decreed by i Wisdom, then finally the joy of playing, the characteristic mode being beauty, as the Sufis teach. Love is involved in all stages. repetitious work is slavery; it is symbol ized by the circular rotation of the mill; it is slavery + drugery; the person works for someone else + does not reap the rewards of his labor; that is, it endlessly repeats itself. in the next age he is his own master + his work accrues for him; this is acquisitive capital ism; his motivation is to emass as many goods as possible, + defines himself in terms of what but even in he has emassed (accumulated). the first age there exists the day of rest when characteristically it is forbidden to work. In the 3rd age he owns nothing, acquires nothing, + transcends the grimness inherent in the second age (as well as the slavery of the first). God in the first age is conceived of as just + the law given; in the second age merciful + loving, bestowing unmerited favor (Grace); in the 3rd age he is no longer the Lord but, like Krishna, the friend + helper + guide + protector + companion in whom one delights. He teaches, rather than ordaining + one's response is not mandated but dictated by one's understanding (comprehension). Here now God + men are isomorphic. In the first age God is an imposing, frightening oriental despot; in the 2nd age a wise man (Christ) who is leader; in the 3rd age a young girl; viz: (1) older than you; 2) same 6 + age as ounger you (307 yet even this form appears in the O.T. as Hagia Sophia, God's "darling + delight" who note the word plays at his side constantly. "play." Even in the creation of the universe she plays; + this aspect of God now becomes the most pronounced; instead of God the law-given or God the merciful we have deus ludens; but contained in her are the previous stages of wisdom (mercy) + power (justice) +, as the constant always shown, love. The revelation to me of a playful God (so I have long noted Valis' playfulness) is the new disclosure, as well as the endless permutations of form. Revelation takes the form of riddles, games, jokes, puzzles, paradoxes + the mutually contrary, with the figure of the bird are - the Girl clad in white feathers dimly visible beyond + behind the shifing display the mode of cocomution is flying sailing + skimming, or Frolizing (based or on the German "frohlich" as Emmanuel This is t says to Linda Fox: "see frohlich. the new fiat by God: "see frihlich" - be joyous (or happy; vide "King Felix"). The divine now penetrates to or manifests itself in the trash stratum + by its presence sanctifies it; the alley is now the temple + shines with holy light. God comes into existence assembled out of mundane parts. The division betwee the sacred + profane is one of complexity of structure, as if of degree of organization field -theory view (of life) in which the organism is - or fades into, or includes - its own environerent withat a clear break. the quest o (308 arises, then, is he projected outside himself into his environment; or has he, rather, incorporated it into himself, as if it has invaded him? Who won out; he a his environment? since there is no line of demarkation. He is ensouted then, from outside, at least the missing part enters - or is incorporated - from outside in hypnopompic sleep I reverted to the following idea: the meta-abstraction is the right hemisphere becoming conscious for the first time ("anokhi.."). This is the "adventitious" psyche. It (mundane) + the left hemisphere psyche (also mundane) join to form the Ditheon mind that is superhuman, by alchemical transmutation So two births occur: (1) the right hemis‐ phere; (2) + then the transmutation of two centers of mundane consciousness into a divine single consciousness. This latter is the "birth of the soul," the Golden flower or firebright, due to the "hierogamy, the chemical wedding. What I saw in my hypnopompic sleep was the two psyches running parallel like on two paralled separate tracks + then - as in one great flash - intersection - voom! Poof! So that instead of there being two centers there was a single meta-center. This demystifies This (309 The meta-abstraction places the right hemisphere farther along the evolutional [ontological] axis than the left is. at the same time it partakes of the but archaic aspects of the phylogenic uncon sciousness, so functionally it is in the future yet rooted in the distant past in terms of how it interprets what it sees; this, when added to the left hemisphere - which lies in the present causes time to - as it were - spread out both into the past + the future, while still rooted in the present; hence in a sense time (as we know it) is abolished but this is of little consequence in o comparison I was going to write "to the 'theon," but maybe this is the divinization" what precisely produces the theon, this escape from the power of time + entry into eternity. Surely this would explain the difference - distinction- between "Thomas" + Valis: "Thomas" is the right hemisphere, steeped in the archaic, coming to consciousness for the first time by performing a stunningly t sophisticated mental abstracting operation 2) Valis is the unity - the unitary meta‐ psyche, Ditheon - resulting from the combin of the left + right hemisphere psyches: in to an entirely new thing. For openers it ha available to it, the advanced meta-abstra 19 t it ability of the right hemisphere ) i Theon or Christos is then the unitary formed from bilateral meta-psyche hemi (310 on an ultra-advanced meta-abstraction ("not 2 mothers once but one mother seen twice, at 2 times + places" - related to Plato's recovery of the eide). There is something I must face + face fully + honestly. The messenger vision - that was (first of all) not a dream but a vision (although perhaps hypnopompic). what I must face is that it sums up + expresses absolutely, precisely + perfectly what (I discovered recently) to be the very essence of protestantism: the doctrine of unmerited justification by [Christ's) surrogate act (death). The complexities of this specifically protestant doctrine (which is, as I say, not a belief of protestantism but its very basis) are wonderfully clarified by that vision. Now, I see myself falling back on what the Reformers (following Paul) called "legalism"; this is when you obsessively + neurotically calculate + recalculate whether or not you have observed every regulation + piled up enough merit by your own efforts - + if course you never have + never will. There always remains a bill of particulars. + you know it. There is alway something left undone or done imperfectly or something wrong done. It never ends There is endless nagging worry + a sense of being imperfect; your conscience will K311 always accuse you: introjected authority transformed into awareness of guilt, which is to say falling short - the literal meaning of "sin. must - simply must-realize what I that it has been supernaturally is revealed to me that Paul's basic idea of justification through God's unmerited grace (divine favor + mercy) upon which as I protestantion is based is true. sit here at this moment I realize that will always fall short however hard I I cannot on my I try to do right own save myself + am doomed, + yet I am saved by the "Messenger" with the spotless sheet of paper that he presents to the retributive machinery in place of the bill of particulars drawn up against me during my lifetime. This bill is accurate. Only the "Messengers" spotless blank white sheet will save me; as I correctly speak of it in "Divine invasion" this is justification by surrogation. This is not a minor part of the total corpus of Xtianity; it is central. God through Christ, has the power to justify the guilty. The Holy Spirit makes Christ's sacrifice contemporaneous with/to me - this was 2-3-74. God has acted to save me - now + here, through believe it because God through I Christ the Holy Spirit applied it. to me + K312 If made me know this absolutely. I forget this I am doomed to worry my life away neurotically, feeling endlessly unworthy + a failure, depricat myself, indicting + impuning myself reproaching myself - as Satan does in the heavenly court; my conscience on my endlessly accuses me + nothing I Have I own can do will satisfy it forgotten 2-74? + have I also forgotten the Messenger" vision? All this was done for me that I would be saved - saved in I find a sense from myself as accuser. myself cursed with a sense of unworthiness I am not a proud + stubborn person; I am ashamed. Christ died to give me new life + to justify me +