weave it as explanation, revelation) leading out of the maze. This is dreadful. The spinners, almost blind, peer through the 3rd eye + can barely see the sun ("Ghosts" - "Mother, give me the sun"; the occlusion in "Scanner". Paresis. Senility. The poison "is in the ground" - i.e. this planet. O Weh! We are poisoned, occluded, blind; we can no longer read the sacred scriptures as they came from God (the sun); he did not stop communicating to us; no - a dreadful Fall occurred on our parts, at our end. In 3-74 I regained my sight temporarily; hence I said "I am no longer blind!" I saw God + could read + understand "Tears". Thus apparently I did not steal the secret; I ceased to be poisoned + again could see. This theme of going blind fits in with the Mello Jello - blindness, literally: + madness. "Valis" is right. O Weh! We can no longer see the sun, our spiritual source! Not because it changed but because the soil here (autochthonic world) has poisoned us. Then I did the right thing in reading the scriptures now concealed from us, + told what I saw in "Valis". Dio - what if I had read the sacred scripture + seen the light again, as I did in 3-74, + not reported -i.e. in "Valis"- what I saw? Then it would have been in vain. What I discerned: Christ is here posing as, camouflaged in, the world; I saw him + I saw the "spinners' book" where it told of him being here. The book of the folder 90 - 068 folder 90 - 068 E-10 confirms that I did see Christ, the Cosmic Christ from whom we are now cut off (due to our going blind). O Weh! "Valis" has it right: the poison comes up from the soil -i.e. this planet- not down from the sky -i.e. God, the sun. "This world is toxic", it says in "Valis". "Toxic to us. Children born here soon go blind (the ajna eye). I reread pp 171/174 of "Valis". I almost have it right. "The atmosphere here on this planet is toxic to us," that's close enough. But I don't have it that this caused us to go blind, to lose the 3rd (ajna) eye, hence we could no longer see the sacret scripture or "the sun" (Christ); I just have it that it made us deranged. Valis, then, "is an informational antitoxin". That's close. Close but not correct. But I have the basic idea that we are lost in a maze here, + God (VALIS) is trying to reach us. Is firing info at us to help extricate us. But - we fell; we became blind to the light. O Weh! I was so close to guessing the truth, e.g. in the insert in the U.S. edition - the (our) 3rd eye closed. I should say now, "very basically I was right". I should rejoice that I came as close as I did. So in 2-3-74 I was restored to our pre-fallen state briefly, as Calvin discusses. Then when we came here we devolved. My 3-74 "I am no longer blind!" state was not an evolutionary leap but a throwback to our original state before this planet ("the soil") blinded us + caused us to degenerate - we folder 90 - 069 folder 90 - 069 E-11 lost contact with our source. My restoration may indicate that the Parousia is here because it indicates that Christ is here, in other words, not just (sic!) what I saw indicates this ((1) the scripture in "Tears" + (2) Christ camouflaged) but, more, that I saw, that I was restored! So there is a symmetry between what I saw + that I saw. When I believe, I am crazy. When I don't believe, I suffer psychotic depression. I oscillate between intoxication (mania) + melancholia. I think, now, that my dream about the child going blind + no longer able to see the sun symbolized my losing my vision (sic): i.e. of Christ, Dionysos, Wotan, YHWH, because it is all gone; it seems mere mad fancy, like believing you might see mr Toad sculling a little boat down a stream. I can't live without my vision but my vision is self-delusion. This is a Verfallen from what Bindswanger calls the Eigenwelt to the Umwelt as with Ellen West "I can no longer see" - my vision (I peer but do not see) faded out + I am blind - poisoned by the earth itself: symbol of the chthonic -i.e. tomb- world. The poison comes up from below. __ Ach - ich versuche einmal wieder. Indian pantheism assumes that the world we see -of plurality- is not real because it is imperfect, whereas Brahman is perfect. Xtian medieval pantheism, in contrast, assumes that God alone is real: therefore everything that we see must in some way be God or a manifestation of God. Upon reading this I realized at once that the latter is the explanation of Valis. folder 90 - 070 folder 90 - 070 E-27 I see that there is more to it (on the part of the Xtian) than the recognition (1) that defeat at the hands of world is inevitable (2) hence there is no point in trying to escape/evade/flee it. (Viz: there is no good luck vs bad luck; there is only hostile world that will defeat you in the form of fate (viz: man + world are pitted against each other + world always wins: that is the essence of that. Hence one should not try to escape because escape is impossible.) Here is the rest: this defeat by world-fate, to which he capitulates, recognizing it as invincible, does not matter to him. In a certain real sense although he is destroyed this destruction has no significance. This is no stoicism + it is not noble + heroic. Somehow the Xtian is delivered while alive out of the bondage of time (such as Sri Krishna depicts as his true self)... perhaps because he neither tries to evade or postpone his fate. He accepts his helplessness + does not contest world's power over him. Thus his defeat lies not in some future event but in the present -i.e. perpetual- unchanging relationship between him + world; this fate is always the case. He has analyzed himself + world + fully understands the absolute power of world over him, not folder 90 - 071 E-28 relative power. He is in a prison. Why, then, does this not matter? Because he has an immortal soul? That can't be it. Somehow the cessation of flight qua cessation frees him from the tyranny of time. It has something to do with Heidegger's authentic Being which occurs after, + is ushered in by, dread. Dread ends when flight (evasion) ceases. At this point tyrannical time is abolished, since it no longer is the matrix/receptacle of the threatening. It may be that upon acquiring Sein he has completed himself, hence the future holds no threat because his real work is done: his task (which would have been expressed in the old days as "being saved by/through Christ, + knowing it for a certainty) is now redefined by Heidegger as authentic Sein. He has come out of time + into eternity. He is no longer merely becoming; there is no more; it is over + over successfully because he is. He has successfully reached the God of his life; world cannot kill him before that occurs, since it has already occurred. Fate kills him belatedly - too late to matter. This is precisely the sense I have developed (for reasons that have been obscure to me): that I have been successful, + if ("If"? When) when I did I will die fulfilled. What is aborted is not death but untimely death. + that is the issue vis-a-vis fate. Since folder 90 - 072 folder 90 - 072 E-29 the Xtian is ontologically perfected (authentic is authentic) death can't get him "before it's time". The fear of death is based on a sense of incompleteness, of mere becoming + not Sein, but by running from his fate the person delivers himself over entirely to process, i.e. becoming + never being. But if he knows he can't evade or postpone fate/death - then what he can do is acquire Sein, hence complete himself; hence death comes too late to defeat him (once he acquires "salvation" or Sein). Death reaps but it reaps nothing. folder 90 - 073 folder 90 - 073 F-1 It seems to me that one sentence that I wrote about this binary two slit forking system stands out: at each forking it could be other than it is (i.e. something different, the binary alternative, could have occurred). This in essence is what obliterates the deterministic system, + this is what distinguishes my model from all models that have come before: going all the way back to the empires of antiquity they presume a clockwork mechanism, a machine - especially in the systems of the ancient empires, in which it could not be otherwise. Thus, then, there is no difference, really, between the Babylonian cosmos + the Newtonian; only the terms (cause-+-effect for astral determinism) differ. Now we possess Heisenberg's principle of indeterminacy. We have the "two-slit phenomenon." As has been pointed out, this is truly revolutionary. But what I presume in addition is what Whitehead presumes: a principle of selection that operates in the world order to actualize the Good, which I view as acting at each of these binary branchings in such a way as to perpetually uncouple the system - + we do not see this; our minds render the discrete differing frames into a flow by means of the projected modem of causation. Thus we deprive ourselves of the perception/realization that decision-making operates in the world-order on a regular basis. At each branching it not only selects the superior binary alternative (which certainly Whitehead would agree with as, simply, a restatement of his own position) but, I maintain (+ this was my initial intuition as of last Wednesday), it does so on a trial + error basis. That is, it chooses (tries) then rejects + cancels out its choice + switches to the alternative (these choosing situations folder 90 - 074 folder 90 - 074 F-2 have been reduced to the absolute bottom level of 0-1 in order to maximize the number of occasions at which it can introduce choosing + uncoupling). What is the advantage in this over simply being omniscient + choosing right the first time? (1) Perhaps it is not omniscient. Perhaps the future cannot be preknown. (I do not think this is the explanation. I think it is omniscient. It knows that its first choice is inadequate + will be -will have to be- cancelled, in favor of the alternative in some way that I can't fathom, it derives an ultimate yield from these perpetual tentative provisional "errors" which in fact are not errors at all. Zoroastrian bitheism derives from this dialectical interaction, in which the first choice is thesis, the second antithesis, out of which comes a higher synthesis. Apparently this is how something truly new -i.e. a net gain of "energy" expressed as form, etc.- gets introduced into the system so that it does not run down. This is precisely where enentiodromia enters. That is the secret of how you keep the system totally negentropic: the "one" alternative by virtue of following the "zero" first choice amounts to something other than it would had it been chosen initially; I am led ineluctably to this conclusion, due to having experienced Valis' mind. "One" is the opposite of the "zero" choice but that is not the whole story. Some kind of conversion is involved in which "zero" serves a purpose. Is this simply a cybernetics flip-flop? I can't give a glib answer; this problem has puzzled mankind for a million