past time + place + not, really, even about this world here at time + this place but is this time world) + is this place (world). That is how what is known a priori cintelligibly) + what is known through the senses (empirically) a Thus if you become one - + -the-same This is extraordinary! You would find were to write an ontological description of our world as it really is, to your surprise that you had written this I pasinges from/ of the Bible, right down to the correct names of people explains "Tears." World can be deduced the Bible from our world; + then are one + the same. But what is from the Bible. K-12 perhaps most unexpected is that world is now viewed abstractly as information which no one anticipated. + this infor‐ mation is scripture. the trans-temporal constants, then, on which world is based, are as much informational in essence as they are anything elses intelligible concepts in the mind of God! This is a totally new understanding of the informational basis of reality - + the possibility that a mind exists (the Spirit) in which the Bible ceases to be an informational description of a world + instead is that world, as if information + world are two stages or modes of one "thing"! Equally astounding is the discovery that each of us has an informational basis; each of us is a unique complex of ideas in the mind of God which can be expressed verbally (us information); likewise we can be said to be spear-carriers in the book, the Bible. (This would be Thomas.) My God - this is an updated version of the description of the relationship between the Torah + reality, absolute correspondence; so this isn't an original idea with me, but I experienced it! + the Torah existed before creation + is the soul + purpose of creation, + even God consults it + can't act contrarily to it! living into as world; K13 there is a possibility that the informan "mode" is ontologically primary (as Torah or Logos). "Valis" deals with This, to some extent. The whole of creation is God's thoughts. + this is what saw. + the Bible is the primary I corpus of his thoughts (at least that is available to us). (There may be more: the writter pages I saw in 3-74.) "God is the book of the universe"! only in the 3rd + find age - of the Spirit - will world + Bible absolutely correspond so that it will be possible to know world by studying the Bible, + know the Bible by perceiving world; this absolute correspondence depends on the spirit of God; therefore it has to be here + in us. Moreover, world will for the first time be experienced as information + scripture (which is information) will be experienced - not as a description of world - but as world itself, + this world here + now by the logic of this macro-micro-cosmic analogic correspondence, one can infer from the microcosmic analog - the Bible. that Christ must be here [Note (since he + his soteriological mission constitute the core theme of the Bible). Then the AI voice speaks âž€ In the world, the macrocosm. the truth. This is closely-reasoned, once the analogic relationship is established. {Note} Even if we can't see Christ it must be logically - that he is here: his presence could be camouflaged. âž€ + I consider it QED. K-14 One might construe these ideas as tantastic, but this is how Torah + world ure regarded: as perfect analog, with Torah (information, perhaps living information). the conversion as ontologically primary. back + forth of info to world + world to info is reasonable. The notion of eternal archetypes underlying the Bible + world the same set of archetypes for both) is related obviously to Plato's eide. Seeing world as information (perhaps ontologically derived from information) is unusual; that is, seeing it is unusual, not the idea itself. that a meta-abstraction of the magnitude of that of going from groove - physical object - to music -information - is totally original on my part - until you notice that It is Plato's recovery of the eide by anam possibly it can be said that I have nesis. combined basic notions from Judaism (Torah), Xtianity (Christ-Logos as ontological source of the universe) + Greek philosophy the basis of reality being structure not a physical substance, + the eide) but my c synthesis only can be appreciated in this world (physical the information decade. reality) can be converted into info + then retrieved; thus a book can be a physical world rather than just a description of that world. That the Bible + this world here now - in fact any spatiotemporal world can be analogs of each other is explained + by the doctrine of durable matrix archetyped constants) capable of assuming or acquiring differing ephemeral aspects or accidents G-15 without themselves changing. Very important is my idea of the spirit acting on person, world + Bible to integrate, unify + harmonize them into a coherent unity so that they constitute one intelligible narrative (of which all 3 are components). Thus an over mind embracing + subsuming person, world + Bible is presumed. world + Bible homologized into one informational being - the word - is a vast coherent vision that is in a supreme sense the great Xtian conceptual synthesis: world as book, book as world, + all this synthesized ounified by a sentient spirit identified as God: what more could be hoped for or sought for as a system by which one understands one's own nature; the nature of the reality of which one is a small part? Histry is understood, world is understood, one's own nature is understood, everything is harmonized + intelligible as a drama that has been going on for a very long time - it has its origins before creation itself - + unfolds in predescribed stages of which one is not only a part but has in fact alway been a part: one's identity stretches across time + space like or as a minor constant never extinguished. The person know that what his role is in all this. The key word is plan, perhaps Logos as plan. The person now is himself Logos: he is a miniature plan within a great total plan integrated into it: he is aware of it + it of him. It protects him + guides him. What he does constitutes a reperforming of what he has always done + will continue to do until the Fras + he are complete K-16 when one considers Augustine's description of the Bible as "letters from home" it can be seen what extraordinary significance the integration of Bible + world has in terms of Heidegger's category of "unheim lick" + "Fremd" + "Geworfenheit"; it is precisely this that is converted into its ontological opposite: world is now My "Mine," is now home, my home. place, my role, my nature, identity + life are all here + not in some other, distant, dimly recalled place from which I fell. Thus for me, falling (sinking) is a forgotten mode (that had generated existential angst, + for good reason); it is replaced by being (Sein). I am now not thrown at all. This is a titanic conversion of world into my world; I belong here + I understand myself + my world as narrating one story. This was accomplished by some kind of very powerful magic in which (as I say) a great 3rd-party mediator intervened to make world comprehensible to me + me to it; we are unified in him + through him + no longer alien (Fremd) to each other. looking back now to my years of increasing anxiety I can see that I perceived the situation accurately; I was in a state of antological estrangement thout purpose or home, security, resources jection, meaning, much of my solution though rooted in + deriving from to 2-75 comes out of the years of I gesis, which amounts to a deep 1-17 study of who + where I am, what I value, what I need, +, perhaps most of all, what I must do. Although I am not totally fulfilled I do find myself compre‐ hensible + my world as well. The great reconciling agent is the spirit at work in me relating me to scripture me to world viewed in terms of + the goal scripture (the Acts lens/grid). seek - + my hope for salvation - lies I considered in what I know as "Anokhe --" both as my true, unfettered, realized self as my God + creator (to the extent + be that he + I can - if at all separated). My grounding in philosophy theology is so secure, now, that I + do not doubt that my world view is intelligible + valuable + rational, + is, most of all, the expression of Spirit "BTA" itself (in Schiller's sense). shows this: there all these themes are dealt with. They matter. I fathom machine intelligence in contrast to "Anokhie." This is the work of decades. The Bible is the key to the world because it contains - or is the info on which the world is based (like Torah to world). The ditheon dream marks a departure in my experiences; for a new theological idea (it is explicitly theological, since "theos" appears) is 5-18 introduced, new to the world, + by a Greek word which has no English paralled. The very concept (as explained by the context of the dream) is new, furthermore, I unintentionally wrote about it not as an element in a novel but the theme per se: that the Parousia occurs by way of joining two human psyches together in a hierogamy (hence "nancy," a woman, is invaded by a man's psyche: this is a wedding of opposites, which element is not in the "BTA" novel). I take this "opposite sexes" element to be symbolic; Nancy is bill is me. All this explains why in 2-74 on I could not decide of my mind has been invaded by a [deceased] human or a divine mind; the invading mind is human but the fusion of it + me is "ditheon. God (more precisely "two-God- nature). This is presumably how the Parousia will take place - is taking place - + this too, is physical resurrection. as in "BTA."). This certainly seems to be Teilhard's convergence to point omega! why always Greek? Because koine is the language of the N.T.? Probably. must now face the fact the "BTA." I like "Tears" - in fact probably more so - is a vehicle for ideas not my own, viz: I did not intend to present the union of bill + im as constituting - causing to come into existence - Christ (ditheon). Yet this is indeed what I do present; I saw it (upon rereading it) + so did russ; he more so. Russ saw precisely this. Now, after thinking about am sure this is Teilhard! It all day. I convergence into point omega, in which case H-19 the plasmate -living information - is the noosphere (as I have often thought) + Valis the cosmic Christ that Teilhard This foresaw coming into existence. is then an evolutionary matter. The Ditheon evolves out of our merely human stage of existence; we evolve into Christ (but in a specifically converging way, exactly as is Teilhard theorized This fits in with my great insight that I "rolled back" sensible physical reality - the universe - to its information (ontological] basis, + this is Logos, Christ, the word (uttered by God, from which the universe derives): the meta-abstraction: music seen instead of groove; this concept lacks only Teilhard's evolutionary ingredient. Russ speaks of the scattered disparate "Parts" of Christ coming together to form Christ (the loose parts on their own are not Christ).