else can "Tear be explained?). + this fits in with the dream of the little boy Philip on the raft slipping past Scotland Yard This notion that the sensible world derive from the uttered word is a strange evolution of Plato's Form doctrine. If we study the stoic view, the Logos is here, pervading sensible reality + has some kind of substantial existence, but the Alexandrian Logos seems to be intelligible only + certainly is rational - in fact "Logos "The + rational" are always equated; hence homologized with Hagia Sophia I was reading about Christ in the EB vil pC 481 (?). "Ditheon" specifically refers to Christ. He has two natures. one is God - one is man. They are not paralled but combine in one person: "2 natures, one person. that person is the pre-existent Logos. This was the subject of much doctrinarial (sp?) dispute (as I should know; some heresies - the Ducetists - regarded Jesus as all God; the Arians regarded him as all man 2 natures I person" is the triumphant orthodox formulation, but it is a difficult concept to fathom. Now, as it applies to my dream, we start with the premise that Christ + Jesus Christ alone is referred to by "ditheon." So what does the dream say? Nancy is clearly bill who is equally clearly me vis-a-vis 2-74-2-75, since it is that experience I depict in BTA. Well, I, pro supplied the human nature. Well, I am I or am not going to be able adequately to apprehend the importance of the ditoreon dream! viewed K-35 way, I can say, "I knew already," but this is on closer scrutiny, not the case. What have thought in terms of is the Holy Spirit, who enters you (as Father shith first told me at St. Judes in 4-74). True, I have lended to vie Valis as Christ because you can't see the Holy Spirit + I saw Valis (outside me). But the dream says: "You take this medicine/ding etc. + a man's spirit - specifically a man's enter you + the result is Ditheon, which is not the charismatic experience-filled with the Holy Spirit - but rathere Christ results This is not merely male gender; it is a man, a very vigorous man like a uniquely high-powered human man." There was no suggestion in the dream that he was anything more than a man, a human man who - obviously - had once been incarnated in a human body + had died; it was explicitly based on the BTA novel because bill was mentioned. the dream says, Christ is produced this way, the "di (two, double) beyond doubt referring to the two natures now in "Nancy": hers + the adventitious one. + it is God ("theon"). All these elements were explicit in the dream, not read into it as interpretation. Thus I can reason, "Thomas, who entered me is (or is analogous to) the man whose adventitious spirit entered nancy in the dream. For Christ to occur (if that's the term) the adventitious spirit entering you can be - or experienced as being - that of a man, not divine but simply energetic; this fits Thomas perfectly. An energetic man from apostolic times why Lord; this obliterates the reincarnation theory calluded to in "Valis"), that in 2-74 I remembered having been Thomas Then it + K-36 the case clearly that I have not equated anamnesis" of "Thomas" as constituting Due to the "two natures one person" Christ being me or us or in me as us. as I say in my typed notes on the "Nancy" dream: Christ does not enter you; the term "Christ" refers to a "two nature one person" being of which one nature is fully) absolutely human + the other is fully/absolutely God. The upshot This "2 natures one person" is expressed of as "theon" + not "anthropos"; it adds up to God, not man, because the God nature is vaster - if that's the word - than the human i.e. we are to regard such a being as divine. Yet - the dream shows that this can + happen to an ordinary human - it he or she can get the adventitious energetic psyche to enter him or her How would I compare this to -+ contract This to - enthusiasmos by the Holy Spirit available to the Eleven after pentercost, presumably I do not when they reperformed the Lord's supper? know (I realize, to my surprise), because there is a distinct possibility (not much dis‐ cussed in my notes re the dream) that what This constitutes is not the efficacy of the in the Eucharist but indicates the Parousia. Eucharist it is the priest who becomes Christ, not the communicant put another way, does the "Valis" trilogy felt when I reread depict the Parousia? I BTA that - to my surprise - Christ was there I was right. So is this the Parousia? I know what the dream (1) clarifies, + (2) confirms. In the Platt interview I say that I speculate that the mind that H-37 entered mine "was Christ" the dream says, "the mind entering yours resulted in Christ: your nature + its nature joined as one person." So rather than being invaded by the mind of Christ I + it (he) became Christ, because Christ - Jesus Christ - is defined as "two natures am I (one God, one human), one person." neither getting the distinction across! "Thomas" nor I was, alone, Christ. Together we constituted Christ. To claim this goes far beyond saying that I was taken over by the Holy Spirit. For one thing, Thomas seemed to be a man (well expressed in the dream). Somehow the result is Christ, which is to say (as I say endlessly in my notes) one extant innate human psyche plus one adventitious resurrected human psyche when combined - but still retaining the twin natures is/are Christ. Now it can be seen that the fact that "Thomas" was (or seemed to age is be) a devout Xtian of the apostolic it wasn't Well, no accident, but is crucial. the Holy Spirit; it was a former man who had lived in fear of the Romans, had used secret signs + passwords, spoke Greek, performed the early form of the sacraments in secret, had known the disciples, anticipated Christ's imminent return (he had just left). Moreover his view of world + history was apocalyptic Now, this does resemble the Antioch school based on luke: the descent of the Holy Spirit onto/into Jesus at the time of his baptism, the "adoptionist" view - which fits in as to Acts + my hearing, "you have been adopted. 1-38 So this fits in with the view I tend to hold as to "adopted sons + coheirs with Christ but it implies much more than doctrine teaches, insofar as I have understood it anyhow. Yet this would explain everything if in fact we became Ditheon (+ reincarnation were in no way involved), Thomas being (as shown clearly in the dream) adventitious so "theophany" is not the full story. But all at once the fact that I saw what no one else has ever reported seeing is explained, although I think it would be best to regard This as a 3rd evolutionary stage: the two psyche entity which possesses temporal parallan sis + hence can descriminate what no single psyche can discriminate (the 2 psyches i utilize temporal lay or dys-phasing). (+ this relate to the Logos source of reality via total abstraction.) (Thereby abolishing - "overcoming" ) world. Wait. Maybe Jesus was paradigmatic the first in a pluralizing progression into a new age - + new kind - of creature (I said supra is "There is only one Christ." Perhaps Christos any ditheon, the only connection to Jesus being that he deliberately inaugurated the process, since for it to begin, someone had to o be the first to receive the Holy Spirit (spiri of God), die + be resurrected - i.e. return to his disciples as the Paraclete; he ushered in the new age. "Christ," then, refers to a kind but there is some of 2-psyche I person entity. kind of continuity since Thomas seemed to be a first century (apostolic) Xtian. K-39 The problems are resolved if some‐ - or exactly like - apostolic thing like succession is necessary: only a true Xtian can be resurrected, which is to say, return precisely as I depict tim archer returning (to bill] in "BTA" So the adventitious earlier psyche must of necessity be that of a true Xtian, + "true Xtian" expresses direct succession from Jesus to the Eleven + to then on (presumably through history up the present); thus "BTA" puts forth the correct situation, confirmed by the dream. Clearly, this is something handed down, of necessity in an unbroken line (which includes memories + knowledge as myself well as personality); undoubtedly I will upon my death become an adventitious resurrected psyche for some later person; I will then once again be ditheon but occupying the other position; I will have lived, died + returned: "Behold! I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep but we shall be changed as in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. It is true continuity is not just assured; it is neces sary (for the resurrected psyche to come back). because of its Xtian nature it carries the Kerygma + viewpoint of original Xtianity, so that the knowledge is passed on. (Preserved. There is, then, an unbroken personality back to it could be said to be Jesus; perhaps Jesus Each psyche imprints on the next, as G-40 as making its knowledge + viewpoint available. So in this sense there is only one Christ since a "new" one can only occur when imprinted on directly. There probably is no loss of contour. This perhaps it is a single continuous person. It perpetually regenerates itself (this makes sense biologically; this is how a species is maintained. Here is a way that acquired knowledge can be trans‐ mitted - not to mention individual identity. the ontogenic self is identical to the (its) phylogenic self (which explains why I sensed phylogenic memory? Of course! In a way I wa right - quite right. I had it exactly. But because of the "di" structure the invaded innate psyche is not destroyed or engulfed - as in a to psychosis; the adventitious psyche is no threat it. Now, this I totally failed to understand nor did I identify the phylogenic self with Jesus the restored/perfected paradigmatic "second Adam." So I did not become Jesus; I was joined by Jesus, + the dual system constitutes Christ: God. + each Ditheon is (1) identical in that the adventitious psyche is Jesus; + (2) unique, in that the innate psyche differs - i.e. new combinations are formed, so this is not a static transfer. There is a passing-over of divinity from the adventitious psyche to the innate psyche the latter becoming the next adventitious psyche + hence Jesus, the source of the "theow" part in Hence each innate psyche is not the next "de." joined temporarily - during its lifetime - but per‐ manently, for it now carries on what I call "the immortal man" to its next host: this is the "bride + bridegroom" mystical wedding K41 + from this statement I infer that the "waiting for the imminent return of the bridegroom" is waiting for this adven titious psyche to take up residence in you the bride to form the Ditheon; this is what Thomas had been waiting for, + it came; this they is what he anticipated with such joy. understood how this works. This is the Parousia: it is accomplished this way. (It is not limited to one person only, as pentecost proved.) Then the AI voice's "prophecies" are analytical of the process in me; is the "transplant" successful? is he alive? He is alive. 2-74 - 2-75,