wasn't info in advance, as in left-right, but, rather, absolute self-knowledge, i.e. authentic sein. folder 57 - 009 folder 57 - 009 Q-14 Part-whole compatibility. 2-74: Light (sunlight reflected off the Golden Fish sign). 3-74: [Valis] Light ("Beam of Pink Light" is what I always say, but it was sunlight, as in 2-74, only this time it was the [illustration of the Fish sign, with the word ICHTHYS written in Greek letters] sticker of the Fish sign in the living room window. The Ypsylon became a palm tree. The pink part was the phosphene after-image of the Fish sticker. So Fish sign both times: in 2-74 (the meta-abstraction); + 3-74, VALIS, the info about Chrissy. It's Christ. In 2-74 there was no pink light as such. But sunlight. Fish sign + light. Like Boehme. + mr. Tagomi. ___ Cape, tolle - at the end of BTA it is Christ / it is Bodhisattva; he is here: who is he? Christ / the Buddha - i.e. the Maitreya Christ. This is how my trilogy ends: (1) he is here; + (2) he is Christ / the Buddha homologized, i.e. the Maitreya (i.e. the Maitri Buddha: he who has loving kindness, not compassion. This is the Xtian God! I.e. Christ/Maitri = not Christ (that is only half); the totality is the Xtian God, i.e. ABBA; hence I saw the tetragrammaton. YHWH comes at the end of the world. So does the Maitreya. 1JN: "We will see him." folder 57 - 010 folder 57 - 010 Q15 This is the dream in "Tears". + this is what I depict in "DI" which, as Russ says, Israel knows nothing of: YHWH born of woman, Emmanuel, "God with us". But I saw the tetragrammaton + so I wrote "DI" + it's verified by the end in "BTA": Christ + the Buddha, + that equals ABBA (YHWH): + I've already read "Valis" + said, "it's YHWH"; so each volume of the trilogy turns out to be YHWH. But his nature is agape; I read it in 1 JN 3. Loving kindness. So Valis is YHWH + his nature is loving kindness + he has come here. No one expected that; we were awaiting the 2nd coming of Christ. But I depict the theophany of Valis in "Valis" + then in "DI" I explicitly identify Valis as YHWH; + "BTA" confirms this; viz: Christ + Buddha = ABBA (proof: his nature is Maitri, as 1 JN 3 says: "God is agape". YHWH has taken us by surprise, + this explains why I've been so puzzled for 8 years as to who Valis is. It does not collate with the N.T. + not with Judaism either. But if you add both together -O.T. + N.T.- you get, as Joachim saw, a 3rd concordance; YHWH as ABBA as Emmanuel. This is what Isaiah foresaw. folder 57 - 011 Q-16 Hence the Hebrew letters ("Olive Holt"). Krem is wrong. It is God himself who is here - Abba, the God of agape (loving kindness) who now assimilates the world back to himself - Erigena's 4th stage, final stage: "which does not create + is not created". Not anticipated by the Jews, by the Xtians nor by the Theosophists. + yet I say it implicitly in "Valis" + "BTA" + explicitly in "DI". + "DI" is based on the AI voice ("He has been transplanted + is alive") + visual vision: the tetragrammaton. When else has the AI voice been accompanied by a vision: it is YHWH. But not YHWH of the O.T. but of the N.T. + whose nature is agape. The "pulley" dream fits in. I obeyed the Torah + read "Guide to the perplexed". I found favor with the Lord (YHWH) as a good + pious man. + in the Torah I find the highest expression of my morality + ethics. As I realized today. Not in what Christ taught but in YHWH's law; + now the 3rd Hebrew age is here, of Mercy. __ I've realized: I'm into power. In terms of my writing + in terms of what I do with the money I earn from my writing. The key term is: effective. folder 57 - 012 folder 57 - 012 Q-17 I am interested in only one thing: instead of society molding me, I mold it: (1) in my writing; (2) in what I do with my money; (3) in interviews; (4) in the movie - which links back to my writing, i.e. "Androids". Vast thematic doctrines are emerging: agape, compassion, care of the weak by the strong, the imminent coming of God as Savior; that is, the Kingship of God. This is what my whole opus adds up to: anticipation of the coming kingship of God. In other words, the Kerygma. This is why I'm not into acquisition of personal property. But writing to rule is as important to me as anything: I know my scripture. I have proof that I engage in heuristic thinking (feedback) between my left + right hemisphere: this is the dialectic, that I saw that I call Valis; it is the dynamic interaction between my 2 brain hemispheres; i.e. bilateral man or Ditheon. + 2-74 was: the same heuristic process, but between me + world (the meta-abstraction). Valis, then, is my total bilateral MIND; both hemispheres had at last become conscious + formed a syzygy of consciousness: new evolved man. folder 57 - 013 folder 57 - 013 Q-18 This is the "chemical wedding" of the alchemists, the "Golden Flower" or "mysterious embryo" - Firebright. + he is immortal. He will escape when I die; he will be reborn; this is what Thomas did when he died; thus Thomas relived again - as me. He did it; I have now done it. I am / we are an immortal. Hence Ditheon. It's all there in "Valis"! This is why I experienced anamnesis + the meta-abstraction, +, centuries from now, I will live again. This is the vertical pulley that extricates me from heimarmene - fate as death, the ultimate fate: mors itself. "Death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory?" This is Xtian magic/technology. For purposes of problem-solving it converts time into space. This is done in the right hemisphere. This would be the vertical "pulley" axis; it is de Bono's lateral thinking in which the two hemispheres represent a self-correcting two-component homeostatic system that utilizes a series of narrowing (more + more precise approximations in which the result -that which is sought- is fed in at the beginning. It is also the "two mirror" effect. "Eternal folder 57 - 014 folder 57 - 014 Q19 horizontal tracking" represents normal linear thinking: it is eternal because if the solution does not enter laterally (orthogonally) it can never be reached; the horizontal tracking (thinking) is forever, +, essentially, only repeats itself. "Guide to the perplexed" signifies problem-solving + the need to problem-solve. That is, it is a symbol, not to be taken literally. The meta-abstraction was a conceptual realization that world actually in itself is organized structurally topologically analogous/congruent to the inner system devised to problem-solve, that is, converting time into space; this pertains to the crucial statement about Plato's Forms: that although they are a way, a means, by which the percipient classifies + organizes reality (so that it will be for him + his purposes coherent, not just flux), they also possess an actual metaphysical, intrinsic existence in + as reality itself. Thus the classifying method hit on + used pragmatically turns out unexpectedly to congrue with the intrinsic scructure of reality itself. That which was devised for pragmatic reasons + purposes is in a Blitz seen to possess existence + in fact absolute existence - at which point the percipient's mind vis-a-vis reality is as Atman is to Brahman (or the micro to the macro); + this reverses cognitive estrangement in favor of part-whole compatibility which leads to "a long extinct true kosmos + it's still there". folder 57 - 015 folder 57 - 015 Q 20 The percipient now possesses a priori knowledge of reality that as knowledge has a necessary + not just contingent relationship to that which is known (world); thus the person has incorporated -assimilated- world. Viewed in terms of a living organism's needs to maintain a higher level of organization than its environment, it (the organism) has just taken in - not just some negative entropy from world - but in the form of information all its (world's) negative entropy (experienced as world becoming a language the organism can read. It is as if he has hit on -or hit on the key to- a universal language (which suggests the descent of the Holy Spirit on the disciples at Pentecost); this is because he can obtain all the info there is in world, + for this to work right in terms of his own level of organization -negentropy- the info as language must be decypherable. That is, he must be able to read it. Info that cannot be read is not info at all. Put another way, the primal condition of cognitive estrangement -the Gnostic categories of Geworfenheit- pertain to an inability by the person to decypher world as language. Thus the "gift of tongues" by the Holy Spirit reverses the "fallen" original ontological condition of man. (The equation is: life = negentropy = info = language = decypherable language.) folder 57 - 016 Q-21 + it becomes language -decypherable language- because of the Atman-Brahman two-mirror perception of inner-outer, micro-macro, part-whole identity; + this in turn is based on the identity of the organizing system by the percipient (the eide) turning out to be the actual intrinsic ordering system of reality: conceptual arrangement in which, as with memory in the human brain, one + the same unitary thing can be -be seen- at plural places + plural times + yet still remain unitary (instantiation in + as plural particulars by a given eidos). The final epistemological implication is that what we take to be world is in fact the pre-existent ideas in the mind of God; this, then, is Erigena, Eckehart + Malebranche. + this solves the primary philosophical problem vexing antiquity: the relation of the one to the many. The 5D world is the true world; the 4D world, in which the Kantian ordering categories are utilized, is a reduction + a falsification + therefore yields up "cognitive estrangement" for purely evident reasons. Yet the mind, without knowing it, actually possesses knowledge of the actual intrinsic structure of world, but hits on it virtually by chance (coincidence) in its various attempts to structure (order) sense data. The meta-abstraction is not a way of ordering sense-data but a realization that a way already employed is the way reality in itself is organized; therefore no falsifications are folder 57 - 017 folder 57 - 017 Q22 necessary. The reason for this identity of organization is that in point of fact the human mind does organize thoughts and memories the way world is organized, and the realization of this leads at once to the insight that what exists outside is contents (ideas) in a mind isomorphic to one's own (reasoning from contents to that which contains - and structure - the contents, which is reasoning by analogy... But may be none-the-less correct. This involves an earlier theory of Mind that there is a critical point in Gestalting in which enough data -"Dots"- are known so that all the missing data -"Dots" that form the Gestalt/shape/outline- can then be filled in without the need for any more adventitious information; hence if the "seeing" of congruate sets in (isomorphism) it does not set in due to a methodical bit by bit process but abruptly all at once. Note: Specifically it is the conversion of time into space - for the purpose of reasoning heuristically - that leads to both isomorphism and (later) realization of isomorphism, and this is how the right brain, which is