logically wholeness t [parity) must be the case. This i + two are one + the same (mysterium conjunctionis): + I achieved it in 3-74. This "wholeness" experience - the sum‐ Ma bonum of Taoism - involves reversal of polarities, a reversal of sign values: i.e. sudden, total enantiodromia The word I'm looking for is equilibrium. (it's also self-winding, like Pythagoras' Kosmus. folder 55 - 001 O-1 Reality — inc. the percipient as part to whole — is experienced as one, unitary, interested structure (Which is "true kosmos" as Pythagoras used the term; hence "an extinct true kosmos & it's still there.") Reality valued this way — 5D & a single continuum — is such that "the void" (mēden) no longer is accorded existence, as it has mistakenly been from the Greek Atomist on down. Hence there is no void, no nothing; thus all things are seen literally to be connected, & there is what I saw that I called Valis. Not a plurality of atomized discontinuous pieces of matter but, rather, one interconnected whole. If the void (mēden) is accorded no reality — it is not regarded as existent — then it follows logically that by definition there is an literal continuum. This cannot be expressed or imagined if you premise the atoms & void discontinuous matter basis. But I did see it (3-74) because it is true, & when we see void we are deluded. Thus, the comprehension of the Forms as the basis of reality (rather than emphasizing the Kantian ordering categories) leads to the experience of the 5D instead of 4D world. & this turns out finally, when all falsifications are abolished, to be the Eleatic continuum which is the ancient (extinct) true Kosmos; it is still there, but we are unable to see it. We suffer, then, a negative hallucination; we don't see what is not there. We fail to see what is. Perhaps you see Kosmos — continuum — when the Kantian categories go because space, like time & causation, is one of them; then I'm saying that all three go: time, certaintly; that most of all. Causation, certaintly; I saw that go. & also space: discrete plurality gives way to unity because "space" equals "void" & is a Kantian category; which is to say "discontinuous matter" is connected with these categories & is false. folder 55 - 002 folder 55 - 002 C-2 But the implication of the AI Voice's statement "...and it's still there" is simply that I saw because I saw world as it is, and since it is in itself true Kosmos, I therefore saw true Kosmos. In a way, no argument is needed to explain why you see something if indeed it is there. The problem is in explaining why, if it's there, we do not see it, and I trace this "not" to the Atomists. By utilizing the platonic forms instead of (or over and above) the Kantian ordering categories I probably abreacted in terms of phylogenic worldview to before the Atomists - which fits in with my distinct impression on 3-74 that I was seeing world "the way they saw it in the Middle Ages" and my conception of how they saw world in the Middle Ages is, in fact, more they way platonists see it (the archetype of e.g. rose that is outside of time printing out the many particulars Rose^1, Rose^2, Rose^3, etc). Here is the point Im missing. The Form, (ie knowledge of the forms) is already in the human mind. This knowledge does not arise from experience [of world]. Plato is absolutely right: this knowledge is recovered as memory, not learned; that is, anamnesis occurs. This is what Plato is saying and this is what I am saying, therefore this is indeed what 2-74 and the meta-abstraction is all about. The knowledge (of the Forms) however is on the mind but in latent state; the mind does not know -remember- that it knows. My writing about the Form-axis in "Ubik" is not where I got the idea of the forms - it is an instance of my knowing a priori and in an innate way about the Forms. "Ubik" represents a partial, inadequate recovery of this innate knowledge in a purely theoretical way. There is as yet no application of folder 55 - 003 folder 55 - 003 C-3 it to the external world and why not? Because true awareness is triggered by an incident regarding world that literally reminds the reason of his a privi innate. But later knowledge, and in writing "Ubik" there had been no such incident and hence no such anamnesis, hence anamnesis, hence recovery of knowledge of the Forms and application of that knowledge to world – rather than my just entertaining (and as theoretical, an interesting idea – is what 2-74 was all about. Since something in world served to trigger off recovery of this knowledge. This knowledge was of course applied to world and not, as with "Ubik." Just held theoretically; it seemed in fact, to arise from world – to be, that is, in world, discovered in world, and in a sense it was; but this would of course not explain anamnesis – it would, instead, be like any other sudden insight. But it triggers off the recovery of buried and very ancient memory, as I well know, this verifying Plato's contention that this is knowledge we once had but have now forgotten – had before this lifetime, and this has my experience. In a previous lifetime, then? No, Plato says, because it is as impossible for it to originally arise in a previous lifetime as it is for it to arise in this lifetime; therefore although it is pain to this lifetime – it is pre-natal. It arose in another world or kind of world, not a previous incarnation such as Pythagoras speaks of. And does my own experience in '74 bear this out? Yes. Absolutely. Because very soon I not only recovered full folder 55 - 004 folder 55 - 004 knowledge of the Forms, I found myself in a transformed, higher world. And is there any Description historically of such a world? Yes: in Plotinus; it is the unitary higher concentric ring of emanation; it is "here" and it is "now" (this is why one says of it that it is concentric) But it is not the atomized world of spatiotemporality; it displays unity, and Blind Causation is replaced by what seems to be volition. Also, it is a holy world, and this, Plotinus speaks of most emphatically. It is literally the unfallen soul (myself) in an unfallen world (as Plotinus taught, ascent to this higher ring does not involve a journey through space or time). How does this fit in with the vertical axis "pulley" Dream? Very well. But there are overtones of Buddhism or Xtianity or Gnosticism: (1) in the Messenger vision; and (2) in the Covenant House revelation; and (3) in the AI voice -as tutelary spirit and mystagogue- in general, esp.; (4) the prophecies about the Birth/return/transplanting of the new savior. Still, here is the great value of this Platonist/neo-Platonist explanation: it places 2-3-74 within the framework of reputable written thought and away from the occult and the outre (e.g. R.C. or theosophy). It can even be said to take it from the realm of religion and place it, instead, in the realm of philosophy - albeit Mystical philosophy. However, Plato and Plotinus are not lumpen Mystics, they are original thinkers of the highest order. However, how does the indubitable -even central- element of anamnesis fit in with Xtianity and Gnosticism? It doesn't. The "endless horizontal tracking and the vertical pulley" really only fits in with (1) Platonism/neo-Platonism; and (2) Buddhism. And if Buddhism, then we arrive back at the 5th Savior and the Maitreya. folder 55 - 005 folder 55 - 005 C-5 ____ All the horizontal trackings + retrackings are (from the 5D standpoint) the same tracking repeated, like an LP played over + over again. Thus although in a sense reincarnation is the case, in a deeper sense it is illusory; things "look different" but do not truly change - as the AI voice said. Thus Thomas + I e.g. are together tracking but once, + this is what the meta-abstraction is all about, is it not? So what seems to be reincarnation -+ is taken to be- is not. What is the case is what I call "spurious time" + the meta-abstraction is the sudden acute comprehension of this. + this is precisely how the prison or maze works. This is what traps us, this spurious time, this horizontal tracking. From the 5D standpoint, both Thomas + I exist simultaneously, in what I call "coaxial worlds"; but this is not quite noesis! This is Gnosticism! It has to do with (1) a prison or maze; + (2) forgery + delusion: a spurious world in which "time, the counterfeit of eternity" holds us trapped. Suddenly I say, it is Gnosticism + not Platonism; the meta-abstraction has to do with the counterfeit nature of time; it is not true time: we do not truly progress but, rather, track again + again horizontally forever, making no progress. + the AI voice is salvator salvandus, outside the maze + in a real sense myself; "Valis" is correct. The world of Acts was not remembered: it is here (from the 5D standpoint, + that is the correct standpoint. Plato + Plotinus never claimed this (i.e. coaxiality); I claim this + I identify it as Gnosticism + my meta-abstraction the saving Gnosis. We have not truly progressed a week since Acts, + the proof is "Tears." "Tears" in no way verifies Plato + noesis; it verifies a colossal delusion + fraud! Viz: "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." I pasted that up on my fucking door! folder 55 - 006 C-6 I knew this was the payoff revelation! But it took me years to see how it applies directly to 2-74 [+ the meta-abstraction + anamnesis, because it was not until one year ago -Feb '81- that I at last explicated the meta-abstraction in words!]. If Gnosticism is the case we are in a prison + there is an evil demiurge who keeps us ignorant at all costs, because as Valentinean Gnosticism teaches, ignorance per se is the very ontological basis of our condition of thrall; + conversely, it is reversed by the knowledge that for me began in 2-74, passed over to 3-74, + is crucially carried on + on by the AI voice who not only watches over me to protect me (as my tutelary spirit) but as my mystagogue reveals the saving gnosis to me. This is the way in which it is my mystagogue: it systematically step by step unfolds the gnosis to me. Dio! Stella! Libera me! We are in a prison, + I see how it works; essentially I saw in 2-74 right then + there; the rest is explication of that initial meta-abstraction. Oh Weh! Oihmé! Tracking over + over + never progressing a second toward the Parousia! "Oh Mensch! Wie kalt ist es --" It is as Valentinus taught! But a great war took place between the forces of light + darkness (1915-1945) + light won, + now the 5th savior is here, the Maitreya; he has been transplanted + is alive! They broke through into our prison! I am Thomas, an apostolic Xtian, denied the Parousia for 2000 years - + yet no 2000 years have truly passed, exactly as I say in "Valis." It is quite clear that "Valis" was dictated by the salvator salvandus, as was "Tears." To bring the Gnostic Kerygma to the world (from which it had been lost for so long - if "long" means anything, really). folder 55 - 007 folder 55 - 007 C-7 it is fundamental in Gnosticism that the whole prison is to keep the sparks