no matter how far ahead the pay off lies. I think that the adversary situation revealed to me vis-a-vis the Dialectic is between sentient management of the system (binary switching system) + what would best be called mechanical thrust per se (this is not, then, Bitheism). It is renewal versus depletion, form versus disorder, noos versus ananke. It must be the case that all things being equal, information (form, energy) decays unless renewed, the system on its own runs down. Unless otherwise contrived, the cosmogenitor falls victim to his own creation which is in fact himself objectified as the brute totality of antecedents. [v. p. 126 passim + p. 129] This is clearly expressed in my dream of recent days in which to perceive reality is to create it - with the sinister result that the percipient becomes the victim of -the object of- his own creation, an eventuality that he himself (due to his absolute a priori foreknowledge) foresaw - + took prophylactic steps in regard to, represented by the clock-timed AI voice that reminds him of (1) his identity + (2) that world is in fact his own creation, the very world that he is "in" as percipient, thus it is he himself who wakes himself (he, out of the past, speaks to himself in the future whereat he has become entangled in his own creation - as put forth in "Valis" in the myth of the maze + the maze builders). By the logic of this [situation] it would follow that he would hear this voice (of remembrance + warning + advice) at the time + place of greatest peril (within his venture within his own creation). folder 90 - 173 folder 90 - 173 G 117 He would have clock-timed the warning specifically for / in regard to the / a moment of doom that he himself anticipated. This warning device would have to have been established before cosmogenesis + amnesia. Thus when at the doom-moment it fired to alert him to danger + to restore his memory, he would say, sincerely, "who speaks to me?" But paradoxically the fact that it (he himself) did now speak + warn him would in itself supply the answer to that question; viz: the presence of the warning system in itself fully accounts for (1) who set it up (himself) + (2) why (to extricate himself); thus he (qua forgetful voyager) would as-it-were be -find himself- overpowered not only by restored memory but by an ancient powerful identity that would act "reflexively" to extricate him - himself. What would prove most mistifying would be, "How + why would an antique personality know more about the present situation than I do now" - but if he accepts both elements as true (viz: (1) it is an antique himself; + (2) it knows more about the present situation than "he" does) then he must accept the fact that he came here intentionally + knowingly, with foresight, + is very likely to some real extent cosmogenitor; + he is now stuck with the fact that 25 years of intuitions + intimations on his part that world (at least this world + for him) is not quite real are very valid indeed (+ are now accounted for). Oddly, this situation is familiar from s-f stories dealing with time travel (e.g. "Paycheck"). Now he remembers the strange sense of time running backward in 3-74, cause-+-effect being out of synch, mysterious "supernatural" folder 90 - 174 folder 90 - 174 G 118 technology (!) at work, intervention to change history re Nixon (which is the point of it all) + he realizes what "Tears" had really to do with: indeed it did contain encyphered information (instructions?) that he put in without knowing it; i.e. he was programmed to do it). So he has been part of a staggeringly complex plot involving time travel + technology the purpose of which was to change history, + any boy of 6 would know that such technology most likely lies in the linear future. (Viz: time travel is not needed to change the future; it is needed / used to change the past. The dream of the little boy Philip on the raft, slipping by "Scotland Yard," then ascending in the elevator, etc., until at last he breaks the eggshell cup of polite society, to their horror. The cuckoo's egg. The woman in the dream: "Miss Redman" - a play on the term "red": Pigspurt. Rothschild. Red Shield - the trophy dream. Oh - he was paid to do this. He is a mercenary. Red, white + a bit of blue ribbon. I see. The Nixon government was actually Pigspurt. Seizure of power in the U.S., killed off the opposition. Hence Thomas' rapid anti-Pigspurt + pro-Xtian. So of course he here in this time period would adapt a pro-Pigspurt cover, only to betray them. The AI voice speaks the truth: "an intelligence officer in the army." This is technology + time travel; it is clock-timed. This is not a conspiracy; it is a counter conspiracy + anti-Pigspurt, after the fact (i.e. from the future). He is on a "need to know" basis. Valis (in his mind in 3-74 + seen externally) is a thinking machine that is here camouflaged. High technology. Probably from the future in his defense. Once "Tears" came out he was in trouble. All the ambiguities folder 90 - 175 folder 90 - 175 G 119 can be reconciled if it's assumed that the Nixon takeover was Pigspurt! + this later (in our future) was -will be- realized. 2-74: USA 1974 perceived as the distant past, + a prison. + Pigspurt. The sodium pentathol. "Tears" is the crucial writing, not e.g. "Valis" - which is ex post facto. King Felix: signal to attack. Valis - re the info about Chrissy's birth defect. Real. But not God. Valis is a construct from the future. {Note} Viz: {illustration: Boxes with the texts "Hallucination extreme" and "God extreme", with arrows pointing from them to a box with the text "Technology plausible middle".} {Note:} Hence all the information - e.g. esp. the "plasmate." The insertion of "Thomas" - not disinhibition but insertion. Thomas was in enemy territory, behind the enemy lines as it were, not spatially but time-wise. No wonder he was (1) scared; + (2) very busy. Purposeful. He was on a political, revolutionary mission. Here is the solution: the "lake" dream in "Valis" (the mild quaker-like religious heretical sect into which "wizards" are born) is connected to one particular statement by the AI voice: "He lived a long time ago but he is still alive." [v. p 133 note] Freeing the slaves. "He" is Lincoln. Quakers. Lincoln / Jesus. Holy Mother church. "We print the truth": the newspaper in that fantasy novel by Tony Boucher is: the Torah, the plasmate, "Tears." Wizards. Fantasy. Pinky. The article in "The Real World." Thomas: Roman Catholic from the other side - not Jim but Tony. My dream folder 90 - 176 G 120 about "Tony the Tiger," the "light-struck thicket" - my tutelary spirit. "UBIK." My career as a writer. Wagner, rare 78: Hüsch, "Parsifal." Holy Week. Medieval period - God. "Magic Flute." Beauty. Easter. Art music. My writing - music - Holy Mother Church - Tony - the dream: "Tony the Tiger" - Tony Hiss - Alger Hiss - framed by the secret police - trap - "Willows" - fantasy - forest {Note}, Winnie-the Pooh - Sufis - {Note:} "at the top of the forest a boy + his bear will always be playing" - pistis - "Maze" Cancer - "Valis" - "MITHC" - Tony's review - Pinky - Tony - MM 337 - Good Friday Spell - __ Hore: The acausal connective is the key because the acausal connective breaks the power of [linear] time + is (or allows one to enter) the MMSK: it is arrangement by conceptual meaning, which is the essence of true order {Note}, hence, under these circumstances causation is broken + revealed as pretextual cause only. I.e. not the true way reality works. {Note:} Reality - existence. Structure. + for me this -true structure, the MMSK- is: Music - Tony - F+SF - Holy Mother Church - Parsifal - Fantasy - Pinky - God - magic - cancer - Berkeley - Gaylene - death - art music - Easter - {Note} The connectives are all ones of meaning, not time or space. {Note:} Ubik, Winnie the Pooh - my writing career. folder 90 - 177 folder 90 - 177 G 121 Lincoln - "We print the truth" - Torah - civil war - McComas - plasmate - Irish (i.e. Celtic mythology) - the Grail - the maze - medieval world - The phylogons attract accretions in terms of meaning: viz: Tony - Xtianity (through Catholicism + MM 337 + "St. Matthew Passion" [Husch]. 78's KPFA. This is how reality is actually organized. The MMSK. Tony - miracle - "Canticle for L" - "Deus Irae" - St. Sophia - St. Albans. Covert Xtian signs - Xtianity illegal. "Roses" (Roger) - "Flowers" (Daniel Keynes). Living information - "Ubik" - {illustration: a spiral with an explanatory text "accretions around the phylogon"} These are relationships of logical necessity, not contingency in space + time, but of/by meaning - which is how the MMSK is arranged; I know: I saw it in God's mind. One must drop space, time + causation in favor of density/intensity of meaning; for me the key is MM 337 + Holy Week which signifies the Holy Mother Church + the Parousia. Everything else is "warped" to the Parousia. Hence "Valis." {illustration: a network of interconnected text boxes, with the starting point "Tony". The boxes are marked: "Fantasy" - "Grail" - "Celtic Magic" - "Wagner" - "the Runes" - "civil war" - "Lincoln" - "Jesus" - "unknown"; "My writing career"; "Ubik"; "Art music"; "Pinky"; "Medieval German"; "Catholicism"; "Death"; "cancer"; "music"; "Parsifal"; "Easter"; "78s"; "Berkeley" - "Gaylene" - "Valis" - "plasmate"- "We print the truth" / "F+SF" - "snuff" - "Avram" - "Judaism" - "Torah" - "Simon Magus" - "Erasmus" - "armillary" - "linking" } This is my phylogon [or meaning] around which all else constellates as accretions (the MMSK). folder 90 - 178 folder 90 - 178 G 122 We are not dealing with contingent relations in space, time + causation; we are dealing with acausal meaning, in which (in the MMSK, the Mens Dei) accretions are attracted by + grouped around their phylogon. This is necessary logical relatedness; this is Mens Dei - + I saw it in 3-74; I was in it: God's mind; I threw off contingent relatedness (space, time + causation) + experienced the divine illumination, Christ in + as me (my mind + world as a continuum): I saw reality as it is (see chart on previous page); meaning -i.e. necessary logic- abolished space, time + causation. This is Plato's anamnesis, recovery of the eide (phylogons, necessary relatedness by meaning - i.e. conceptual, the MMSK. My phylogon [i.e. center of meaning] is Tony, as my "Tony the Tiger" dream showed. This is how God (1) sees reality; (2) + it is truly -i.e. actually, in fact- organized. Have I no faith in my own vision in + by Augustine's divine illumination? I saw reality (3-74) as it really is; I began to see in 2-74. Relatedness not by time, space + causation but by reticulating arborizing phylogons, I know - can't I believe? What does it take? Saw Christ. MM 337. {illustration: a spiral} My phylogon: Tony! Music - Fantasy - writing - cancer - Easter - German - acausality! - MITHC Time is irreal. Jung + German folder 90 - 179 folder 90 - 179 G 123 It's okay to believe because I know; I saw. I passed over to the other side. I recreated the past (in 2-74); I drew it back: {illustration: two boxes linked to one common box, probably symbolizing the meta-abstraction} - I broke the