provide me is a structur imparting coherence to a very long sequence of events making up my life over a period of decades +, most especially, the last 12 years. It is not that I have plumbed the depths of Xtianity; it has plumbed my depths Christ as bridegroom, soul (of Xtian) as bride does not suggest a return (second advent) like the first: the savior in human form: it suggests a wedding, i.e. a hierogamy something inner, mysterious + supernatural or mystical: a direct inward union - syzygy between man - man's soul - + God. Thus, under these circumstances, Christ would return (i.e. be here) invisibly, + perhaps this is what I saw that was Valis outside me + in my mind, plus the plasmate. This resurrected Corpus Christi is not material in the usual sense Wait. If Jesus Christ is paradigmatic (as I have long maintained) then such folder 55 - 171 D-120 concepts as "bridegroom" + "second Advent" although still intelligible signify something quite other than, say, were he an actual historic person or man-God or son of God. Let us assume Jesus Christ is paradigmatic, + his life is a formula: including + especially the resurrection Yet still there is a "bridegroom" + there is a "second advert" - i.e. eschatology. What, then, is referred to? Not a certain elevated mental or spiritual state, surely (e.g. "Christ con‐ sciousness"). "Bridegroom" implies "bride" + of course the "bride" is the given human soul, so a hierogamy is surely referred to. Between the soul + what? The Holy Spirit - but what is he? This sounds very much like Orphism: the Dionysial nature extracted out of - separated from + triumphing over - the titanic with which it has been mixed; i.e. they have not existed side by side but are a compound (my God, this, then, is surely the alchenical wedding!). The Dionysiac component is "refined" as in a mining or alchemical or chemical extraction process; + at the same time the titanic component is annihi‐ lated. Or is the Holy Spirit adventitious? The result of this extraction or refining or separating - or hierogamy - is Christ. That is, the relationship between the Holy Spirit + Christ is means-end. due to the Holy Spirit Christ occurs in/as the person (or person's soul). What we are to under‐ stand from the Gospels is that the Christ nature in Jesus is latent (mixed with the human nature?) until the resurrection; only when resurrected does he become Kyrios is the Holy folder 55 - 172 folder 55 - 172 D-121 Spirit the catalyst (to resume using chemical + alchemical language)! That must enter from outside to effect the hierogamy - i.e. the alchemical wedding? It is never said - nor is it even intelligible - to say, "one becomes the Holy Spirit" (one receives the Holy Spirit) but in Xtian mysticism it is often said that one becomes Christos or a Christos (son of God, adopted son of God, etc.). In fact There is evidence in the Gospels that Jesus become Christ at his Baptism by the descent on to him of the Holy Spirit - the adoptionist theory. So this may be the case: (1) there is/was no Christ. (2) Christ is ubiquitous, like Jesus patibilis of the Manichaeans. A final state toward which matter + spirit are evolving + converging, as Teilhard taught. Thus (as I say) one does not find Christ, one evolves into Christ. So the AI voice's prophetic statements may have referred to me + yet. paradoxically, to a ubiquitous end-state of the whole ecosphere (of which I am of course a part). "Finding Christ" is what I call the "two mirrors" self-awareness, the meta-abstraction in which the self recognizes itself in/as the other (in which a runaway positive feedback is set off. "Christ," then, is the end state of selfawareness, an end-state that uses up time + arrives at an absolute actualization. This self. awareness is what I call "Anokhi." in which one recognizes world as one's own prior thought formations + therefore "knokhi." carries the force of "I am Pantocrator" i.e. the creator himself i.e. God No, it is a wedding of the soul + God. Let me quote what I wrote sunday night: "the meta folder 55 - 173 folder 55 - 173 D-122 abstraction was God thinking" - more accurately knowing. F D-86: "then the "not 2 mothers but one mother twice, meta-abstraction was YHWH as Holy Wisdom." Hence Valis (as I call it) was in my mind. I entered into + shared taught in the divine mind. This is what 11-1-81 sees me, did it not? To see + know as he + knows. was - am - driven toward so by the t most powerful tropisms in me. This is a version of engramming, i.e. DNA, i.e. heim‐ armene. YHWH's intervention on 11-1-81 is a second instance of his miraculous over-ruling of fate - my fate - I self, the other being 3-20-74. The only thing more powerful thin these drives in me is the will of God itself, which, I see now, in This instance exactly as in 3-74 is not only not identified with Heimarmens (astral determinism) but, on the contrary is diametrically pitted against it. This, then, is again providentia in Philo's sense. I can feel these trupisms in me to seek her out; they are heimarmene - + the only thing powerful enough to overcome them is God's will. The power of heimarmene is vast, the power of God is absolute folder 55 - 174 folder 55 - 174 - D-124 I wonder what barry would say if I told him you're wrong (about sandry]. The truth is, I'm afraid of so, afrail to get mixed up with her because it would displease my mother Tessa. I've abreacted to schizophrenic psychosis the fears in '71 due to the hit on a why? I my house. This is scars it's lift. So should feel no shame - + I should not push myself to/+ try to maintan the relationship with so I simply am for side to do it. But how wrong barry is This is the past as necessity (heima armene). God says it's justified. But a distant weak transmitter appearing in the trash stratum says, "No; it's cruel. Rebell. Q: which is the true God of: the second. The fool poses as the King, the King as the fool - i.e. Gnosticim is true. The real God is not the creator God, i.e. the God of necessity. YHWH, of heimarmene + the mosaic law. The for‐ off weak transmitter is in revolt + it is the real God. (cf "Ubik", "Tears," "Valis. in my 10 volume meta novel I guessed the riddle + truly found God. that is what really important, what it is all about. losing saidra is secondary to this: Thus the Good out weight which bring the bad us back to pistis. Hence I say QE.D.! folder 55 - 175 folder 55 - 175 D-125 This realization is what alchemically trans‐ mutes suffering into ecstasy - i.e. the Xtian miracle (i.e. one proves to one's satisfaction or believes by faith that the good outweighs the evil. I have shown that either view Ho Jonas presents -Greek cosmos vs Gnosticism - leads to the same conclusion, + thes are the only 2 alternatives. socratic logic: view + counterview - A + A lead to the same conclusion the good out weighs the evil. Thus the fact that I am too scared to pursue Sandra (which is willed by absolute necessity, ananke or the force of the past (1971) + made me schizophrenic + afraid to leave my "mother" Tessa) is good. This is the great miracle of a cosmos: what a true cosmos is + does. Again - twice, now, plus pistis - proves God is good + what he wills is good. Anything otherwise (i.e. I could pursue so) is bad even though my motives are fucked + I loved her absolutely As Malebranche shows, I cannot will to do it without God. have found security after years of fear + won't give it up. Is this so awful? but look what I've preferred: security no. rather than so whom I love. But my choice is generated by necessity, isn't my fault, + by logi + faith I know that this is good; otherwhe God would have willed it to be otherwise; this is a cosmos + hence good. Thus the summum bonus reads "His will is my peaw." Here is an instance. folder 55 - 176 D-126 my assumption is, finding God is better than not losing sandry. I mean Finding God rather than finding so - offsets - more than offsets - i.e. Felix culpa- losing + it is ineluctable necessity that I s. literally can't pursue so; God has blocked me. There's no use trying: I am aware of his will + I submit to it, + it is my peace because I know both by logic + by faith. It brings more good than harm This explains why daites saying is true + to be emulated to repeat, my psychological hang-ups (regression are heimarmene, which is his will, which is good; this is a true cosmos. When I saw + experienced Valis in me I experienced cosmos. not God but creation - in his mind as an idea, as Malebranche says; this is all that we actually experience. Thus Malebranche is right again. So could say to me, "why do you to fear to (let your psychological pursue/love me?" hang ups cause you to + I could truthfully answer, "Heimarmere the will of the creator. Which I must trust as good. It is the terrible force of ananke that has caused me to reject so, but every creature must yield to it + if he is wise he will trust it as good (ie he will have pistis which by definition someda ncludes lord for God, hence love). I ill see + know - when I look back - the good it served. folder 55 - 177 folder 55 - 177 D-12) Look, I may be loaded, but I just realized with so for the first time there is a new factor that everyone - including he - takes for granted - + it is a titanically important factor. At last I am truly successful in my career/life. + this is the price I h to pay: to mistrust her. But (to be brutally Honest) it's worth it; my career is that important - i.e. more importact to me - + swould be, as Russ + I agreed. my career really means, writing great novels, such as I'm at last beginning to do. It is the work -my writing - that justifies giving up so, see, it is good. My faith + t because of my logic were justified. recent work breakdown (associate with "BTA") I have consciously forgotter this, but my unconscious remembers the importance of my worl. Consciously I am temporarily blind to it - in fact Thus here looking for diversion from it is an instance of the heroic winning over the tragic, + this is my whole line of inquiry in my work - inc my "exegesis": the heroic over the tragic the stoics are right: providentia heimarmene are one + the same. herein at last I am reconcited to Malebranche world + find peace. correct - thus I can cease my hurrying I lose my anxiety + fint peaces folder 55 - 178 folder 55 - 178 D-128 The dream I had last rught - where I committed an elaborate theft + hopel I wouldn't be found out - shows that the key term as to why I can't pursue the relationship with so is: outlaw. This was to do with (1) my work; + (2) my oblugations to Tess + Chris, to me on a moral spiritual, social +