become explicated + explicable. The message is perceived, opened (or opens These are not itself) + is read. riddles + enigmas; these are solutions: simple assertions. As if decoded. in contrast, reality seen directly is totally closed, foreign, ambiguous; it There is alludes but does not clarify. meaning but not "for" me. Its language foreign or at best obscure. Thus it is says nothing to me + if I speak it is unaware + unresponsive This is the strangest insight about (1) salvation; + (2) the normal (opposite) condition I ever did have. I only state facts (based on that sentence regarding Kafka); I do not know how either condition (1) or its opposite, condition (2) the normal condition -in which the mediator-redeemer-savior- is lacking came about or what they signify. The cleared-up cypher of the solution(con‐ dition (1)) does not explain it, since each statement or mesinge is only about itself + does not pertain to the total situation, + in condition (2), the normal condition nothing can be understood. Yet I sense that -as in me of Joyce's "epiphanies" - This is a major conceptual breakthroug ugh on J-96 my part (+ applies precisely to what I call "the Acts lens/grid"). I could understand how + why these two opposite conditions arise I would know all. something very important -pertaining to Kafka's work- is involved) here is the problem ((2)) + the solution ((1)), but what is the reason for the problem in the first place? How did it arise? + who solved it (I seem to know how but not who; + I do not know why). (nor can I cause the solution to come back, it having departed as mysteriously as it came. Is this why Christ is iden‐ tified as "the word"? Is there a master schematic -totally abstract- underlying or running through all reality that the word is the key to because the word is in fact this schematic? (Then this is selfknowledge, a priori + necessary on its part It can extract the information because it put it in in the first place.) Acting as a third-party mediator between me + world it causes me + world to become unified (as thesis + antithesis through a higher synthesis: No. It is a lens‐ a two-way lens. But why are world + disjunctive normally + incomprehensible Each to the other? Is this the atomization of the fall into the space-time universe - unity becoming plurality- that Plotinus speaks of? + the mediator reverses this Fall by restoring the lost unity? This is just speculation + fanciful; what are facts J-97 (on the other hand) are: normally cannot read world's language, + so my condition is fremd, it is Geworfenhey it is unheimlich; but then the mediator -a third party apparently partaking of me (I am not fremd to him) + of world, too (it is not frema to him) - enters as two-way lens, whereupon I can understand world + it me. This is so notable an explanation of 2-3-74 that it has no antecedent in the history of human interpretation of religious experience, not experience but interpretation experience; but it clearly pertains to of (A) The Holy Spirit who reverses the "unity [universal language] lost at Babel" - this is a gift of the Holy Spirit or a sign of its presence, but not by any means construed as its primary mission, + only human languages seem to be conceived of as involved; (B) Christ as word; (C) Gnostic ontological categories of fallen-ness + salvation Also this would explain why I seemed to experience Valis (?) in my mind + externally in world (as if "inner" + "outyr" had lost their distinct difference). how does this relate to anamnesis, the t eide (if at all), esp. the "meta-abstraction"? which may in itself (as a mental operation on my part) explain all else? In other words one mental operation produced one result. What, then, did I realize? I remembered something. Could it be that recognizing that the Girl's necklace was not an object but a message (in fact one J-98 requesting an answer) set off a generate zation of realization: that things (non verbal things, i.e. objects) were language. Or: my answer could be a part of this: I remembered that yes I am a Xtian (by this read secret Xtian since "secret" is necessarily implied; it wasn't "a sign used by the early Xtians"; it was "a secret sign used by the secret illegal early Xtians"). 1i1 now put forth a strange theory. The secret Xtians although a persecuted minority (illegal + in hiding) are the rightful Inhabitants in the sense of heir, to the Kingdom. The ostensible world is not their world, but the ostensible world is fraidulent -only seeming- anyhow. There is a world within a world, a genuine invisible latent one within the spurious visible ostensible One; they are coaxial - + it is the physical language of the genuine invisible latent one that is my language (which is why my relation‐ ship to the ostensible world is one of total alienation (fremdheit, Geworfenheit, unheim‐ lichkect, usw). I am a citizen of another kingdom entirely (one that had at that I knew moment communicated with me). Ah, more -crucially more- than the Girl said. she did not say "secret" or "illegal" but (as I recently realized) I knew this; only a fellow secret, illegal Xtian is supposed to see the fish sign as a sign as a message requesting an answer. I could not give her my answer -she had left- but I knew the answer (it was Yes I am). G-99 well, anyhow, be that as it may, I view the "universal language" quality of the Holy Spirit as something much more important than it is construed to be. It is not so that -or just so that- the apostles can carry the good news to all peoples of the world. It goes along with being able to see -distinguish, discriminate the coaxial worlds. (Implied here is knowing that there are coaxial worlds, which may be This is a matter the "meta-abstraction"!) the latent world is known of information; in terms of [its] information [traffic]. Why? This is how it discloses itself; it has no physical boundaries; it is not "here" vs "there." Viz: it is not a geographic world in time + space. Oh gie whiz, wow. Where is it is a free‐ it, then? If not in time + space? rider on our physical world: "modulating our ) reality as a carrier." (Look at "Tears"! (is this [modulation] what is meant by "a perturbation in the reality field"? With "modulation" + "perturbation" referring to the same thing? Then Valis (seen externally) is "modulation" extrardinaire. "Coaxial" + + the "camouflage," then, also refer to one same thing. Acts (sic) isn't the past (which have endlessly realized); Acts is "track A I now. But not alternate, as in alternate world S-F. Simultaneous + occupying the same space-time; the latent realm is deliberately encoded (encyphered by agreement: inserted (in) + extracted cout again). The system of registering info is sophisticated, but it does use a rest-motion binary base. We are groove to it as music so it is not material. the is we supply the material; this abstraction: it (music to groove is an "abstraction" in this sense). J-100 the "abstract view of world," then, is not a view of this [physical] world at all, not truly a way of looking at this world - not unless you would say that music way of viewing an lop you could groove. You could say that; say that when your mind leaped from groove to music you abstracted. This i I clearly pertains to Plato's eide, but, think, much more. It's more like what I say :"The universe is information"; I in "Valis" think that should read, "some mind or minds is/are using the physical universe as a carrier for a purely informational "world."" This impinges on our physical world as arrangement, the way bubbles in micro-chips are arranged. To do this it or must control what we call "causality." s they The Bible. when I read Luke last Tuesday night. It's a world. Did I not write of it "the content explains the mechanism, + the mechanism verifies the contents"? It all has to do with Christ, who treats world like a rope the whole Bible, O.T. seeming to be a snake. N.T., is really about Christ (as e.t matthew figured out - likewise Paul. + "mystery concealed for ages." Erigena. univer chite reality God kt Spirit is world (expressed as Torah, Law, heimarmene, causality, time + space, astral determinism, being replaced by something other than physical world, it having ossified. J-101 the Kingdom is not physical; it is not located here vs there, then vs now, + this is clear from what Jesus said. I say It is to world as music is to LP groove (whatever that may mean) + modulates carranged) our physical reality [field] as an info carrier. It then is als ob info (music, e.go, is info). Yes, it is info + relates somehow to the Bible (which is why I saw what I took to be AD70. + this explains "Tears." Could this have anything to do with Pythogoras' insight that there is no substantia? That the basis of reality is ratio + number? Quantity? + all quantity can be rendered in rest motionbinary digits. suppose this modulation is sourcemodulation; the word, Logos or Christ? in relation to which our universe is a modulated carrier? Reading the Gospels, then, is hearing the "music" to which our reality is "groove." Only the Holy Spirit can cause you to extract a comprehension of this out of the N.T. (3.B. Paul's captivity letters) 1s I've read Jnitpassim millions of times + never understood at all 5:30 a.m insight. The Eucharist in no way derives from Judaism; it is Greek + it derives from the worship of Dionysus, specifically in the form of the wonder-child Zagreus c as was revealed to me' "Jesus" is stegenographic cypher for Zeus Zagreus. So "Jesus" was Zagreus (also Zeus, the Father); hence the "Drink J-101 A through the Acts lens/grid the world makes sense. The soteriological scheme revealed makes the world "mine," + no longer fremd + unheimlich. This means that for me the Christ drama is familiar + comprehensible, + reality founded on it + derived from it is "my" reality - whereas otherwise it is not mine, + I am a stranger in a This fact tells me some‐ strange land. thing about myself; it tells me what I "my" narrative is, the story into which This is as much a story about me fit. as it is about Christ + world. I had not known that until 2-74 but then I knew it: I understood world but also I understood myself. The Golden Fish sign reflected back to me -as a mirror- my own hidden, real nature. This can never be denied (by me about myself). Hence when I read Luke that night I read what seemed to be my own writing. This is a great mystery + miracle; it is world's salvation + my own. Christ reconciles me to world + world to me the language can be read through I think this is the essence of him. it, when all the mystification + faise leads are edited out. This for me in The true point (110 What if "Ditheon" expresses two ideas, not one? (A) that there are two selves in a person: his individual conscious ephemeral seels of which he is aware; + an impersonal pure consciousness, not exactly a self - this is Atman + looks out through a number -perhaps very many- individuals at various spaces + times (all individuals at all spaces + times); so a person's nature is di: double. (B) Atman is not human but -roughly- God; i.e. it is absolute in