present to the future; info from the future broke in initially as an iota + built through successive increments of levels of stasis (equilibrium: mutual adjustment) as the system sought to "calm" itself. The whole phosphene trip was a positive feedback runaway. 63-2013 63-2013 D-30 My God, this is seizing fate by the throat; what is abolished is that which we know of as "fate" - i.e. a closed system moving ahead due to efficient cause: the total antecedent past (closed system into which nothing new can come; where could it come from? Then when I saw Valis it was the future causing a "perturbation in the reality field" - the source would be the future which by definition in contradistinction to the past lies outside of reality, because what we call "reality" is the point-summation of the total past, as it progresses forward along the linear time axis. Were the future to affect the past in/as a feedback loop, Valis is what you would see! I.e. pretextual cause, which is efficient cause overwhelmed (teleologically, as it were): rendered at that time + at that place merely pretextual, not a normal state; hence: perturbation (abnormality). + all this winds up expressed correctly + fundamentally as info + as events influenced (changed) by an influx of info - i.e. increased negentropy, or, if you will, added energy: from outside, hence an "assimilation" of energy into a system that otherwise is running down (me). __ It seems to me more likely that the feedback loop was inner-outer, 63-2013 63-2013 D-31 not present-future. By recognizing something outside of me as myself I assimilated it (withdrew my projections? Both psychologically + ontologically, so that my self expanded, as a result, by reason of this incorporation; biological models pertain, here: the assimilation of negative entropy from the environment, resulting in a radical increase in internal organization vis-a-vis the outer environment. The fragmented self implodes: draws itself back in at the expense of world, thus devitalizing world + vitalizing self. Here re-enters the theme of "prior thought-formations recognized as such" - as in Tibetian Buddhism. What had been taken to be world is now seen to be only projections of the self - this not just in the initial satori ["Meta-abstraction"] but also in the positive runaway feedback it unleashes. In this dialectic of incorporation or rather re-incorporation, vast amounts of energy expressed as information are acquired + assimilated. Certainly the Atman-Brahman equation is suggested - 63-2013 D-32 which is enlightenment [in pan-Indian terms - Buddhist, Hindu] as such. This experience may defy analysis because we do not really know what world-in-itself is; all the self knows is the self: + this precisely may have been 1) the meta-abstraction; + 2) the dialectic or positive runaway feedback. The implications here are toward Buddhist idealism + "the grand illusion": if all that the self knows is itself, then "self" + "world" are two terms referring to the same thing, + this realization may be precisely what was involved both in the opening satori (meta-abstraction) + the runaway "dialectic" that followed. Hence anamnesis is everything, for here the concept "recognize" acquires absolute ontological significance in terms of an eternal self outside time, space, causation + even world! If indeed the "dialectic" was a positive runaway feedback triggered off by the original 63-2013 63-2013 D-33 realization/satori/meta-abstraction then I know what was involved in the totality of this, since it is tied to anamnesis. It is comprehension of the immortality of one's self, which is to say a transmigrating eternal soul in the Neo-Platonist sense: 1) The anamnesis is Platonist. 2) The meta-abstraction is noesis (comprehension of the Forms) 3) + the final, greatest realization is of: immortality (which is to say, the ephemeral self remembers itself to be an eternal immortal soul in Plotinus' sense: 4) in which case Valis is Plotinus' One, above time, space, causation + multiplicity, + here it ends. Remembrance is complete: the soul knows by recovery of memory its one true nature. This is not the same as, "to have a soul"; this is being a soul in Plato's sense; she has fallen; + this is not just a matter of previous lives: more, there is her unfallen state, her vastness among the Forms - here, not spatially distant/elsewhere, exactly as Plotinus realized. Thus in remembering itself the soul reascends. She is Firebright. 63-2013 63-2013 D-34 My 2-3-74 experience, then, is Platonist + Neo-Platonist. It has to do with the Forms (the meta-abstraction) but also the remembrance by the soul of herself. This is not exactly otherworldly, for all levels (realms) are spatially here; these are levels of being. But (I see now) there is the self-experience of the soul: her awareness of herself + her real (forgotten) nature: spatially vast + eternal, summing up many lives (e.g. PKD + Thomas). One by one my insights are revealed as Platonist + Neo-Platonist. The soul in contemplating itself contemplates the One, for the soul herself is now world or other; there is no "other" in the sense of the not-me. Hence I experienced boundless (infinite) space: the soul filled the universe: the all-in-all, + unitary. Such terms as inner + outer no longer meant anything. Firebright - like a cold white pearl glowing - moonbeams - she. In her eternal transit of descent + reascent. As I've noted before, a tremendous decisive advantage of Plotinus over, say, Orphism + Gnosticism is that Plotinus realized that the fall - + the successive realms - are not arranged along either a spatial or temporal axis; all concentric rings are here + they are now. 63-2013 63-2013 D-35 ___ The issue that Jonas raises as to the Gnostic rebellious view -opposed to the older, Greek view of the cosmos- being more modern (a component of what makes up modern man) fits in with my 3 ages axis toward autonomy, with Beethoven, Joachim - +, most of all, an evolution now -new + radicaler- involving a quantum leap in freedom + autonomy, i.e. triumph over world; this is Ditheon; this is 3-74; viz: 3-74: Gnostic:: Gnostic to the older Babylonian-Greek. What I am saying is that Jonas ratifies my Torah: N.T.:: N.T. is to now. My 3-74 experience was not Gnostic; it was as Gnostic is to the Greek-Babylonian cosmos worldview. This is the most important issue confronting us: the evolutionary 3-part axis. + it is the topic of "Owl". Put another way, my 3-part revolutionary model ratifies the Gnostic view vs the Greek cosmos. It is not so much right-wrong: it is evolutionary, + there is a new, third stage as radically different as any that has come before. Babylonian-Greek-Xtian-Gnostic-Protestant, + now 3-74. The reading of the info (message) basis that instructs reality + changing - no; just exposing it. This new victory is the final victory + marks (1) Christ's return; + (2) his completion of victory over the world (to quote: "I have conquered the world". It is the final emancipation + restoration of man + the cosmos. 63-2013 63-2013 D-36 All the stages along this evolutionary axis of emancipation are achieved by Christ in his soteriology: successive stages of the breaking the power over world (via the axis of abstracting: passing from the concrete to more + more abstractness. This "abstractness" signifies something that only when that level of abstractness occurs -in the percipient/human- can it be said what it is (thus no theoretical statement in advance can be given either theologically or philosophically-epistemologically. Hence no theory in human history fits my 2-3-74 meta-abstraction. Even Plato's eide. This is a new + higher stage never seen before. The experience comes first. Then the conceptual verbal vocabulary. But there is a clear + evident axis along a number of stages [of abstraction]. The tragic (Greek-Babylonian cosmos) + heroic (Gnostic); now something new + third. The ultimate stage would be to experience world as structuring information that one is free to accept or reject. Instead of programming (you) it becomes cautionary: stating the is, not the must. Its imperative quality is stripped from it but it remains + is read as the world script that one studies for guidance, not tutelage. The vox dei becomes a source of wisdom, not fiats; they cease to create + only advise (man). Thus God becomes like Krishna to his friend Arjuna: an immortal voice speaking wisdom, not to be obeyed but to be studied as a possible map (Logos). 63-2013 D-37 So man becomes the artificer relying on God for advice not commands or instructions; God no longer makes: he is info advising man what to make (hence man is like Beethoven. The total creative artist taking God's place but relying on his wisdom - yet free to accept, reject, modify, improve, change, amend. God manifests himself to man as advising wisdom - i.e. info itself (tutelary spirit?): Old Model: 1) God -- World -- Man New: 2) God -- Man -- World Eureka! In (2), God's relation to world is through man; also, man is directly related God; world is no longer between them. Thus God -in (2)- no longer reinforces world against man but man against world. Under the circumstances obtaining in (2), theophanies could be expected, more so than it (1); in fact a theophany would transform (1) to (2). God + world have exchanged places (roles) in relation to man. World ceases to be an implacable construct confronting man; it becomes itself a construct of man's mind - man advised by God toward the [mental] construction of world: God remains the supreme artificer, architect, but he operates through man into world, not through world onto man. World is for man no longer a brute, raw [fact] 63-2013 63-2013 D-38 possessing power over him as a sort of viceroy of God (i.e. world as viceroy; man is now viceroy: man is the "brute fact" possessing power over world, but this is not physical power exerted by man: it is creation itself: making, not subjugating. Man now stands where the Logos originally stood between God + creation; thus man + Christ (as Logos) are assimilated; Christ becomes man so that man can become agent of creation, not object of creation. Man + world have reversed roles in relation to God. Under the circumstances depicted (this changed relationship -exchanged- between man + world) man perceives himself -knows himself- to be Logos; this has become -rather than is- his nature: it is dynamic process rather than stratified, static ontology. This is what 2-3-74 was all about: this exchange of relationship between me + world vis-a-vis God. 1) World ceased to be between me + God - the Gnostic objective. 2) World lost its power over me - also the Gnostic objective. 3) I became the agent of creation, not its object - probably also a Gnostic objective. Hence (I say) this is the significance of Jesus to the Gnostic: to reverse the roles of man + world vis-a-vis God. 1) I find world to be my own construct ("prior thought formations"); 2) I relate directly to God not through world (world no longer stands between me + God); + 3) I am between God + world (he exerts his will on it through me, but the will has become, for me, wise advice the basis of my creation of world). 63-2013 63-2013 D-39 This is as major a revolution as could possibly be - in the history not just of man but of any created being, for man (myself) is no longer part of creation as a bit of it; man governs this creation as its pantocrator - + yet he does not replace God; he is God's regent - as was the original plan before the Fall; this is not only man's proper role but the role he originally had - + lost. The fall, then, has these aspects: 1) world comes between man + God; 2) world makes man its creation, not vice-versa. Man + world exchanged place.