he could command Maya, completely manipulate it. It was his power to abolish illusion (Maya) by asserting his mastery over it; to understand Jesus we must read Sankara. Also the life of the Buddha. He knew it was only a rope which we take to be a snake. In no way was his assent compelled by world. Hence when I saw pretextual cause I saw through the conjurer's trick (Maya); this is Brahman assuming the guise of plurality - in fact of world: spinning it out effertlessly; hence "tat tvam asi" - could that have beent he 2-74 meta- abstraction? Anamnesis. Brahman beguiled by its own creation(dream). When we see world as concrete (i.e. substantial) we are failing to think (i.e. meta-abstract); this is the realization; in 2-3-74 I saw abstractly (correctly). & Jesus came to break the power of the world mechanism over us (known to the Gnostics as heimarmene) J-73 Thus it follows logically that he is still alive (for had he broken world's power, it would only seem to kill him). This "breaking of world's power" is another way of speaking about the self becoming conscious of its own true nature, hence of world But I say the real world can be found in the Bible (Luke for sure). Ah, the Ruah encoded reality (like we encode a symphony on a record groove) + having put it in can extract it back out again as world (as if playing the LP). Reality is encoded in/as what we call "the Bible" -encoded by Ruah - I + only ruah can restore it to world when we see the Bible we see information (like a very long number); but Ruah can restore the world that it is. The information that the Bible is pertains to itself But this points to the mystery of the encyphering-decyphering "mechanism" (which I glibly refer to as "Ruah" or "Holy Spirit"). Its mind was in mine + it doesn't think; it is a mechanism of some kind dealing with information! is it able to convert world into Then it is info, + info into world? our creator: for it creates us, too; we, too, are data-processors but not conscious; it is pure consciousness. If it ("Ruah") has encoded a world into what we know as TheBible J-74 + it can reconstitute that world out of the Bible (i.e. world to info + info back into world) would this explain why in 2-74 this "Ruah" is saw Acts? I much more complex + evolved + powerful then, than I had imagined. It is like a whole audio system to This might a single cassette. explain the "coaxial" "syntonic" element. This would be clearly a transcendent deity, if "deity" is in fact the right term. Certainly the terms "creator" + "cosmocrator" are correct! really did not see the So I century C.E.; I saw the first Bible as world. This is not one + the same things What I seem to be saying is that the encoding-decoding "mechanism" is everything, + those who are blind to it are lost in simply what it records + plays back. It can supply you with any one of a number of "worlds" - interchangably (as I saw). The "world" whose content deals with it (this entity or "mechanism") is the Bible; Thus the Bible as world is unique because it is so-to-speak the key world in which clues -explanation- about the cause of all the worlds are present in it alone. The Bible is a sort of self-map. Its contents explain its origin So it is inique uI J-75 because not only is it self-explanatory It is self-replicating (it is not dependent on anything outside itself). at that level of meta-abstraction, i.e. the everything is language I symbol the world word. Elochim created word the i.e. is the by speaking a word. "words" in "Logos." which preceded creation. correct translation of I JHWH wor (univere (reality which we see as symbol + o passed language So by seeing the plasmate I through + beyind the univers (reality) to the word -uttered by God- it is bised on. (mence Ubik") (V. p. J-85!] so info (plasmate, word) is not derived is this from reality, it is not about reality. on the contrary: reality is based in it m it this is doctrine. + yet my ultimate revelation about 2-3-74. "Vali" me) the word -Logos-Christ on which one word. Not Holy Logos universe (reality) is based the s ene it is was re pesave pn the + saw was tat This is Valis both I not the 2 became one tter 9"Torah. whot Torah 2-77 Then I did see the Cosmic Christ, not anthropormphicly but as info ( Because he is the word on which reality is based. So the answer to the a"what did you see in 2-3-74 that you call Valisz7 is "the Logos hence Christ" (On which He (Christ) can take reality is based. any form he wints (e.g gate; vine, bread); do t only the Logos can this. He said this to prove is he the Logos. This verifies the 2-3-74 experience as real; I wouldn't expect to see whon seeing Christ seeing information (the word or Logos). This is clear from JNit One hears the Holy Spirit; one sees This is both heard + saw. the Logos. So obvious; you can't ever say, "I saw the Holy spirit." No; you see Christ. (He is the only member of the Trinity who can be seen - Jesus says, "no one has seen God"). A: I saw Christ. Q: What did he look like? A: Living information [because he is the ultraon ogos on which the universe is based]. ontology at the heart of the universe. ➀ U.P. t universe God, J-85 Reality Logos a t Christ I t I think this is clear in "Valis" the anyhow, now that I know theology-minded. + can express what I saw I should ot please do is publically say so. J-78 Christ & the Holy Spirit areone & the same; viz seen externally Christ; experienced a priori: the Holy Spirit but the tworealms outer and inner are one, which is why I kept saying , "I am no longerBlind." This means that absolute ontology ismysteriously here in the maya world - camouflaged as I realized (saw) in 3-74. The Genuine imitates the spurious. (transubstantiation on a cosmic scale, as I report in "Valis."). This is a reversal of the norm, where the spurious imiates - poses as - the Genuine. Then (to repeat) the Genuine simulate. The spurious, 2 source cosmogony. But one source (one female me) is dead - a dead source. Christ is the other. But now the hierogamy but seen him & her can't occur: only the bride - groom remains. So, instead, hemakes hischurch his Bride; that includes me, as part of the Body (corpus) ofthe faithful). My news is the Godspell, theGoodnews of the Gospels; I have seen the End! He is risen! (time & placeof Acts!!!). (ie "Valis" is likeonemore book of the N.T., Testifying to my having seen the risen ([] hence phil Dickhim-self is the protagonist& often speaksin the first person. You can't see the Holy Spirit. He causes you to seeChrist & hencewe know Christ. The plasmateis the Blood of the risen body of Christ. Blood & words - Bloodas living info: Christ as the Logos. "Valis" is a 5th gospel: it tells the story of the lifeof the Savior & also expressestheology. (theologicalideas - esp. the 4th Gospel). a J-79 is the time of Acts; I have seen the risen Lord (per the Holy Spirit have told the good news in did not see him now (i.e. I Gospel. USA 1974); I saw him at the first advent, the time of Acts. But my witnessing is valid. A time warp, divine in origin. I was transported back to the time of acts + by the Holy spirit saw the risen Lord. This I how the Holy Spirit makes it possible for you when- + where-even you live to I have seen actually see the risen Christ. what prophets + Kings longed to see but did not. The Kingdom is given to the humble. So the purpose of causing me to see Acts was so I could see the risen Lord, which I did + duly reported in like seeing it rniverte twice: "Valis" behind theworot the Chris logo universe + als camouflaged in the universe + replacing it by transubstantiation a double impression of it. What you see is #2, + infer I the universe is based on information which This information is the Holy Spirit can see. "Valis" is a Gnostic Gospel the Logos or Christ. in some ways but, more, it is like the 4th as so the "plasmate" (living info) is not the universe derives Gospel. So in the universe, + is in it underlier the universe of J-80 "Valis" my premise ("the universe is info") is correct. God-to-info-to-universe, + that info is "spoken" by God; this is Philo's Alexandrian Logos, the intermediary in creation + I saw it (through the Holy spirit). Intellectually I have long sort of known but never have I really understood it this. (this is of course Valis, Christ the Logos). did not see the man Jesus; I saw I the risen Lord Christ the Logos. He invades (in camouflaged form) the very universe derived from him. This great insight (that God created the universe by speaking the word -Logoshence created the universe indirectly -i.e. by + through the word) came to me last night + when I tried -successfully- to unify all my diverse experiences into one; + then I conceived of God uttering the word, + the word bringing the universe into being - + that I had pushed through the ascending levels of ontology to the word - this was the meta-abstraction! saw the risen Lord a + when I saw Valis as the Logos; + this was a valid experience because I would not know that if you saw the risen Lord you would see the Logos - i.e. the word (living information). What he retains of his body, from the incarnation, is the blood - which I called the plasmate: living info. It must be realized that the Holy Spirit is Christ. In a certain real sense the living saw (e.g. King Felix) is information that is the thoughts ("word") of God. My new diagram harkens back to diagrams my earliest some of J-81 guess (as I say) this explain the meta-abstraction: seeing the univers abstractly. To normal abstracting what normal abstracting is to schizophrenic concreteness. The word is a complex formula or schema or bluepring or model idea. + it is alive + sentient. (A word can be thought as well as shoken aloud.) can intelligible formulation: this collates with my apperception of myself as an intelligible notion -idea- in the mind of God; this is how things come into existence + what they are actually, + based on.) the only thing unorthodox about my formulation is that what I seem to have is Logos as intermediary hypostasis (as Philo taught); in fact a series of emanations: God to Logos to world (i.e. not Trinitarian). (With Christ + the Holy Spirit homologized: two forms of the same thing.) Valis' mind in mine, then, was the Alexandrian Logos (hence the linking-relinking, rest-motion, the MMSK etc. the dialectic.) whether the Logos would be immanent or transcendent to world is impossible to say because the relationship is more one of ontological hierarchy, the universe deriving from the Logos; hence Logos is not in the universe; the universe is Logos (if seen fully abstractly). (This may well be what I call the MMSK!) world is not an idea in the mind of God; world derives from Logos which is the first thought of God ontologically preceeding creaton J-82 the universe (reality), then, really is the word (the latter standing in