of physics [yet] unknown to us! The providentia vis-a-vis the Xerox Missive a law of physics having to do with feedback within a unified field: what a fascinating theory. I think my paranoia is abating -- my "occlusion-plasmate" equation. An impersonal regulatory absolute (along the lines of Heraclitus' theories) maintaining palintropos & palintonos harmonie via e.g. enantiodromia). Thus I turn away from Xtian, Gnostic, Greek & pan- 63-2013 D-16 Indian thought to what I know best: Taoism. Hence -obviously- the dialectic revealed to me. Voila: the experience last night with the "I Ching": of course "the living info" shows up there, because Taoism is the case, underlying all else. I could see the hexagram -for the first time in my life!- as ideographs. (Or whatever the fuck the correct word is.) That is, I read them directly, as the Chinese Taoist sages must have. + the trigrams! + consider: this is all built upon purely quantitative info (broken, unbroken); hence rest-motion modes. Last night may have at last told me what Valis' mind in mind was; Valis outside me was; + the MMSK was - hence the plasmate, + set-ground, the two 180 degree reversal coaxial worlds. Set-ground: Yang + Yin. Like Parmenides' Forms I and II. + Form II is only seeming: it is there only to achieve balance, parity - hence the two coaxial worlds: one Yang, the other Yin (the BIP world of "Tears" is the immutable cause-+-effect [heimarmene] Yin world. [Illustration of two realms overlapping at a common area] Upper realm: Yang Lower realm: Yin Our composite world! Made out of two sources: Yang + Yin. 63-2013 63-2013 D-17 Then Yang overcomes Yin in/as Boehme's "sic-non". My two coaxial worlds are Yang + Yin seen as two coaxial worlds. Purely: unmixed. Hence my "two-source cosmogony". I cognitively & perceptually discriminated the Yang + Yin components into set-ground, a la Parmenides. & my individuation was a Taoist alchemical wedding of Yin + Yang in me: the sought-for hierogamy of all spiritual alchemy, Hermetic, Taoist, etc. What I am saying is that the Greek Kosmos vs the Gnostic dualism between heimarmene & pronoia problem (identifying heimarmene with pronoia or bipolarizing it) can be resolved by the higher synthesis of Taoism, in which the problem is resolved in an orthogonal way -- especially the matter of the possible existence of something outside the Kosmos: the transmundane deity (& world) of Gnosticism. It is the Tao, with the dialectical interaction between Yin + Yang making up the Kosmos ("reality field"), the Tao itself transcending this & yet not existing (as Lau points out contra the Platonist form doctrine). Thus, if one comprehends the Tao (Ch'ang Tao) one sees that 1) the Babylonian mechanical astrological universe is not the case, but also 2) the Xtian, Judaistic, Moslem etc personal deity who intervenes with & by pronoia is not 63-2013 63-2013 D-18 the case either; both solutions err, each in a way opposite to the other. The total system is something like the Greek-stoic kosmos but also something such as Philo imagined; both are equally right - + equally wrong. (one could say: neither system is with the Tao; each veers off to one extreme or the other - too impersonal, too personal.) (One is too mechanistic, the other too anthropomorphic.) Last night was a singular -even unique- revelation: I got to palpably see (as if sensibly) the "I Ching" work, + in terms of what + how I saw in 3-74!). + it wasn't just due to our being ripped; it had to do with the oracle adressing Su, Juan + me simultaneously - 3 very intelligent people were consulting it in unison, each of us unique + hence receiving an answer diferent from what the two others got. The "I Ching" revealed indubitable animation (that is, sentience), + this sentience must have been the Tao itself in the form of written info; hence my "plasmate" is a function of the Tao + related to very advanced physics e.g. synchronicity. Which is to say, the utilization of a field instead of causality. 63-2013 63-2013 D-19 What the "I Ching" told me to do regarding Sandra was go ahead: "misfortune, no blame" - "one of the most lofty concepts known to man - a unique line in the oracle. Then, since (as it would appear) Taoism is the case, Firebright did come into existence, due to the hierogamy of Yin + Yang in me: the mysterious embryo or golden flower who will leave me upon my death + ascend to heaven - i.e. to the Ch'ang Tao itself. Internal mutual adjustment to re-establish equilibrium: this was the providentia in 3-74. The Tao restores balance: it acts. What if it is the case that generally (normally) the Tao does not intervene in the order of the world, but, rather, allows the dialectic to work out its own equilibrium; but if the direction veers enough (in either direction?) then the Ch'ang Tao does intervene (to re-establish balance)? + this is the case re 1974 + removing the Nixon regime; hence the prophecies of the Sibyl. Why, this is what Plato describes the demiurge as doing in "Timaeus"! ___ 4:00 a.m. insight: The whole system is based on info (e.g. the messenger vision - the retributive machinery requires + acts on info + info only - , the set-ground plasmate, the "I Ching" the other night), but in 3-74 vis-a-vis the Xerox Missive I was blocked in terms of responding to the info, so that I did not respond. 63-2013 63-2013 D-20 This would seem to resemble the messenger vision (which expressed the general, overall situation); what I see is: continual control of us - of causation, in fact - expressed as info, + a Soten who intervenes to block either you from responding (it blocks you, to whom the info is aimed as programming) ot it bilks the machinery in some other way (feeding it false info). This is not Taoism; this is either Xtianity or, more likely, Gnosticism. Then the general situation - the power of the living info - is either not always good or not good at all! In fact it is the agency or agent that binds us. Within such a context, the Soten. I lay down - + had a vision of what he releases us from: it is the weary wheel that binds all life as Schopenhauer saw: to toil + strife + death: as mechanisms within an over-all heartless mechanism. + thus the savior must pervade the whole ecosphere, as Jesus patibilis, to relive the distress of each creature great + small, or he would not be the universal savior that he must be (to do his task: for that which befalls the man befalls the beast). It is as the Gnostics say (heimarmene), + all of it, alive + inanimate, are governed by info + treated as enslaved things - + all the saviors have come here to intervene in this. 63-2013 D-27 ___ The structure is simple. It is Gnostic, but not quite as I saw it in "Valis"; I missed the absolutely basic, crucial aspect of heimarmene - no, I did mention it in passing as "astral determinism"; I had the tune but not the words. The great cosmic scheme of antiquity stands indicted; I see the clear + evident relationship between Gnostic soteriology + Beethoven - which is to say, modern man (+ my own release in 3-74). Wait. (Cortez... upon a peak at Darien.) My help was due to my own deed (vis-a-vis Covenant House); it still could be Taoism + ultra physics. Self-adjusting system all of whose causes originate within it - this is cosmos - or field. I keep thinking of Frank Frink in "MHC" saving himself (which can only be seen if the total field is seen). (If not, his extrication is inexplicable.) (Causeless, random, capricious; but in fact it is not; it is logical + neces - Jesu! necessary - in terms of a higher system of necessity. Time collapsed + the future affected the past. The info factor was not limited to that which programmed; it also included that which solved (liberated); that is, info provided the solution as well. This analysis abolishes the Soter vs info theory! What we have (v. ultra supra) is feedback of info - positive feedback resulting in a runaway: the introduction of newness. But this does ("this" referring 63-2013 63-2013 D-28 to feedback) break the determinist rigid structure by feeding what has not yet happened back into what has happened - with logically extraordinary results (viz: the results would be quite extraordinary because a heuristic series of mutual adjustments moving toward equilibrium would be triggered off. This is, from a cybernetics standpoint, a very sophisticated system indeed. It assumes a future outcome - assumes it in advance before it occurs, +, having assumed it, feeds it back in -as I say- a positive loop; with each increment in feedback there is a reciprocal change tending to produce augmented feedback to infinity as a limit. What I am saying is: as the feedback (from the future) is received, it causes an adjustment in the present which then alters the future in accord with normal causation - efficient cause, + this is fed back, etc. Now, is it possible that the "not two mothers once but one mother twice" meta-abstraction by its nature per se opens up this feedback possibility? Because the meta-abstraction as such -solus- would fuck up normal (linear) time permitting a feedback to occur (the forms are outside of time). (In fact, is this not what the meta-abstraction is all about? This is not a spin off but fundamentaly related to it, this non- 63-2013 63-2013 D-29 temporal -linear-time- basis of perception-experience-cognition? If indeed the basis of the universe is information, would not information enter (from the future) + if just an iota did so, this would start the positive feedback runaway because of the dialectic progression of higher + higher stases of equilibrium generated? I am saying that the dialectic that I experienced was, then, a positive feedback loop, no more + no less: [drawing of a positive feedback loop] - my "two mirrors in which the self sees itself reflected" thing. Yes: my analysis that if the self catches sight of itself, it changes as a result - the map paradox: yes: again a positive feedback runaway. This, then, is self awareness: the seeing of something familiar in the outer world (the not-I) that is recognized - as self. + this sets off the dialectic. The influx of Thomas, then, must have been from the future, not the past, + in fact this possibility is dealt with in "Valis"! The dialectic is a positive feedback loop from the present to the future; info from the future broke in initially as an iota + built through successive increments of levels of stasis (equilibrium: mutual adjustment) as the system sought to "calm" itself. The whole phosphene trip was a positive feedback runaway. 63-2013 63-2013 D-30 My God, this is seizing fate by the throat; what is abolished is that which we know of as "fate" - i.e. a closed system moving ahead due to efficient cause: the total antecedent past (closed system into which nothing new can come; where could it come from? Then when I saw Valis it was the future causing a "perturbation in the reality field" - the source would be the future which by definition in contradistinction to the past lies outside of reality, because what we call "reality" is the point-summation of the total past, as it progresses forward along the linear time axis. Were the future to affect the past in/as a feedback loop, Valis is what you would see! I.e. pretextual cause, which is efficient cause overwhelmed (teleologically, as it were): rendered at that time + at that place merely pretextual, not a normal state; hence: perturbation (abnormality). + all this winds up