overthrew Nixon to change our future (I have certainly pondered the very real possibility that time travel back to this period from the future was involved, or from the past). In VALIS I theorize at one point that the three-eyed people are from the future, and so is Zebra; I had the distinct sense when VALIS' mind was in mine that VALIS was moving retrograde in time. Plus all the technology (which would include the plasmate, the covert message traffic), all that cyborg stuff. I distinctly felt that a dazzlingly superior future technology had broken through into our world to change history; that was its purpose: to overthrow tyranny. I was thinking about Nixon, but when I review, as I have done, the BIP and my memory of it, and construe it to have folder 90 - 048 folder 90 - 048 -3- been an alternate previous present, then suddenly the argument for this intervention from the future gets very strong. Now, narrowing it down, we get back to the Xerox missive. Could this not have been (and indeed probably was) an override from the future come here to my rescue? What if we strip away the religious obfuscation: we discern what may have been advanced technology involved -- which fits the impression that I had at the time, viz: that I was in the grip --not of supernatural forces-- but superior technology that anticipated the arrival of the Xerox missive and knew indeed what it was and what the consequences would be --in fact were the first time-- if I wasn't helped. This would explain my acute sense that I had lived through the crisis once before, but that time, no help had come. Viewed this way, do I want, then, to reappraise that moment when VALIS transferred information to me about Chrissy's birth defect? You know, much of my writing since TEARS has been a liberate attempt to lay down an "answer," so to speak, to the future, in response to their help; I have continued to hold all these years a latent conviction that my aid came from the future, and that through my writing I can communicate with those who aided me. This is one reason I have become so autobiographical in my writing, is it not? Sure it is. The beam of pink light fired at my head --as discussed in VALIS-- is, I have always believed deep down underneath, not God but technology, and technology from the future at that. Now of course this explains how I specifically, out of three billion people in the world, came to know about this intervention from the future; I am a person whose life they changed, interfered with; I mean, one whom they rescued. And they certainly did it --not because I am noble and important, necessary to history and to the world-- but simply because they had used TEARS as an information carrier and (this seems reasonable) when I got into trouble because of TEARS, when it was finally published in 2-74, they deemed it just that they should come to my rescue. Oh my goodness. I experienced VALIS' mind. It was the mind of a binary computer. They sent a thinking machine back here, a sort of computer time-machine. It's able to camouflage itself; it must work directly on our minds. Hence I heard the Beatles' folder 90 - 049 folder 90 - 049 -4- lyrics all switched around, and was like a person hypnotized and then being awakened, with post-hypnotic suggestions implanted in me. (Knowledge of Chrissy's birth defect.) This would define my "dissociated actions" vis-a-vis the Xerox missive as a technological override. And this would explain why I found myself out of synch with time: responding to stimuli (events) before they occurred; time had been perturbed. Oh God; I used that word: perturbed. "A perturbation of the reality field"! This is why I called the Fullerton PD; I sensed, rightly sensed, that "I am a machine and under some kind of control; I can be made to do and see anything they want." This was very literally the case. But the clue is my getting out of synch with time. There was indeed a time perturbation, in fact a perturbation of the reality field itself. (My entry in THE BOOK OF PREDICTIONS about the Russians "using tachyons to carry information back to the past in order to change it" shows I was still mulling this possibility over vis-a-vis 1974; I still considered it a possibility. After all, I had that dream about the two-rotor engine and heard the words, "This was known in your time." I tried in my U.K. speech to signal back to them, supposing "them" to be in the future. Then my sense of secret societies which possess incredibly advance technology is perhaps an accurate perception, but they're here from the future; they did not evolve through history out of the past (i.e. they are not traditional secret societies such as the Rose Cross). This points to the covert information traffic as technology of an advanced sort in action, which strikes at the heart of my set/ground discrimination. The whole Christian apocalyptic history and the revolutionary secret Christians overthrowing the BIP -- it is real revolution, but my viewing it as Christian may have been contrived. If I see it as Christian I will babble endlessly about religion and hence do little or no harm. This is all a way I have had to interpret and explain (to myself primarily) what happened in 2-3-74. But what we are really dealing with is super technology involving mind-control. The AI voice is indeed an AI voice, and this is telepathy; this is, again, technology. My hearing the radio say hideous things -- I was being awakened, as when Connie Wheeler brought me out of my folder 90 - 050 folder 90 - 050 -5- hypnotic trance in Inverness. "Any sufficiently advanced technology would seem like magic," that is, it would seem supernatural. Read religion, God, miracle, here. This might well explain the profound emotional effect that "The Piper at the Gates of Dawn" had on me; I was made to remember that I had been sprung from a trap by something so beautiful and sweet that -- well, it was literally the case. Yes there was a trap and Yes I was sprung. But I'm not going to be able to solve this. It was either technology so advanced that it seemed supernatural to me, or else it was supernatural (from God) and that caused me to infer super-advanced technology. As a sort of compromise I keep thinking about Diana and fairy magic. A midpoint between God and human technology from the future ... oh yes, that's what fairies are, the E.B. explains. "At a midpoint between man and angels." "We are spirits of the air / Who of human beings take care." Atmospheric spirits. Fairy bells. A magic kingdom of bells and color and incredible beauty, and it is right here. And somehow time is perturbed by it or by them (as all the legends tell; time is always perturbed). I was enchanted and in an enchanted kingdom. THE DIVINE INVASION goes into this, and probably for a good reason! "Time perturbed and their wits addled," and a partial memory of something incredibly beautiful now lost to me ... but recalled by a children's book. That sounds like fairy magic, not Christ; children's books preserve the sense of wonder that finds its ultimate expression in the Fairy Kingdom; what I am saying is that my reaction to WILLOWS suggests that whether I know it or not and whether I face it or it, it was Diana; it was the fairy troop and the fairy kingdom, fairy magic -- hence my dream in VALIS about the wizards born, that should not be put in wooden cradles. And the king who I see dancing in the mists at dawn is the fairy king, and the smile that I see (that is mentioned in WILLOWS) is his smile, remembered from THE RED FEATHER. But VALIS was in my mind; I experienced its mind, and it is a binary computer. What we see as fairy magic is ultra-sophisticated technology, and the most likely place of origin is (in my opinion) the future. I just now reread the dream that appears in VALIS. Based on it --based on having it-- I figured out (or at least stated in the folder 90 - 051 -6- novel that it was the dream that caused me to figure out) that we are not dealing with God but with "magic," and what we call "magic" is actually a superior technology, and, as I say at that point in the novel, Zebra (VALIS) and the plasmate probably came here from the future, since it is in the future that such advanced technology most likely exists (if indeed it exists anywhere). Now, this whole business about the fairy queen --Diana-- and magic brings me (as it did in THE DIVINE INVASION) back to the Caballa and finally to YHWH. To repeat: the link between magic (the fairy kingdom) and YHWH --one would think there is no such link-- is the Caballa with its ten hypostases, the bottom one of which (Malkuth) I associate with the Spring Queen and hence the fairy queen, with her music and dancing. This would imply that the plasmate, the living information, is the Torah. And it may be that the cosmic body of Christ that I perceive world to be is the Tree of Life --the ten hypostases of God-- conceived as one human body ... with Christ as yesod, the particular hypostasis in which, by which and under which En Sof has revealed himself to me. And the AI voice, then, as Father Adams said, is ruah, the Spirit of God, which, like the Shekhina, is feminine. I can't help believing that the brief return of that Other World last week, that other way of being-in-world that I associate with 2-74 to 2-75, what I call the Palm Tree Garden, or as I now term it, the Spacial Realm, is connected with this being Easter Week (or it was; today is Easter Sunday, so it was last week). That entire week is holy to the Christian; it begins with Palm Sunday which reperforms Jesus' entry into Jerusalem. And I had just at that time --literally exactly at that time-- worked out --upon rereading "Chains ... Web" an extraordinary analysis of the Christian solution to hostile world expressed as fate: the cessation of evasion and flight, the entry into a purely spatial realm of the absolute now, which I connect with Heidegger's authentic being (Sein), a totally different Dasein that frees the person; and from this I worked to my revolutionary model of the binary switching system that I now conceive reality to be. Well, as I say, I figured out that the spatial realm is the one that folder 90 - 052 folder 90 - 052 -7- genuine Christianity gets us into; it frees us from time -- and then, as I say, a few days later (i.e. in the middle of last week) I briefly found myself once more in that realm -- a realm that I had proven to my satisfaction derives from and is essentially related to Christianity and the Christian way of being-in-the-world, what Heidegger calls being-to-death (or something like that; anyhow it has to do with the Christian attitude toward death, which is to say annihilation / nonbeing / das Nichts). At the time that I found myself back in the purely spatial realm, I supposed that it was because I had upped my dosage of Sinnaquan, but that is absolutely not likely. Let us consider the exact circumstances. It was Tuesday, the day the space shuttle returned. The night before, Monday night, something strange happened to me; I burned out. I could not think in complete sentences; I'd begin a