change, which mus by necessity yield a very special kind of time. Now, the other side of saying this is cumulative change + cumulative time (by which the MMSK works) is to say that in it at any given stage all its previous stages are retained as in my Platonic Form axis, because any given stage represents a furthering of the sum totality of all the previous stages + develops (evolves) logically out of them (rather than merely being new different arbitrary). All the previous stages give birth to the present - new-stage in an organic sense; this is an inexorable growth-process that makes of all the stages an unfolding unity driven from withing as if everything - all stages - were always already there from the start in a potential sense (for example, if you absolutely under. stood the logic you could theoretically predict at any given stage - or moment what the next stage would consist of because what will be lies in + emerges inexorably from the what is + what has been). So inner logical necessity drives this organism forward in time, through its growth stages, its evolution, Thus for K250 it time is a particular kind of time, totally different from machine time c (from its standpoint machine time is not time at all), + this evolutionary time is directly proportional to + related to negentropy (they are two aspects, in fact, of one thing). So it could be argued that Beethoven's genius lay precisely in the fact that - not that he wrote great music; mozart wrote great music - but that each composition in turn was deliberately both a summation of all the compositions that had come before but, moreover, logically evolved out of them into some‐ thing new that surpassed them by the very fact of subsuming them + summing them up, in which case his music exists in specifically biological evolutionary growth time, cumulative time; +, as I say, This is the time (the method of change) of The MMSK itself. So my seeing flux, the flux-world, acting to lay down permanent accretions in a structure in such a way as to inexorably complexify + complete it is a vision departing crucially + radically from (say) Plato's view of the relation between the eternal forms + the flux world; this is not a minor difference but the difference between death (stasis) life (organic growth), in which case + our two systems while in certain respects they are identical in this respect are 180° diametrically opposite. just as it 9251 said of entropy that its nature is irreversible (i.e. the progressive disorder of a system that entropy is the continual loss of information), so the nature of the MMSK is irreversible progression from disorder (expressed as simple + undifferentiated) to order (complexity of organization of structure). It is precisely This irreversibility of progression toward complexification of organization (gain of info) that renders (or identifies) the MMSK - hence Valis - as negentropy qua negentropy with all other attributes perhaps secondary. (In regard to this now consider my notion of Torah to N.T. to infinitude of recombinant messages [utilized + applying to unique persons + situations: used once + Then "matrixed back" to be recombined anew]. It is very possible that in 100 be Valis had only the one Torah (corpus of fixed info) to disclose - at that point in its -Valis- own evolution, since after all just it itself - + not its revelation to us is evolving. + further I maintain that its change-rate velocity is accellerating (which is vitally important as a factor determining its nature, although this is a quantitative factor (yielding crucial qualitative transformations, as I explained] This has a the effect of stigmatizing what I call machine thinking" as a malfunction in two ways. (1) It is failure to grow per se; that is, it is ossificati Im K252 generates what I call dead, stopped or cyclic time Moreover (2) this time (change-rate velocity) is regressive along the ontological axis (because accelleration of change-rate velocity is the key to this axis in which many factors depend: flexibility, freedom consciousness, complexity, order); so machine thinking is a reversion ontologically to a simpler, more durable earlier state + as such amounts to an increase in entropy itself. t mean the repetition of machine thinking the fact that machine thinking is characterized by repetition- is indicative of death in two ways: intrinsically (there is no cumulative growth) + relatively (it amounts to an onto‐ logical regression from a higher state). One can then say that machine thinking is a death that confronts the evolving organism as a progressively more sinister threat the higher the organism has evolved; put another way, the higher it evolves (i.e. the more organized + complex + fast-changing it becomes) the more dangerous becomes the significance of a fall back to machine thinking. Thus by virtue of its evolving nature the more the risk (to evolve is to court proportionally greater disaster. Paradoxically, the awareness of this increasing threat may act as a factor in itself promoting a fall back, because a point may come when the organism perceives the threat becoming too vast for it to bear; that is, it can bring itself to face the threat no longer machine thinking is equally death at any level of complexity + change-rate velocity (253 This is an inverted pyramid, + the more it evolves, the greater the significance of repeating itself - i.e. falling into machine thinking hence machine time. consider this in terms of Beethoven's music. Each successive composition "weighs" more in the total structure; the fact that the corpus of what it sums up + evolves out of is increasingly greater, so the task of success fully summing up + advancing logically is proportionally more difficult, + the role played in the total structure is greater for each successive piece because it does sum up a growing corpus + therefore must be intrin‐ sically more meaningful if it is to do its job relative to the extant corpus. This is why Gregg Rickman's article on my writing was valuable to me - in fact priceless. It did not so merely show that I sum up; it showed what the nature + direction of this progressive summing up + subsumation logically are + hence must be. In respect to this, the blade runner novelization project posed a disasterous threat to me. "BTA" was a counter-move dictated (I hope) by the logic of my opus. Clearly the issue was one of life + death, which would explain why "BTA" would succeed-do its job - only if Angel archer were totally real, + for me to view born is for me her as my soul successfully that life won to sense - rightly or wrongly oul over death, "soul," then, is metaphor for born, + a greater i life + moreover life newly the like of which showing up nowhere life better K254 before in my work. That upon finishing "BTA" I believed that I had risked my literal physical life - + almost lost it is then logically what I would feel, would of necessity feel, because indeed I did risk my life; I risked my physical life in the servic of preserving, augmenting + prolonging my spiritual life. It almost turned out that I literally physically died in the act (work) of giving birth to angel Archer. Had it killed me I would have been concerned about only one thing: Does angel Archer exist now? As far as I'm concerned she does, + I don't appear to have physically died. But I subordinated my physical well-being for the sake of creating her, to the task of creating her; so well I might view her as my soul! But in viewing angel archer as eternal (now that I created her) I had to face the other side of the matter: that I am not. No wonder the most profound feelings + intimations possible flooded over me in the weeks following my completion of that book. It is a book whose story, theme + ideas, even artistic worth, are all subordinated to its Angel archer as a person, as I wrote rust as an recently. In "thermal" terms I organism expended my maximum effort at the service of the need to grow (it is in my work that my growth axis exists, + I am well aware of this; I have long been at the disposal of my work, viewing myself as its instrument, not it mine. Yet paradoxically in "BTA" - at least when viewed in 9255 conjunction with Russ' letter + my Ditheon dream, a feedback from it to me, me as a person, occurred, + a major conceptual insight arises in me as a result, an insight totally new to me having to do with (1) what Christ is; + (2) how "acheived," that is, what "brings on" or "causes" Christ or Christo genesis. Yes, that is the word: Christogenesis I Christ is seen in evolutionary terms paralleling or expressing the very evolution that (I believe) my work represents (+ which I see in the macrocosm in + as + by Valis). At a certain crucial stage of evolution toward complexification of structure (i.e. negentropy) the mundane passes over - in a quantum leap - into the divine; the man becomes Ditheon, Christ; the macrocosm likewise (ald Teilhard + his point omega). When this occurs, the work is complete because this divinization, this Christogenesis, indicates - + occurs at + is - the perfected structure (in terms of the entropy- negentropy axis. It represents absolute, total order). What does it do then? I guess it reproduces. For me this transformation was (I think) conferred from above, as it were, in, as + by what is called "justification." I looked up the legal meaning of "justify" + "justification," since the theological one is derived from it; it means when an accused person (in court) can show lawful cause - reason - for what he did - did that or which he is called to answer." Not "did he do it?" But did he have a lawful reason for K256 doing it. The issue, then, is not guilt or innocence in the sense of, "did he do it?" He does not contest that he did it. Oddly, I never contested the fact that I broke the law on that tax matter; I would have sought to justify what I did on the grounds that (1) I followed God's law; + (2) his law takes precedence over civil (secular) law. Does this mean that God's justification of me in 2-74 was precisely his power to adjudicate in this very matter, + so did, + did justify me. No, in one sense; yes in another. I was made justified as explained in the "Messenger" vision: through + in + by Christ (justification by surrogation). However: this may have been the Roman Catholic version of justification (in which good works - works of merit, hence merit - count) in contrast to the protestant in which man is hopelessly sinful, utterly so, + hence either has no merit or if he has it is not a factor. The revelation about my act vis-a-vis covenant House specifies the Roman Catholic version So: I write "BTA" for spiritual (artistic, creative) reasons, + reap the spiritual reward of a crucial further understanding of 2-3-74, what it was + means - a quantum leap in comprehension that would not have taken place without "BTA" Russ' letter + the Ditheon dream. It is (according to the EB) said by protestant thinkers (sometimes) that justification can or does produce "a Chris K25t + this would be of course Ditheon. As I view it, God adds to your mind (psyche) the missing essential parts needed to complete it + (as I view it) out of this, due to this, you are ensouled (as I put it);