wounds plural - burns - are shown but a wound, the spear - wound on the cross - a clear + evident reference to the crucified Christ + I was conscious when I had this vision; it was not a dream; it was bypa hypnagogic. + yet (to repeat) it was on my what am I to make of this? One time thigh. the idea came to me - a very strange idea that Valis entered the world through me; that is what it was doing in my mind. It C-94 used me as a conduct, + this fits in with my sense of being female in relation to it + there also firebright: the offspring of the hierogamy. Is Tagore firebright? Some vast supernatural mind rushed through me + out into the world, as if I stood in two realms (upper + lower?) + it had been in the upper, + reached the lower - our universe. through - by way of - me. This is rather grandiose on my part, however Yet the wound vision not only implies Christ, it also points to me (as Francie Steiger said: "You are a Christ-child"!). + I give then, life to the world, via the wound. I am life. giving; perhaps not physical life but spiritual life (in my writing? + in my Xerox madouts? Okay, yes, then; I am a channel that the divine is utilizing to reach into our world; can accept that; the Kerygma, possibly I I can view it in terms of information; this ties in with the 2 Marathon runners, I just now realized. Surely this is indeed what is meant going back to "Tears" + maybe even to "Ubik" A Buddha? Why not a Christos? No; a mouth piece, like the Baptist. An O.T. prophet. It is not that I am spiritual; rather, I am used as a conduct for the spiritual message to enter the world, that's it, the wound vision sums up my role + purpose: my use. Spiritual life is flowing into the world e the universe is an info retrieval system + in 3-74 I found the access (MMSK + the mind of Valis: binary system) i 91 the entire past can be retrieved, but it is not retrieved "photographically": as it actually happened (the phenomenal world of discrete plural objects); it is stored in an organized way - structured somehow - + when retrieved comes out con‐ ceptually resembling Plato's forms. Where it differs from Plato's Forms is that it is {Note as information as a structure constantly evolving, being added to, becoming more organized + complex more negentropic. This evolution toward greater + greater complexity + organization follows inevitably + naturally from the basic fact of information-storage; it must be stored in a structured way so that it can be retrieved, + retrieved according to some kind of coherence (however alien to us humans); thus the perpetual evolution of the MMSK that I noted is axiomatically rooted in the endless accumulation of more + more information; this is both cause +, in a t sense. The sense of retrieval, purpose. quite obviously this supposes a mind (or minds plural) that retrieve the stored information (+ probably designed the structure + system in the first place). + indeed I encountered such a mind, which surnamed Valis. So the MMSK must evolve to accommodate the perpetual generation of information resulting from the transformation of reality now to reality past - the latter being an information form i G-96 of the present. All this information was at one time what we know as reality; when it goes from the present to the past it does not cease to be but is converted (somehow) into information encoded as modulation in the new present, using the present (which relentlessy "advances" forward "through time") as its carrier. Thus what we call "time" could be regarded as this ceaseless conversion of reality into stored information that is here + now (but to which we have no access + hence do not see). What dominaters the total system present + past are the phylogons, or trans temporal constants (obviously either Plato's Forms or much like them; they were here + they are here + they will be here later; they acquire accretions but substantially they are outside what we call "time" which can more accur. ately be called "the process by which the actual is converted into information - which then can be retrieved, since it is stored coherently + in such a way as to be available to access - if you know how). The total, real or whole structure of reality embraces, therefore, the present as actual + the past as information modulating the actual so that underlying what we see as the flux of the phenomenal world lie what Plato called "Forms." My "groove vs music" model, then, must be amended: "groove" (physical reality in the presents) in continually converted into the very "music" that modulates it qua carrier, creating a total system of ever increasing structural complexity. Viewed this the Xtian doctrine of the apocalypse (end way times) is retrieval (playback) per se, + this is indeed the "world" that I saw in 2-3-74. that which has been stored as information is -97 extracted back out put another way, any time that info retrieval occurs through proper access, there + then is the apocalypse + this is precisely what occurred when my accidental (?) access + hence retrieval in 2-3-74 took place; that is, I did not just know about the apocalypse (end times); it was, + was here + now qua world, enhancing the spatiotemporal present world I had known much as if the missing -stored - pieces were hence I speak of the added (filled in); I saw coaxiality of the "Acts world" that (more accurately the apocalypse/end times) + the normal present - which "coaxiality; must I could not account for. What I realize is that the "Acts world" is no one time + no one place (a fact that I have indeed speak of "trans- or supra-temporal recognized; I constants emerging into palpability") but is the complete system, hence past, present + future "laminate together + hence sensible"; to regard This as a spatiotemporal world (one particular miss time, one particular place) is entirely to the point - + I did grasp this. "Valis" deals very adequately with all this. (E.g. the BIP, the PTG, the Empire, the secret Xtians.) I must confess at this point that this line of very persuasion reasoning points to a Platonist eschatological Xtianity as the authentic basis of it all, in which case perhaps the Xtian Fish sign is an access to retrieval + hence a means of summoning into palpability of the total system (retrieved) qua total system. (of which we normally see only one meager slice: our spatiotemporal here + now.) viewed in this light, the "Acts world" that I C-as saw existed as much at the time + place of Daniel + Acts + revelation as it does now or ever will; it is ceaselessly theoretically available for retrieval of - this access proper access is utilized being authentic Xtianity per se a fortiori what is remarkable, then, is just how accurate "Valis" is what I saw in 2-3-74 was real, accurate + literal + requires no interpretation: only an explanation of how it got there (stored info) + how retrieval occurred (the Fish sign 12 04 2) as access. These were not symbols but literal reality, available by + through the yos as organizing mind (kosmos noetos). "manity is (1) that which is retrieved (the end times apocalyptic "Acts" - or Bible - reality); (2) the access to retrieval; + (3) a system of thought that describes, interprets + explains item #-(1) to us we can't gain access; but (4) Xtianity is designed to give access: a system of thought containing access as its ultimate purpose, thus abolishing time + placing The supra-temporal true, total reality Hence on the basis of my 2-3-74 - 75 experience I radically redefine what Xtianity is; conversely, Xtianity is now seen as the explanation of 2-3-74. It + tells me - Xtianity tells me - what my 2-3-74-75 experience was Each is the other half of the other: one an experience, the other a system of thought that contains access - keys. e.g. the conversion of th upsicon into a palm free was retrieval of info encoded into it C-99 I don't know what's the mater with the "no-nokes" topic is the topic meprotest + the new counter culture non of The Vietnam war was in the 60; + 70s; as The Tagore dream places me squarled in the middle of the new, current bipolarized battle - right whene I ought to be. + this what the silkwood pamphlet must have is made me realize, for it tied the nuclew issue in with all that I had to deal with + combat in the '60s + 70s; all of a sudden it all came together as a single whole. Now the authorities are harrassing + trying to silence the foes of nuclem power + weapous + waste-disposal. Perhaps my unconscious knew this yet - for my coming to see this being part of the revelation of the savior himself - not just a dream about radioactive wastes being dumped in the oceans but about Tagore - this unifies my spiritual vision (i.e. "Valis") + my political vision into one Good Lord co significance! + the silkwod pamphlet made me realize it for the first time Now, then is another view of this two-part fusion: that this is a way of making my savior vision/theme relevent to the contem porary world-situation, of bringing it eoce out of the clouds (which is how, I think) I first viewed it. However, Tagore is now bipolaroced to the BIP, the Empire, by way of the crucial an area of dispute, just as if I had dreame of out against spoken him in the 60s + he had read about silk I only when the Vietnam war see this wood dis C-100 actually, my initial reaction was that this was a relatively innoculous doctrine ("on the side of the angels," as it were) but the truth is 1800 from this appraisal. Like abortion, It is the most fiercely fought issue in the USA today. + weapons are included in the "demonic trinity. the seque for me may be the topic of, the metaphysical significance of, camer (I am listening to minnie ripperton); had sictwood not been murden by the hit - + -run auto death she would have died of cancer because that is how contamination by radioactive heavy metals kills you: they are carcinogens: the ultimate ones. Thus my concern for lorraine Hynes + then Doris + also for susan sonntay are the emotional, spiritual bridge between my mental life of the past (ous + early '70s) to the present (late '70s + 1gos). The ideological elements in both cases are pedicated on overwhelming spiritual + emitional bases: (1) the Vietnam war on my horror at the Japane soldier in will in the newsreel rurning to death + the audience laughing; in the second case (2) My horror at cancer. Now the Tagore dream (I suddenly realize) combines my two spiritual-emo‐ tional bases: radioactive wastes (nuclear power weapons, waste) burn Tagore, + these burns, being on his legs, relate all the way back to my satz: my sister being burned on the lea by the hit water bottle; also, Tagore was charred, as if burned by a flame thrower or napalm. + I thought of the Buddhist monks in Vietnam who immolated themselves to protest the "dragon lady" so here is a direct link to the Vietnam war - + to protest as well as to non-violent religio C-155 depicts in this life. Hence my concept of coaxiality is brilliant but not original; it is Plotinus restated