knowledge of the totality. He knows by the means that God knows: a priori + necessarily. This structure so known is coherent + intact, consisting of folder 90 - 151 G-96 necessary truths that always are; it as a totality can be defined as Pythagoras did: "the harmonious fitting-together of the beautiful." Everything literally fits together as what Pythagoras saw to be the basis of reality: not substantia but structure. I perceived it as dynamic + evolving in terms of complexity: reticulation + arborizing, incorporating new accretions conceptually. It may be alive. It may be an entelechy completing itself. It (apparently) is not God (I took it to be God) but is the world-order conceived by God; conceived in the sense of comprehended by God, as potter to vessel. He shapes it; it is under his control, a control exercised by his mind directly on it so that he, not it, brings newness perpetually into existence ex nihilo. I had the impression that it is a perfect sphere which remains the same no matter from which (what) point it is viewed (Parmenides), there is no motion in it, but it does grow internally (not in size but in perfection of its internal structure). Nothing that enters it ever passes away! It contains its entire history (like my Form-axes in "Ubik"). Yet it is still the world-order, not God. We know -can know- God only by the shaping power he exerts on this kosmos, his perturbation of it: we infer him by it + its changes (we know the potter only by the pot being made). What he is we cannot know (as Erigena says, he himself may not know; viz: he is not an object of knowledge perhaps even to himself. Perhaps more mysterious, he is not located anywhere (cf Xenophanes), either outside the world-order (i.e. transcendent) or folder 90 - 152 folder 90 - 152 G-97 within (immanent). It cannot be said that he is "large" or "small," "here" versus "there". (This is very clearly the Tao! Because suddenly I sense the way, which is the pressure exerted: the "perturbation" is the pressure exerting -shaping, influencing- the world-order to the way (viz: if there is pressure, + we know God only through the pressure he exerts!) it would cause-to-be a way in contradistinction to a not-way - + this fits in with my binary switching model! To yield to the way is everything! My conception of God (as it develops esp. recently) is of Ch'ang Tao. + this fits in with Whitehead's definition of God: the principle of selection! Then 3-74 re the Xerox missive is an instance par exellance of this gentle yet ineluctable pressure sensed as such. In conceiving of this, one can thereby distinguish the world-order (what is shaped: the vessel) from that which shapes (the potter, the Tao which is invisible + would be unknown to us except for this pressure). There is pressure from and pressure on: potter + vessel. Magnetic field to iron filings. This conception fits in with modern physics. But it (the Ch'ang Tao) does not just shape what is; the Tao causes something to be, to come into existence, which was not (i.e. ex nihilo): it creates as well as shapes: it adds to. folder 90 - 153 folder 90 - 153 G-98 It has the power to cause nonbeing (the void) to pass over into being, + that which it creates is real, not just seeming. ___ Anamnesis: You have seen it before (the "one mother three times, not three mothers.") But what does "before" mean? It is not before in linear time; the "before" is here now. As what? Apparently as eidos. What if we drop out the term "before" + say, "one has seen it already, it is familiar; it is something recognized." This is what Plato is talking about, it has to do with innate categories. Isn't this Augustine's criticism of anamnesis? The "before" is confusing because one supposes himself to be an empiricism: "what is in the mind must first be in the senses." Here precisely is where the error lies + Augustine spotted it. Empiricism would require reincarnation; rationalism would not. If the world I saw could equally as well be interpreted as Acts as USA 1974, then much of the machinery is in my own mind; I must in some way be autogenerating world (or some critical portion of world). It is familiar because it originates from me in the first place; this is the sense in which I have seen it before; thus Cartesian "innate category" escalates to folder 90 - 154 folder 90 - 154 G-99 something more. (That what I see is familiar indicates that it lags; I do not think it - I did think it (past tense: it is a prior thought formation of my own). Moreover it is not real time we are dealing with: "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed." How does this pertain to my dream in which the man generated his own world by the act of perceiving it? This dream answers the question regarding the compelling of assent to what is in fact a representation! It is not the representation that compels the assent: it is the act of perceiving it. The generating mechanism is in a sense both ahead + behind; it uses the past - past material, but it projects it ahead of the perception so that the image is not there after it is seen but before. There is a recycling that represents an ex nihilo creation. Perception generates it but, more, perception changes it (observer-participant) so that it (the representation) takes off along the linear time axis, chased by the act of perception: here, positive feedback results in change, not - I was going to say "intensification," but this is exactly the right word; if one understands intensification as (1) change; + (2) an increasing power to compel assent with absolute power as a limit. Then my phosphene graphics flight was this change-process (in time) reinforcing itself in a positive feedback loop faster + folder 90 - 155 folder 90 - 155 G-100 faster, out of control, until it exhausted its limit (there is, then, a velocity limit) - at which point that autogenerated world disappeared entirely + I saw, instead, a binary switching information-processor. The autogenerator must have had nothing left either to draw on or no greater velocity open to it; it literally caught up with itself, converted into stasis + then vanished. What I then saw I saw a priori. (Hence I believed I could see with my eyes shut + in a sense I could.) The fact that the representation was in fact generated in my own brain had become apparent to me; therefore I conclude that the binary switching system was my own mind + I am Valis. Which is why I both experienced Valis in my mind + externally in world. There was no distinction (which is why it all resembled "Ubik")! I conclude, then, that as I said supra, ultra supra, true objective world died back awhile + we are dead, yet, paradoxically, live on but without an actual creation. We are those denied the Kingdom, + yet we are not in hell; we are in purgatorio. As stated in "Valis" it is a kind of maze + we built it ourselves + then fell into it + can't get back out. + Valis is outside + wakes us up. Precisely as stated in "Valis" Christ has invaded the folder 90 - 156 G-101 maze in camouflaged form; secretly he is here with us. There is no way that we on our own can outsmart the maze because by trying to solve it (i.e. by perceiving it) we cause it to increase in its power to compel our assent (since in some way that I can't fathom we ourselves generate it!) (What an ingenious maze: the efforts + the problem-solving by those trapped in it are what it derives its power + complexity from! THE DIVINE ILLUMINATION ABOLISHES THE TIME-AXIS WHICH IS THE RECEPTACLE OF BEING ALONG WHICH + IN WHICH THE MAZE GROWS MORE POWERFUL + COMPLEX; IT FREEZES THE MAZE, + THIS TIMELESS FREEZE IS WHAT PLATO CALLED "THE FORMS." IT IS AS IF THE MAZE AS A LIVING ORGANISM IS SLAIN. (This relates directly to my supra realization about evasion, evasive flight in time versus Xtian confronting fate - a purely spatial world. Upon this abolution of the time axis the person is out of the maze. IT IS THE STRATEGY OF THE MAZE TO CHANGE, + this is done in time. "He causes things to look different..." etc. folder 90 - 157 folder 90 - 157 G-102 Then what I saw in 3-74 was the MAZE FROZEN, hence causation VANISHED. When it is frozen, you can follow the THREAD out of it. This thread leads you -not through space- but upward in the realms that Dante describes; you begin vertical ascent (as in Neo-Platonism: BIP to this world to PTG.) We generate the maze ourselves. It increases along the time-axis. Plato's anamnesis is recognition of the maze as familiar + that the past is not the past: the time-axis is irreal + from this [axis factor] the maze DERIVES its power over us, thus to remember is to FREEZE THE MAZE, rob it of its time-axis + hence its power (which is a positive feedback loop based on our own perception of it, a perception that creates it - along the time-axis in constant living change. (Its axis of growing power to compel our assent.) (Synonymous with the degree of its reality.) By anamnesis we cause the maze to stand still, under which circumstances we can find our way out of it, since, because we are not fleeing-evading, the maze is no longer changing; its weapon that causes us to flee, thus generating time, hence causing the maze to grow + change, is fate / our fear of fate (annihilation). How can we cause ourselves to cease folder 90 - 158 folder 90 - 158 G-103 to flee (which causes the maze to change + grow)? We can't. Something must enter from outside the maze to aid us. Something must remind us, awaken us, cause us to remember (the "legend of the Pearl"), + thus to see the maze frozen. {illustration of a maze} My vision. The template as map of the maze - Christ as map; Acts lens / grid as map. The Grail - the maze. The blood (plasmate) in the Grail speaks to us, giving us clues to remind us. Finding the Grail equals threading the maze; when you thread it [successfully] you reach -find!- the Grail; this is what finding the Grail is all about. + the blood -living information covert traffic- aids you (e.g. King Felix). Otherwise we go around + around forever. "Valis" is basically correct: maze, Grail, plasmate, living information, minds, instructions (help) fired to us from outside by Valis / Logos / Christ. Valis in my mind + in reality was Christ; in "Valis" I was right; he is here in the maze. These are the key terms: maze, we generate it by perceiving it, information from outside to give us clues, anamnesis, the blood of Christ speaking to us, the Grail, magic (!!), flight in / through time, the maze changing, the maze frozen, vertical motion (the 3 realms), Christ here camouflaged invading the maze to remind us (wake us up), time dilation, something entering from outside, folder 90 - 159 folder 90 - 159 G-104 occlusion, fall. However, one must realize that an irreal world is better than none at all. There is an ambiguity to our situation: it is better than hell but worse than heaven. Hell would be total encapsulation: the mind (soul) provided with no world, no "other" at all; so in relation to hell (no world, no other)