what finding the Grail is all about. + the blood -living information covert traffic- aids you (e.g. King Felix). Otherwise we go around + around forever. "Valis" is basically correct: maze, Grail, plasmate, living information, minds, instructions (help) fired to us from outside by Valis / Logos / Christ. Valis in my mind + in reality was Christ; in "Valis" I was right; he is here in the maze. These are the key terms: maze, we generate it by perceiving it, information from outside to give us clues, anamnesis, the blood of Christ speaking to us, the Grail, magic (!!), flight in / through time, the maze changing, the maze frozen, vertical motion (the 3 realms), Christ here camouflaged invading the maze to remind us (wake us up), time dilation, something entering from outside, folder 90 - 159 folder 90 - 159 G-104 occlusion, fall. However, one must realize that an irreal world is better than none at all. There is an ambiguity to our situation: it is better than hell but worse than heaven. Hell would be total encapsulation: the mind (soul) provided with no world, no "other" at all; so in relation to hell (no world, no other) our state is a boon, + God is guarantor of world; he has the power to compel us to assent to [representation as] world absolutely, + this is only relatively a misfortune (it is a misfortune compared to paradiso, a mercy compared to hell). Where I am on the vertical axis, I can begin to comprehend him (God), as I did last night especially; irreal world (purgatorio) is beginning to give way to paradiso. This is really a very elaborate structure. There are all degrees + levels, not just hell vs liberation. Each of us has an appropriate realm defined in terms of proximity to or, conversely, distance from God. These are the "coaxial realms" I discerned. Not time-axis but some sort of Neo-Platonist "Commedia" vertical axis. There is some sort of common matrix serving all these hierarchical realms; they all work off it simultaneously + are in some strange way intermingled. They are all here + all now. The key is the medieval Gothic vertical spatial axis linking the lower + upper realms - hence in 3-74 I experienced this "medieval" world. In some very literal, true way heaven is up + hell is down + we are in the middle (hence purgatorio!). The closest I came to really understanding 3-74 folder 90 - 160 folder 90 - 160 G-105 was when I realized I had "abreacted" from the modern "temporal" world to the medieval vertical-spatial realm (with Platonist realist overtones). +, moreover, when we lost that "Gothic spatial world" we lost something infinitely precious. The link to heaven was severed + the lower + upper realms pulled apart. Totally unknown to us, they at that time (or some of them) had reunited the two realms -"two signals"- + restored the cosmos (or Christ had!). Viz: {illustration: Heaven upper / Rose / eidos Earth lower / Rose 1, Rose 2, Rose 3 / particulars} as I drew for Jane Burton; where did I ever learn this? From "The Waning of the Middle Ages"? Maybe; in any case it is true. 3-74: Restored cosmos through Christ who was present + whom I saw. For them, transubstantiation was literally real. As it was for me in 3-74! What we are speaking of here is an intact view, the cosmos restored in the individual - a vision lost to us now. + this is what Dante expresses in the "Commedia," this vertical ascent: possible in this lifetime, the goal of the medieval mystic. In the vertical hierarchy of realms, the top realm is: world as such is seen to be irreal + is replaced by God himself, which we are in (after the manner of Malebranche; world as God or God as world. My 3-74 perception of Valis, folder 90 - 161 G-105 then was an ascending to paradiso, world gave way to God: God outside me as world, God inside me (i.e. Valis). So to say that "God [Valis] invaded world" is quite wrong; this was my return to God - which is Dante's top realm. The BIP, of course, is the lowest realm, + originally I had been there. (Which is what anamnesis told me.) So my 3-74 experience of "the second signal" can best be understood in terms of the vertical ["spatial"] ascent of the "Commedia". Hence my impression that I had died. The best term for Valis is Rudolf Otto's: "the wholly other." This could also be described as an ascent from ignorance + slavery to knowledge + freedom. Our world is irreal + we generate it ourselves (+ for precisely this reason it can properly be called irreal;) thus in contact with it we experience not the true other but in fact our own thought-formations spun out of our own minds, coming back at us as world. This is the result of an evasive flight in time from reality. Only when we cease to run do we experience the truly other - + break out of our private world. Thus in this world we are literally + conceptually blind. We are not actually dealing with world but with a representation we take to be world, a spurious representation that we ourselves generate. At this level world is encountered as annihilating Fate; from this we flee into time: the very axis along which this irreal world is generated. In a way "real world" is an oxymoron; world as thing is by definition irreal because only God is real. But while you are in it you cannot possibly comprehend it as irreal, since thus comprehending it + escaping (rising above) it cannot be separated: while we are in it our absolute assent to it is compelled by we folder 90 - 162 folder 90 - 162 G-106 know not what. (I think it is our act of perceiving it that compels our assent; to perceive it is to cause it to be real. Thus the more -+ more intently- we examine it the more compellingly real it becomes. + if we try to flee from it we rush toward it, or it toward us. This is a "horizontal" flight, not in vertical space but down a horizontal time corridor. How, then, is this irreal world escaped from? It cannot be escaped from. It must be made to stop proliferating in time; time must be abolished. This comes when one ceases to run but, rather, goes to meet one's fate, the fate that will annihilate him. Heidegger is absolutely right. Once thus confronted, world freezes + then becomes -is revealed as or gives way to- the wholly other, the true (authentic) other. (This is Buber's conversion from it to thou.) One has now broken out of his self-generated private world. The effect on me of the Golden Xtian Fish sign can only be understood if it is understood to have broken in on + into my [private] world from outside. So it converged two things simultaneously: 1) The private nature of my world. 2) The existence of another world, real in nature + greater, not autogenerated (i.e. by me). That this world turned out to be a world in which genuine Xtians existed, +, more, Christ himself. Thus I was signalled from outside, all of which gave me the impression that this world had been invaded. What is most remarkable folder 90 - 163 folder 90 - 163 G-107 remarkable is that I seemed to remember this other world, as if I had been exiled from it + was restored to it due to an action on my part, a very narrowly-defined highly specific act under precise circumstances. I must construe this world as one of exile, +, I think, exile from the Garden. Hence I construe my crucial act as causing the termination of my exile, as if reversing the original fall. ___ 3 elements related to Malebranche: 1) We do not experience world as such but a representation that God by acting directly on us causes us to see (intelligible archetypal ideas); it is he who has the power absolutely to compel our assent to the representation. Thus we are in God, + God is in us. 2) Occasionalism. Causation is irreal; "effects" are due directly to God, + not to antecedent "causes"; he thus creates ex nihilo. 3) Divine illumination (related to Plato, anamnesis). God can (by acting in us) cause us to see the true nature of "world" which is in intelligible inter-related structure of eternal ideas in his mind (Plato's Forms). We discover that "world" is a set of ideas in God. folder 90 - 164 folder 90 - 164 G-108 Thus when we experience world-as-it-is we experience God + our being in God. This is a restoration of our primordial faculties lost in the original Fall + hence exile from the Garden. We are really still there, but are perceptually + cognitively blind. Under these blinded circumstances God supplies us a world derived chiefly from our own minds; it is both a blessing (in that it is a world we do take to be real); + a punishment (in that we are cut off from God + in a private world, so-to-speak alone - without him). (It is thus a halfway existence between hell + heaven, as Dante perceived). This private world is simultaneously real (in contrast to hell: no world at all) + irreal (in contrast to restoration to God, the "wholly other," since in this private world there is no true authentic "wholly other," only our own self + thoughts coming back at us: known to the ancients as Karma or astral determinism or Fate. We escape from it by ceasing to flee in the time axis + confronting directly our own annihilation (Heidegger's true Sein). folder 90 - 165 folder 90 - 165 G-109 The power to do this -to cease fleeing + to confront fate, burst this private world +, through the divine illumination experience the real world as eternal interconnected structure of ideas in God- comes only due to Christ intervening from outside our private world; he must literally invade it + help us; on our own we cannot extricate ourselves. If (as Malebranche teaches) we + world are in God, then my perception of the universe as the cosmic corpus Christi may not have just been a mystical vision but a vision of true reality: the sacred body + blood. No - I prefer my binary switching system with its perpetual disjunctions + introductions of newness. The unveiling of causation as being in fact a method of selection - this one discovery alone justifies my life, for this alone reveals deity by inference (in Whitehead's terms, + this is sufficient). Paramount to this is something I intuited long ago: a variation on the basic element of "pretextual causation": a sort of teleological "set-up" cause in which several lines of ostensibly innocuous causation are triggered off for teleological purposes, as if pre-wound harmonies (in Leibnitz's sense), obviously by a being not only wise + powerful but equipped with absolute foresight. In this modus operandi minor "causes" are employed to trigger off folder 90 - 166 G 110 or rather seem to trigger off a major desired effect. Part of the wisdom utilized has to do with the veiling of the very purpose for which the sequence is brought into being. At one time I supposed that a domino effect was being employed, but now I'm not so sure; I no longer view the trivial antecedents as true causes but, rather, masks whose existence conceals what is going on. This fits in with the theme of camouflage. It is clear to me that we have an invincible friend who weaves a vast tapestry in which everything is put to use: God as artisan (+ yet this seems to be an