rest - all of it e.g. 3-74 - is secondary to this finite perfected man. I said it sometime back in these notes. Who + what is Tagore? He is Tagore (a particular, not [a] God). But I know now: he is either Buddha, the Buddha or a Buddha (awakened or enlightened ones, + this is very seriously considered in "Valis as one of the possibilities; e.g. "the Buddha is in the Park." This is not mysticism or metaphysics or theology or I philosophy; those have come to me + enjoyed them, but they pass away + Tagore remains. + his concern is for life, the ecosphere, not a concern for speculations compassion, the way of + flights of fancy. Buddha. The nobelest way of all. rejoice! Everything so far has been a head-trip, a system of thought, ideas, abstractions, speculations, beliefs. But Tagore is a man, a real + actual man. Even (which I doubt) of he is me, why, he is still a man, for I am a man. + my proof of this is the practicality the infinite serves the of his teachings. finite when the finite is perfected; Tagore He is Nirvana to help us. turned down to assist aming us, + the supernatural bends him, a man. This is wh C-86 is meant by "the victor." tremendous breakthrough insight 5:15 a.m. the whole Xtian magic of 2-74 on worked because I believed in it, but it worked - not because Xtianity is true - in contrast to other systems/religions which are false but because Sankara + the Buddhists are right. It is a conjurer's trick; it is magic, + what this points to (the fact that my total belief on that Day in 2-74 when I saw the Xtian Fish sign caused everything that followed to occur) is illusion; as I say: magic, conjurer's tricks. Viz: Xtianity to magic to conjurer's tricks to illusion the + what does illusion point to? truth of Buddhism + Sankara; pan‐ Indian thought about the illusory nature of "reality"; i.e. Maya, not as a veil but as a so-to-speak plastic mist that obliges (so in a sense my "prior thought formation" theory is correct, + my "B th creates perceives reality"; this is pure + Buddhism - Brahmanism: the rope trick + it is only the Pan-Indian systems of Makayana Buddhism + Sankara that figured this out. Now, G-87 in the face of this, spiritual perfection depends on enlightenment that there is a grand illusion, inner + outer, + findly, the road of compassion for all the living creatures caught in the "weary wheel" of illusion: Karma + rebirth etc. What I am saying is Buddhism - Sankarism subsumes My 2-74 - 2-75 Xtian experience by revealing it as magic that works which points to illusion (understood to be like a conjurer's trick, i.e. Maya. I have confused Maya + Dokos; or rather not fully under‐ stood; maybe confused both with (Capital Upsilon) acosmism. e.g. the turning into a palm tree doesn't verify Xtianity; it verifies conjurers track + this is pan-Indian thought. So from 2-74 to 2-75 I was in the grip of may. But - because "reality - (sic) obligingly altered to accom modate my belief (especially my seeing Rome AD 70 Syria!) I had without realizing it verified not Xtianity but maya as G11 a doctrine. I was both totally under the spell of illusion but, paradoxically this very illusion is mean the transformations in I it!) held the clue to the real I solution. have not been radical enough; I have thought in terms of either something (reality) vs nothing (illusion) but maya is not just hallucin nation, somethin is there (as Sankara pointed out), but it is able to assume any guise it wishess (Saukara's example: the magician can cause you to take a rote to be a snake, but there I a rope there; something is there but not a snake, but also not nothing. Maya is halfway between hallucination (nothing) reality (something that I + what it seems to be). + This is why it resembled "Ubik": that is system of epistemological my is the real + true supposition. This explanation of my coaxial worlds: Maya, hence Sankara + Buddhism oto b C-89 ill bet a billion dillars that when I saw Valis outside me - reality as Valis I saw Brahman, + in me: atmans but is Tagore real? I think so he may be the conjurer: I have seen him at last t + it is Lord Krishna, as I have long suspected. Here is the point: all questions of epistemology aside, Tagore is what t La) man can become, + this is real. Tagore represents man perfected, at his absolute fulfillment. Which has nothing to do with "Ti to on?" or maybe it does; maybe Tagore is the answer to that question. but I stick with my insight of last night 2-3-74 is Xtian magic (due to my belief-absolute pistic) + does not verify Xtianity but rather Sankara's Buddha's doctrina of maya as stul + This realization is very sophisticated: because by the very nature of Maya it (it magy + it the situation) would seem to confirm Xtianity. + this realization has totally eluded me for - years + since Tagore is what man perfected becomes I reason Tagore is the Buddha + not Krishna) It is almost as if due to a flure (2-74) combination of circum‐ stances I tricked maya or it tricked itself: it was in a no-win situation -90 I Now, there is an internal consis fency between Tagore being, the Buddha, my 2-3-74 experience of + with Maya, + my realizing that it is Maya, for the concept of "Maya is central to Buddhism moreover, the term "Buddha" would refer to someone who had become awakened + this precisely is what is Seing Maya (world) for what it involves. Thus to see maya (reality as "sillyputty") but fail to identify it as maya - this stops short of full enlightenment (awakening); but to (1) see it as Maya (2-3-74) + then (2) to realize this - this is the awakerying that basically characterizes the Buddha's understanding of reality. This dreaming about Tagore is a crucial clue to what 2-3-74 was really all about - if I realize that Tagore is Buddha, + I have reasoned this to my satisfaction - + then I see how it goes back + throws crucial light on 2-3-74 as a conjurer's trick (rope seen as snade). So the Tagore dream is the crucial crue that explains the whole bule of way If I perceive Tagore as Buddha - + as e C-91 Now, this is in full accord with the radical epistemology of my 10 volume meta-novel, but the Xtianity is true" theory is not I'm onto something here. The Tagore dream is quintessential. Everything must be understood in terms of it. A new epistemology may -in con‐ junction with his birth - have come into existence: This is then, a new epoch. No earlier model of reality may apply. on the other hand the birth of the new savior would be accompanied by vast dis‐ ruptions in the normal order of things. One must work backward from the incarnation for It is the point of the whole thing, in terms of which otherwise inexplicable events when seen in context make sense. We can no more figure out the broad epistemological-mystical situation than we could, before hearing the Kerygma, infer It (the moral/ethical system). After all, a whole planet is being extricated from its fate (by way of divine intervention). I suddenly did a "make" on that vision of the slit-like wound in in thigh: it looked like (I have been thinking) like an often-shown color photo brought back by voyager; or II Saturn? +thought of Dythrambis born a second time from Zeus' thigh. Sud e denly I realized: the probe photo is of the red spot on supiter. Jupiter-Zeus. Dythrambus-Zagreus-Christ - the spear a wound on the cross. This wound in my thigh refers to the birth of the C-92 savior (Dythrambus-Zagreus) + the death (crucifixion of Christ). Strange Tagore is born; the savior is here as but also already he is wounded Christ was at his death as if the birth + death of the savior are now (this time) one single event; he is simultaneously coming to us + leaving us, rather than first being born + later dying. Thus in a sense that I do not understand, his wounds give birth -like a vagina - or are associated wits birth. His death is life-giving: of course: to the ecosphere, since he accepts (vicarious atonement) its wounds on his body + so gives our world lifethe life it would otherwise lose. It is perplexing; by dying he bestows birth to us; we are born from his wounds + yet those wounds kill him but out of this comes our physical + to be spiritual life. Thus his wounds understood must be viewed in this double way. But - Diol. I saw this "rea spot" slit vagine-like wound on me. + the Catholic church teaches that the church is born water that flowed from the of course this all from the blood + + wound in Christ's side. refers to amfortas, the fisher King, etc. think I understand. The message is: my wounds (Tagore's wounds) although physically death-dealing to me - well, This is only half the story. The other + more important half is that my as c spiritual self - my Tagore self- is born by + from these wounds, voluntarily taken on to see the wounds only as death producing (I realize now) is to miss the whole point the savior is the bringer of life, from the wound flows life: something is born (although something else - represented by the physical body) dies. Tagore dies so that something else can be born, the wounces take his life, but he gives his life voluntarily, + why? to give life to us! Hence. This vision is logi cally implied by the situation; if Tagore's wounds gave only death, they would serve no purpose This then, is not a horrific vision but a vision of great affirmitive beauty, hersed the ineffable sweetness, the absolute beauty, "like music, perture + colors" as I phrased it. although we seem to be seeing injury + death we are really seeing new life; the injuries are in fact the means - the read or canal - to that new life out of his body Tagore gives birth to the new, as Zeus gave birth to Dythrambus - who associate with Christ. I the fact is this vision absolutely identifies Tagore as Christ (in my opinion), for now not wounds plural - burns - are shown but a wound, the spear - wound on the cross - a clear + evident reference to the crucified Christ + I was conscious when I had this vision; it was not a dream; it was bypa hypnagogic. + yet (to repeat) it was on my what am I to make of this? One time thigh. the idea came to me - a very strange idea that Valis entered the world through me; that is what it was doing in my mind. It C-94 used me as a conduct, + this fits in with my sense of being female in relation to it + there also firebright: the offspring of the hierogamy. Is Tagore firebright? Some vast supernatural mind rushed through me + out into the world, as if I stood in two realms (upper + lower?) + it had been in the upper, + reached the lower - our universe. through - by way of - me. This is rather grandiose on my part, however Yet the wound vision not only implies Christ, it also points to me (as Francie Steiger said: "You are a Christ-child"!). + I give then, life to