absolutely fundamental aspects of total reality that are not normally known to us; we do or did not know we are within a unitary structure evolving along an intological axis from simplicity to complexity, determinism to freedom, insensiate to conscious, concrete to abstract, slow change-rate velocity to that is, our newly discovered fast, etc. faculty tells us a lot about reality not seen by the faculty, but inferrentially known by reason of the viability of the faculty. Thus the faculty brings in awareness of the total structure + this involves a priori cognition as well as empirical perception; what is really "seen," ultimately, is conceptual as - something understood as "It1 =2 here is abstraction. It is as if seeing temporal depth is seeing the MMSK itself, right off the bat, although what one is seeing -+ how- remains unknown. So seeing the Golden Fish sign as "not belonging" is probably a cognitive function, as in "seeing" that if I low t I low = 2 lows, then 1 t) = 2 + is a meta-‐ bstraction + specifically the "not two mothers once but one mother seen twice." K205 Here perception + cognition fuse as the percipient simultaneously sees + "sees" with neither the cause of the other, but all this in 2-3-74 being based on a great deal of conceptualizing back at the writing of "Ubik" in which the fundamental realization takes place but only theoretically; it is not applied there, at the writing of "Ubik," it is totally with no literal penceptual a cognitive "seeing," seeing. This might be the schema Ubik cognitive perceptual] 2-74 cognitioe 2-3-74 What this adds up to is that it all began (2-74) in my glimpsing the MMSK in that the Golden Fish sign did not belong + so was at two places + two times + yet was unitary, whereupon my brain performed the "not two Mothers but one mother twice" meta-abstraction, whereupon what I had barely glimpsed (the MMSK) broke over me (3-74) in vast waves, which is only possible in an evolving macro-totality where everything is preserved. I had glimpsed this by distinguishing different change-rate velocities in what I had always taken to be -by definition- the present; i.e. all that is here now is the present by virtue of what "present" means, but I had seen something here now that was part of another world, Camouflaged" as a present object, visible for what it really was only to someone aware of change-rate this unscrambling, this distinguishn velocities things "camouflaged" here - this leads to Valis + the plasmate. (206 temporal location: that is the term I want analogous to spatial location. + when this is discerned, coherent patterns of arrangement emerge, Gestalts within Gestalts: set + ground separate + a wholly different kind of world becomes visible as this extra dimension is added to your way of ordering reality. Thus what was taken to be a homogeneity is a diversity, the divisions are not chaotic but present + coherent patterns (Gestalts), the ultimate "The present" form being information itself. simply means "all that we can see spread out"; that this is a compound evades our cognition because it evades our perception. the ultimate perceptive-cognitive act occurs when the discrimination takes the form of set versus ground, + indeed this is what I experienced: that is, some Gestalts are significant + some are to be ignored. they are not all equally meaningful. What establishes meaning, here Am I missing the very evident point that the adventitious psyche plugs you (as the intrinsic left-hemisphere psyche) into the MMSK entity? Which is Christ (as I repeatedl say) in two senses: (1) the adventitious psyche is Christ; (2) the total macro-entity is Christ. this all seems to make sense. To reiterate a point I made ultra-supra: then the human does not so much evolve into ditheon but rather finds this condition imposed onto him, as it were from above: he is subsumed + incorporated into what is both a unitary entity + an infinitude K207 of individual instances (half of each Ditheon, each ditheon being unique; thus the total entity is able to be both unitary, singular + homogenous - + al infinitely plural + diverse without, however ever becoming atomized). (This accords with the evolution of scripture into an infinitude of unique recombinant message for given individuals in given situations, the next logical step from the O.T. to the N.T.) perpetually, the adventitious psyche acts as Advisor, councellor, advocate, comforter The human Helper, tutelary spirit to psyche, + even when necessary assuming dominance. (In life-threatening crisis situations.) However it as Christ is the true head of this vast organic compound entity, all final decisions are its. There is an identity of wills between it + the plural human psyches yoked to it + subordinated to it; this is a taming of the humans, as if by a the goal is to progressipely remove ing continual domestication the human's sense of being threatened. (By Events, things, world events; viz: "His will is my peace.") This vast compound entity has no enemies bolling the universe back to the uttered word -through abstraction to that which is pre-existent- is to "retrieve" this living structure (which is evolving) out of creation +: it is evolving out of creation: its -creation's- goal. It subsumes more + more, rendering substantia abstract: pure structure. K208 Pythagoras when that day he heard the anvils struck meta-abstracted as I did, + he saw a priori what I saw in no way did Paul see Torah + Christ as progressive [evolutionary] stages in one [information] organism. In fact who has? 1) not the Jews, certainly; they revere the Torah as absolute. 2) not the Christians; they revolt against the Torah in the name of Christ: the concept of evolution through qualitatively [+ radically] different stages is unknown to them. That the Torah is an earlier form of X whose later form is Christno one sees this (note: it would be wrong to say: (1) The Torah is an earlier form of Christ, or + (2) Christ is a later form of the Torah. Neither statement is true. Both are stages of a so-to speak 3rd organism. + there is now a 3rd final stage: Joachim's spirit, in which each + man has his own personal scripture in his head, + each's is unique but recombined out of the info of the prior stages. This is an info entity, living info. It is subduing + permeating the universe order (organization) = info. (cChild born Hagia Sophae who plays (Holy Wisdom Torah y pi Sophia born again it does not become old + ossified; at the end it plays as a child like a free little animal. This is the Sibyl with the 3rd eye: female. God's intelligence K20g It becomes Christ by assembling its disparate parts which in themselves are not Christ (as Koestler points ast this is how an organism, as opposed to a machine, constructs itself: from subassemblies). I'm not seeing how extensively the BTA conclusion can be projected as paradigm, + yet Russ spells it out in his letter: Ditheon is how the total macro-entity assembles itself N (rather than just the micro human into "two nature one person" Christ). Its vast cosmic parts -themselves not Christ converge + form the unitary whole that is the Cosmic Christ in Teilhard's sense of point l; the Ditheon dream, BTA + Russ' letter show how point Omega occurs - which is what I experienced as Valis in me + outside in/as world. I) through its millions of years of historic is planetary evolution, faster + faster, more + more complex + conscious + structured + abstract + free the Ditheon dream reduces this vast cosmic evolutionary process to rudi‐ mentary model: 2 human dsyches in one brain produce Ditheon which is no longer human [but Christ], illustrating how all the substages historically + spatially + sub‐ assemblies are not the total macro organism as it will finally be until they come together at the end of time. They are all around us -e.g. plasmate, Valis - but not yet 210 united (assembled) into the one final entity. Teilhard, however, figured it out. being a palentologist he would have understood the Ditheon dream at once. The various micro-ditheons will then swim together finally as subparts of the cosmic macro-organism; meanwhile each, on its own. The purpose evolves to such as I of the Ditheon dream was specifically identify Teilhard's evolutionary convergence I to point 2 as the solution to my 72 year see, now, for the first t exegesis of 2-3-74, time the macro application of the Ditheon dream in conjunction with BTA + Rust letter the message has gotten across to me tonight for the first time (duly 2, 1981, 4:00 am). s This is why we can't see it (the entity) It is still in its disparate subassemblies I + until they come together, it will be what call "camouflaged" it isn't camouflaged. we just can't see how all the parts here + there when they finally come together will be the macro-Christ - + this is precisely + what the "Dialectic" revelation showed intended to show [me]; this is the pattern completion strategy by the wise horn which is this cosmic entity assembling itself. See entry #2 of the tractate: "time ceases + the mind is complete"!! What I call "camouflage" is an unconnily close but it is a wrong guess. Camouflage guess is not necessary; only it can see the outcome K211 I human psyche [human psyche human human one two psyche psyche one two t I Di theon Ditheon one two inext stan I i etc + this is conveyed in "BTA" if properly read, esp. as volume 3 of the Valis trilogy. Since the dialectic revelation showed this, it tried from beginning to get me -teach he- to the very at last see this: how it works + why we are unaware of it. That an assembly of sub‐ divine components [brought together] should produce [in evolution] the divine - this is the great mystery revealed to me This is precisely what the forces of Darkness can't see, although it is going they see on right in front of them. the disparate parts but they can't see how what they will fit together + become One could say equally, "the dialectic is explained" or "now what I understand about the evolution of this entity is explained by the revelation of the dialectic" i.e. its existence + M.O. proved. This whole "pairing" system is related to justification + perfecting through mirror complementaries; it is only possible by an entity/agency with the powers of a pantocrator. This is indeed a global matter since all the life on this planet is involved - as well as e.g our communications media. K212 the noosphere, as Terlhard calls it, since it extends into the inanimate (as I saw Valis doing! Good Lord; the spiritualization of matter itself! its divinization + sanctificationas I describe in "Valis." Physical thoughts by reason of arrangement; reality as a modulated carrier: a perturbation in the reality field- field is the key term. Division into plural discrete objects is ignored; it all becomes unified + acts in cooperation as a unity. Volition replaces pool-ball causation subordination + integration + mutual interaction. What we take to be a completed but imperfect organism - a given human being- is in fact a part of a greater it organism, in which by integration into that human becomes perfect + complete. the missing parts are added to him because he is added to it. The wedding of opposites is seen as a tactic + goal of biological evolution Humans subordinated to a conpound organism by which they are perfected as individuals + it is completed as a whole two wholes: it as macro unitary unique while, - + humans as micro plural unique wholes all this the goal + purpose of