is why: if all people understood that by following Jesus' teachings - which seem to be self-sacrifice absolutely - one acquires the suppore of the absolute power of heaven, there self-interest not morality would impel mere. all men, to follow the way, + summarily the moral aspect would be engulfed by the pragmatic + practical, + an ethical system would succumb to the degredation of personal i ambition Thus the "secrecy theme" is simply unavoidable. there just plain is no other way that it can be done. Hence the stegenographia, the veiling, is essential to the situation to a degele that by the very essence of logic admits of no the way not will mitigation or compromise. seem folly but must inexorably + indubitably seem so. Thus the apparent failure of Jesus + of Xtianity + the apparent non-occurrance of his return in glory - this fiction has to obtain, the prophecy + promise of the return in glory (1) had to be made; + (2) appear not to be fulfilled. then the fact that it is always + eternally in fact fulfilled is the ultimate secret of the way, second only the the answer to the riddle posed in "Tears." + the very rejection of faith in - belief in - the truth of Jesus' victory + the veracity of his teachings serves the essential purpose of those very teachings victory, for the real issue is moral (viz: + it is in Judaism, the parent of Xtianity. most clearly + fully in the domain of morality that God's presence is found + disclosed). The search for God, then, is successful -or not successful - due to certain moral Acts (or the lack There of) which Acts in turn are based on appraisals that pertain to the ontology of the person: what he t is at the utmost level - + this leads us back to the eschatological judging, +, then, the apocalypse itself. folder 55 - 055 folder 55 - 055 3-7 So this all turns out to be a coherent, last logical, lawful system in which ontology generated morality, morality generates certain Acts. these Acts lead to the inevitable operation of heaven on behalf of the person, + finally there occur. Gnosis, knowledge of the situation, enlighterment; one acts first + then understands (i.e. the true o situation is revealed to him) +, as I say, it can be no other way. paradoxically, the freedom o true moral choice can + does only occur when the person does not know the truth (actual situation, which is to say real consequences). Thus for inevitable reasons, moral choice + knowledge are bipolarized. This is very strange, + yet it can be understood. the true issue in moral choice; this is where ontology + freedom + knowledge suppresses all this, + so obtain. can only come as consequence: as the final step in a long + crucial sequence each step of which must fire precisely right. It would always have been this way, be this way, + in the future remain i So Hence when the AI voice speaks of St. Sophia's approaching - or fulfilled - return it tells the truth, + yet this return never seems in fact occur. This was true 1900 years ago, is to true now, +, I suspect will always be the case the fact that this is universally not realized + has to be the case (for the reasons I have given; the case cannot be otherwise now, in the past, or ever, at least until the literal end of this planet + all life on it). To reprise, "Christ's return in glory" is a disclose rather than a historical event, + the ubiquitous false notion that Jesus failed, his ethics do not work + he did not return not only must be the case but fact serves as a top-level agency, agent + in instrument of the very system that is doubted. the doubt is necessary to it, serves it is subsumed by it, even generated by it. The system is in absolute control, + utilizes this disbelief. folder 55 - 056 3-10 + this disbelief can only be abolished as a result of moral action + never before that essential moral action; it is not just allowed: it is (I think) imposed as a necessary condition that the moral act be possible Thus s it is hopeless for me to expect to convince anyone of the truth of my revelation in "Valis" This is not because this is not how it works. should work. This is not how it can i how it work. My error is to reason: (1) knowledge of the truth. (2) Then as a result, right conduct but (2) would have ceased to be based on free choice, true ethical decision + would be merely the act would be done for tangible smart. reward, + this has nothing to do with morality + bear the stamp of ethics. Right action must fully, self-sacrifice +, finally, madness under‐ For the first time in my life long itself. the necessity of what I have stand udentified as a vast, deep + powerful cognitive + perceptive occlusion folder 55 - 057 folder 55 - 057 5-4 realize suddenly that in my letter to Isa I say we are saved through faith utter faith, absolute faith in the form of recognition of our absolute + utter dependence on God; + this is truly the Pauline insight + position - + I did not realize this when I wrote the letter! (I.e. that I reafirm Paul's essentle doctrine of salvation through faith - a faith that I rigorously define: I do not use the term vaguely but in the precise sense of I the Reformers. My position (credo) precisely that of esp. Luther: total reliance on God in contrast to reliance on one's own powers: faith, then, as utter trust in God, an utter turning to God - to which God responds by justifying that person; again the Pauline luther position regarding salvation! What also is implicit here is the view of the total worthlessness of man in terms of his capacity -this is to save himself, his utter inefficacy. I the other side of the utter faith in God which is an act: the act of turning to God, termed by me as a calling to God for aid, to which God responds. Probably my position is con‐ gruent with such 20th century existential protestant theologians as Paul Tillich, beyond doubt! Esp. in view that man must act; he must do something: faith, then, is expressed existentially, not a belief in but the act of calling oret to the so folder 55 - 058 folder 55 - 058 5 5 God for help, + my whole scheme depends on, relies on, the Holy Spirit - again a protestent position contra the Roman Catholic. what is perhaps unusual - heterodox in my position is that I assert that man not God, must take the first step; it is God who responds to man, not man to God, + this runs counter to the whole orthodox view of grace both Catholic + protestant. but this only reveals my position as thoroughly existential; salvation hinges on a human decision + act based on that decision, God will not respond unless the person chooses, + he chooses entirely of his own free will. Despite the Pauline Luther basis, my position is radical, + very modern. Man bears primary responsibility for setting in motion the machinery of his own salvation faith, then pistis, is viewed by me as primary, existential, based on choice - which in turn is based on free will + thus man takes an active role, an essential role, in his own salvation. He must come to a very great realization about himself + about God if he is to be saved. First, he must acknowledge his own total powerlessness (this is indeed a protestant position!) He must then acknowledge his total dependence in God's folder 55 - 059 folder 55 - 059 J-6 + he must ask for help (I deduce this from the word "Paraclete" itself). This goes far beyond petitionary prayer: man has faced + accepted the fact that the way has ended for him in terms of his own abilities + powers, their efficacy to save + preserve + sustain him; without God. he will cease to exist utterly: he will not be. Ontologically, this is as radical a protestant -existentialist - Paulinge theology as is possible: God is everything; man is nothing + exists only because of God, by God, out of God's own being (that is, man's being is totally derived from that of God). +, moreover, this act (resulting in justification, another basic theme in protestantism) occurs once + only once in a persons lifetime: at the moment of ontological, existential crisis, as described by Heidegger. now, my views derive from my solving the riddle of "Tears" do they not? Which therefore again points to the Holy Spirit as the author of the scriptural material in "Tears" (i.e. Acts, "the Gospel of the Holy Spirit"). what, I think, is most beautiful in my (sic) theology here is the concer of folder 55 - 060 folder 55 - 060 3-7 God as the absolute guarator of man's being - i.e. God as absolute friend + protector of man, i.e. God the father who completes his original work of creating man with this final act of justification. +, in addition, man + God are reunited (with man seeking God, + God seeking man). Everything is in terms of absolutes: absolute faith, absolute committment by man in terms of his reliance (trust) in God, absolute being conferred on man by God. but there is an original component in this system, here: the absolute cry by man to God the call for help; man does not just absolutely trust that God will help him but must call out for that help, that is, man must act. Man bears, then, a responsibility so decisive as to be an absolute responsibility. He participates crucially in his own salvation. God does not impose salvation on him; man must ask for it, + ask for it predicated on an absolute realization of his dependence on God. There are no conditions or qualifications, here. The concept "fates" man's fate, is newly comprehended by man as "fate as the power of God to save"; thus fate ceases to be a property or power of world + a Th een if is uch ol is dritin folder 55 - 061 5-8 from world. Man’s fate is in God’s hands, not world’s. “Fate,” then, now means something totally other (than heimarmene). It has to do with God. Fate has been assimilated to providentia! “Fate” as contrasted to providentia has been conceptually abolished; the term has no meaning other than providentia, so that before world loses its power over man actually (in terms of causal law) it has already been conceptually obliterated—nullified—and replaced entirely by a realization of the absolute and total power of God (as Pantocrator). This, then, is a severe and major element making up faith per se, this reassessment of what “fate” signifies as a term, a concept. Man, having reconceived fate in this way, is now dealing with God; all transactions defining man’s existence have to do with God and not with world. Thus a vast conceptual transformation occurs in the mind, soul, and heart of man even before providentia and justification occur. And this of course causes me to reconsider the meta-abstraction, and in a new light. Thus “Tears” is not indubitably Xtian scripture but, more precisely, consists of a very specific strain or thrust of Xtian thought: Protestant existential Pauline folder 55 - 062 folder 55 - 062 G-9 doctrines of the Holy Spirit, justification in short, Luke. It also suggests Joachim's third status. The authorship + authority of the Holy Spirit in "Tears"