worked to my revolutionary model of the binary switching system that I now conceive reality to be. Well, as I say, I figured out that the spatial realm is the one that folder 90 - 052 folder 90 - 052 -7- genuine Christianity gets us into; it frees us from time -- and then, as I say, a few days later (i.e. in the middle of last week) I briefly found myself once more in that realm -- a realm that I had proven to my satisfaction derives from and is essentially related to Christianity and the Christian way of being-in-the-world, what Heidegger calls being-to-death (or something like that; anyhow it has to do with the Christian attitude toward death, which is to say annihilation / nonbeing / das Nichts). At the time that I found myself back in the purely spatial realm, I supposed that it was because I had upped my dosage of Sinnaquan, but that is absolutely not likely. Let us consider the exact circumstances. It was Tuesday, the day the space shuttle returned. The night before, Monday night, something strange happened to me; I burned out. I could not think in complete sentences; I'd begin a sentence of thought and it would end in the middle. It was as if I had used up all my thoughts, as if there are only a finite number and I had come to the last one; there literally were no more left in me. So I had to go to bed early -- which was fine, because then Tuesday I was able readily to arise early to watch the shuttle's safe return. Now, this absolutely total exhaustion of thoughts in me somehow seems to me related to the phosphene graphics trip; the common factor is a using up of time, a running out of time -- i.e. process. I had, as in 1974, come to the end in some real and perhaps even ontological sense; mentally I had in fact died. Yet the next day I found myself in the magic spatial world of total freedom, a world of infinite extension. What I am saying is that this year, 1981, I relived although to a lesser degree, the series of experiences of 1974 -- relived them during Holy Week (from Palm Sunday to Easter Sunday). It was during this period that my stupendous conception of the binary switching system came to me. I remember that I had said to Jeanette at Brentwood that -- oh Dio. "I had lost my artistic vision" -- the dream about the child, the Spinner, going blind! This represented spiritual death, analogic to Christ's passion and crucifixion! And then rebirth occurred. And again, as in 1974 (this is really incredible, simply incredible) I got a folder 90 - 053 folder 90 - 053 -8- terrifying letter that caused me to phone the FBI. So here are the themes of Holy Week: suffering (exhaustion) and death, and then rebirth; "rebirth" expressed for me in the form of the return of my vision -- and not just return but resurrection in the sense that I was able to complete it, which I felt I had never before been able to do. And it was Wednesday night, the night of the day that I got the lethal letter, that I suddenly understood how the totality of nature works (my binary switching choosing system). I'm sure of that because I was waiting for Doris to come over; the concept suddenly came to me and I jotted it down on the back of an SMLA envelope. And completed it later that night (Wednesday) and Thursday, so that on Friday when I went back to Brentwood I had perfected it, and told Jeannette so. So I relived Christ's passion (my absolute spiritual --mental, if you will-- exhaustion on Monday night, which followed the dream of the Spinner going blind; that just have been Sunday night that I dreamed it, because the dream came the night before the spiritual/mental exhaustion, and that took place on Monday), death (the absolute spiritual/mental exhaustion and then the murderous letter, the latter coming on Wednesday) and resurrection (this took two forms: (1) Finding myself in the spatial realm that I figured out is connected with Christianity and Christian salvation/restoration; and (2) on Wednesday night, after the letter --i.e. death-- came, suddenly completing my vision, my artistic, conceptual vision -- the very vision that I had lost when I "went blind," which is to say, mentally and spiritually died. The sequence of events (passion, death, resurrection) is somewhat jumbled up; for example, I found myself in the spatial realm on Tuesday, and the killing letter came on Wednesday (the same day of the week that the Xerox missive came in 1974), but nonetheless all the elements of Holy Week were there. The letter added the element of literal physical death to what had been mental and spiritual death, so this was not a head trip. I relived --reperformed-- the passion, death and resurrection, then, without intending to or even realizing that this indeed was what was happening. Several aspects point to this as genuine. (1) The mental folder 90 - 054 folder 90 - 054 -9- and spiritual exhaustion I experienced on Monday night was unique; I remember telling Doris that I had only undergone something like it due to drug abuse. It was, then, qualitatively different from mere fatigue, even enormous fatigue. It ended in a clear and evident death. (2) The Spinner dream which anticipated this very event, the "loss of vision" by the Spinner (i.e. Spinner as writer; he can no longer narrate). (3) The murderous letter. (4) The brief period on Tuesday in the spatial realm that I had only a little while before (a few days) figured out was essentially connected with Christianity. (5) The sudden, unexpected and unprecedented completion of my artistic vision on Wednesday night, the night of the day the letter came; this, too, was not a quantitative event; it was ontologically different from anything I had ever experienced before (like the dying of my vision Monday night); and: it was based on revelation of the forking and the tentative zero firing, a sleep revelation. So I suffered and died, but after I died I was resurrected in terms of my world --the spatial world-- and in terms of my vision: my binary switching model of the universe, which I have later recognized as a model of the restored universe, restored by Christ; and I even identify this Dasein, this worldview, as "Christ consciousness"! What I am getting at is that all these facts add up in such a way as to suggest powerfully that indeed 1974 had to do with Christ, his suffering, death and resurrection. This time, this year, the relationship between myself, my life, what I underwent and experienced, and Holy Week (the passion, crucifixion and resurrection) is so evident as to virtually deserve the term explicit. I remember that on Tuesday as I drove around --while I was in the spatial world-- I noted, "Lord; how ugly things are/this city is/the world is." Which now strikes me as another perception of the BIP as our world; conversely, our world as the BIP. Our world seen correctly. Which is to say, the Empire. So once again I was back in Acts/TEARS/Track A. It seems to me that the fact that the order, the sequence of Holy Week was all jumbled up makes the argument for involuntary reperformance even more convincing, because folder 90 - 055 folder 90 - 055 -10- if I had been willing it or doing it voluntarily or knowingly I would have done it in the correct order; this was more like something breaking in on me, impinging on me from outside and taking me over entirely. It is not something I decided to do or even realized I was doing; in a sense I was not doing it; rather it happened to me. I was caused to or made to reperform the sacred rites of Holy Week. I had neither choice nor understanding, although now I can look back and understand. (Interestingly, due to circumstances totally outside my control, I ate no meat on Good Friday; I finished off the chicken left over from Thursday night's Chinese dinner; again, there was neither consciousness, intent or understanding, and yet this is part of Holy Week, the abstaining completely from meat on Good Friday.) This whole element of the lethal letter that causes me to call the Bureau; it is as if the war between me and the authorities temporarily ends, as if there has been a reconciliation of opposites: a state of peace instead of war. I see in this, since it has now happened twice, something suggestive of a ritual, even sacred, act, or perhaps event: the vast opposing forces in the universe are, through mythic ritual, reconciled. And this recalls to me what I wrote in my letter to Roger: the previous Thursday (the week before Holy Week) I had been shown "The Piper At the Gates of Dawn" section in THE WIND IN THE WILLOWS, and it had had a unique effect on me, as if for a moment I remembered, again experienced anamnesis, as I had experienced it first in 1974. And then the picture of the attempted assassination of Reagan, the man with the Uzi; and I could not reconcile the two, and, as a result, suffered more anguish than I can recall (as witness my letter to Roger). The Uzi side won out on Wednesday in the form of that letter; thus death came. . But that was not the end; I came back that night, Wednesday night, with a completed artistic (spiritual) vision. It is not so much what my experiences during this Holy Week can be made to mean in themselves that I am concerned with; rather, it is what they implied when applied to 1974. They seem to me to verify 1974 --the spring of 1974-- as having had to do folder 90 - 056 -11- (as I thought at the time) with Christ, with Christianity, with, specifically, passion, death and resurrection, a reperformance of Christ's own, in a miraculous, supernatural way (the sort of thing that Eliade describes). In other words, this is something --that was something-- that can only happen in the springtime, because it is connected with rites of spring that predate Christianity but are summed up totally in and by Christianity, by, specifically, the sequence of events of Holy Week which is the period in which the entire narrative of Christ occurs. It culminates of course not in one merely being spared death --rescued, as it were, from a trap-- but in renewed life that is a wholly new kind of life, associated with joy and triumph. This is cosmogenesis itself; the old world wears out (during and as winter), and then in the spring cosmogenesis occurs, reoccurs; as a result the world is made new, which is why in 1974 I believed --and correctly-- that my original primordial powers, faculties and energy had been restored to me, that I was in fact back in the Garden; not I ontogenically, but I as the species was renewed, back thousands of years, phylogenic renewal. But you have to suffer and die before this can happen. It is very strange, and yet to a small but very real degree I reperformed this cycle this time once more. Put in rather mundane terms, more energy is added to the system (in this rebirth) than it had lost, and herein lies the miracle; how can this be, that there is a net increase in the amount of energy in the system, rather than a mere return of exactly the amount lost? The total system, by passing through this cycle of passion, crucifixion and death, actually gains energy -- this can only be explained in terms of the original act of cosmogenesis. The original