me; as I correctly speak of it in "Divine invasion" this is justification by surrogation. This is not a minor part of the total corpus of Xtianity; it is central. God through Christ, has the power to justify the guilty. The Holy Spirit makes Christ's sacrifice contemporaneous with/to me - this was 2-3-74. God has acted to save me - now + here, through believe it because God through I Christ the Holy Spirit applied it. to me + K312 If made me know this absolutely. I forget this I am doomed to worry my life away neurotically, feeling endlessly unworthy + a failure, depricat myself, indicting + impuning myself reproaching myself - as Satan does in the heavenly court; my conscience on my endlessly accuses me + nothing I Have I own can do will satisfy it forgotten 2-74? + have I also forgotten the Messenger" vision? All this was done for me that I would be saved - saved in I find a sense from myself as accuser. myself cursed with a sense of unworthiness I am not a proud + stubborn person; I am ashamed. Christ died to give me new life + to justify me + all this was been supernaturally revealed to me. Yet I find myself doing it again, accusing myself of falling short. This is not a small matter; I live with this daily. Every new day stimulates my endless sense of unworthiness. That night when I realized in a flash that 2-3-74 was sudden have justification + my awareness of it forgotten that already, that understanding I 2-3-74 (as proved e.g. by the "Messenger" vision) was the miracle of Xtianity at work As bill serill said, I am on my behalf in a state of grace; I have no reason to think I have fallen out of it. The civil courts have the power to justify the innocent, but K313 God has the power to justify the guilth, through Christ's sacrifice. My "Messenger" vision showed that this is so. never forget: how I saw God working absolutely foreseeing the future he brings things into existence out of sequence. No one can see the goal - i.e. the plan - or even that there is a goal or plan. In the final assembling, various components get "flipped" from ostensible bad to authentic good - but only when they fit into place in the completed structure. (among other important attributes of this realization is that to contemplate it, you are vividly aware of (1) God; + (2) God's developing plan, + (3) that he has sovereign power (cosmocrator) + absolute a priori foresight (omnisuence) + wisdom + This is the grand overall is benign. design of which Ditheon is an excellent example, viz: with the components that go to form ditheon there is nothing about them intrinsically that would allow you to fore‐ see the [Ditheon] result. All this shows how different God's relationship to time is may well have from ours. + in 2-3-74 I experienced his relationship to time, which somewhat voids time as such. It is not intelligible to speak of sequence (temporal is more placement spatial t like 2) 9314 This thing goes here (spatially) + that thing Thus to perceive this goes there (spatially) developing plan as pattern-completion one is somewhat seeing time as he does: all spread out at once, as if on a surface What is really out there in no way it is like (sic) a resembles world. computer, pure intelligence; it is Valis simply saw what is there, as 4, so-to-speak, not transduced through the I Kantian ontological categories that form world. No word describes it. "God" is the closest he great secret the Roman church dis‐ is a i covered is that the world clever fake of Satan's, + they -the church an are using their technology - Xtian miracle powers - to impress on me this as my co-volute became aware "Kerygma" + write it s their control of me, but I'd known meta novel, in 3-74 the Kerygma - acosmism - for decidle. N "you can win back. of sajoy it's beauty, as you would a picture The Sufis say, N Hence the Holy Mother church's signature in "Tears." Als ob nihil obsta This is the (no days in that the church oot t has begun its attack to reveal this fake Hence the Holy Mother chur world as Satan's + destroy it is the "true secret Xtian the real world. t 11315 so the Parousia is here + yes, the Hol mother church knows it She is reveal the secret that she knows: this is (1) a i irreal world (2) forged by Satan + (s if the church can overthrow it, we will be united with God; this fake world stands between us + God. Fake time ("looking different") seems to pass the church didn't originally possess this secret, but somewhere along the line using Xtian technogy, they found it Augustine probably was the first I out to figure it out - due to mani who down brought us the real truth. Rel through the ages the church has known This secret, + now goes on the attack. "Darousia" means more than the presence; it means all out war ala Zoroasterianism. Sons of Darkness vs the sons of light (the Holy Mother the Parousia is here because they made church) it be here by going in the attack. other churches don't have - possess - know this secret world is the target of the sons of light. break the power of fake world by means of info. (1) "Ubik." (2) 2-3-74 hence "Valis." + "Joint." + "Maze." te. "Valis" logically follows in the 10-volume meta novel that left off with "Maze is no one has noticed that "Valis" picks up where "Maze" left off. The epistemology is unbroken + cumulative. is Valis" shows I am questioning whether world is real; retro‐ I actively it shows meant it in the pris 9316 Ubik world sn't it perfectly us) clear in "Ubik" fake Valis that world is not real real but Ubik is, + Ubik is Logos/YHWH. Likewise Valis in "Valis." et Valis" is the MITHC 3 Stigmata" cypher book ie h code book back imation t t to the whole 10 t VALIS is volume meta‐ I novel. + will Tears wo Maze someday be read fortem such. + "Valis" as Journey firm the is Gnostic/mani of titan but secretly Holy mother church - which he explains "Tears" - that is, the acts materi in it. As with God's strategy, the sequence is "out of sequence." Viz: the key piece -"Valis" - came last. Until it the others ve did not make sense - i.e. they were taken to ha been written as fiction + hence pypothetical "Valis" retroactively re-interprets them - shows them in a lethat could not be anticis pated by an analysis of them - until "Valis y came out, typical of the pattern strateg of the wise horn in its dialectical combat Here is a big realization, + unexpec game. ted: "Valis" in itself means nothing! It's only significance is as the code book to the 10 volume meta novel - + no one has to noticed this yet, even Gregg Rickman. repeat, it is the Holy Mother church's war "Valis the fake world of Satan. new or he a break against c seems oney ure in us (317 My corpuscri angel archer: the rational soul. Yes, but more: the bride of Christ the bride groom So it goes beyond my saying/perceiving that angel Archer is my soul, she is my soul as me in relation to Christ. a She is what I am to Christ - as he finds + creates me (not just sees me, as he creates me). (Angel, then, is Christ's creation, not mine. + she is me, but only as bride of Christ.) She is me justified by God's grace. Me justified is me ensouled. When God looks at me he sees angel archer because this is what Christ has made me: new life: reborn. The AI voice is the voice of my own created soul the Dingram on the previous page - + what I say there - explains why "Valis" This is how resembles "Ubik" + Ubik. the Gnosis is smuggled past the angels ("the secret stolen through the angels, in one's hands"), + into this prison: it is not transmitted in the proper - meaningful - sequence but is correctly assembled here to spell out -+ essential - the message. The final It alters the meaning piece was "Valis." ot all the previous books K318 the message in not in "Valis." the message is not in the 10 volume meta-novel. It is in the latter reinter‐ preted by the former. E.B. Look what reinterprets the squib opening the it final ch. of "Ubik" into! - mean 2-3-74 the reason "Valis" that the sequence resembles "Ubik" I occurred retrograde: 2-3-74 This t comes first. Then "Ubik" actually does not point to retrograde but to the way God works + sees time the passion In c. 3-74 I saw + crucifixion re-enacted, not just Hence, as it "act 3 of "Parsifal"! says in the EB article on protestantism t the Holy Spirit made these things con temporaneous to me + applicable to me the saw I as part of justication: vicarious atonement, the sacrifice; it was brought into my time +, also, there was a was back at that time two way time breaking through miracle USA 1974 penetrated the not. + the N.T. penetrated USA 1974. + it wasn't "just" Acts; it was the passion + crucifixion. Haic (it veritas. Missing from 9) as is the passion + death "Valis" of Pinky The trophy dream: the white part: on mushroom. The rear: Christ's blood. total trophy: body + blood - magic. 6319 This is the one absolute thing I know: Christ, the body + blood, the passion, crucifixion + resurrection (for this last see "BTA"). Then it's all real, + Valis is either YHWH or Logos. know what happened. In 2-74 my seeing the Golden Fish sign caused all the disparate elements of my mind to come together, as in an alchemical catalytic transformation, into one single (meta realization (what I call "the meta-abstraction"). Viz: Christ is the case + for me + now. All the pleces were there save the crucial calalyst as "Valis" is to the 10 volume meta novel! + for obvious reasons: it says: this is tree. It is not just a theoretical construct. +, as I noted recently, the human mind is programmed to lock into that key factor like jaws of a trap; one theory out of many is analogic to reality, "real existence" is the most crucial "fact among facts" the fact of all facts (that indeed are facts). There are no other facts - save that there be this one. It is then, a unique + uniquely important fact, redefining at 320 facts of that particular system (as if retrograde). Upon this fact all real knowledge is based. (In Jungian terms I exercised a latent, rational -i.e. judging - function, in contrast to irrational intuition - my main function - which just/only deals in potentialities. This is what the "meta‐ abstraction" was: latent in my uncon‐ scious, in my right brain or anyhow appositional hemisphere, lay a slumbering judging Jungian function in the function compass which awoke perhaps for the first time + judged one system entertained by my intuitive function out of many: Xtianity o For me the concept "it is true" is a meta‐ function, since I normally deal totally in possibilities. Retroactively, this forces a reappraisal of all my prior writing which was speculative. Christ died for me here + now. For me (as I say) this event in my uncon‐ scious, or latent hemisphere, but absolutely valid. After all, This is a rational function! Up to that point