alone reveals deity by inference (in Whitehead's terms, + this is sufficient). Paramount to this is something I intuited long ago: a variation on the basic element of "pretextual causation": a sort of teleological "set-up" cause in which several lines of ostensibly innocuous causation are triggered off for teleological purposes, as if pre-wound harmonies (in Leibnitz's sense), obviously by a being not only wise + powerful but equipped with absolute foresight. In this modus operandi minor "causes" are employed to trigger off folder 90 - 166 G 110 or rather seem to trigger off a major desired effect. Part of the wisdom utilized has to do with the veiling of the very purpose for which the sequence is brought into being. At one time I supposed that a domino effect was being employed, but now I'm not so sure; I no longer view the trivial antecedents as true causes but, rather, masks whose existence conceals what is going on. This fits in with the theme of camouflage. It is clear to me that we have an invincible friend who weaves a vast tapestry in which everything is put to use: God as artisan (+ yet this seems to be an adversary situation, as if the zero firings have a dim intelligence of their own + pose a colossal problem that must be surmounted + subdued (this reminds one of Plato, noos + ananke). (This is the chaos monster who is eternally overpowered in endless combat. If the system went naturally on its own in the right direction there would be no need for the 0-1 switching; it doesn't + there is. It must be perpetually corrected. What to me is most awesome is that that which is not shapes that which is. What does not exist exerts a subtle decisive power over what does exist. It may only be possible to understand this in Taoist terms. The is-not subtly molds the is. There may be some relation between the is-not + space (the void?). It would seem to me that I am now able to conceive of Valis in a way distinctly suggestive of the absolute: not merely the Judo-Xtian God but the absolute transcending folder 90 - 167 folder 90 - 167 G 111 cultural limitations + relating to A.F. Whitehead's process deity. It would seem, too, that I am becoming stabilized in my focus on Malebranche. All this tends to point to a rather clear conception; Valis is deity (the Tao, perhaps, yet still possibly Christ or the Wise Mind or YHWH or Brahman); I understand him/it + his/its activity + nature in extraordinarily abstract terms - which is right + proper; +, of great worth, I seem to understand clearly how he/it relates to the world-order + yet how he/it is to be distinguished from it. So there has been a clear + steady cumulative evolution in my thinking + comprehension about all this (even since I wrote "Valis"). I would even say that I probably know as much about the absolute as any man has; + I believe it acted on my behalf, +, more, it disclosed its presence + reality to me, +, in doing this, unveiled its way of functioning. Thus at this point (4/29/81) I would say that very evidently this exegesis is a success, + the work put in on it is clearly justified. I feel (1) I well understand 2-74 to 2-75 + (2) possess, based on it, a solid, lucid, comprehensive philosophical-rational system both original + eclectic, trans-cultural + trans-temporal, spanning the Prajapati myth to quantum mechanics, Augustine to Whitehead + computer theory + information theory. I do not specifically identify Valis with any given deity or culture, as I tried to do for so long. It folder 90 - 168 folder 90 - 168 G 112 no longer seems necessary to name him, as if naming him tells me something. I see him as the shaper of all that is: intelligent shaper: he who selects, he who decides; he who knows; he who wills; +, most of all, he who causes to be (YHWH-Asher-YHWH, I guess). This has been a great task + a thrilling one. My conception of the absolute is vast indeed; he shapes yet he is not; if one can fathom that, wisdom has come at last. Put briefly: God enters or affects our universe as/in what we call "causation," because "causation" has to do with change + process; what it really is, I have come to think, is ex nihilo creation, the original act of cosmogenesis perpetually renewed; this mysterious element which we see constantly but do not understand is where + how God who is-not acts on the is to shape + direct + exert influence on it. Thus to understand what we call "causation" is to understand - not God but God's relationship to the universe: +, specifically, God as creator. It can be said that he directs the outcome of things + events, but he does this by creating, by causing to be that which was not. Thus he does not exactly direct the is, but, as in the beginning, causes something new to come into existence + enter the universe "from outside"; this is the "perturbation of the reality field" that the AI voice spoke of. Herewith God can be understood as distinct from reality (Spinoza to the contrary). He is not in reality; he is not reality. He acts on reality by folder 90 - 169 folder 90 - 169 G 113 introducing the new so that at given points (what I call forkings) the "effect" exceeds its "cause." As if he is or acts on reality as a subtle warping power, setting all trains of events purposefully, with (evidentally) full knowledge on his part of their outcome; thus (again contrary to Spinoza) he has a plan for the universe, which he brings about through his power to create. Since "causation" is the perpetual + regular entry of the divine into the world-order, it is useless to seek to find the divine acting to suspend the natural course of events because it is -or causes to occur- the natural order of events, causation itself. + if my binary switching model is correct, God is re-creating the universe anew -destroying + re-creating it- each trillionth of a second (the procession of discrete time frames, each different from the one preceeding it, the off position period being that in which he makes his choices). (The Logos might be a template for each + every frame, a blueprint or model on which he bases creation, a theoretical map existing from all eternity, thus a kind of book or narrative of total reality, of everything that will ever happen; Logos + Torah, then, would seem to be the same. God consults it to see what comes next, + acts to create in accord with + based on it. Thus in a sense his choices exist previous to reality + have a foreordained quality. Put another way, in a certain real sense the Logos is the world + the world is the Logos. This would be why Dante would reveal God as "the Book of the Universe." Under these circumstances this Book or Logos or Torah would spontaneously manifest itself throughout folder 90 - 170 folder 90 - 170 G 114 creation as information - information as the source + basis for/of creation, out of which creation can be -+ is- perpetually reconstructed. It's like the DNA is to given creatures. The information is in ceaseless change: i.e. it narrates. Thus a vision of the universe as [this] source-information -along with a vision of "pretextual cause"- is a vision of underlying structure, of source of reality: that which causes to be. Viz: the information + the "pretextual cause" are "YHWH-Asher-YHWH" insofar as he can be perceived - which is him involved in + producing the world-order. King Felix, then, would not be a message from + to, but the informational analog of reality; to see it + to read it + to correctly interpret it would be -as in using the "I Ching"- to know what is; + I interpret it to refer to the new Messiah - + the AI voice bears this out. From our standpoint the information arises on the spot as an acausal correlate of events, + if read + understood informs the reader not just of events coming into being but the real meaning of these events. This real meaning may not be perceptible in the events themselves, but the information cannot be wrong. Thus as a source of knowledge (about reality) it is boundlessly valuable. I just had the strangest thought. It is possible that it only can work as/through/in/by causation - folder 90 - 171 G 115 given the discrete frames system; a frame can't be intrinsically changed: it only can be replaced by another frame. This is after all how creating works. (I started to write, "these have to be logical progressions." That is pure Spinoza. Now, how does my binary switching -forking- system fit in with Spinoza? Very well. Both presume a logic-mechanism; mine is updated in terms of post-Newtonian indeterminism, but otherwise our visions are remarkably alike. Causation + logical progressions are two sides or two aspects of one thing (substantia). This is why it works in/through/as/by causation: Spinoza is [basically] right; it has to reason out the sequence. Miracle in the sense of suspension of natural law, in particular a violation of it, is impossible once this mechanism is understood. What I saw in 3-74 that I called Valis is a reasoning entity - but in my vision there is repeated choice (the forkings). My system is a combination of Spinoza + Leibnitz + Malebranche, but yet also new. + I did not reason it out merely; I saw it, viz: that causation is not what we think it is: it is logical sequence. It is equally mind + it is intelligence (as Spinoza says) to which I add, + it perpetually chooses. But it is limited by the antecedent given. So (since it possesses absolute a priori foresight) it lays down what I call long-in-advance initial moves which are to pay off much later - but this is still working through causation! It may seem like miracle but it is foresight at work. If it worked through miracle it would not need to lay down these preliminary moves long in advance. What these folder 90 - 172 folder 90 - 172 G 116 "preliminary moves" add up to are very long + intricate chains of logic that only it itself can foresee in terms of pay-off. It possesses two advantages: (1) it can make the initial moves; + (2) it can absolutely foresee no matter how far ahead the pay off lies. I think that the adversary situation revealed to me vis-a-vis the Dialectic is between sentient management of the system (binary switching system) + what would best be called mechanical thrust per se (this is not, then, Bitheism). It is renewal versus depletion, form versus disorder, noos versus ananke. It must be the case that all things being equal, information (form, energy) decays unless renewed, the system on its own runs down. Unless otherwise contrived, the cosmogenitor falls victim to his own creation which is in fact himself objectified as the brute totality of antecedents. [v. p. 126 passim + p. 129] This is clearly expressed in my dream of recent days in which to perceive reality is to create it - with the sinister result that the percipient becomes the victim of -the object of- his own creation, an eventuality that he himself (due to his absolute a priori foreknowledge) foresaw - + took prophylactic steps in regard to, represented by the clock-timed AI voice that reminds him of (1) his identity + (2) that world is in fact his own creation, the very world that he is "in" as percipient,