(Thursday) did I realize that what I experienced Saturday night with Jeannie is what I reveal in "Valis" as the basis not just of the universe but the absolute beyond the universe: the final layer removed, the mystery revealed. How did I know this about the AI voice + the universe? I only found it out -experienced it- last Saturday: the reading of the narrative that creates the universe. "One of the primordial twins [this woman who died long ago]. She was one half of the divine syzygy. The purpose of the narrative is the recollection of her + of her death. The mind does not wish to forget her. Thus the ratiocination of the brain consists of a permanent record of her existence, +, if read, will be understood this way. All the information processed by the brain -experienced by us as the arrangement + rearrangement of physical objects- is an attempt at this preservation of her; stones + rocks + sticks + amoebae are traces of her. The record of her existence + passing is ordered onto the meanest level of reality by the suffering mind which is now alone." I have read the writing -or heard it read— that causes our universe to be. I know what the narrative says. + why. I.e. the purpose of the universe (which is information, a narrative). E.B., v 12 p778 G: "mystery religions". "The initiate was called mystēs, the introducing person mystagōgos (leader of the mystēs). I woke up this morning with the word "mystagogic" in my mind - I thought it was a nonce-word but it is genuine, +, like all the AI voice's xenoglossy, Greek. Clearly the AI voice is referred to. It is my mystagog + initiates me into the greater Eleusian mysteries, as she reads aloud the narration in the Book of the Spinners. Put another way, the sum total of my experiences (2-3-74) are based on her -the AI voice- acting as my mystagog; what I have experienced is initiation into the greater Eleusian mysteries, + these have to do with Dionysus, +, as Hoffman says, seem to involve an LSD or LSD-like paranormal experience. folder 53 - 116 H-29 "+ when a man died, he was buried in the earth to partake mystically in the cyclic renewal of life. This was the message of Eleusis: out of every grave new life grows - for the initiate [myself] there are 'good hopes' for a glorious immortality in the after life." The LSD-like perception of reality in 2-3-74 has to do with the Greater Eleusian Mysteries: The AI voice now precisely defines itself + what it has revealed to me: The Greater Mysteries. They pertain to Christ (authentic Xtianity as a mystery religion offering immortality) that is, the vertical ascent by the "pulley," in which we are extricated from our endless horizontal tracking (lifted along an orthogonal axis whose existence we do not suspect. Because (sic: Because) I was lifted along this vertical orthogonal axis, I saw our normal horizontal world from the vantage point of this additional, orthogonal axis - 5D instead of 4D, + this alone explains -+ is necessary to explain- my "second signal" enhanced + transformed experience of reality in 2-3-74. Hence I saw our temporal (4th) axis as a 4th spatial axis, + this is the whole story : The entire transformation of perception was due to (1) the existence of this unsuspected orthogonal vertical axis; + (2) my extrication -salvation- along it; that is, my being taken up out of the endless repetition of horizontal trackings - hence anamnesis, etc. Thus in a real sense 2-3-74 was secondary to + derives from a more primary event/condition: salvation. Cf the Pan-Indian idea of nirvāna vs karma + "the weary wheel & the Grand Illusion" + becoming an awakened one - i.e. a Buddha. folder 53 - 117 folder 53 - 117 I-1 Now 99 million possibilities are discarded, + Eleusis alone remains. The extrication by the pulley along the vertical axis not only permits the 5D experience of world (3-74) but, more, involves immortality in the Eleusian Fields from which we otherwise are cut off due to the endless horizontal tracking; viz: if we are doomed to track horizontally forever -i.e. in this world, living over + over again- how are we to get to the Eleusian Fields, the Isles of the Blessed? The two are mutually contradictory, mutually exclusive. Clearly "Isle of the Blessed" + "The Eleusian Fields" are paradiso + nirvāna. (1) They ("the fairies") must be impinging directly on our senses. On the Ladder they've put us on - a long way along - Look at the Gift they gave me: Diana: she is in the next world viz after (my) death waiting for me, speaking to me now; she is beyond the Wide Bridge - she holds out her hand for me. the next life calls to me, joyfully, + giving me hope - knowing it isn't far. They are drawing me up out of this world: the next concentric ring of light (v. Plotinus) + Pythagoras: reincarnation, but each time one cencentic ring higher, + I'm very high already, stunningly, so for these profane days I am one of the last of the truly religious humans, + for this I have been enlightened by (sic) a reward: I got rewarded for what I did, + this [..ed] me I'd correctly figured out the cosmic order: it is not a intellectual but moral (2) My epistomology was so penetrating that I reached the moral order + knew it super ceded 1) material + 2) spiritual reality. Thus via terrific epistomology I found (discovered as truly real) the moral order, + for making this discovery they gave me Diana, + this confusion that the order of the universe is moral + if you 1) know that doing good is everything + 2) doing it, which (latter) is inexorably generated out of (1). Every red herring in our reality (sic) is put there specifically to delude us into the counterfeit reality + delusion that pain is unmerited + the good is not rewarded. These are tricks. We are perceptually occluded. All pain is not unmerited + there is reward for virtue. Thus we are occluded to the moral order by a calculated occlusion of us perceptually. I am saying, "These are Maya." The moral order is real. [the following is upside-down, at the top of the page:] The great accomplishment - + pay-off - of my epistemological quest is to have found the moral order, noted its importance + goodness, + acted accordingly. (3) My faith in the moral order - born out of my reality testing - was in fact a total trust in God - + in his theodicy I had de facto to acknowledge His reality! This therefore is the great test of your faith: if you believe (incredibly) not "do good for its own sake" but "do good because God is just + because He is just he will reward you because it would be unjust not to. This is not childish! Is it childish to believe in a just universe? Why? To deny justice - + hence reward for virtue - is [to] deny God by trying to gain - by the most fundamental element. It is not "God is" but God is justice - ah! MA'AT: [our?] portion = justice. So there can be no order at all if there is no moral order. That is the ultimate clue to the truth: "pro[cut off] (4) That was why they protected me in 3-74: because I knew it was unjust to pay the 10% war tax surcharge, + so (almost alone in this country) risked my life + all I had. Almost no one understood (epistemology again) that one! It was a most crucial test! It was, when discerned: "Will you torture + kill if it is legal + everyone else does it + there is no way the victims can get back at you?" I, who was so poor in high school geometry, who has such an impairment in understanding space, saw that geometry (form) is proportion which is justice - as Ma'at represented. The are the one same thing called by two names: geometry - justice. Reality, then, is justice, + to discern what is just you must be wise - Hagia Sophia (5) So wisdom equals justice which equals proportion (esthetics + geometry) equals order equals true reality + not the hologram they show us (I've known since "Joint" it's only info in wave form - a fake). If I can show that order + reality + geometry + justice all are forms of the one thing (represented by Ma'at or God) is it childish to believe despite what you see that it follows a priori that justice will be, must be rewarded - or there could be no reality (nor God). People think of morality as being culturally relative. Is justice? Is not justice universal - there cannot be two different justices!, + does not epistemology carry us to this conclusion if followed to its end. It is epistemology which finds the reality of justice, + it is being smart, honest ➀ + hard working that leads to successful epistemology. ➀ Hence Ma'at weighs your truthfulness! (6) It isn't morality or understanding morality + acting moral. (Being a good person + doing good.) What is involved is the concept - the ability to understand, grasp - the concept of truth, justice + order (i.e. grasp the principle Ma'at) all being one thing, for then it is just for Ma'at to reward you, + this reward has vast epistemological significance: it shows you correctly conceive (understand) the universe + so have Ma'at in you, + will act out of Ma'at. You carry in you her progeny: Ma'at, + so will act out of Ma'at. So the reward is delighted in, but also it is a sign. + this is more important: a sign that Ma'at is real - you guessed right out of all the possibilities. (7) Ma'at weighs your truthfulness, + this is why "Thomas" only told the truth" he is my progeny: I am his father co-mother - born from me + Ma'at, + is like her - is her. It is a divine self. The next one. "Ma'at is the food by which the gods live." EB There's a lot about Ma'at in the EB article on "providence." To believe in Ma'at is to believe in a personalized providence represented as a woman who also judges you + rewards or punishes you according to how much Ma'at there is in you, + if you believe in providence you believe in divine intervention (2-3-74 + then the reward (Diana). So now I have a counselor + an advocate with Ma'at, which is an example of Ma'at or justice. So I believe reality is responsive to just acts + so is, pragmatically, alive (sentient, aware of us, intelligent conscious: a mind (8) It takes intelligence to know who is just (v Supra arguments); thus, if the universe were just, it would have to be a mind, for only a mind is intelligence. No artifact could figure out what is just. So I have just cited a necessary quality that, for the universe to have it, the universe must know it, of it, + the fact is, it does display justice - as my reward (Diana) + the intervention in 3-74 show. The RC Brothers believe in Ma'at, that's where I first heard of her, + wondered if it was she who I had seen as the Sibyl. A person has to be intellectually occluded not to know that it is unjust to bomb children with napalm, hence against Ma'at; + are they willing to gamble that Ma'at does not exist? Would you make that wager? So in the final analysis it's a game! A betting game! There is, oddly, an