+ (2) unique, in that the innate psyche differs - i.e. new combinations are formed, so this is not a static transfer. There is a passing-over of divinity from the adventitious psyche to the innate psyche the latter becoming the next adventitious psyche + hence Jesus, the source of the "theow" part in Hence each innate psyche is not the next "de." joined temporarily - during its lifetime - but per‐ manently, for it now carries on what I call "the immortal man" to its next host: this is the "bride + bridegroom" mystical wedding K41 + from this statement I infer that the "waiting for the imminent return of the bridegroom" is waiting for this adven titious psyche to take up residence in you the bride to form the Ditheon; this is what Thomas had been waiting for, + it came; this they is what he anticipated with such joy. understood how this works. This is the Parousia: it is accomplished this way. (It is not limited to one person only, as pentecost proved.) Then the AI voice's "prophecies" are analytical of the process in me; is the "transplant" successful? is he alive? He is alive. 2-74 - 2-75, then, is in itself the Parousia, + it has been coming - ach. Pentercost was not the 2nd coming; it was interem. This (2-74-2-75 is not intercm; it is the Parousia because - well, a There are crucial contrasts to pentecost. What experienced involves a resurrected "person" + I have identified him as Jesus, not the Holy Spirit (it is + not likely that the Holy Spirit feared the Romans. Jeous must have returned to Thomas + created a Ditheon, since Thomas survived to be resurrected. This all can be discerned by contemplating This sequence: 2-74 to "BTA" to my rereading of it + my letter to rust to my Ditheon dream to Russ' letter. biologically-speaking, one could say that [somehow; never mind how] evolution created the paradigmatic new man in Jesus + found a way to perpetually recreate him as if he is both ontogeny + phylogeny combined (he is pure essence). did have that dream on after all I the Parousia is here" + the Holl that 3-17-81 ) -42 mother church knows it." + subliminal messages are being sent out to notify the true Xtians of their identity; moreover, God is here + rules. The eschatological judging has already taken place The adventitious psyche is a man's, former living man. This would seem to a rule out the Holy Spirit. Also, the Holy Spirit is itself God; but here Christ is the result of the combination of the two That psyches, not intrinsic to either psyche. is, out of two humans - one past, one present ditheon (Christ) is formed. So even if this adventitious psyche is not Jesus, nonetheless the result is Christ. What I am saying in these last few pages is that the man Jesus is perpetuated through resurrection. So I am saying that Jesus + Christ cannot be sundered. There is + there was only one Christ. look what you get when you combine the 3-17-81 "Parousia" dream, the statements by the AI voice, + the "ditheon" dream. to repeat, the "ditheon" dream indicates - not a recollected, reincarnated, phylogenic, former self - but a resurrected adventitious psyche invading to form a two psyche God-entity. now it does not state the fact [of The Parousia] but the mechanics of it as to my surprise my 2-74-2-75 exper a o Well cence is involved - in this "assembly Christ out of distributed components, what I call the convergent method. Doesn't this the wise horn of the dialectic i be how seem to pattern - its strategy - could be its worked 45 seen as it developed but the final Gestalt not anticipated by the kindsighted antagonist who could not see (1) how the pieces would fit together, (2) which pieces would fit together (3) What the result, when completed would be Thus all its power would be fruitless: it could, then, be given full rein to thrash around, doing its utmost, to no avail. + this method by the wise horn is related to linking + to set-ground feature extraction. most of all this is indeed strategy by a mind possessing absolute wisdom. Russ in his letter describes exactly how I saw Valis/the wise horn operating in terms of strategy to achieve its objective through lawful causation + not miracle; that is, accomplished by rule (by the rules of a 2-person game). Would one anticipate that a combining of one person waiting for the Parousia + another person with no interest in or knowledge of the Parousia would be the Parousia? (Here the principle of qualitative emergence is clearly involved: "The whole is greater than the sum of its parts"). If our essences are indeed intelligible ideas in the mind of God, then if message A is combined with message B, message C - a new essence entity - appears als ob ex nihilo, like a recom bining of letters or words, i.e. of intelligible constituents. This is precisely what Valis is best at, since it can see all combinations the way a computer does. + Valis works teleologically, so-to-speak backward, from effect (result) to cause (means). It's as if feeds algorythons into the world machine f I Then it works with what is here + available, limits itself to the like an artisan; it given, as if by agreement Now, this would be -44 precisely the case in biological evolution, where more evolved species arise entirely from lower species, with nothing entering "from outside." This kind of negentropy is logically puzzling + does suggest Teilhard certainly, then, a meta-mind (Valis?) is at work + this is not just plan; it is strategy in an adversary situation. (It amazing resembles Plato's Noos vs ananke sitting here I felt my mind put it i all together 1) No one has ever reported my 2-74 2-75 experience (+ the allied experiences to tollowing right up to the Ditheon dream last. Thursday night). 2) take the AI voice's prophecies, take the "Parousia" dream. Take the Ditheon dream. take the cypher in "Tears." Take my seeing Valis externally + my interpretation (that it was Christ). (or and) conclusion: Christ is here but he is identical with those whom he calls. (Those to whom the notices have gone out: they summon an epiphany of Christ in + as them; they are awakened to their identity I which is a hierogamy with Christ: bride (the human soul) + bridegroom (Jesus) which together form Christ: "two natures, one person"; a hierogamy occurs with Christ as the result. Each is unique (because the human part differs) yet all are Christ (because the divine part is identical in + to all). This is a mystery. Thus "Thomas" who took me over is always the H-4 adventitious psyche. Thus there is one meta-organism with a common mind throughout, but all the individual human minds are preserved intact so that the original "two natures one person," the Ditheon, that was Jesus Christ is re-created. was So I did not have Christ in me; I Christ, but I alone was not Christ: I plus the adventitious psyche together were Christ (Ditheon). +, paradoxically, it alone is not Christ, for "Christ" is of two natures: one wholly man; one wholly God, together forming one person. What was resurrected lacked the human nature; it seeks out other human natures to crossbond with put it in "Valis"); the resurrected (as I Christ was not Jesus Christ, because "Jesus natures, one Christ" is defined as "two wholly man + one wholly God." The witnesses are aware that Jesus the man "is dead, forever dead" - they make the proper distinction. + this resurrected Christ is precisely what John calls "the second it creates new comforter, the Paraclete. This is not the Holy Spirit which t Christs descended on Jesus at the time of his After Jesus became Christ a new baptism binary entity was created which had never existed before; the Holy Spirit was Ruah it started off the progression of Christ recreated over + over again. It can be said, "Each Christ is unique" because the s is different in each case human part Equally true is, "there is only one Christ because the resurrected K-46 adventitious psyche is identical - is unitary - for all instances; this is like an eidos + its instantiating in + as particulars. The particular is in itself only semi-real; what reality it has is derived from the eidos. All instantiating are one + the same real "thing." This is the meta-abstraction had to occur in Why 2-74 for me to become Christ; I had to recover the Forms, +, specifically, the I am an instantiating, a Form of which consider my relationship particular. Now to Thomas: This is not reincarnation Acts AD 70 USA 1974 s which explains why Thomas t Thomas PKD exists now. Thomas + h I are one + the same thing common essence seen twice, at two time Christ mother seen 3 times, not + two places, the "I 3 mothers" meta-abstraction. Here is the bottom line: PKD plus Thomas (i.e. two particulars instantiating the same eidos) reveal this form because it is their (our) common essence you only need two instantiatings of a form to abstract/recover the form, to "have" the Form in the sense of feature-extracting it (more instantiatings will never reveal anything more about the form or make it any more real. One instantiating will not cause you to "see" the Form; what is needed is that (as I say) one + the same thing be seen at two times + two places, whereupon the common essence can be feature extracted because (1) the principle/concept of Forms is understood; (2) the elements K-17 common to the two iarticulars - what they share - vs what they do not spare (essence vs accidents) can be distin guished as set to ground. So this does not just have to do with USA 1974 + Acts AD 70 possessing a common essence, + this precisely is where Platonist anamnesis ends + This Xtianity - in fact Christ - enters ( is why the Platonist explanation was both applicable + yet inadequate). in the creating of Jesus the Christ a human (Jesus) was crossbonded to an eternal constant, an eidos. +, like all eide, it instantiates itself here + we such particulars There in time + space. are thinking particulars. We can become aware of our identity as particulars of -plural particulars, one form one form by a certain kind of Xtian anamnesis, whereupon we recover our knowledge of + participation in (or rather Christ's in us) we are what Russ calls "disparate Christ. they come loose parts that only when together do you have Christ" - as in "BTA." No one particular (human) on his own, solus, is Christ. It takes at least two (+ othese two particulars will be at different times + different places + so will "have" different worlds). In other words, in a sense I have no direct relationship to Thomas; I was never Thomas" in a former life"; my K-48 relationship to him is: ns so to "gather together PKD) s Christ you do so in term. etist of a Platonist eidos + its particulars . (This accounts for my sence of somehow having participated in the war of the lowlands in the 17th century 1) a Thomas is not Christ. I am not Christ. but am a human. Thomas is a human. i (as I realized the Friday following the Ditheon dream) Thomas + I together are Ditheon which is Christ. How? Through Plato's eide (which explains my anamnesis + meta-abstraction). Thomas is adventitious psyche to me, but I am adventitious to Thomas - which I have not realized before. Hence his thinking, "then is someone else in my head + he's