i.e. Christ. Thus they fully appreciate what "salvation" refers to, in contrast to which orthodox Xtianity is virtually a cargo cult: making futile motions that ape without efficacy the real thing. the common object does not occur twice: Once in our world + once in the other world ("Tears") Acts). It appears once but is seen twice: once here, once there. This is how My "not 2 mothers once but one mother twice" s meta-abstraction fits in with coaxial plural worlds, + this is what I grasped in 2-74, had seen a transtemporal-spatial constant I (what is more) knew it, whereupon my mind + leaped at once to the implications for world a whole, for if there is one transtem. as poral-spatial constant then such things exist; There are such things plural. So plural worlds can operate off of a common matrix or essence. This is either noesis or is related to noesis, + voids the ordering categories of time, space + causation (+ induces anamnesis). what ratified this as real (+ not an hallucination) is "Tears" with its twin parallel stories, one for this world, the other for the other; that is, "Tears" is one constant containing info in + for two worlds; thus it operates as a two-signal source, feeding one signal to world A (USA 1974) + another + some. what different one to world B ("Tears"/Acts) Tears," then, is part of The world of Thomas C-163 the hyper-structure Ab. This is not precisely cypher; it is simply two parallel channels of information. the key to all this is information (in terms of what I call "set" to "ground"). put another way, the Golden Xtian Fish sign that I saw in 2-74 did not exist twice, once in my world + once in Thomas world; it existed (exists?) Once but is seen twice: by me in my world, + by Thomas in his world. Perhaps because of the pentathol the mechanism of separation dividing me from Thomas broke down + I became aware of (1) him in me; + (2) his world - by reason of the trans-spatiotemporal constants (hyperfield AB). There are not, then, two Xtian Fish signs seen once each, but one seen twice; this is the meta-abstraction + is how + the coaxiality situation can be the case, why the two spatiotemporal worlds do not collide but are, instead, compatible. Where anamnesis comes in is my recognizing something as familiar that I - as PKD in this world. had never seen before; + seeing it that day (2-74) was not seeing it "again" in the usual sense. There is a quasi "again" involved, but (as I say) in a more real sense, it was seen once ontologically speaking, seen once by two people, I guess, just as when the sun is reflected in a thousand mirrors there are not a thousand suns but one sun. Hence my leap was from illusory multiplicity to what is the case: unity. This certainly is Plato's noesis, but in terms of Xtianity + My seeing Valis was the ultimate encounter with c -64 unity itself, + suggests both Brahmanism (Brahman) + Plotinus' the one. Filtered as it was through Xtianity, Platonism + Neo-Platonism can be discerned underlying everything "Tears points indubitably to syzygistic relationship between me + Thomas existing long before 2-74, in which case Thomas + I are two halves of one whole - the latter being, obviously. Ditheon. the conscious coming-together of these two severed halves into a unitary wholeness may account for the 180" reversal of the Gnostic categories of alienation, Geworfenhect, etc., because now I - as PKD - know my own true nature + what I call "story" (origins. situation + purpose) If the value signs are 180" reversed in world B, this is a "two halves" situation involving parity; the true world is the hyper‐ field Ab whole. But: this other world is not randomly related to ours; it is the balance of ours; the two worlds have a logical, organic relationship + diametrically mirror each other‐ une mut perhaps even as complementaries. Thus we in world a who are deprived of world B are incomplete as selves, + our world is only partial. Thus worlds a and B are not two each worlds seen on but one world seen twice (fulfillment of the "two mothers" meta‐ abstraction) C-165 can either think of this as Platonist I + Neo-Platonism modifying Gnosticism, or can see it in terms of vice versa. Or I Brahmanism modified by both - + again vice versa. In any case the fusion of the two realizations (coaxial worlds + the "not two mothers" meta-abstraction) is the route quintessential epistemological - + spiritual. to enlightenment beyond which there lies literally nothing, since this multiplex yet unified awareness led ineluctably to my experience of Valis: ultimate reality (or, put another way, reality viewed correctly). Plotinus' one, or God or the Logos or Brahman" the self-causing uncaused (prime mover unmoved), initiating all its own transformations internally, beyond time, space + causation totally + absolutely self-sufficient (absolute homeostasis). - + shock - of the primary The magnitude insight is so vast + has (+ had at once) so many implications: here is a way of viewing + world (Dasein) not involving space, time causation + multiplicity - + it is not just an alternate way but is a higher better way; it is in essence correct: this is reality as it truly is-in-itself, + one senses (understands) This instantly; this realization is part of the insight. Thus it is self-authenticating (although the problem remains as to which formal system, if any, it falls into; I opt by-+-large for Platonism + Neo-Platonism). G-166 normally it but in this case e (the rs) (Thomas Y lobject at obsent o s t - onse feedback between PKD + Thomas di man's schism is not between to common object + world but an estrangement from his lost minse t self, his missing other half. This is why he has lost his story; why his memory is incomplete, his knowledge of himself + world is defective. He is only partial. repair is why, this clearly the in Gathering of the scattered, "swallowed" light by the savior who saves himself: he is divided into two parts. A contraction of an original disbursing that was a fall from intactness - like the prim ordial schism in the Godhead itself, in which it lost touch with parts of itself - + those lost parts fell into this realm (did I not theorize early in this section of noters that "world B" is the Christified pleroma from which we fell, + that my "return" to it was a reversal of the soul's fall - incorrectly construed by the Orphics + Gnostics as a spatial fall? + that the pleroma must therefore -following Plotinus - be here + not beyond the planets? So 2-3-74 was a reascent, a rising to higher ontological levels as Plotinus describey from multiplicity - + space, time + causation - to unity - + of course the Forms! Thomas, then, is my own lost self from which I am fallen + estranged, + his world is unfallen, which is why I entered it by noesis. + anamnesis These notes are say that "world be is true + real whereas ours is only seeming: the two are not equal halves; the ostensible one is irreal + deceptive. "World B" is sacardotal: pervaded by the divine, of which there is not a hint in our world, "world A." view C-167 of all this, Gnosticism is the case (with the element of a literal spatial fall edited out in favor of an ontologicall fall in Plotinus' sense, which is where these notes begin! One can, then, see in the human fall the schism + fall of the Godhead itself: into ignorance + forgetful neis, + how the individual repair "is at the same time a repair in the general ground of being. This is scary + rings true. Thomas is not another self, a counter self, but part of me; we form ditheon when rejoined: that is the Godhead itself. Angel Archer + Thomas are one + the same. my missing parts. Unfallen - still in the pleroma ("world B"). + Valis is the Godhead itself: unitary. "World B," then, is not just an equal alternative to this world but the next level up, out of the realm of Darkness. World A + world B when added together form one intact realm of trans‐ hyper realm temporal-spatial constants, + this AD - is the unfallen intact realis. Realm B is I not - it is the two joined together, which recovered in my 2-74 meta-abstraction. A different kind of realm (hyper-realm Ab). So realm B is 180° opposite, its value signs reversed; it is the other half of the totality of which realm A is the half we see - it is sundered. Neither a nor B is alone intact: only i the refusion is intact, + is outside space, time causation. + the repair occurred in me in terms of my own intactness, hence Dasein This is clearly Gnostic + not Neo-Platonist. for it predicates a divided self, the two parts lost to each other + rejoined. C-168 the meta-abstraction, then + anamnesis are one + the same, rather than one causing the other; it was repair per se both cognition-perception + remembering I have supra done something never before done: rather than drawing on Gnosticism I have figured out the real teachings of the At some primordial time Gnostics. there was indeed a crisis in the heights, but This isn't what interests the Gnostics; Gnosticism is practical: the Gnostics have studied the effect of this crisis + figured out that the intactness of each person in the world is either damaged or abolished (destroyed), each of us has suffered a primordial inner schism with the result that any given human self is only part of a once-intact greater self. Each of us is alienated from world (man contra world) because each of us is alienated from himself, not just warring or in conflict: no: the parts of the self have become separated from each other + because of that experience of world is partial, occluded, impaired, deformed; partial self experiences a partial world, a with the result that world is alien, irreal hostile strange, arousing perplexity + dread. man does not understand world because he does not understand himself; thus Gnosticism derives its epistemology (+ cosmogony cosmology) from an ontology of psychology -if the missing piece of self is rejoined 11 The severed parts come back together, experience of world - Dasein, being-in-the-world - will take care of itself: the C-169 rupture between self + world will heal on its own because now world will be experienced radically differently; 180" differently. Gnosticism has hidden its ontological psychology within a weird + grotesque mythology that successfully obscures both real purpose + real means to that purpose: to bring the two parts of the self back together (the in-gathering of the light by the Messenger who is "the savior saved," clear evidence that this divine champion is the person himself rescuing himself). Calso "in-Gathering" as remedy points to dispersion as original malady; the bipolarities are disper‐ sion (the malady] + in-Gathering [remedy] + that which in-Gathers is the person + that which he in-Gathers is himself. The radical, basic ontological "fallen" category of ignorance is - it turns out- ignorance of one's own true, full, intact self; all other ignorances stem from this. The in-gathered restored self will on its own know all it needs to know in order to reverse its ignorance + transform it into knowledge; thus the salvific Gnosis arises within the intact self once the parts of that self rejoin for the pieces of the self in themselves know the full story +, in their restored intact state experience world as it really is + hence