those events: the moment between the two advents. Christ is made present literally - not symbolically - present; this is the miracle. + I experienced to the sacred body is everywhere present - ultimately the ecosphere itself folder 55 - 148 folder 55 - 148 D-76 "the book of creation" says that the universe (creation) was formed out of the letters of the Hebrew alphabet. would this be the plasmate? as I realized one time while conded, the Bible is not a verbal description of a world; it is a world - in its (the world's) verbal form; this is the great secret. + surely all this is the plasmate + either is Torah or related to the Torah I found it in a footnote to "sepher Yezirah". "the idea, word + writing of the word are signs to man for a thing + is not the thing itself; to the creator however. idea, word + writing of the word are the thing itself "Not viz: "idea, word + work are one + the same to God, there is an ideal world in the divine intellect, according to which the sensible world was made. The difference between the human + divine manner of thinking admits no comparison." (2) ➀ This is what I saw in 3-74 that caused me to decide that the universe is information. I extracted the information basis back out. These are the thoughts of the creator. (idea = thought = word = the writing of the word.) ➁ This is why Valis (in my mind) did t - is not think (as we think; were it to think, creation would t folder 55 - 149 folder 55 - 149 i D-77 Anokhi. I self-aware (the two mirror effect; he sees himself in + as other, + says, "Anokhi my + is then, YHWH (I speak of 2-3-74) meta-abstraction, then, was anothe: the selfawareness of YHWH, hence anamnesis; hence Valis' mind in mine + in world. "Lead the self-repair of creator back to his throne." + to the Godhead itself - as Jonas says. As in "D.I." YHWH has ceased (or parts of him have ceased) to be self-aware + hence no longer can say "anoklie"; this is the primordial fall, as I discuss the schism in the Godhead itself - in "D.I." Prajapati. Valis (YHWH) did not enter my mind; he occurred as anoklie due to anamnesis due to recognition of himself in/as other (world); his memory of his identity returned (under the sodium pentathol, due to the Golden Fish sign). It was not PKD remembering; it was YHWH himself. viz: world as his own prior thought-formations He created world + fell (cf "Frozen Journey.") victim to it - as in "Maze"!! Hence I saw the plasmate. Hence e experienced infinite space seen as letters, words, information, i.e. the MMSK. Thoughts (in verbal form). what is this if not Spinoza's two attributed, extension + logical idea? What, then, if I identify extension (res extensal) with "groove" + logical sequence of idea i.e. word (written word) + with "music"? (10 numbers - decade, tetactrys - + 22 Idea letters.) "Music" (idea-word) is abstract; "groovely is physicals ) folder 55 - 150 folder 55 - 150 3-78 to summarize these last pages, going back to anothi, would it not be the case to say that [somehow) I got (in 2-3-74) access to the creator's mind? Not with this qualification: if for him "idea, word + work are one," + "work equals world, his mind + world are in some sense the same; that is (+ this is Spinoza) my meta-abstraction was about world + about him as one: world comprehended as "idea, word + work" being one. There is no clear distinction between him + world. The result of this is that when I understood world I had access to his mind, as when one gains access to a retrieval system of info ➀ Via the meta-abstraction. (1) It had to do with world ("work"). But for the creator (2) "idea, word + work are one." Therefore (3) the meta-abstraction opened up the vista of the creator's mind to me: world is intelligible ideas in the mind of God - for God, "Idea" does not signify what it signifies for/by/in a human mind t it is in respect to this that for a while I "was" the creator (anothi-.). World properly understood then, is mind of God or in mind of God; besides being "work" it is word + idea (whatever that may signify). As I said supra re Malebranche: once objects are understood to be representations [Note] of objects + not the objects themselves, then that which is alone directly experienced - God - rushes in: infinity connected with the pre-existent ideas in the mind of God used in creating world. folder 55 - 151 D-79 what we know as world is thoughts in a mind - + this explains what I saw when I saw Valis: I was aware of the thinking process, expressed as changes (related to what we wrongly call "causation"; viz: the real + only true cause is the mind's thinking as process. God thinks ("has ideas") but not as we do. These thoughts qua thoughts - "pre-existent ideas" - show up as world: plural objects; but the thought process shows up as changes internally in, sort of, the mutual arrangement of these res extensae - i.e. causation: what t happens; this is the dynamic side of it the objects are, so-to-speak, the static side. things (res extensal) would, then, be groove; the process (change, causation), then, would be music; hence I say in "Valis" that the universe is information in terms of + expressed by the mutual arrangement + rearrangement of things. This is not Gnosticism but, rather, Hebrew mysticism. (From "the Sepher Yezirah") + the other side of this is that the ideas - that get moved around, linked + relinked, arranged - are outside of time + space - i.e. eternal think, however, I'm making a I confusing God with crucial error: I'm Has thoughts (ideas) his thoughts. form: the sensible a take a material This represents perhaps. world, but folder 55 - 152 folder 55 - 152 G-10 a fall, in that these very same thoughts of his now come back to him as what I call prior thought-formations - i.e. as world (creation) become master, viz: "Tere servant has become the master"; God is imprisoned in his own thought- world + forgets his own identity as creator. Here is where the cosmic Christ comes in. The savior penetrates the world (as the word made flesh") + transubstantiates it back into a spiritual reality thus restoring it to God so that this fall is reversed as if world ceases to come back at the creator as world + master. Thus Christ is a strategy by which God rescues himself (from his own prior thoughtformations become world) he experiences anamnesis (2-74), perform, the meta-a‐ abstraction, + regains his identity; he says, "Anokhi.., that is he says "I." as in "I am," which is regained self-awareness. I, then, in remembering in 2-74 am end, + the savior (Christ) is means to that end which I set in motion foreseeing y own enslavement to my own rior thought-formation returning as world folder 55 - 153 folder 55 - 153 D-81 Thus in such Gnostic legends as "the story of the Pearl" it is the servant or disciple who utters cryptic words that cause the gurs, teacher or master to remember his forgotten identity i creath it but into this closed loop breaks the savior, Christ, awakening the creator up leading him back to his throne"; + the savior is a strategy by the creator himself based on his absolute foresight that this would occur; thus he saves himself (salvator salvandus). It can be said, then, that before creation he providentially set in motion the salvific machinery of his own selfrepair. Thus when awakened (anamnesis) he not only says "anokhe-" but perceives world correctly: as thoughts; as in fact his own prior thoughts, retur him in substantial form (cf "Frozen Thus his recalling his forgotten Journey") identity + saying "Anokhie -" + his perceiving world as thoughts - his own prior thoughts - are but two sides of one + the same thing (situation) folder 55 - 154 folder 55 - 154 D-82 this double realization-recollection is, then, what the meta-abstraction is, himself as God; world as thoughts, his own prior thoughts. + (as I say) it is he himself who wakens himself - just in time. + He had dispatched the divine messenger with the message (to himself) before creation; that is, before this fall + forgetfulness occurred. The Messenger is Christ; he whom Christ awakens is God. This is why the word became flesh: a strategy by the creator to free himself from thrall to his own creation (prior thought formations returning as world). This is why my 2-3-74 experience resembled the Bardo Thodol trip! (because in the Bardo Thodol trip your own prior thought-formations return as both threatening + as alluring forces/reality.) to realize that one is now in the Bardo Thodol trap is the quintessential enlightenment of Tibetan Buddhism: release from the grand illusion This is why I found myself drawn to the Orphic saying know we are dead + in a rial of prison"; + this what "Ubik" is all about - + "Maze." + - 2-3-74 resembled "Ubik" + also folder 55 - 155 folder 55 - 155 D-83 "Maze" - in fact my whole 10-volume meta novel; like in "Joint" where the soft drink stand turns into a slup of paper reading "soft drink stand? work to word to idea to mind to creator etc. The term "Karma," then, - the expresses the power of world prior thought-formations - to return + enslave; this is epitomized by the lex talions: heimarmene: causal + moral law (the retribution manhiner which the Messenger thwarts/bilks; in doing this he is rescuing the creator from his own prior thought formations returning as retributive punishing world - in my case in the form of the Xerox missive. Valis, then, did not enter my mind; It was my mind! This Gnostic anti-cosmism this o throwing off of the power + reality of world, is, as Hans Jonas says, Faustian. in fact (I think) it is the quintessentle Faustian act/deed: this is what the Faustion in is tually sta te to his lost the identity ut the of heimarmene, the nitributive power of world folder 55 - 156 G-84 Thus what I have been trying to do in this exegesis - + which exhausts me- is deliberately on my own part again to do what I did in 2-3-74! But that was sparked by the Messenger, + now I have him not. Hence I simply become more + more weary as world becomes more + more seek to regain, powerful over me. I to recapture, the liberation of 2-74 to 2-75. whereupon world regained its power over me: the vision was lost t I I fell back. do not seek to + gain Gnosis + liberation but to regain it; I had it + lost it! This hy trying to write "owl" broke me: it is this that is the topic of "ow)" I Although my effort seems cerebral having to do with thinking) it is really existential... but failing. (erebral = knowledge - Gnosis; typically Faustian, as in Goethel "Faust" part one "Valis": built the maze + fell into it. The maze changer because it is alive. it is alive because it draws on + from the very thoughts of the creator trapped in it; his efforts to solve it are thoughts, + it is these thoughts that "fuel" it - i.e. it is one I vast Chinese finger trap; the harder powerful world try to get out, the more becomes. Hence Hex 47: my increasing exhaustion. What, then, should I do