me. No, in one sense; yes in another. I was made justified as explained in the "Messenger" vision: through + in + by Christ (justification by surrogation). However: this may have been the Roman Catholic version of justification (in which good works - works of merit, hence merit - count) in contrast to the protestant in which man is hopelessly sinful, utterly so, + hence either has no merit or if he has it is not a factor. The revelation about my act vis-a-vis covenant House specifies the Roman Catholic version So: I write "BTA" for spiritual (artistic, creative) reasons, + reap the spiritual reward of a crucial further understanding of 2-3-74, what it was + means - a quantum leap in comprehension that would not have taken place without "BTA" Russ' letter + the Ditheon dream. It is (according to the EB) said by protestant thinkers (sometimes) that justification can or does produce "a Chris K25t + this would be of course Ditheon. As I view it, God adds to your mind (psyche) the missing essential parts needed to complete it + (as I view it) out of this, due to this, you are ensouled (as I put it); a soul is born. I did not create my soul God's justification of me - his creating a Ditheon- creates a soul, viewed another way, you are in fact a machine until justified (at least in relative terms, once justified, once a ditheon, you perceive yourself as having been a programmed machine controlled by invincible bonds you were not even aware of - it has to do with time + world + especially causation + was known to the ancient world as astral or sublunal determinism or ananke. fate or necessity). This release from these fetters is connected with the extreme leap in autonomy - freedom - found in the Ditheon. Thus ditheon stands high on my "ontology axis." I cannot be said to have been now completed by the justification - or "birth in the Spirit" - in 2-3-74, because the life of the Ditheon lay ahead of it: 2-3-74 was its view my writing "Valis + "BTA birth. I as growing expressions of that life, + I believe that a feedback loop (push-pull relationship) exists between me as a person I subordinate myself + my work (although the as I say, as a person to my work. (258 birth of my soul may have taken place wrote "BTA" which then, emerged t before was not but if so I from that birth. aware of her existence + certainly did not I can really only date her know her. birth in + from that novel. Yet the ditheon revelation does not involve her (in the novel, anyhow) but involves either all + the characters or focussed on bill/tim perhaps Edgar barefort. The Ditheon concept Angel Archer is related pertains to 2-3-74. to 2-3-74 in that she is (or seems to be) the then - invisible result of 2-3-74, of Ditheon, the progency, so-to-speak, + perhaps developing progressively over the 77 years following the creation of Ditheon, so that only in my act (deed) of writing "BTA" - predicated on the decision to write it (linked to the decision not to do the blade runner novelization + not to allow "sheep" to be suppressed) - did she emerge visibly (at least to + for me). Now, I view angel as primarily characterized as the purely rational principle clearly instantiated In human form, so perhaps she is Logos (viewed associate her I'd reason or wisdom). I as AI voice. But since she exists ex nihilo w she cannot be reduced to any I any supernatural entity; she is a from the standpoint of art, of corts, my work, she is a quan in degree but in kind. corpus - my opus- required K259 her (+ required me to be able to create her - perhaps prove I could create her as an artistic problem I consciously + deliberately posed for myself to - here is a remarkable thought!- to justify my work in terms of wholeness, completeness + intactness - which event (act) is analogic to God's justifying + completing me in terms of intactness + wholeness. Thus my creating angel archer ex nihilo is my anologic reperformance as a writer in his work of God's act toward me; creating Angel Archer is an act learned from 2-3-74; it is that justification first applied to me, now applied by me to my work. God perfects comprehend this; I then in turn me; I act to complete my work. I take my cre from the pantocreator, my creator; he as artisan instructs by example me as artisan He shows me that an ex nihilo "adventitious psyche can be injected. +, like Thomas, angel is ex nihilo + in a very real sense adventitious - she came into my work the way Thomas came into me. Thomas is what was missing in me (missing + needed), anged is what was missing + needed. In both cases. wholeness is the goal + in both cases whole ness was the result. One could say that God showed me that beyond logical necessity + organic development [unfolding lies the possibility of the unprecedented 9260 ex nihilo new, like the resurrection it is logically impossible. Had he not done it with/for me, I would not have known that it could be. So in this regard, angel Archer is indeed the offspring of 2-3-74, of the Ditheon, the justification, but by way of me as a creative artist; then probably I did not merely describe her, when I wrote the book; in writing the book I created her, which answers that question. + then having as a creative artist created her in + for my work I find her "returning to me," so to speak, as my soul. I projected her outward in my work, exhaled her, + then introjected her after I had created + projected her. So the direction of motion was not in + then out, but out + then in. Remarkable, especially in view of the fact that inasmuch as - once introjected back into me as my soul - I have reperformed 2-3-74 on my own, ex nihilo newness occurred then, but I was not responsible; ex nihilo newness occurred this June but this time I was responsible. In terms of negentropy + change + evolution + growth this is something of a miracle (well. So was 2-3-74) perhaps this cesson taught me as a creative artist was the highest teaching involved in 2-3-74. + then by reincorporating her as my soul I fuse myself as a person with myself as artist, i.e. with my work. The schism is healed. I + my work become one K261 +, curiously, I + my work constitute another push-pull Ditheon! Here again is the dialectic. Here again is growth + change, + a complementary antithesis. I am not angel archer; we are separate; we are "DI"; + yet we perhaps form one person. I create my character + she in turn created me, the total, intact, completed, whole me; hence I speak + I speak of of her correctly as my soul. (as e.g. in my letter to russ) of somehow having created my own soul, an extrordinar She is the spirit of my intactness Ideas - the actuality that is Ditheon. + this of suggests that the ultimate essence of Ditheon is ultra-autonomy + rationality + individuality (all characterized by her). Perhaps she is Logos: human Logos. yet "BTA" is organically related to the sequence of novels beginning with "scanner" + from there to "Valis" to "divine invasion" + then to "BTA" + the proposed "oul in daylight": the idea of the push-pull Ditheonic psyche the topic is wholeness: how achieved + what signified. We now seem to be at the point where a totally new entity, perhaps not human as we construe human, is involved ("the owl in Daylight" would convey this) I seem to be This topic refers to what experiencing as a person, even though "Scanner" was written prior to 2-3-74. 262 Now, consider what becomes of the human being failing to achieve (or receives the Ditheon state, Jung's individuation or integration of the opposites (chemical wedding, mysterily conunctionis, whatever anyhow the event birth in the Spirit" it in which what was not there before is there now + it acts to complement what was there that in itself was incomplete, so that the result is wholeness or - as I like to call it - justification). The human being recirculates the same ideas (info) over + over again, +, according to the statistical laws regarding entropy, the degree of order in the info irreversibly decreases, disorder increases, + the person + spiritually moves inexorably mentally in toward death. Now, schrodiser contends that a biological organism postpones its death (thermal equilibrium) by maintaining a relatively high level of order by incorporating negative entropy from its environment, + this is precisely the entering of the adventitious psyche It is either injected or is ingested, offered by the environment or taken from it; in any case it was outside the organism + is now inside the organism + incorporated into one total structure with what was -so-to already there; i.e. it is assimilated speak digested + incorporated, although not without some initial perturbation (defined K263 as disorder). What was already there what was intaken must ultimately either form a unity or (equally useful, maybe even more useful) a push-pull dialectic oppo sites of complementary, in which euch half corrects the other monitors the othere Acts as a feedback circuit, producing a self-winding autonomous totality; Thus the two halves are not identical (the psyche has not split in two; quite the contrary - I became conscious of the difference when I first researched the meanings of the prefix "DI" + saw that can either mean double or asunder, it implying either a joining of two elements or a splitting of one element into halves; these are antithetical notions). So perhaps "assimilate" is the wrong word; "reach a working relationship with" or "enter into enter into a syzygy" a partnership with," " would be better. So this is not a purely quantitative injection of energy, because that, according to Bolzman's statistical devolve principle of entropy would again into disorder. the main thing is that the Log that expresses inexorable + irreversible growth -increase- of entropy is aborted by what seems to be a biological stratagem; the organism has collided with what amounts to another organism in some ways like it but 264 ne other ways unlike it; the former permits union by reason of similarity; the latter is the valuable part, for from the dissimilars ties the mutual override + correction between the two halves come about as a strategy for prolonging its life This is representative of the strategies of organisms by + large, but what I see here is an extraordinarily high degree of incorporation of negentropy from the environment + subsequent incorporation into the organism's own structure. (There is an initial perturbation, defined as disorder.) If all goes well, the organism now possesses a vast increase in its level of complexity, in energy - drastic increase the capacity for in all the factors, by which a biological survival is measured. Hence it has bought into prolonged vitality, viability - the issue being exactly + extended life that: life versus death. (This extraordinary strategy is engaged in by an organism that is approaching death + knows it it has run out of time. It is vitiated; it has ossified. Its environment has been pressing against its perimeter threatening to invade + annihilate it. the level of internal organization has been lowering; it - the organism a perceives the ratio of order in it + outside it progressing toward less + les" internal order, greater + greater K265 Now, the concept expressed (external) order. the