the victory of Boehme's "Yes" is of a different kind than that of "No": presumably the system will ultimately end in a state of absolute realized order, at which point time ends. However, the more complex it becomes, the more inertial thrust (pressure) in the system; decay from order -decay into sameness- is progressively more + more of a threat since more organization hence loss, potential loss of that very same organization, is involved. The stupid deterministic horn becomes more powerful (by reason of its antecedent mass) +, to offset this, the wise horn must (if it is to succeed) exercise an increasingly wiser choice in order to effect the 0-1 conversion. Viewed from outside, it would appear as if Good + evil are pulling farther + farther apart from each other, both moving toward absolute folder 90 - 088 folder 90 - 088 F-16 states as a limit, until finally pure infinite Good (wisdom) will confront pure infinite evil (power). This is the dialectic that in "Valis" Sophia speaks of. Based on this realization, one could say that the BIP will become stronger, more violent, more repressive, more dangerous, more uniform - while its conversions engineered upon it will become more skilful, daring, unexpected, mysterious, original, + most of all more effective. They will more + more seem to come out of nowhere, + indeed they do in a sense, being truly ex nihilo, having no past; they will seem spontaneous: one day they are not there + the next day they are. Upon succeeding they will then vanish - but very soon (probably more + more rapidly + powerfully) the BIP will recurr. The amplitude of the oscillation grows ever greater, as if between the what is + the what should be; it resembles a winnowing or sorting process in which the "light" is sifted out of its mixture with the "dark" as the two sides pull farther + farther apart, each asserting + expressing its nature progressively more fully, with absolute assertion + expression as a limit (pure sameness vs pure growth). (As if the ultimate issue is between total stasis, total ossification + rigidity on the one hand + total process on the other). (The resolution may lie in the fact that total process must end eventually, but its victory is that when it ends + converts into stasis it has by then achieved total realization in terms of complexity + structure of all its potentials. folder 90 - 089 folder 90 - 089 F-17 It will be as if every combination of message units has been tried out (every possible meta-morpheme formed + then uncoupled in favor of another; a point comes where there is no other. At this point the mind of the system has complete, perfect self-knowledge, + since nothing exists outside it, everything that can be an object of knowledge has in fact become an object of knowledge. Being + being known, then, are regarded as one + the same. Viz: "God does not know us because we exist; we exist because he knows us.") The BIP, then, is a timeless perennial specter always intruding on process creation; it always is + it never changes, + unless actively combatted it automatically wins (since, as I say, in a certain real sense it is the natural state or outcome of things in motion). At every forking junction it remanifests itself by default. Thus to perceive it -as I did- is to see into the timeless, + to see one's absolute foe, the foe of creation (viewed as growth-process, as something evolving toward greater integration + complexity). So two supratemporal constants emerge: the BIP + those combatting it, eternal revolutionaries under a variety of names. This, perceived, is the dialectic itself perceived, in terms of history (which is the arena of process). (The BIP is non-process: it is the death of process. + since God + process are essentially related -process is God completing himself- the BIP is the totality of the no or sameness stages added up + the aggregate is antithetical to God's nature - this is what all the "nos" add up to: the potential death of God. One is tempted to say, then, that God is Faustian. folder 90 - 090 folder 90 - 090 F-18 The introjection of Christ into the system is certainly the epitome of the adding of ex nihilo newness, of revitalizing creation as if from outside. Thus the term "Christ" has to refer to any + all newness choices wherever + whenever they occur; "Christ" is the 0-1 binary disjunctive event per se, + so is always now + always here. We see it + understand that we see (+ experience) Christ + this is newness, re-creation, (in an unending process of creation). Christ never arises/occurs as a result of the past, as an effect of antecedent causes; he is always born "from outside." Hence his epiphany can never be induced or predicted (by definition). Christ is that which does not follow mechanically: he always invades world. To see, then, that causality is not observed - that the "effect" is in fact not an effect at all -of its cause- but is ex nihilo new is to see -literally, not symbolically- Christ. To see Christ is not enough, because you can see + not know (that you see). But to see Christ (3-74) + to realize it (4-20-81), to know - that is Point Omega, in one's life. folder 90 - 091 F-19 In what ways was I right? (1) It was Christ. (2) It did invade world from outside ("a perturbation in the reality field". I hadn't seen how "perturbation" fitted in with my perception of an invasion). (3) He is camouflaged in + as reality, having invaded it. (4) He did abolish causation. Thus my structure in "Valis" is essentially correct. It is clear from the Fourth Gospel that the light -the Logos- invades world; does not arise in world but invades it. As to this the AI voice says, "He has been transplanted [+ is alive]" rather than, "He has been born"; there is a difference; it has to do with (1) a preincarnation existence; + (2) coming here from somewhere else. All these 7 years I've feared I was nuts (Hence H. Fat is so described). Especially I've been nervous about quoting the AI voice; after all, I'm hearing voices. I think now I believe. I knew that binary switching model was correct as soon as it came to me. But I didn't expect this [payoff]! folder 90 - 092 folder 90 - 092 XXXV C-34 To earlier men he was anthropomorphic. This is how we are able to comprehend him. So all that I saw in 2-3-74 was a transduction into "a local habitation + a name": for our place + time, straining the limits of my mind. For the information decade he is information. This is bittersweet for me to realize. "Information" is my anthropomorphism, +, alas, far short of what Dante envisioned! ___ The very fact that it totally perplexes us is in itself the greatest revelation of all; it is in itself not the truth, but it points to the truth + so (+ this is God's unfathomable wisdom) leads us, + is the best way to lead us, to the truth: to a true understanding of him. So the model that is not him leads us paradoxically to him; omniae viae ad deum ducent. All that I saw in 3-74 - the set [of set/ground] pressing in on me, the info, the plasmate, was not God but rather God's power to make reality convincing to me, to folder 90 - 093 folder 90 - 093 C-35 compel (rouse in me) consent; thus it all -while not in itself God, e.g. the rest-motion, set-ground, linking-relinking, plasmate, Valis, AI voice, etc- pointed to God + alluded to the divine author, the divine source in itself unknowable, but asserting itself through these media, which I would understand. God + God alone has this power to render transformations ("perturbations") in reality ("the reality field") that will + do compel my assent, as if they are absolute; they are not: but they indubitably point to the absolute - + that is enough. They in their totality are -constitute- a multifaceted impinging on reality -a perturbation- by God; but in themselves are not God. Here lies my basic error; but they are proof of God, + were designed to be proof of this, +, ultimately, to be thus understood. God as creator can be defined as any instance when anything is taken by any creature to be real. This is God's real power: to folder 90 - 094 folder 90 - 094 C-36 cause this assent, normal + common for most creatures; but, for me, occurring only in 3-74. God, then, works directly on us; he does not make the universe in itself real; he causes us to take it as real (which for me began in 3-74). We are, then, when the truth is known, impinged on directly by God in a certain sense, in that he operates directly on us to cause us to take the universe as real; the universe is secondary; this causing us to take it as real is [him acting] primary primarily, directly on us. The supra realization that God is working directly on your mind when reality convinces you - he, himself, actually, causes you to experience it as convincing, is an example -an/the ultimate one- of the clutch engramming, +, even more, what I call "pretextual cause". But there is a level beyond this, implied by this, + it is Malebranche's occasionalism. The convincing quality of reality in general, impressed as real by God acting directly on you is no different from the 3-74 override vis-a-vis the Xerox missive, only in {...} folder 90 - 095 folder 90 - 095 C-37 instance I knew that God (or some supernatural agency) was working directly on me + in fact in me, as me. I have always said (regarding 3-74) that one vast lesson I derived from it is that God can absolutely engram you with a signal-stimulus, + you will do what he intends for you to do, although you will wrongly suppose that the stimulus/signal was the cause (qua world). You will not realize you are being directly worked on by God. It is impossible to conceive of what I call "the clutch" without conceiving of the agency or entity who purposefully + sentiently uses the clutch in regard to causing world to impinge, or seem to impinge, on you (in point of fact he impinges on you, as Malebranche figured out). To distinguish between God causing the universe to be real + causing you to take it as real -the latter regarded as legitimate + appropriate creating of reality- is the essential view of Malebranche; it is the heart of his system. This distinction -+ a recognition of the second as the case- is simply not fathomed by humankind; that it is indeed what is going on. folder 90 - 096 C-38 2-3-74 proves (to me) that the latter is the case: world is not real; he causes us to take it to be real by acting directly on/in us (Malebranche). Thus in a sense God can be discerned when the universe impinges on you, its patterns; but it itself is not God. I now see that "matter is plastic in the face of mind" + "a perturbation in the reality field" are essentially one + the same. I must retain my surd; it is not world impinging on me but rather, as Malebranche says, God. This understanding has the special merit of being a recognition -not just of what is known- but what is not known. Thus God is not conceived of, only the effects of God; yet there is a knowledge that he lives, that he is wise, that he is