decline of Stoicism are discontinuous matter models, there is no way that the true concept "cosmos" can be retained or even comprehended. We use the term (as Hans Jonas points out) but use it wrongly. When the continuum model died, the concept of true cosmos died with it. Now, the AI voice said "long extinct," not just "extinct" but "long extinct." Clearly, the AI voice is referring to Greek thought, + prior to the Atomists it said "true cosmos" + not "cosmos," + this clearly refers to cosmos in the correct, strict, + precisely accurate sense that e.g. Pythagoras employed it. "+ it's still there." Thus, it must be the case, therefore, that the continuum model is correct, is the case, for were it not, true cosmos could not be there. I am told, then, that I am right: the Atomists -+ hence all discontinuous matter physics- are wrong. To know this for a certainty is to know a fortiori more than most living westerners know. What I see is (as I told Tessa) one of the greatest revolutions in Western thought starting (with quantum mechanics + field theory), greater than the change over from the geocentric solar system to the heliocentric. This, then, is an axial age, like 600 B.C.E. because the revival of the continuum model -+ based on scrupulous scientific research!- will perforce usher back in the true concept of -+ perception/experience of!- cosmos. Gone these 2300 years - 2300 years of conceptual blindness leading to perceptual blindness so vast that the Western experience of reality is deformed, debased + inaccurate to a quintessential degree - a true dark age of human knowledge + Dasein! folder 53 - 004 folder 53 - 004 A-4 For instance, the atomist universe, being totally materialistic, banishes God, banishes nous + intent; these elements survived only in supernatural form in the revealed religions (Judaism, Christianity, Islam, etc). What is going on here is that there is no way what is taken to be rational thought + its empirical experience of world can be equated with God, providentia, teleology, etc., + thus the soul of man is sundered from what he takes to be reasonable. But if the continuum model returns -+ with it true cosmos- the divine providentia, teleology, etc. cease to be supernatural + revealed; they rejoin world as rationally understood + empirically correctly perceived. My 2-3-74 experience ceases to be miracle (suspension of the normal order) + is intelligible (as a matter of fact, 2-3-74 indicts the discontinuous matter model as probably faulty, but since I cannot prove 2-3-74 occurred I can prove nothing) 2-3-74 is the in-breaking of true cosmos into my idios kosmos, shattering forever (I discover) the possibility of my viewing the discontinuous matter model as veridical. Cosmos (in Pythagoras' sense of the term - + he did coin the term) exhibits order, growth, a high degree of structure + purpose + is both intelligent + alive, organism not mechanism. But the power of the erroneous basis of atomism is so fundamental in us that (as I say supra) we are literally occluded first to continuum + then inexorably to cosmos - true cosmos. When in 3-74 I saw Valis I saw continuum, + the leap to cosmos (MMSK, as I called it) was inevitable, simply summing up the unitary totality that I experienced. All that I saw -linking + relinking, rest-motion, collage Gestalts, the MMSK itself, etc.- are probably aspects + ingredients of true cosmos. The information basis of reality (as I state in "Valis" "The universe is information") is the correct expression in it + by it of its condition of negentropy -what I call its "information metabolism"- since very recently we have come to view entropy as loss of information, + negetropy (order) as information. Cosmos, for the reasons given by Pythagoras, must maintain a high -if not ultimate- degree of order, +, this being the case, will show, upon folder 53 - 005 folder 53 - 005 A-5 examination/analysis, either a high degree of information throughout or in fact an information basis: it either will possess or be information, + when this ceases to be the case, it will cease to be true cosmos. Then the plasmate et al. simply is what true cosmos would exhibit, + the mystery is solved. Another + vastly significant point is this: I noted that all thinking by "the mind" took the form of arrangements + rearrangements of physical objects (rather than what we presumably do when we think: our thinking is not corporeal). But this is proof that we are dealing here with cosmos + not God, because "cosmos" is the world-order strictly defined in a precise way, + not God (i.e. not incorporeal spirit separate from world order); thus my very description given in "Valis" -of brain, not mind- turns out to be in fact a description of cosmos: thoughts of necessity taking the form of arrangements + rearrangements of physical -corporeal- objects is what "kosmos" signifies when properly understood. There is no other correct term for what I saw when I saw physical thoughts in terms of changing mutual arrangements of physical objects -presumably all physical objects in the universe- than kosmos. If we saw the physical objects but not as thoughts we would have reality, universe, world, world-order, etc., + if there were incorporeal thoughts we would have God, demiurge, Logos, nous, etc. It is the necessary unity of the two that renders it kosmos. Needless to say, I did not know this when I saw it in 3-74 + (I believe) not when I wrote "Valis" if indeed I knew it at all before today. But (as I say) we must revert to -or revive, reinstate- the pre-Atomist continuum reality + go at once from that to kosmos; we can never go from discontinuous matter reality to kosmos. With the discontinuous matter model you wind up with e.g. Wittgenstein who could not discern any totality or overall structure + was (to me) a nihilist pure + simple. folder 53 - 006 A-6 + of course in kosmos -truly understood- the percipient is part of the structure, not outside it, + ideally shares in its mind, +, in fact I so did in 3-74; "inner-outer" signify only macro-micro. Leibnitz was quite aware of this, all Hermetic theory took this correspondence for granted, as did Taoist alchemy as well. An aside: my "the universe is information" (each + every aspect from the linking + relinking to the plasmate) has nothing to do with God. It is quite evident to me that I have tilted decisively towards kosmos as explanation of 2-3-74 + will have great difficulty in returning to theological explanations, however tempting. It suddenly occurs to me that the "not two mothers once but one mother twice" meta-abstraction (hence "coaxial realities") may even transcend Plato's noesis -ie pertain to his eide- + have to do with the eternal + unitary constituents of the monistic unchanging reality of Parmenides, in which case the dialectic would be Parmenides' Forms one + two. Parmenides' actual reality is (1) known purely intelligibly (the meta-abstraction was pure cognition) + (2) is unchanging + eternal: all change or motion is only seeming, nothing comes into existence or passes away - this is logically impossible. In any case there is a common, vital link between Parmenides + Plato: true knowledge of world is intelligible, not sensible, + true reality consists of eternal + unchanging constants that somehow show up again + again as pluralized instantiations + yet are actually always unitary. I guess what matters is that the meta-abstraction is a sudden, radical transfer from sensible knowledge of world to intelligible, + this ushers in, finally, a wholly different kind of world than is found in any system following Plato. The key is cognitive -i.e. a priori- knowledge over + above -+ even in contradistinction to- empirical. With both Parmenides + Plato it is not really this world that is known. folder 53 - 007 folder 53 - 007 A-7 The strange, troubling but fascinating doctrine of two worlds enters with Parmenides, + passes over in Plato where it is welded onto Orphic doctrines of the fall + reascent of the soul. The final piece was put in place by Plotinus who realized that time + space are not involved in the "concentric rings of emanation" but, rather, degrees of unity vs atomization. From his standpoint, the universe of the Atomists is not a spurious model of reality but a model of the lowest reality; whereas (it now occurs to me) the continuum model, in particular as expressed by the concept "kosmos" is of a much higher ring in which the atomization of the lower is replaced by unity (with necessary transformations in spatiotemporality, causation, + sentience, etc.). So from Plotinus' standpoint, the arising of the Atomists' view/experience of reality is in itself a fall. The Eleatic view would be not "more correct" a view pertaining to one + the same reality but would pertain to a higher reality, yet nonetheless here + now. Then Plotinus + Heidegger agree that after Parmenides there was a decisive fall, + the atomist model simply expresses that fall (or rather the human experience of it, the transformation + experience of unity to atomization, etc). So "true cosmos" signifies "higher realm" or "ontologically superior -more real- realm" yet nonetheless here + now. The instrument of ascent is reason. (This links ascent to Plato's noesis + therefore anamnesis, in which the soul not only remembers its true self but in doing so axiomatically reverses to some degree its own fall. The essence of the soul is its ability to reason. Reason, anamnesis + essence -in particular spiritual essence- are joined + homologized. + in relation to this the term "true cosmos" signifies restoration of memory, of ability to reason, release, spiritual essence + reascent. Conversely, the reality of the atomists is both a symptom of fall, + the valid interpretation by the fallen soul of the realm it truly is now in. folder 53 - 008 folder 53 - 008 B-1 "+ it's still there." 3-74 was not supernatural revelation. Apotheosis or enthousiasmos. It was normal sight, unoccluded sight (hence, "I am no longer blind!" This tells it all.). What we normally experience is the debased fragmented, partial view; we do not see what is there. Thus 3-74 represented man's normal, healthy, natural state: it is a human, not divine, state. Plotinus + Heidegger indicate that the fall came after Parmenides + before Aristotle. It was the whole point of Plato's great edifice of metaphysics to arrest this fall, to reach some accommodation between the old view -that of the Eleatics- + the new view, that of the atomists. He took from both. Plato, then, is the great last bastion of unfallen western man; in which case anamnesis + noesis is the road back, the reascent up from the truly fallen state, as Plato well knew. Noesis + anamnesis arrested + even reversed the Fall; thus the heroism + magnitude + ability -+ importance!- of Plato's metaphysics beggars description. From noesis + anamnesis one can make one's way back to the unity that is kosmos - Plotinus' one. In a very real sense Plato was the last rational man in Western history, in that his knowledge of world was primarily intelligible, not sensible. + now, 2300 years later, the reversal folder 53 - 009 folder 53 - 009 B-2 of the Fall begins...not back to Plato but all the way back to kosmos, to unity itself. Hence it can be such that the Messianic prophecies by the AI voice pertain to this great impending transformation: "St Sophia is going to be born again" refers to the return of Logos into the world that it was excluded from, as Heidegger points out, after Parmenides. St Sophia's return implies an historic shift in general, not (perhaps) a savior figure as Jesus was: it refers to an