Thus my concern for lorraine Hynes + then Doris + also for susan sonntay are the emotional, spiritual bridge between my mental life of the past (ous + early '70s) to the present (late '70s + 1gos). The ideological elements in both cases are pedicated on overwhelming spiritual + emitional bases: (1) the Vietnam war on my horror at the Japane soldier in will in the newsreel rurning to death + the audience laughing; in the second case (2) My horror at cancer. Now the Tagore dream (I suddenly realize) combines my two spiritual-emo‐ tional bases: radioactive wastes (nuclear power weapons, waste) burn Tagore, + these burns, being on his legs, relate all the way back to my satz: my sister being burned on the lea by the hit water bottle; also, Tagore was charred, as if burned by a flame thrower or napalm. + I thought of the Buddhist monks in Vietnam who immolated themselves to protest the "dragon lady" so here is a direct link to the Vietnam war - + to protest as well as to non-violent religio C-155 depicts in this life. Hence my concept of coaxiality is brilliant but not original; it is Plotinus restated but it contains the key to properly understand orthodox Xtianity, Orphism coaxiality is the key Gnosticism, etc. the real key, of such importance as to be - I think - the great secret of all soteriological systems Eastern + Western both. First (last actober (1980]) I hit on coaxiality + then early this year I hit on the meta-abstraction of "not 2 mothers once but I mother twice I by combining these insights I had I think all the keys to all the various soteriological systems: I knew how to get access (the meta-abstraction) + what the access was to (at least one other "coaxial" reality or world or realm) I have consistently viewed these two insights as difinitive; now I am sure of it. If they are applied to e.g. Gnosticism a very different picture of restoration + what the Gnosis does emerges. What I am onto is discoveries so vast that no given religious or philosophical system encompasses them: each has a at all the piece of the puzzle but not whole G-156 This is why I vacillate back + forth between/among systems. Look: the pleroma of orthodox Xtianity + Gnosticism is right here coaxial with our spation temporal world; + the access key is either noesis or something related to noesis, something to do with universalia ante rem I now re-enter the arena of metaphysics (which I've been in since 2-74) with a ferocious new vigor. This is far more important than I realized. This is the summa of esoteric knowledge globally speaking - + it is revealed by a messenger as the Gnostics teach, which is to say, Valis is real (primal man? Christ? In any case This vastly important element is not found in Platonism + Neo-Platonism or even Orphism). There is Gnosis here such all terrifying magnitude that systems, even have Tibetan Buddhism, trouble expressing as I keep saying, there is at least one it. other world here coaxially with ours in which all the value-signs are reversed +, finally, there is unity instead of multiplicity, sentience instead of blind efficient causation: this is a field of just ain't going to get any some kind. system to explain it fully, but all seem aware of it in a partial, erroneous sense i C-157 in no way whatsoever does Plotinus know of a world coaxial with ours whose value-signs are the 180" reverse of ours. + these seem to be - well, antithetical, mutually exclusive worlds? or is one more real than the other? is one is readily accessible; the other t not the latter (as I've noted) is what - so may be call a "Christofied" reality it is the Kingdom of God of which Jesus Christ is the King! "Finitum capax am onto a secret so vast infinity" - that it beggars description. + I simply do not understand. here is the final insult to conven‐ + tional epistemologies: I as Thomas am "tracking" that coaxial simultaneously i realm while I as PKD track this realm + these are not different places + times as proven by "Tears"! Here enters the extraordinary concept "Ditheon"; this is Thomas + I in our joint trackin. If I could figure out "dithean" I'd have it. it's (yire) like matter + anti-matter, a sort of principle of parity (did I not say that 1) the other realm is the 180" mirror opposite of ours? + 2) the value signs are reversed there vis-a-vis here?). What is this? Time sharing in computer programs? There is A; There is B; + there is ATB: Ditheon. Which is to say, here is my hyper-field AB - which is to say, some things are common to A + B. C-158 This is the secret, for they can be extracted (whether intelligibly or sensibly I can't say, but it is the case. Some things or aspects - accidents exist only in A (USA 1974), some only in B ("Tears"/Acts) but there is that which is common to both: the matrix as I call it, + available to hyper-field AB, but you can only extract those common constituents of you are Ditheon + hence can see A + B both (like with binocular vision; but instead of two eyes in parallaxis you have two psyches I guess). + it is only those things - qualities? - which exist in both At B that are truly real. + this also explains how these 2 worlds can exist coaxially; they Do both possess common elements as -I guess - essences. So it's more complex that two mutually exclusive worlds with value signs reversed each to each; there is more importantly the hyper-field AB (+ its percipient analog, Ditheon). So this is also how dual simultaneous tracking Thomas + PKD) can take place: by virtue f the common elements. This is like the If orms, I guess these are alternate worlds they don't function as depicted in Se, because they do share common elements C-159 capable of supporting + + - value signs. + "Tears"/Acts may be "the Kingdom of God" where Christ rules; the entrance to which is through him + him only I do believe that - Diol- "Tears is an ab common element existing in both world A + world B - hence it "Runs" message-wise along two tracks, one overt to us, one totally stegeno‐ graphic; + it was the latter that was revealed to me in 2-3-74. So Thomas + together wrote "Tears," which explains I how the Acts material got into it of course this relates the what I + call "the plasmate" + to set-ground generally has to be Christ's Kingdom, + it is it somehow here (coaxially). the realization of the ATB commonality was there in my analysis for the past year, but only now do I begin to grasp its implications. There has to be such a thing or the two coaxial worlds a and b could not in fact be coaxial. + this of course is precisely what the Fish sign in 2-74 was: something common to A + to B +, because of the pentathol, I recognized it as such - + leaped to the realization of what this implied: two coaxial realms, A + B, working off common matrix elements; this was my access. + soon the partition between me + Thomas broke down (3-74) + I - we becam C-160 now the "covert info traffic" can be understood: it is "For" realm B the one we don't see. My initial insight of last night: the "pleroma" - the world we fell from - is spatially speaking - right here coaxially where out world is, but unfallen, with all our value signs reversed. This is a Neo-Platonist correction of Gnosticism: no literal fall "through the planetary spheres took place: it is an ontological Dasein fall the "pleroma" is the other world - Acts ("Tears" - that I saw in which the Gnostic categories being-in-the-world are 180" reversed. I.e. "the of Kingdom." The access is through Gnosis ( The AB commonality hyper. hanced cognition). field is how there can be two realms working I as PKD am tracking A; off a single matrix Thomas is simultaneously tracking B. (The world - "alternate present" - I wrote about in "Tears" Thus "Tears" exists in both realms A + B but tells a different story in each; hence the covert info traffic. Thing X - e.g. "Tears" there appears one way in A, another way in B total Christification in B, + in B heim‐ is a armene does not function; it is aborted. Hence passed across in 3-74 I felt what I I when called "causation" alter + relax + vanish. like here in realm A is a form of exile There is some kind of i from the Garden relationship between the Garden (+ our myths of falling from it to here) + Christ's Kingdom coaxial world B. It all has to do with impaire cognitive-percept faculties we did not fall from a spatiotemporal place; we fell from a con‐ dition that assumes the aspects of a place C-61 i.e. the Garden. Christ restores us. That "pla is right here. The Gnostic categories (fremd unheimlich, alienation, Geworfenhect) depict our condition of exile; the "Gnosic" depicts our cognitive-percept faculties restored. Ditheon is the restored human mind "in our image" tracking ATB, hence "DI" (dual tracking) This restoration is known to orthodox Xtianity as justification. Ditheon also points to two psyches: one tracking realm a (in my case PKD), the other tracking realm B (in my case Thomas). Specifically in realm A we are unable to discern God's - or Christ's real presence, whereas realm B is what I call "Christified" throughout (the myper-structure or Logos as meta-abstraction: pure form). (information to groove.) Thus the divine is here, but we see it not. This is the quint essential occlusion of our minds - to be cut off from God (we recapitulate Adam's fate: Adam is paradigmatic). Restoration justification, seems to be realized eschatology. the end-times -+ especially the Parousia come for that justified person; he experiences the apocalyptic world of the Bible. where Gnosticism is indispensible is twofold: (1) exact analysis of fallen man's condition; + (2) it is 180Â° reversed by what is called "Gnosis, a cognitive event, but their overall system is unsound nonetheless Gnosticism contains essential pieces of the puzzle. They have an exact understanding of me malady + also the correct idea that the remedy somehow involves cognition + knowledge + G-162 This knowledge comes as a gift from savior or Messenger - i.e. Christ. Thus they fully appreciate what "salvation" refers to, in contrast to which orthodox Xtianity is virtually a cargo cult: making futile motions that ape without efficacy the real thing. the common object does not occur twice: Once in our world + once in the other world ("Tears") Acts). It appears once but is seen twice: once here, once there. This is how My "not 2 mothers once but one mother twice" s meta-abstraction fits in with coaxial plural worlds, + this is what I grasped in 2-74, had seen a transtemporal-spatial constant I (what is more) knew it, whereupon my mind + leaped at once to the implications for world a whole, for if there is one transtem. as poral-spatial constant then such things exist; There are such things plural. So plural worlds can operate off of a common matrix or essence. This is either noesis or is related to noesis, + voids the ordering categories of time, space + causation (+ induces anamnesis). what ratified this as real (+ not an hallucination) is "Tears" with its twin parallel stories, one for this world, the other for the other; that is, "Tears" is one constant containing info in