April 16, 1981 Dear Pat, Listen: when I wrote my letter of yesterday, and wrote the page I enclosed the carbon of, I had forgotten that Alfred North Whitehead, as the basis of process theology - -i.e. process deity -- defined God this way (or something like this; I'm quoting from memory): "A principle of selection in the universe the chooses the good (i.e. in its selection-process)." This is Whitehead's basic definition of God; this, then, is the basic definition of the modern process deity who is not static and above the universe and its process, but is, rather, involved in that very process itself. My apperception is totally in accord with Whitehead's; more, I stipulate how this selection is made (that is, on a binary basis utilizing branching; at each branching, there is a no and a yes. God/the system chooses the no first, tentatively, which is to say provisionally; it then rejects and cancels this and chooses the alternative, the yes; this yes it actualizes as the next time frame). As many branchings --binary forkings-- as possible are made use of; that is, this no - yes selection process occurs to the maximum; it is maximized. The structural development is cumulative; it goes only one way. Thus the structure is finishing, completing and perfecting itself. What I didn't say in my previous letter or enclosure is that my apperception of these discrete status time-frames is that none affects any other. What I mean is, when time frame B follows time frame A, the prior time frame A has no effect on it; there is no causal connective at all. These frames, replacing each other very rapidly, are truly discrete. In no way is there a flow; in no way is there an interaction between them. Reality, then, is perpetually disjunctive. And, as I said yesterday, our minds supply causality as the modem for converting this disjunctive procession into a continuous flow, which we experience as "the flow of time," that is, flux and change. Which is to say, process -- which brings me back obviously to Whitehead's basic view of the universe and God, which is that of process. But I am saying, Yes, there is process, but it is not a flow process. With each branching there is an interruption, an off or no or shut-down position in the binary circuiting. Now it occurs to me, these shut-down intervals could actually last as long as it takes God (the mind of the system) to make the off - on decision. We are unaware of these offs because during them reality simply does not exist; what exists is the void, nonbeing. All this that I have said is not mere speculation; it is all derived from and applies to what I saw in March 1974 that I called VALIS, which was a disappearance of causality; and, in its place, I saw what seemed to be self-instigating changes working in synchronization, suggestive of a unitary field involving all the ostensible plurality of things. That reality consists of a rapid procession of discrete slightly different "frames" was my initial breakthrough in my perception of this model. The next breakthrough was my perception that between (as it were) folder 90 - 004 folder 90 - 004 each two frames the system makes a choice, a decision; it selects (exactly as Whitehead said; but I didn't realize that I was restating Whitehead until today, so I arrived at my perception independently, although I knew it to be related to Whitehead because it is process deity, process theology). And it chooses by means, as I say, of a no initially, a tentative move that it discards, choosing then the alternative. It has reduced choice, the act of selecting, to a binary matter; so the system is binary (quantitative) throughout. Everything operates in a no - yes fashion. The selecting is binary; the system itself operates in a pulse phasing of off - on as well; it is therefore thoroughly binary, which means that it understands everything in either-or terms, which is the most simple elemental basis possible. That means that the mind of the system has literally broken reality down to its irreducible fundamental constituents, as I'm sure you can see. Now I come to the pay-off. When I experienced VALIS' mind in my own, I experienced no thoughts, but, rather, a dialectic. This dialectic, I realized at the time, is fundamental to it. I have never been able to explain to myself how this worked, but I literally experienced it as the very basis of VALIS. Well, the dialectic that I experienced is this choice, this no - yes selection at every junction or branching (into two, the irreducible branching, i.e. forking). VALIS does not think, as men think; it tries out, then chooses. Again and again. This is exactly what Whitehead is talking about, although he speaks in more general times; also, mine was an experience with and of it, as with Jakob Boehme, not speculation. If we were to see this branching, we would see elaborating arborizing and reticulation, and indeed I did see that; it is what I call the macrometasoma-kosmos, which is by now virtually infinite in complexity in terms of arborizing and reticulation. Pat, I've got to rest; but this is it; put one way, this explains my encounter with and experience of VALIS both in my mind and in/as world; put another way, I have had an actual experience that confirms this model. Thus there is identity between my theoretical construct and my experience. folder 90 - 005 folder 90 - 005 My situation vis-a-vis the Xerox missive can therefore be construed as a binary choice, an either-or choosing by the Wise Mind, the totality of the system. This choosing, this act of choice, is (it would seem) its essential action; this is what it does; this is God as Creator. Behind the choice lie intelligence (wisdom), power (the ability to act) and love (the desire to act). By its wisdom it knows which fork to choose; by its power it executes the choice; and its love motivates it to act. Power, wisdom, love. Showing up in a binary fork either-or off - on selection, "selection of the good," as Whitehead put it. This, then, is Whitehead's process (dynamic) deity. The deity, the system, chose for me. I did not choose; it chose. What it did is normal. That I know about it -- that is not. So the purpose of the theophany is an example of God in relationship to the universe continually. There was nothing miraculous in it as an event; only my being aware of it is, in a certain real way, miraculous. In no way (I mean) was it a suspension of natural law. This instance is how all change occurs, but normally we do not see or understand. Deity did not overrule reality; deity is reality. Deity as reality perpetually makes such branching choices. I must conclude, therefore, that it wanted me to know. I have read (the E.B.?) that this is regarded by theologians as the real purpose of miracle: to display and reveal God's power, and, of course, his love... that is, God Himself is revealed by the act. (God could have arranged for the person to be saved without this revelation of God's power, nature and existence/presence.) Its initial tentative choice, the no, and the cancelling of this in favor of the binary alternative, would explain my keen sense that the encounter with the Xerox missive had happened before and was now happening again reconstructed into an opposed, opposite solution-response by me (actually by God). This, too, is normal; again: the only unusual part is my perception of it. It tried out letting me handle the Xerox missive on my own, then it rejected that and, in place, tried out the binary alternative, which I experienced as being overridden. folder 90 - 006 This, then, was not merely (!) a revelation of how it works; it was, also, a demonstration: an instance, one I would never forget. Since it is process deity, for me to understand it I would of necessity have to understand it at work, i.e. in the very act, the process, that defines it; its esse is to act, to choose, to select from forking alternatives. I was aware that something bad had been cancelled out after it happened. This led to my concept of the programmer-reprogrammer. Put another way, the essence of God lies in his acts of choice as Creator, and this is what I experienced: God acting (choosing). From this I inferred correctly that God is here. Is this an in-breaking? In a sense yes, in that he disclosed his presence (theophany). "The moving finger writes And having writ, moves on. And Neither all thy piety or wit Can call it back nor cancel half a line of it." But this is exactly what God did and what God does always, constantly, very rapidly: call back, cancel, transfer to its binary opposite choice. My God -- my knowledge of the zero cancelled choice in regard to the Xerox missive is somehow linked with what I've been calling anamnesis: the retrieval of lost memory; the point of my lost memory being restored was so that I could respond to the Xerox missive differently (this time). I.e. my memory had to be restored slightly before the Xerox missive arrived. This is not normal memory; this is memory of what I call the zero phase, a phase normally eradicated (along with our memories of it). My anamnesis --retrieval of that type of memory-- was certainly not an accident; it was essential. Then these retrieved memories are extraordinary; they fill in what otherwise, for us, is a gap. Am I to assume that we all have major amounts of experiences and memories to match -- the experiences are eradicated along -- no; this that I'm speaking of only occurs when a second pass --reprogramming-- is involved; there would always be anamnesis in such a case. Then this was indeed a "perturbation of the reality field"; a 1, not a zero, must have been erased. So more than awareness of my part was involved; a true miracle in the classic sense was involved; a re-editing: folder 90 - 007 folder 90 - 007 This would represent a true in-breaking, in the traditional apocalyptic meaning of the term. Again, this is why the AI voice would speak of a "perturbation of the reality fold," this re-editing, this reprogramming. Not a zero phase but a one phase was involved, and this is anomalous. It is remarkable. This is a true override. Well, this collates with the basic theme in VALIS of a higher power invading the reality mechanism, camouflaged. Look: here is a point. At each junction, the one possibility is limited to a range of possibilities that exist as efficient predecessors. That's it, every binary forking is constricted within the antecedent given, at every point along the line. The system cannot work an ex nihilo choice; this is the sort of unfree mechanism that Spinoza rightly apprehended. What 3-74 represents, vis-a-vis the Xerox missive, is God Himself entering the situation, without regard to the efficient history at that fork. It was not I who acted; it was God. Here a sharp distinction, normally made in classic transcendental theism, must be utilized to appreciate what happened, a sharp distinction between God and the universe, between God and his creatures; suddenly pantheism vanishes from my model and classic Judeo-Christian theism enters. This is precisely the in-breaking at the time of the apocalypse, at End Times, that the Judeo-Christian millenarian thinking supposes. And of course this tallies with my revelation of Christian apocalyptic history and, moreover, with the prophecies by the AI voice. (It is, then, as I present it to be in VALIS.) And with my 3-18-81 revelation that indeed "the Parousia is here, the Holy Mother Church knows it,