"semi-mote" language. It is to my credit that I say in "Valis" that reincarnation can't explain it; Thomas is living in "AD 70" Now. He is not a former me. It is the right hemisphere which, on the basis of the meta-abstraction, says "Anokhi¬‐ for the first time. of course Valis didn't think in words but purely knew. The right hemisphere lacks language. This is definitely Jung's mysterium conjunctionus; a hierogamy 780 There were certainly elements of the collective unconscious involved; but it was no longer Jung unconscious, which is the whole point. must yield to Ornstein. Still this was the integration of opposites (the 3-eyed Sibyl one would be (1) a very ancient archetype + (2) expressing superhuman identity + powers - i.e Ditheow itself My God: the meta-abstraction is nothing less than the right heaisphere becoming conscious + self-aware ("anokhii....) yielding, by being yoked to the already conscious left hemisphere, one superconscious push-pull field - Eckhart: 4th + 5th stage. the soul! + Thomas may be female, may of be "angel Archer" the AI voice! Valis externally is reality as a unified field involving the discrete time-frames + binary switching system The Dialectic may be the push-pull way the 2 brain hemispheres work. Pattern Yes. completion of the left's by the right. This seems likely; they take turns + act in both a complementary + yet antithetical way, like two "opposed" artisans at word on a common project pulse-phasing left right-left-right like Yin + Yang. ➀ Since it's the mysterium conunctionis it's no wonder I thought of the Rosy Cross initially N Their work is to complete the whole psyche of which they are two halves. I.e. the soul. So I did This it (or we did) complete -create - a soul. baptized in the spirit" is all What al about is K181 Hence it was said of Jesus that he was "two natures one person" - ditheon with the meta-abstraction having occurred for the right brain, that brain (but not the left) sees abstractly, in terms of what Plato called "Forms" + thus desubstantializes reality back to its informational source (what Eckhart call "pre-existent form, in the intellect of God" following Philo in the idea that there is an intelligible realm in which the Forms exist, not as an aggregate but structured by "the idea of ideas," the Logos). This is, of course, to the MMSK. But the left brain continues see substantial particulars + flux + a great deal of chaos. There are now two worlds seen, + (as I say) one seems ancient, because of its contrast to the other; two worlds are seen but There is in fact only one world viewed twice, viewed differently by two differing brains yoked together; this is a stereo view of world in which world as signal is split; the "signal" is divided up between the two brains, not due to the fact that one brain functions analogically whereas the other functions digitally but because the analogic [right] brain has now performed an abstraction that the digital [deff] brain has not performed + perhaps cannot perform. This is not a malfunction; this is what the two differ‐ brains are for: to split the "signal" + process it in two different ways, but until the meta-abstraction occurs the right brain is neither conscious (self-aware) nor operating at a parity level. The signal always was split, to a slight extent, but without result. Now the true purpose emerges. Because (as I say) what I call "temporal Lag" has been achieved by which what we call "time" (i.e. velocity of change rate) is K182 converted into a kind of spatial depth. This merely signifies that some portions of the signal are slowed down whereupon a doppler shift ensues. It is this doppler shift that causes the total brain to see "depth." Likewise set to ground (set to ground is depth; this depth is essentially illusory, a device of discrimination based I think, on color frequency or something experienced as color frequency; the brain will pay attention to higher faster shorter, brighter frequencies + reject/ignore the lower, slower, longer, duller frequencies. This is because the set (higher, shorter, faster) comprise the eide that the right brain sees but which the left brain does not see. Illustrative of this is the 345 rectangle that I wound up discriminating, this perception was paradigmatic what is involved here is (1) info; + (2) info extracting. Certain "frequencies" (this is a metaphor) carry info. Since set-ground is not an alternative way of viewing reality but a more accurate way (this must be presumed) these "fre‐ quencies" are intrinsically out there in world. they are discriminated, not projected onto. Here enters what I call "music" versus "groove." The right hemisphere is now able to see time in the sense that we see space. If you think about it, the concept "seeing space" is absurd. suppose someone without a sense of spatial -birds with non-synchronized eyes- was depth told by someone with spatial parallaxis that he could "see space"; it is not space that is seen but focus points in an infinitely extensive field. "Depth" refers to a way of perceptually callibrating the extent of length between one focus point + another. It is subjective + illusory but effective; it does not exist in K183 world but in a thinking brain apprehending world + structuring it We take this for granted + we feel we understand it. But to see time? I, lacking true stereo vision, judge distance by contour clarily. (Distinctness versus fuzziness.) There are other ways: by sie, for example (since vision is a lensed percept-system). (I am saying, "you can't really see space but a depth sense serves that purpose; it is a precise way to callibrate distance. So from a utility standpoint, it equals seeing spaces") so to "see time" you do not need actually to see time any more than you need to actually see space, all you need tobe able to do is convert age into callibration points proportionally on some kind of scale that can itself be seen; the cognitive faculties will then judge how much time is indicated - how old (as "how far away"). What must the brain know to be able to set up such a scale? It needs a reference point against which to compare the signal -a constant- + it needs a variable factor that is consistent. Light frequency -color- seems to be the factor utilized. Less organized signal will be distinguished as older because of the inexorable progression from simplicity to com‐ plexity in the universe. (This evolutionary principle is seized on just as the brain seizes on the fact that as objects receed recede they appear smatler [to determine spatial distance] they are not smaller but the appearance of diminution is inflexible + proportionally regular Something more organized is seen as "forward" [set] or moving toward you. That is the more coherent something is (structurally) the faster it will seem to approach. It is tagged K184 at + by its moment of origin; whatever degree of organization obtains at that time will be its degree of organization. This is converted into velocity rate. but organization is not perceptible to the left brain, because "organization" has to do with the MMSK + this is world as abstraction. it assumes total integration of everything c hence the term "kosmos"). The level at which an accretion exists is fixed forever; once incorporated there canbe no change. Organization equals reticulation + arborizing. while a particular is at least seemingly discrete, the abstract forms are interconnected, since they are conceived in a mind. All levels are permanent in the MMSR. Each successive level is more complex. Here is how info is recorded: the methos is simple: all that is needed is binary modes of (off-on). One level of complexity (organizaion O-1 Then a more complex is selected as ground. level is fed inas set. This can be preserved. but many levels of complexity can be utilized so that instead of linear information you can create grid information, which means that multiple messages can be recorded in a commoncarrier. Brainthepression is the reference point, the constant. This presumes an evolving totality in Teilhard's sense. Since "time" refers to change, + the change-rate velocity is con‐ stantly accellerating any given datum of information "moves" at the rate of its temporal depth forever + bears that color frequency intrinsically. Degree of excitation. 9185 like the oscillation of cessium atoms it is a fixed variable - fixed at its moment (point) of origin, variable in relation to prior + posterior points. Complexity, change-rute velocity, abstraction, consciousness, integration. all in direct proportion. + proportionally higher color frequency. proved or pointed to? what have I not just bilateral hemispheric parity; not just Ditheon; not just the reality of "covert" info traffic, but Teilhard's whole evolutionary convergence toward point W. This vast evolving total entity (MMSK) is indeed (as I say in "Valis") Christ - Christ cosmically as information, living information, with the reticu‐ + "Ditheon" referring to Christ. lation + arborizing toward greater complexity via the accretional layers -i.e. the MMsK in process of completion- is Teilhard's evolutionary view (in contrast to Plato's static Forms). K186 variation! quantitative in the velocity of change-rate produce ontological transformationing As the change-rate accellerates, leaps in com‐ plexity, consciousness + abstractness occur‐ suddenly. They can occur at any moment ("time" is regarded as change + change-rate velocity). My meta-abstraction is an example; my internal biological change-rate velocity speeded up until I suddenly jumped forward along the ontological qualitative axis of complexity, consciousness integration (structure) + abstractness - or at least my right hemisphere did. This placed me in two worlds at once: the ancient machine world + the later human one because like all motion, this velocity is relative, not ab solute; relative to my right brain, world regressed - not by degrees but in a sudden leap- to what normally is our ancient past what this resulted in was a temporary dysphasing of my two brain-hemispheres so that I could see time visually (or what we "time" - degrees of age, based on the use call of the axis of progressive complexity + rate‐ change velocity). Thus for a while I could perceive the self-completing, evolving macro-entity that is termed Christ, I saw within it all its prior stages, each "lower" or earlier one less complex + moving proportionally more slowly, like a great revolving sphere that turns faster as you transverse it from center to rim, yet as a unity turns at one single speed. Its change-rate velocity is K187 very great now; its accelleration accele rates exponentially. Thus its internal info generation + transfer is so swift that permutations + recombinations are taking place at what must be near their maximum limit. guess one thing I'm saying that is important + maybe the case is: Ditheon is man evolved to bilateral hemispheric parity, + Ditheon is Christ. In which case I am equating the evolutionary leap to bilateral hemispheric parity with man becoming Christ himself + perceiving, relating to + communicating with the great unitary I evolving self-completing entity that identify as the Cosmic Christ or Teilhard's point omega. In that case Valis in me as "my" mind + Valis seen externally are both indeed Christ as a unified "field structure + ultimate of consciousness + organization in "which everything is subsumed. complexity characterize Ditheonic man as I Further, possessing the totally abstract view of reality that Eckhart speaks of as the 4th level of functioning of the soul, giving him the ability to read the universe so that Christ for him is a language that speaks in him + to him from everything like a vast perpetually renewing recombinant scripture which is unique for each person just as each person, though Christ, is uniqueeafunction of Teilhard's absolute complexification (188 another possible axis of evolution occurs to me as exemplified by Torah to N.t. to recombinant