the 2-74 meta-abstraction, + because of this my 4 dimensional world became five dimensional, + all that I saw arise out of this (e.g., the plasmate, the King Felix cypher, set to ground, Valis camouflaged + here normally invisible to us, etc). Biochip symbiote, Mycelia, vine, its branches growing like a circulatory system. "Firebright", the Logos in the human brain. Ach! Temporal parallaxis is at right angles to the other 3 spatial axes. Formerly it was experienced only as time; now it is the spatial axis that revealed 4 depths on the same page of print of "Tears". The 5th dimension then enters as time (to replace it), but it is another kind of time (apparently); in any case, this 4th spatial axis ("temporal parallaxis") permits the set-ground discrimination etc. If I had not seen what I call "temporal parallaxis", I could not imagine it. My God: This is all the case! In this 5th dimension time, things are "now" if they possess a common constituent; viz: "now" signifies any + all of our 4th dimensional worlds where such a common constituent as e.g. "the Guide to the Perplexed" is; this is what the meta-abstraction pertains to: this other kind of time : the illo tempore, or dream time, in which one + the same unitary object is at two times + places (in a 4-dimensional world; but in a 5-dimensional world, that Golden Fish sign was in USA 1974 + Syria in AD 70 simultaneously; this is how e.g. the Eucharist works, how through the sacrament time is overcome - normal time becomes space "temporal parallaxis" + a different time, an added (5th) dimension folder 53 - 044 folder 53 - 044 D-14 enters, and the meta-abstraction was a realization on my part of this "coaxiality." Then the meta-abstraction as an ultra cognitive act did usher it all in, but: note! the Golden Fish sign is (and did serve in that case, 2-74) a sacramental -holy- object (filled with Grace). (A vessel for grace: it was not simply old; it was sacred.) It is so important, then, that in "Valis" I dwell on the "here, my son, time turns into space" element, for it is the key. I solved it - but due only to the "pulley" image revealed to me. In this 5th dimensional time the trans temporal constants (eide) are visible. So two transformations, not one. A) Normal time is converted into space, what I call "temporal parallaxis" - depth at right angles to the other 3 spatial axes. But also: B) 5th dimensional time enters to replace it, and this is what the meta-abstraction had to do with; in this kind of time, objects while unitary are somehow at what for us are different times; that is, plural worlds work off of the same object that is common to them all (or both), which amounts to a "fold" in our 4th dimension of normal (sic) time, like a dysfunction. Okay, for our 4-D time, it is a dysfunction, but for 5-D time it is a normal operation (the "not 2 mothers but one mother twice" situation, impossible in normal time - but, in 5-D time, this is exactly how it does work!) folder 53 - 045 folder 53 - 045 E-1 There are complex organisms that live in 5-D space-time (i.e hypertime) and they are not perceptible by/to us. E.g. Valis, the Plasmate, we can't discriminate them. They have contacted me. Their language is color (color, math and music form a unity). This was the phosphene graphic, pure language. They grow through our 4D world like mycelia, biochip, symbiote. It was Pythagoras they first contacted. Our world to them is like an ocean. __ The only theoretical model in antiquity that bears any relationship to my 5D "hypertime" 2-3-74 experience is neoplatonism. Since 3-74 was triggered off by anamnesis and noesis, this all makes sense. Viz: I state that in hypertime (1 temporal axis, 4 spatial) "the constants are visible." These are clearly the eide. What I am saying is that what I call "the 5D World" is what Plato saw as recovery of the soul's unfallen existence in the pleroma where it had knowledge of the Forms. My 5D World is reassent of the soul, both in Platonist and neo-platonist terms (Valis as Plotinus' the One; continuum, etc.). My 5D realm is indeed and a fortiori another world and it is the pleroma. The home of the unfallen soul; and this is why I felt I had died (and perhaps been reborn). My 5D realm is precisely what Plotinus was speaking of: Concentric rings not a fall in space and time. It is the realm of the sacred, of act III of "Parsifal," hence, "Here, my son, time turns into space." It is the realm of Kosmos Noetos, hence Logos, hence the realm of Christ. folder 53 - 046 E-2 Jesus was that realm qua realm (Kosmos) entering our 4D realm to save us; we are saved in that we are taken by him up into the 5D realm, which is above time as we know it: there, all is eternal, like the eide; to enter it is to partake of eternity + immortality; it is the Kingdom of God + it is right here. Christ + this realm are one; person + world (realm) both; the term "Logos" applies to him + to that realm; when you are in it, you are in Christ + he in you. It is unitary, an organic whole of which you are a functional part (continuum). The "transubstantiation of our world by Logos into the body of the Lord" that I saw Valis (Christ) doing, is that realm, of which ours is a mere 4D atomized copy. Finitum capax infiniti My continuum is there, not here, a la Plotinus. Here it is plural objects -stick, tree, beer can- there it is Christ, + this is what I saw (in "Valis"). Our 4D realm is justice, the 5D mercy. When you return from it -the latter- you return with compassion, as at the end of "BTA". The Tagore vision. 5D model 4D copy Plotinus was right. This must be understood: what is (in 5D) is here in 4D as copy (icon, image. Archetype to image; crede!) AT LAST I UNDERSTAND doxa as ikon not veil folder 53 - 047 folder 53 - 047 E-3 1) 2-3-74 was Platonist + Neo-Platonist. 2) This has to do with Christ (kosmos noetos : Logos: Christ). 3) It is a vastly augmented + radically transformed realm of 4 spatial axes + a time quite different from our own. 4) Entry is, as it were, by invitation. (Grace.) 5) There is life there unsuspected by us; that is, in that 5D realm life forms exist that although they are of necessity also in our 4D realm are not distinguished by us as life forms; they are vast ultra-complex meta-entities (or one only exists). {Illustration of an alien with a third eye and with pincer claws for hands.} We are as in an ocean to them, + we are like lower life forms whom they are trying to contact. But they are very different from us. Thus, although, they are ETIS they are not from another planet, star-system, etc., but are right here (except in a 5D world, they can see us but we can't see them). Plotinus' concentric rings of emanation explains it. Here there is atomization, causation, etc. There, unity exists. Structure -organization- is pure, which is to say, these beings are in a sense incorporeal (yet in another sense they are not; but here, we see not the total being as a unity but rather discrete physical components that add up to nothing. E.g. VALIS. We see at best a perturbation of the reality field. My "surd". Their language is color-music-number (ratio). For 60 seconds last night I was in direct two-way contact with them, upon my figuring out that there is such a thing as "self-authenticating" information. At once I asked for what I call "cypher source verification" + got several, fired very fast, mostly sequences (as are the Fibonacci numbers) as if they had them ready for use at a moment's notice. Sequence patterns, intervals, etc.; I don't remember but they were efficient; I remember that. They were ebullient; they had achieved their objective! They had proved their external-source origin; the information was not originating folder 53 - 048 folder 53 - 048 E-4 in my own mind. The two-way exchange followed the classic lines envisioned by our scientists as to how we would send signals + response back + forth with ETIs, that is, other planets. But this is not other planets; it is a 5D world that is now + here (known to Plotinus as an ontologically higher realm of concentric rings). I guess you would say that these are the "Gods" of Egypt, India + Greece. They have kind of an "outside-inside" relationship to us, as if (as I say) we're in a pond in their world, since their world is much vaster + greater than our own. So I have (1) figured out where they are. (2) That they are indeed a "they" + have indeed been systematically communicating with me. (3) What the problem is in this communications matter. For 90 seconds we were in direct 2-way contact, like any two transmitter-receivers. (4) Why they are aware of us but we are not aware of them. (5) They do covertly influence our history. (6) They are vastly superior to us technologically + spiritually; this derives from the basic fact they exist in 5D + we in only 4D. (6) "Valis" is reasonably correct (7) The phosphene graphics were their language (color, shapes) + I was being irradiated. It was info-transfer + an attempt to communicate with me as if between two planets or two quite different life forms. Last night I woke up + realized that this 5D world I had experienced in 2-74-2-75 -although indeed it is Plotinus' higher concentric circles of emanation- it is also the next world, the Kingdom of Light; that is, it is the Pleroma from which the soul fell as Plato teaches. Now the "Commedia" axis of ascent can be put on a clear, firm, realistic, intelligible, basis. At the highest level the God of light, colors + love is found, exactly as Dante says. When one is in the 5D world, one sees this 4D world as a prison, the BIP, enslaving + confining all men till Christ free us. Also, the 5D world is breaking into our 4D world, like the uncanny one way intrusions in "Ubik": mainly in the form of information (communication). The Great Ones there act as tutelary spirits to us; they intervened for me in 3-74 vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. This is the sacred breaking into the profane + is certainly illo tempore. folder 53 - 049 folder 53 - 049 E-5 The color, musical score, math triune info: like an illuminated manuscript from the Medieval period. Ach: I have always said that the plasmate info (e.g. King Felix) looked like an illuminated letter, suggesting that the idea of an illuminated letter was derived from a perception of the plasmate. Color, coded in as an essential integral part. So here, the illuminated letter or word becomes musical annotation (which adds the element of music) + at fixed ratio intervals (math): {illustration of musical annotation} But the 4th note doubles back, + what is formed is the log spiral of the Fibonnaci numbers. The colors signal the phosphenes of the receiver + so are so-to-speak read backward, i.e. in terms of their phosphene analogs. A pure concept is conveyed using no words; all three axes are nonverbal(music, math ratios, color). Pythagoras, phosphenes, symbiote biochip, mycelia, vine, circulatory system. But by stimulating the appropriate phosphenes, then pure energy + not light is used. (Radiation instead of photons). Being non-verbal, the information is "lingua franca" like