drama. tically. I really think manis through the Paraclete (as Mani claimed) gives the full + genuine explanation of the real meaning of Jesus + the whole C-207 fall + soteriological drama; manichae‐ ism, then, to me is true Xtianity with mani as the savior following Jesus, "the apostle of Jesus," as he colled himself, + incorporating e.g. Zoroaster + the Buddha + others as well. It is all beautiful, convincing, highly profound + the most spiritual system I have ever read of. The "true, secret Xtians," then, constitute the engulfeds sacrificed light within darkness, one by one regaining their identity + overthrowing (defeating) the dark from within + I am one of them. Here is the secret of Manichaeism: "Victory" here on earth, in this world. ostensible victory, is here defeat, not just in the next world; + sacrifice self-sacrifice - is true victory i not in the next world, as in [ortho‐ dox] Xtianity, but here + now. Thus + therefore, we have two mutually opposite coaxial worlds here: the ostensible one, seen by the eyes of ignorance, + the real one, known through the saving Gnosis brought in two ways: (1) adventitiously by the savior salvandus; + (2) remembered through anamnesis. Again. This pertains to this world, exactly as I saw in 2-74. the Xtian, to lose here is to win in the next world; to the manichaean to win here but in a covert, hidden way, C-208 where the Gnosis comes in is (1) to see This, literally; + (2) to participate in it as part of it that 2-3-74 was a manichaean vision - that is, the anamnesis itself - is shown by the sense of vast antiquity, stretching back to times so ancient as to be primordial. like phylogenic memories. I.e. before Christ! Gnosticism views: a head-on collision between God, the will of God, + the powers of this world, the latter regarded as demonic. This is an absolute bipolarization, rather than God merely suspending natural law when he intervenes with these diametric contrasts appear + as pronoia. in Marcus aurelius ("nothing bad can happer to you") + beethoven ("seize Fate by the throat"). an insight came to me - simple + to me, for me, sad. I am - we are - enslaved by Satan + his rule is the rule of blind necessity - call it heimarmene, call it anything it is blind necessity, + this is all one oneeds to know. But we are - I have been - ransomed out of this state of enslavement by Christ by his spilled blood, the blood of the innocent lamb. He died for me - does die; + I saw this, I saw blind necessity give way as if dissolved, the chains removed from me by his sacrifice (3-74). what I called Valis was this retributive blind mechanism of necessity "perturbed" - disordered by Christ's passion + death: this blind necessity lost its power over me + abated, + I was free; Valis was both the dissolving of the mechanism simultaneously the real (not symbolic) presence (Parousia) of the savior presiding as Pantocrator + as sacrifice both - Christ as high priest G-209 of that solemn sacardotal act, that sacrament of loosing the chains that bound me, freeing me from Satan + Satan's power forever; this was a divine + real (literal) transaction (as the Reformens i teach) for all time. The price paid was his sacrifice in my place: the ransome. Again sata eagerly took him (Jesus) instead of me, + so let me go. Jesus patibilis, yes, but also ransome paid: vicarious atonement, the Debt paid, the hostage to sin + death (me) released. Yes, I did see Jesus Christ both as sacrifice + as high priest in this the most solemn transaction: the crucifixion re-enacted timelessly - this sacrifice I saw "as" Pinky: the surrogate death, the blow deflected; Christ gave his life for me, to free me: this is soteriology pure + simple. Valis (as I say) was Christ both as sacrifice (the lamb) + Christ as high priest presiding over a transaction in which he himself was sacrificed in my place. Thus I saw blind necessity melt + sensed his presence. Thus time + place collapsed into this transaction of which there is only one (as Luther taught), one once + for all. This is justification - represented in the messenger vision. I have seen Christ; I was saved by him, delivered to freedom + safety. This is the soteriological miracle of the savior himself, enacted now + for me; I could not be freed without this price paid, + this price paid is what I have not understood really, but did ense it. I did not earn it So Valis (as I call it) I I 2 things: 1) The dissolving of the power of blind ecessity over me, which is Satan's power. 2) Jesus as sacrifice (the lamb + the MB's blood). 3) Christ as high priest presiding over this transaction; he is both the high priest G-210 performing the sacrifice + the sacrifice itself. This was the real, actual presence; + this was what the Eucharist "represents"; this was, then, the Eucharist itself, + I say in "Valis": "Fat saw a macrotransubstantiation, not in church (in the sacardotal sacrament) but in + as world itself as if world itself is invisibly becoming the body + blood of the Lord. Thus in "Valis say Marenatha: "the Lord comes; the Lord is here. failed to realize when I wrote "Valis" that if There is transubstantiation there is the Eucharist, + therefore there is, then, sacrifice, self-sacrifices "This is the blood that was shed for thee." Christ died for me + I saw it that day in 3-74 + only understood a little what I saw, but I knew Christ was there, +, in seeing pinky, I understood the surrogate death, the sacrifice + spilling of the Lamb's blood; + I understood that chains of causality (blind necessity) had been dissolved, but I did not comprehend justification, however I knew I had been saved (+ yet only today have I seen it unified as the Eucharist, the priest - Christ - the sacrifice c the host in two species) + now I see the dual role of Christ that day, both as sacrifice + as priest who sacrifices himself I this fits with the Tagore dream, but + the pain + the love! The self-sacrifice, the cruci ixion, now takes place in + as the whole ecosphere; that is, all life great + small collectively; I stand by my Tagore vision in is so Christ + the ecosphere have become ine - which fulfills my comprehension of -211 Valis invading + transubstantiating reality (our world) down to Debris + been cans + trash in the alley. Thus when we wound it we wound him; torment it, torment him; destroy - kill - it, kill him; cause it to cease to be, drive him away (for he cannot cease to be; he is eternal; he withdrows + thereupon we die). Dio: Christ is driven from our world by our crimes against the eco sphere; we are thus judged + found guilty + pay the penalty; his surrogate death does not now spare us but dooms us rather, because (as I say) he is all life, now - the unified total integrated system of life of + in this world Teilhard saw it + him becoming one, but did not suppose we would torment + kill it/him drive him from the world. I reverse every + thing: he does not come here again; he leaves but this must be because he must save all creatures great + small as their champion, as their shepherd; all living creatures are his flockinow. He does not stop us from killing them; he warns us of the consequenced to our we must under‐ selves + that we kill him stand what we do. "Forgive them father, for they know not what they do" becomes "they This is know + they know the consequences." a totally new situation + revelation (dis‐ pensation) now see the Tagore vision as the direct logical moral outcome of the Valis-perception of 3-74 expressed in "Valis" the ultimate significance is Ethical because the purpose (of this macro-transubstantiation) is ultimately a moral one: it is for him to become the shepherd of all life, + all life his flock. This is say, a new + different dispensations not a i previous one repeated o -212 c fulfilled, + it follows logically from my vision of Valis in 3-74 transubstantiating our world (+ yet until I had the Tagore vision I could not foresee-project these logical consequences - although now I can belatedly look back + see the sequence of logic involved step by step). in seeing (in 3-74) Christ become the weeds in the alley (invisibly) I failed to realize that it therefore follows logically that if we then wound these weeds we wound him see, now, the purpose of all this: that +, I by this assimilation he becomes the good shepherd of all life, the total, indivisible ecosphere itself with no distinction between one living creature another. Hence this totality of life has a new + personification that is holy + sentient + which should command our reverence + even awe This is the greatest spiritual development in human history - an ultimate evolution to (like a a radically new level unprecedented third testament emanating out of the O.T. + N.T. see the Torah in this + the Kerygma of the N.T. advancing + evolving into this the third testament (as I say in my letter "the thind s dispensation: mosaic, Christian + now this for the first time I think of Joachim del Fiore I This (the time vision) then is what had sought: the third status or dispensation unfolding, the age of the spirit that abolishes all human authority + replaces it with direct spiritual understanding. Part of it palpably comes from the Torah (O.T.), part from the Xtian Kerygma (not) to form a third + unprecedented dispensation, never seen or known before: the ecosphere as Christ/Tagore. saw Pinky humiliated (mocked) & dying Thus i as Christ's passion - + thus it was. -213 blind necessity is only blind necessity because our Geworfenhect is to be bound over into Satan's power (unfis freed by Christ); thus it (what ever "it" is) assumes the role, dimension + power - authority - of mplacable blind necessity over us (also I called heimarmene, astral determinism, fate, karma, etc). But Christ looses - breaks. this by his sacrifice which in a sense is a trick on wisdom's part against power on Satan's part: an outmaneuvering, a strategy; it is indeed bait but the lamb does die: he is endlessly slaughtered. A I am therefore not a docetist; Christ actually suffers + dies as our ransom. it just came to me with full force: 1) I write a letter (sept 23 1981) saying that in a vision I saw that the Parousia is here. But that is not the whole story: 2) + last night or day I realized that in 3-74 Christ was actually + really + genuinely present somehow in world, as world + yet more than world as if psyche of world. Literally present. So perhaps (1) is true. Since the Tagore vision is predicated on an actual encounter with Christ + this was distinct from the vision. Yesterday for the first time I really knew emotionally, not just intellectually, that in 3-74 that was Christ himself there: an epiphany. C-214 the fusion of the Gnostic idea of heim armene + the breaking of heimarmene (which implies a transtemporal deity. man + God against world, etc) with the Orthodox Xtian view of man in bondage to Satan by reason of sin (in fact original sin) creates an ultra‐ system, for it abolishes the issue of God the creator +