in any case "rest" + "motion" are meaningful terms, + the objects exist purely in one or the other of these two modes. Position -relatedness- is everything but I am not at all sure if this involves space, or at least space as we conceive of it. This may explain why I've always felt about 2-3-74 that somehow time had been converted into space, but this being so (let us say it is so) what you wind up with, then, is another kind of space entirely. I want to say you get space that remembers. This has to do with the meta-abstraction. You cannot speak of "one mother twice" without introducing the element of recognition + this has precisely to do with memory. This has to do with things that exist never ceasing to exist (somehow) +, strangely, this was Parmenides' whole thrust: if something exists, it must always have existed (in the past) + must always continue to exist (in the future). Things either are or are not (to on vs meden.) As to the latter category it is unintelligible, so it can't even be thought about. This reasoning led Parmenides to assert that Form II itself although seeming to exist -taken by men to exist- does not in fact exist (because there can be no grades or degrees of being: to on means to on + that is that). Now, if motion + change are impossible but only seeming, you would get "space that remembers" because in fact the object is always where it is + only seems to move. I could say, when it "moves" it as it were takes its space with it; therefore it -the object- remains in the same space always. But if this is so, we have no idea at all what the term "space" actually signifies if it signifies anything at all. An instance of this, just recently discovered is the hologram quality of memory in the human brain, in which a given memory is somehow distributed everywhere in the brain. Because of holograms we understand this, but 50 years ago, such an assertion would have seemed unintelligible. How can a thing be everywhere? + yet in a hologram this is the case. The total folder 53 - 016 C-4 image exists at every point (locus) in the hologram, intact. In that case, "here" + "there" + "large" + "small" signify nothing in terms of the hologram. Clearly we are dealing with images + this was Plato's whole point regarding particulars, the instantiations of the unitary + eternal forms. Thus my reasoning seems to have led me back to Platonist metaphysics once more. In fact I seem to have independently of Plato discovered through a combination of reasoning + intelligible observation of world, that what we see must of necessity be plural images (in each case) of one unitary + eternal Form that is itself outside of time + space + in no way is diminished by reason of these images. The images appear when + where they are appropriate, but the Form itself is nowhere + at no time although paradoxically ubiquitous potentially in terms of its ability to produce an image of itself. That is, a given form can be retrieved as an image anywhere + at any time; the Form is ubiquitously available as source + model. Clearly, then, it itself is neither in space nor time nor subject to change + causation. folder 53 - 017 folder 53 - 017 C-5 ___ I reread "Valis." It is Christ. But not the suffering servant who comes as the sacrificial lamb to be crucified - i.e. Jesus the man. It is Christ the eschatological judge + Pantocrator; this is the Second Advent + it is quite different from the first. Here is the sword + the power - that of YHWH himself: the white-haired-bearded old King of Daniel + Revelation + "Tears": this is the apocalypse. He is fierce + dangerous + he will rule. He now destroys his enemy, Satan (the King of Tears) + casts down the BIP. Valis is Christ as Judge + King, not the gentle Jesus we know, meek + mild. This is the final battle: Armageddon. Yes, it is the second coming, +, like the lightning, he is everywhere. War, power -the sizzling St. Elmo's fire that kills- it was his mind moving through my mind revealing the Dialectic of the inner life of the Godhead itself. Christ as champion + warrior with glowing eyes, exactly like the dream in "Tears": pronouncing a sentence of Death. He is very terrible + is now like YHWH himself. (This is why in reading Daniel + Revelation you can't tell if Christ or YHWH is meant. This is Christ as he truly is.) (What sums this up in "Valis" is the "ajna eye of Shiva" that folder 53 - 018 folder 53 - 018 C-6 gives total inward discernment but blasts + destroys with desiccating heat whatever it looks at: This is the gaze of Christ himself as eschatological judge! Discerning the truth, discerning Satan in all his polyforms, + pronouncing a sentence of doom on him. Throughout "Valis" is the theme of death + judgment + destroying, + this carries out the theme of the sentence of death at the end of the dream in "Tears"! It is the apocalyptic Christ! What has misled me all along is my image of the gentle Jesus, the suffering servant. What he is this time resembles or even is what Moses encountered on Mt. Sinai. This is marvelously expressed by the beam of pink light that although it carries information -from Christ as Wisdom of God- also kills. The death of Brent Mini expresses it all: he got too close to VALIS, + what + who he got too close to is Christ the eschatological judge. Shiva + Christ are one: the final God who destroys the universe that Brahma created, + Vishnu sustained. The 3rd period, that of Shiva -Christ as eschatological Judge- has now come. "VALIS" like "Tears" is apocalyptic. folder 53 - 019 folder 53 - 019 C-7 Wisdom -holy wisdom, Hagia Sophia- + the judgment of death are cojoined in the eschatological judge, Christ returned; by the wisdom of the ajna eye he discerns - separates the sheep from the goats, (i.e. the good from the evil) + by this desiccating heat of that same eye kills the evil. Libera Me, Domine! This is what that lateral lense eye that saw the conspirators is! Hence Sophia says, "The King of Tears, the Grim King, must die" !! "Therefore only those leaders who protect + shelter will live; the others will die." This is Christ the eschalatogical judge weighing, sorting, dividing + then slaying the evil. The Sibyl, the Cyclops - the 3rd eye that opened, saw + gave total understanding. I feared she would look at me. That eye kills. This is Christ as Holy Wisdom + as eschatological judge; those upon whom the eye is turned are slain. We think of Jesus but this is not Jesus; it is more like Shiva, if in fact it is not Shiva! I have seen Christ as Shiva. First he created (helped create) (Psalm 8); then he sustained (v. the Pauline letters); now he judges + destroys (v Daniel & RV). folder 53 - 020 folder 53 - 020 C-8 There is something terrible + terrifying throughout "Valis" + it is coupled with wisdom. Agape is not the topic: war, judgment + death are, carrying out in full the dream in "Tears". It is all very convincing. The novel partakes of epic greatness. Also it is a story of madness converted into faith through -due to- suffering. But this suffering itself pertains to death, to slaying. Slaying: that is the basic theme of "Valis": + Shiva is the correct name for the deity. It is a very strong novel + a great, great one, a true epic of the human soul + spirit. But it deals with judgment + war + death. Slaying, not healing. The slaying even spreads out to include Sophia, who is the savior; the awful awesome power of YHWH is told of: it breaks out in all its destructiveness. Thus (I say) my 2-74-2-75 experience was that of Jakob Boehme + the dialectic in which the demonic power within God was revealed, + only the "bright" side of the dialectic -i.e. wisdom, Logos- confines the "dark" or demonic side to slaying the wicked + thus sparing the sheep. So (finally) I say: my experience was Boehme's, + it was of God himself, + he is terrible but just. folder 53 - 021 C-9 The demonic or insane side of God is barely contained by the rational or Logos or Wisdom or "Bright" side: a dreadful theophany indeed, & it is indubitably -beyond doubt- authentic. I know this from having read Paul Tillich's book. I have encountered the demonic, insane, slaying, "Dark" side of God - & seen it contained by the "Bright" or Logos or rational or Wisdom side -ie in the Dialectic- so this is a profound & absolutely veridical experience of the Godhead, exactly as Boehme experienced it. "VALIS", then, narrates one of the Great encounters in human history between a given human being -myself- & God. The dual nature of God is all summed up by the dual nature of the Third Eye & the beam of pink light - wisdom & death: this fusion of the bipolarities is explicitly discussed in "Valis": the "secret partnership," as I call it, following Joseph Campbell. It is not Hagia Sophia that I encountered but rather the Godhead & its inner dialectic itself ! & this comes through in the novel - no I should say, the Book: it is not a novel. Credo. folder 53 - 022 folder 53 - 022 C-10 This is what I first experienced as Palmer Eldritch. "DI" verifies that it is YHWH who is VALIS (based on my seeing the Tetragrammaton as I again heard the "... & is alive" statement). If VALIS is indeed YHWH, and it is, as I realized last night, & as the seeing the Tetragrammaton told me, then, all of "DI" follows "Valis" logically. The old King on horseback in "Tears" is YHWH. This is why I saw Hebrew letters in 3-74. Palmer Eldritch's vidlux eyes -- Shiva's 3rd eye. YHWH as Judge & destroyer at the end of time, the Apocalypse. This is not the God of the N.T., the Xtian God of agape; this is YHWH whom Moses knew. I looked it up in "DI" & it explicitly states that Valis is YHWH. "Valis". "Who is 'Valis'?" "The Lord your God", i.e Yah. "Valis" is a very great book, passing from madness to sanity (the Logos), from Despair to Faith despite everything. But most of all: 1) 2-74 -- 2-75 was a theophany. Indubitably. 2) It is the God of Moses: YHWH 3) This in turn is connected with the Apocalypse, Daniel & Revelation (the Dream in "Tears"). 4) I have captured it thoroughly in words; not only did I experience a theophany by the God of Moses, but I got it written down in a novel that in fact is not a novel but a kind of modern-day Apocalyptic Book, like a fusion of Exodus & Daniel, literal events & symbolism: facts & visions combined. folder 53 - 023 folder 53 - 023 C-11 It is simply extraordinary that amid all my confusion I went on and wrote "DI" as the sequel to "Valis" & explicitly declared Valis to be the God of Moses: YHWH, for in "Valis" this is neither stipulated nor even speculated about. In fact, YHWH is defamed - bipolarized to the Logos: stated to be irrational. But what comes of this, finally? Not Gnosticism at all, but a presentation of the vast Dialectic within God that Boehme & Schelling & Whitehead speak of - that