experiences a somewhat different reality or representation of reality? My 10 volume meta novel deals with this, of course, as I eternally point out. However (as I say supra) I now see the issue or problem -or in fact solution- this way: How are we able to assent to the representation? + I believe that only God is able to compel that assent, + this is essential - that he do this for us, since otherwise our experience will be with something unconvincing (I do not deem it within the power of the representation in itself to compel this assent, but since God always -or almost always- compels our assent we are unaware of the problem + presume unquestioningly that there is no problem, the representation seems self-authenticating. But I, having seen representation as representation, construe the semblance of verisimilitude as something compelling us - not something done to the representation but directly to us internally - compelling our folder 90 - 130 folder 90 - 130 G-75 absolute assent (what I have formerly deemed a perpetual-cognitive occlusion. While this is in a sense correct, on the other hand, we have to consider the purpose of this tailoring of our percept- + cognitive-systems to, so-to-speak accomodate the signal, so I believe myself to be right in having discerned an occlusion, but were this to be the purpose, one would have to re-evaluate it. It is essential that the representation be experienced as absolutely not relatively real, I construe this as connected with God as creator (insofar as we are concerned this pragmatically is the primary act of cosmogenesis itself, the rest being from our standpoint metaphysical, theoretical + perhaps (if Kant is right) even intrinsically unknowable since it deals with the thing-in-itself). Therefore I deem it correct to say that yes I have been correct in saying (as I have periodically) that 3-74 represented the lifting of an occlusion from me so that I saw reality either more accurately or (if this is possible) "as it really is" - this owing to me suddenly facing reality for the first time (v. supra). What was presented to me was an inscrutible picture of what resembled living information, a unitary field, pre-synchronized self-initiating transformations, rest-motion modes, etc, all that I endlessly dilate on, the upshot being that (1) I could not figure out what I was seeing + (2) I could not communicate what I had seen. Herein with these two points lies the difficulty. All that I could fathom was that the conventional picture that we normally get -+ same to share- is not in fact what is there; what is there is not even in time or space, nor is causation involved. There seems to be a mind + we are in it - But even now after 7 years of mulling it over I am as baffled as ever. Hence the utility folder 90 - 131 G-76 of this perception is (at least at this time) dubious. Out of this experience with the inscrutible + inexplicable I formulate at last the notion that the compulsion exerted on us to see the representation as (1) absolutely real + (2) totally comprehensible is a gift, an essential gift. This deals with more than my 3-74 perception, it deals with my whole adult life as expressed in my 10-volume meta-novel. What I saw in 3-74 I regard as absolutely real (so there is no problem there) but it was unintelligible - whereas all that came prior to it was intelligible but lacking in respect to seeming absolutely real. (One is moved to ponder which is better -or for that matter worse- of the two choices: to see, understand + not believe, or to see, not understand + yet believe - obviously something drastic is wrong with both. In fact both -each in its own way- smack of psychotic apperception of world. The former (coherent but unconvincing) is fucked; the latter (unintelligible but carrying the force of absolute truth) equally so. Surely both represent mental dysfunction in me. All I can do at this point is abandon the field + say that belief in + understanding of should go hand in hand, + if they part company something is wrong. From this I erect the following premise: that God sees to it that we both comprehend (i.e. what we experience is to us intelligible) + believe (it carries the force of the absolute). Obviously something went wrong in me years ago. + when in 3-74 the compensatory correction came it ushered in a whole new host of troubles, giving me even more to do, philosophically speaking. folder 90 - 132 folder 90 - 132 G-77 Thus God gives us multiple gifts: a world, first of all, one that we can understand + also experience as real - so real, in fact, that it was not until the time of Descartes that the representation problem was even discerned (it has never been fully answered). What I see is a threat that only someone fighting off psychosis could appreciate: the disappearance of world along two routes: (1) comprehensibility; (2) believability. (Viz: You could find yourself understanding it but not believing it to be real -my 10 volume meta-novel- or finding it real but being unable to make any sense out of it - 3-74 + "Valis." On the bright side, however, this has permitted me to formulate some formidable epistemological, +, finally, theological questions, + even a few halting tentative answers. "We are all but cells in a colossal mad brain that both makes + perceives reality" - something like that, the main thrust being that there is some relationship between the creating of reality + the perceiving of it (v. my dream supra): the percipient is cosmogenator, or, conversely, the cosmogenator wound up as unwilling percipient of his own creation. The way out of this solipsistic trap is to presume God, since world is dubitable. Thus there is self + there is other, + this other is powerful, benign, wise, loving, +, perhaps most important of all, able + willing to provide -in fact guarantee- world (under the conditions of Cartesian epistemology). "God is the final bulwark against nonbeing" becomes "... against isolation." folder 90 - 133 folder 90 - 133 G-78 That this issue was never raised before the 17th century only goes to show how well the system works; that even the Cartesians who raised it failed to see some serious ramifications shows even more clearly to me how well God does his job. Not only must he provide every percipient with some kind of functional representation of world but he must cause that percipient to experience the representation with absolute force: genuine without qualifications at all times - with no exceptions (viz: if it winked out or ebbed into palpable dream-ness say when it became a painful representation -carried suffering to the percipient- the percipient would at once catch on that it never had been truly real). (Here is a novel argument regarding the problem of why God permits evil, this argument is hinted at by Emmanuel in "DI" - so I had already sensed it.) (+ Frozen Journey" shows the real price that irreality exacts: the real is then undermined: taken for just another irreality.) The power of the representation over the percipient must be relentless and never mitigated! Because if the convincing power of the representation goes, world goes (since all there was was representation in the first place). + it need only go briefly to undermine it absolutely, irrepairibly. Thus I reason: God conceals his presence (in world-order, in change, in causation) for our sake, that world (or world-representation) keep its power absolutely to compel assent (or his power to cause it to so do). Hence Deus Absconditus. But consider what I have done with the folder 90 - 134 folder 90 - 134 G-79 famous -or notorious- Cartesian doubt. We see not world but representation. I say (+ as I remark I believe this to be a new insight) I cannot bring myself to suppose that this representation would carry the power absolutely to compel our assent unless some alert agency intervened to guarantee this semblance of the absolute - + it is, after all, only semblance (if it were the genuine thing, there would be no problem). Thus I advance a new, further but typically Cartesian argument for the existence of God, + a good, wise + powerful God at that: God as cosmogenator, since I interpret "making it seem real to us" as the pragmatic equilivant of, "causing it to exist." (In fact I am willing to deem "cause it (world) to exist in itself" as of only metaphysical, not pragmatic, importance [to us]. I am even willing to go further + say that God willed my decades of doubt as a road designed eventually + inevitably to bring me to him - as he told me in 11-17-80; this was his purpose from the start. He told me in 11-17-80 that doubt, absolute doubt such as I was, would lead to him - but I didn't see how. I do now! (This is my idiosyncratic road to God. For others - who have not been the doubt, who have not known 32 years of doubt, this would not seem to constitute proof. But I say: I do not have it within my own power to compel my own assent to anything but my doubting self; thus on my own folder 90 - 135 folder 90 - 135 G-80 I possess no sense of knowing anything but myself, which is a sentence to hell, perpetual unrelenting hell. "Wer wird mich erlosen?" My argument is a variation of Cartesian reasoning (+ in my opinion an important one) + so it is in an honorable tradition. I say with Malebranche that I see all things in God; it is God who extricates me from my solipsistic prison. I did not write 35 novels + 150 stories without coming to a good understanding of the sinister implications of no world, irreal world, inscrutible world - that second only to the gift of life itself is the gift of world, of other. Perhaps it is even a greater gift, since it involves all creation. (Viz: I might well choose personal death over the extinction of the cosmos.) What I see people ordinarily saying is that world of its own accord impinges on us: impinges coherently + convincingly. The Cartesians showed that this is not the case. I say, the whole cosmos could be presented to me + yet I would not find it real unless God himself bestowed on me the essential gift of my finding it convincing, a gift that through my own powers of reasoning + observation I find myself incapable of acquiring, a state I on my own cannot achieve. I cannot persuade myself + I cannot compel myself to believe; unless God compels me I will not believe, + if I do not believe, I am doomed to a certain kind of hell. I know from experience that God can compel that assent, for he did this by a rustle of color in the grass. He can absolutely impinge on me; he can break into my prison-world + destroy it - burst the prison, release me. That my assent might be compelled by perceptual + cognitive occlusion + amnesia does not in folder 90 - 136 G-81 the slightest matter to me because the end justifies the means, since I cannot live at all unless I am taken out of my private prison. That is why I see the issue as one of belief on my part, not on the truth of what I believe. I know now that if there is something that is true I will never on my own know it. Or if I know it I will not believe I know it. Like Victor Kemmings at the end of "Frozen Journey"