and through you, as you. And the whole point of this is to ward off, abolish and dematerialize as if it had never existed a worse world --which you have seen, and it is a dreadful black iron prison-- that you once lived in as another person with a different personality. And because the eradicated memory of that world have been recovered in your mind, that other person is restored now to some kind of existence and is in you, in your head, brought back when the memories --his memories which are your own-- were summoned back into being. He was a better person than you --more resourceful and daring and vigorous-- but he had a folder 90 - 061 -16- worse world culminating in a truly dreadful fate. And that is why the system has cancelled that choice and gone for this alternative instead; if his world were better the choice, the initial choice, would be sustained. Anamnesis, then, of the kind I'm talking about, recovered memory of the prior zero phase, would have to be of a worse world; it could be no other way, by the nature of the thing. This may throw a new light on VALIS; like TEARS it may deal primarily with a world that we formerly lived in but which is being phased out, even has been phased out. But in a way that would make TEARS and VALIS of not just relative value but of absolute value, as records of another version of world, that version itself forever gone. How many records such as that do we have? Anyhow, the BIP is to some degree here, although to a lesser extent. Nonetheless, VALIS may show Thomas' viewpoint more than my own; we may have merged, and Thomas came out the victor. I have often speculated that the purpose of the pronoia of 2-3-74 was not to provide me with life but to provide Thomas with life. Due to the anamnesis both of us were rescued. That may have been the intent. Put another way, without the anamnesis I would have been rescued but would never have known by what or even the magnitude of the danger; it would have probably made no more impression on me than did the lethal letter of last week: something to deal with in one day and then forget. As it is, here I am seven years later still mulling it all over. And, also, here is Thomas, apparently: alive and well in me and as me. And out of this has come my life's summation and quest: I believe I saw the living Christ and seek to see him again. That may be Thomas in me / as me yearning for that, but also there may no longer be any distinction between the two of us; I now am Thomas and he is me. By "anamnesis" read "full anamnesis"; obviously I've had some residual memories of Track A all my life - hence my ten volume meta-novel (as I noted supra), and, especially, hence TEARS. In fact now it is possible to assert the single premise generating all my various preoccupations with what is real, what isn't, etc., my entire body of epistemological doubts: I know that there really is such a thing as tentative or provisional reality, and it can be cancelled in such a way that in a certain sense it never was there in the first place. folder 90 - 062 folder 90 - 062 -17- The customary erasure of the zero phase failed adequately to work in my case from the moment I was born as PKD in this track. My very complex corpus of intimations, doubts and suspicions, preoccupations and beliefs, can thus all be traced to a single common datum of knowledge; and this perfectly tallies with the idea that sparked off TIME OUT OF JOINT, when I reached upward for the light cord in the bahtroom back in the Fifties and then realized, "There is no light cord; moreover, there never was. I deduce, therefore, that I have subcortical memories of another bathroom." This was what is called the tip of the iceberg. I can accurately date the surfacing into consciousness of my intimation that I had somehow lived in another present --not another past-- from that moment on; what happened in 2-74 was that due to the sodium pentathol and the Christian golden fish, my amnesia was obliterated; full memory flooded back, and, with it, a sublime but baffling mystical (?) experience. Well, it is logical that if the buried memories were to come back ever they would come back then, because I was only a couple of weeks away from my death. I'm sure in my zero position lifetime that event made more impression on me than did anything else. Oh yes; and of course this, too, is how and why I knew I would meet Tessa at that party of Ginger's, why I felt that supernatural forces were at work. Up to last week I was trying always to reason inductively from my particular situation to a total view of reality; but last week I obtained or developed --somehow acquired-- a comprehension of the way total natura operates as a system; whereupon I then turn around and deductively reason down to the particularity of my 2-3-74 experience, specifically vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. Deduction works a lot better. folder 90 - 063 folder 90 - 063 XXXIV E-5 I risked madness + death + terrible punishment in order for a moment to read the Book - with the ajna eye that I stole from Yaldabaoth, Lord (creator) of the world. I read the information that world is based on. I learned the secret from the Sibyl, the secret hidden from mankind. St. Sophia, Christ, Kyrios Pantocrator, is here; the Parousia is here. I told mankind, it can't be undone; I defeated world-fate (the Norns) by my heroic act; even Wotan, master of the runes who traded an eye for wisdom, could not do that. I overcame the Norns, the spinners of fate, + stole the secret kept from mankind; I am not a hero but the hero: I did this with Dionysos' aid. He rebels + bursts the prison. We did it; we killed the monster, stole the eye, read the Book of Fate, learned the hidden secret, stole it + gave it to mankind, + freed them with/by knowledge. We the Gods defeated Fate (Erda, the Norns). It was Wotan who conversed with me on 11-17-80. This was his plan: to use me to steal the 3rd eye from the Sibyl, read the Book + learn the secret. + give it to man. So I am Siegfried; the Knights Templer [Note] have succeeded in their plot through me. Via my writing - my books. [Note] The Gnostics. folder 90 - 064 folder 90 - 064 E-6 In essence it is the Gods (Dionysos, Wotan, Christ) defeating Fate (Erda, the Norns) by killing the world monster (the creator Yaldabaoth / Palmer Eldritch) stealing the 3rd eye of the Sibyl / Polyphemus, reading the Norns' book, learning the secret, telling it to man, thus freeing him: the Parousia is here. Thus the RC brotherhood, the Gnostics, the Knights Templer, Wotan, the wise mind, have succeeded through me, the hero (Siegfried): Ptath, the tongue of the Gods. The clue: the Grail. I threaded the maze concealing / revealing it; I was summoned by the Blood itself, it called me to my task. Thus what I knew (that the Parousia is here) I stole; the AI voice told me so. I did it by my heroic deed; I succeeded as Wotan's hero. He manifested himself to me in 11-17-80. The Gods vs Fate (the book which I read with the 3rd eye that I stole; I learned the secret, the stolen secret, + told it: I was free of fate - I broke free in 3-74 due to Dionysos' help.) This time the Gods won over Fate. By telling the hidden secret the Gods overcame -changed- Fate, by revealing it to mankind. It is no longer secret. The Gods are mankind's friends. Fate - the Norns folder 90 - 065 folder 90 - 065 E-7 + their book, strove to keep the truth from mankind. This was my task to steal the secret + tell it to mankind in a popular novel, I did so. The task is accomplished: mankind knows; Fate (the Norns) is defeated; the Book must now change in conformity to reality. It -the Book, Fate- no longer controls reality qua world, hence no longer enslaves man. We set man free; we broke the power of the BIP when we read the Book + told mankind the secret: that Kyrios Christos is here (King Felix). "Tears" was the book keeping the secret hidden from mankind. I read the book ("Tears") with the 3rd eye + told mankind in "Valis". I told it - the secret stolen by me, as an agent, a human agent, of Wotan, man's friend, thus Fate is overcome. "Tears" is not a message, a code, a revelation: it is the Book of Fate itself, the information that reality is based on. By means of the 3rd folder 90 - 066 E-8 eye I read it, stole the secret + told it to mankind, by Wotan's aid. This was Wotan's victory over Fate; "Tears" is Fate's Book itself! "Tears" told mankind nothing. It concealed the truth from mankind, as Fate. Hence the AI voice said, "the secret stolen, through the angels, in one's hands"; i.e. in "Tears" I had the secret. "Tears" is the runes, + Wotan can read the runes; but Fate had acquired the 3rd eye by which the runes are read. I got hold of it for a short time. Hence I could see set/ground. __ Ghastly dream correcting this. A family on an old farm. The children are [called] "the spinners." The very ground itself is contaminated, poisoned, with [heavy] metals, so the children, "the spinners", are becoming blind. A little boy peers through a thick magnifying glass at the sun; he can barely see it. Soon he will be completely blind. Interpretation: The spinners are immortals who came here + were poisoned (heavy metal) + lost what I call "the third eye" (represented by the magnifying glass). The sun is Christ. Thus they, we, can no longer read the sacred writing (of Scripture): "the light went out" (divine revelation) not because God stopped sending it but because we have gone blind to it. Somehow I regained my sight in 3-74 + could read the sacred scripture in/as "Tears". Therefore "the folder 90 - 067 folder 90 - 067 E-9 spinners" can no longer see the thread of Ariadne (or weave it as explanation, revelation) leading out of the maze. This is dreadful. The spinners, almost blind, peer through the 3rd eye + can barely see the sun ("Ghosts" - "Mother, give me the sun"; the occlusion in "Scanner". Paresis. Senility. The poison "is in the ground" - i.e. this planet. O Weh! We are poisoned, occluded, blind; we can no longer read the sacred scriptures as they came from God (the sun); he did not stop communicating to us; no - a dreadful Fall occurred on our parts, at our end. In 3-74 I regained my sight temporarily; hence I said "I am no longer blind!" I saw God + could read + understand "Tears". Thus apparently I did not steal the secret; I ceased to be poisoned + again could see. This theme of going blind fits in with the Mello Jello - blindness, literally: + madness. "Valis" is right. O Weh! We can no longer see the sun, our spiritual source! Not because it changed but because the soil here (autochthonic world) has poisoned us. Then I did the right thing in reading the scriptures now concealed from us, + told what I saw in "Valis". Dio