a pattern of revelation predicated on grace + involving salvation stretching out across my entire life. What, then, I have viewed as a preoccupation with epistemology turns out to be a search for - + a finding of God. folder 55 - 096 2-7 The meta-abstraction - which did make it finally had to do with world possible for me to distinguish world from the interface, as if the two pulled apart - i.e. were by me discriminated? the meta-abstraction pertains to world + not to the interface, which is a sort of lens now, in terms of this interface, "cognitive estrangement" + its rectification (reversal) becomes easy to understand, in the former the interface does not act to resolve world + in the latter it does. This is a very high-order of functioning on the part of the interface: it is most likely, its prime utility regarding world + experience of world. + the power to do this (rectify i.e. justify) lies not in the person + not in the world but more significant is the discrimina im of the interface itself in contra‐ distinction to world. Perhaps this is necessarily linked to the rectification of the interface in cognitive estrangement. resolving what his seemed or been incoherent makes its existence known by act of transforming world since it its now actively feature extracts; that is it suppresses + enhances in terms of Gestalt, + doing so reveals itself not only as a in presence but as a purposeful presence this all goes back to the 2-74 + meta-abstraction, which is the key to everything: it sets off a process that unlocks that which is - + "that which is" turns out to be two distinct things: folder 55 - 097 folder 55 - 097 2-8 world (made up of eternal constants seer over + over again) + the interface. +, for me, they finally blended back togethers "a long extinct true cosmos + It's still there. AI voice: hypnagogic, "extinct" must mean : in terms of our ability + perceive it. My ability to It (3-74) is obviously due to the see meta-abstraction (this does sound like Noesis, then!) which in turn led to a sui reversal of cognitive estrangement + brought about a part-whole compatibility. but none of this makes sense without this new AI voice disclosure: long ago (in the Greek world. Most likely) there was experience + this experience of world as "true cosmos" has been lost - but this "true cosmos" is "still there: this is what I saw + if it I could not have seen it were not still there, So my meta-abstraction restored me to the the true perception of + participation in cosmos known e.g. to Pythagoras. When noesis perception of this true cosmos were don't even remember it or know went we I + about, that it exists Well, + what is more, I saw it as alive: hylozoism. An -one unified the latent form (crypte morphose) retrieved. org antion, MMSK. + immanent mind as with Xenophanes. This was anamnesis + noesis, +, moreover, retrieval the long-lost true cosmos (note the word "true" thing. It is not gone; our of This was the real ability to experience it is gone; our part-whole relationship is lost - shattered a long time ago folder 55 - 098 folder 55 - 098 2-9 then in studying the pre-socratics I've been looking in the right place. i 3-74 was, then phylogenic abreaction; but it yielded up a tit integration of Dasein + welt anschauung -self - + world integrated, + the totally itself internally integrated: one vast Gestalt involving + including me, of a sort that no one today even knows ever existed. This - that I experienced - is what Heidegger speaks of as "before the darkening, before Logos was lost" - it is continuum. as with the Eleatics before the Atomists. Hence the Gnostic-Heidegger categories of alienation were summarily abolished, because I was carried back to before the Fall. Now, this integration (by my mind) is based on an apprehending or remembering of what I must now construe as the eide: they form the structural basis - the constants around which the total cosmos then formed (actually, was perceived to forms of course it was always there but not seen). then my perception of the ancient world was in some sense veridical. The Greco-Roman world is the time + place where people apprehended this cosmos (based on a continuum reality, rather than our discontinuous matter one). + it all goes back to the meta-abstraction - noesis + anamnesis. + Thomas is a past personality Well, so my seeing Valis externally + what I call "pretextual cause" does involve continuum cosmos (the Eleatic). a This is (1) a profoundly differing way of experiencing reality, + (2) a superior one, in that there is total integration: of self + world, + of the unitary totality itself; + the entire structure is comprehensible as such because of what call "part-whole compatibility"! all my research + work has paid off, especially my folder 55 - 099 folder 55 - 099 2-10 terms "cognitive estrangement" + "part whole compatibility" my reading Heigegger + of course the pre-socratics, esp. Pythagoras + Parmenides: Greek thought was the solution, all hight - oh, + my study of Plato's universalia ante rem apparently my Jungian intuitive function This then was socrates way (in did it. contrast to Jesus' as tillick speaks of). It authentic Platonist anamnesis + noesis. was + Valis is both kosmos + immanent nous of that kosmos - there is no real distinction, for in such an experience of reality everything is integrated into an organic structure, unitary + that thinks Also, this would be Neo-Platonism - Plotinus' the one This "Extinct." God, what this term conveys? Dasein/weltanschauung died out like a biological species + is totally absent from the present "Extinct" refers to that which was world - totally! not now - totally gone, not just rare + but is in contemporary terms, it cannot be revived) only by reason of anamnesis, amounting to a vast phylogenic reversion can it be recaptured was correct that day in 3-74 when I thought I b "This is the way they used to experience reality cosmic resorption! Great Brahman. A Shiva. but it is more precisely Greek: kosmos, such as Hans Jonas speaks of. + which I know to be predicated - necessarily - on the continuum view of reality (hence my Taoist training may well have aided me! + this relates to quantum mechanics.) (In which case the continuum view, in returning in + as quantum mechanics, may permit + even faster a return of a per‐ ception of the "extinct" true cosmos note: true cosmos. Not just cosmos folder 55 - 100 folder 55 - 100 2-11 all but true; this distinguishes it from world - experiences that bear the name "cosmos be or are taken to be (in our ignorance) to cosmos - the coose + innactrate sense of the + how Oh weh; how we have fallen! term right Heidegger was: I did acquire authentic I do not -repeat not sein + much more. dismiss the Xtian element, but, I must realize, early, authentic Xtianity came into being in the ancient world in which the continuum view was still in existence: not yet extinct. + of course Malebranche is not only not ruled out, he is indicated (it was Malebranche who indicted the error of the Atomists as the "most dangerous to notion in all antiquity"). was right in trying Goddam it, I the project a contemorary worldview on the Eleatic continuum system, replacing discontinuous matter system that has Atomists' obtained for almost two thousand years" the term a well, + in this continuum system Aoyos has superlative significance; my view, put forth in "Valis" of the 7070s invading + assimi‐ that is sentient lating the universe into one body This is the stoic domos. World reason governing I saw it, but in modern all + pervading all) dynamic terms, process terms. Victoria! although indubitably a regression back so along the phylogenic axis 2000 years there is in 2-3-74 that which is now emerging - or re-emery. - in our quantum mechanics, post-Newtonian worldview; it is repair + recovery, but it will take a new form: dynamic process, as in A. No whitehead + heartshorne + Teilhard This is why in 3-74 causality collapsed; in the continuum, "cause-+-effect" signifie something quite different: a future "effech can loop back + be its own "cause" as with in our my later act vis-a-vis Covenant House. view, this is impossible; in the continuum it is intelligible totally. folder 55 - 101 2-12 So the key to 2-3-74 is: massive + in of world fact total (i.e. absolute) integration + self integrated into that world, for which the precise + correct term is kosmos in the strict - not loose - sense. Although this represents a profound psychological integration on my part - such as Jung speaks of: resolution of the opposites, expressed perhaps by the final synthesis of the dialectic - + at more interested in the epistemological + religious significance ala Plotinus + Heidegger. + of course it is totally evident that 2-74 was a meta-abstraction a vastly higher order of cognition, of the reasoning or Logos in me; + thus these last 15 month of am I exegesis have paid off stupendously. right, they, to speak of myself as having been overpowered by the rational (invading the pre‐ rational or irrational) + to speak of what call "the aesthetics of reason," for this true cosmos is not taken by faith to exist but is actually experienced (my good Jesus; at one point I figured out that by the time of the stoics they knew that this apperception of cosmos had was only believed in as once existed, but now Thus the stoics did not an article of faith! experience providentia but, in facts alone equated be the Heimarmene (fates with providenia - this to topic of my nonfiction book! But is in 3-74, experienced pronoia - it was not mere faith but a matter of knowledge - episteme or Gnosis). So we get pronoia, Hylozoism + immanent mind (Nous) as natural in this pre- atomists worldview, all of which went when leucippus & Democritus came in + explained everything in terms of mindless abors e void + now chance + causation + determinist replared mind + intent have experienced the radical new emergin worldview of the future, despite its ancient origins. folder 55 - 102 folder 55 - 102 2-13 "a long extinct true cosmos + it's still There" implies far more - + indeed something other - than a subjective way by which the percipient organizes reality (as by the Kantian categories). What is stated is: this "true cosmos" has an objective existence but we are unable to apprehend it, + in fact are prevented from apprehending it, due to our faulty "dis‐ continuous matter" atomistic physics, So I did move than simply change the way I structure reality. This "true cosmos" is (as the AI voice put it) "still there"; it is There but from our civilization's standpoint extinct long extinct, in terms of both our theories about reality + our apperception of reality. What I did was retrieve what is There what is objectively real in itself - I saw correctly. Not our 2000 years of discontinuous matter physics is fallacious. + it occludes us to what is really there, + since "true cosmos" I by definition includes the percipient himself as part of this total, absolute whole, we are unable to know our own true nature as well as the true nature of reality. Thus the Q: "Ti to on?" has been answered wrang from Leucippus on - hence our inauthentic sein, hence Geworfenheit: estrangement ➀ In + by the 2-74 meta-abstraction the fundamental error of 2000 years of faulty physics was