E-37 forking total reality could be other than it is, but instead is what it is due to sentient choice. There is a repeated indeterminateness (a "gap" or space at each forking) in the dialectic. (When I comprehended it) the stupider "horn" moved first (i.e. the tentative zero choice) which was then defeated by the second "horn", the wise one which did a switching that I construe to be an enantiodromia. Would not the first move -the zero choice- by Plato's ananke (power but no brains) + the second Noos? The first move is always wrong. Why, then, does it occur? Because it is more powerful, +, if it is ananke, blindly driven by efficient cause. Zero, the first move, follows (what came before) without intelligence, whereupon the system switches off, thinks, converts in a binary way to zero, null-zero or one. The switching-off gap leaves it free to decide, to make a choice, due to the [causal] disjunction. folder 90 - 020 folder 90 - 020 A worldview (Dasein) that repudiates strict causation and substitutes for it a concept of decision-making at repeated binary branchings overthrows a worldview anchored in antiquity, specifically in the Babylonian planetary determinism that dominated the ancient world. This planetary or astral determinism, with which astrology was concerned, is specifically the "ancient powers" that Paul asserts Christ will topple. So the perception of a rigid causually-determined world-order derives from antiquity --it did not begin with Newton-- and it is specifically this rigid structure that Christ invades and defeats. What, then, is the theological or soteriological application to my 3-74 apperception of what seemed to me an invasion of causality, invasion of and replacement by what I construed to be the Cosmic Christ? Is not this the promised liberation? I realize I am forever returning to Christianity in an effort to account for what I saw, but I did construe VALIS as (1) the Cosmic Christ; and (2) having invaded the world-order invisibly, that is, camouflaged; (3) moreover, this invasion was specifically an invasion of and penetration of --and transformation of-- causation, a transformation from immutable cause-and-effect into what I call choice or decision-making, apperceived by me as "pretextual cause," which is to say not really efficient cause at all. This so strikingly corrolates with the notions in Paul's Captivity Letters that I am stuck fast by the theological implications, or apparent implications. All I need to nail down this case is the following: (1) Successful equating of the Babylonian determinism with causality and (2) successful equating of the invading, camouflaged VALIS who transforms rigid, mechanical causation into volitional, sentient decision-making with the Cosmic Christ. Though in a sense I am right back where I started from at the beginning of this exegesis, and fully aligned with my presentations in VALIS, I would have a much stronger case for these early views -- early in the period of my exegesis...being in essence my initial impression. There is another way we could put it. If there is a Cosmic Christ as depicted in Paul's captivity letters, were we to apperceive him and his activity, what could we expect to apperceive specifically? The answer: an invasion of, interference with, disturbance of, transformation of, causality. folder 90 - 021 At least if I am right, that "causality" is our term for what the ancients called the powers of astral determinism, which I equate with the Babylonian astrological pantheon. To Paul these Thrones, Powers, Dominions, Sovereignties and Authorities were real and in fact Christ's ultimate cosmic adversary. (I just now researched this in my J. Bible). Now, this "invasion of, interference with, disturbance of, transformation of, causality" could very well be summed up briefly (if it is to be summed up briefly) as a "perturbation of the reality field," a statement by the AI voice indicating that in 3-74 I was not seeing normal reality but seeing it more clearly; no: I was seeing something unusual going on; something outside the reality field --I interpret the word "perturbation" in the astronomical sense-- was doing something to reality, or put more precisely, to causation. What is involved, ultimately, is that the universe by virtue of this invasion, is prevented from exacting its tyrannical sentence of death on the person involved; this is a literal exculpation inserted by the Cosmic Christ into the terrible machinery. Now, the other aspect of this invasion is of course that which I call the plasmate, "living information," which I identify with the Logos which of course is Christ; so we are talking about Christ twice: once as VALIS involved with and interfering with and a camouflaged invader in the universe's causal machinery, and then again as living information, equally camouflaged, riding and interwoven with our own message traffic. To be very mystical and Christian about it, the former could be regarded as the body of Christ, the latter the blood; and indeed this was my impression. (I have also the original statement by the AI voice: "St. Sophia will be born again; she was not acceptable before"; here the identity --that being Christ-- is not inferred or implied, it is explicit). The thing is, this time (the Second Advent) Christ is not going to be born as he was the first time, most likely, in that there is reason to believe --from hints in Paul's Captivity Letters-- that Christ is still here in Cosmic form, Christ (1) unseating the ancient planetary powers; and (2) reuniting the parts of the decomposing cosmos with himself as head. Thus such statements as, "St. Sophia will be born again" may not mean human incarnation; likewise folder 90 - 022 folder 90 - 022 -10- "He has been transplanted and is alive." What may be meant is that Christ in a cosmic, discorporate form has penetrated --invaded-- the physical universe, exactly as I depict in VALIS, in which case the AI voice's statements simply verbally identify what in fact I have already experienced; this would fit absolutely with the very cryptic remark, "The secret stolen, through the angels, in one's hands," which I take to mean something I already know... and what I already know, it would seem, is that Christ is here in discorporate cosmic form, camouflaged, having invaded the world-machinery and in a certain real sense short-circuited it in terms of its retributive aspects. Certainly this was the effect his invasion had in terms of me; I refer to the Xerox missive. Yes, well, then, I do know and have known a very great secret for some time. The secret is Christ himself, Christ here but invisible. "The angels" referred to may be a direct reference to Scripture --again the Captivity Letters-- in which Paul speaks of the legendary angels present at the handing down of the Old Law (Torah) at Mt. Sinai; they have, Paul says, managed to enslave mankind and the world, by reason of their ancient authority in governing the universe; it is they whom Christ is pitted against and whom he unseats... "through the angels" signifying (which is how I interpreted it at the time I heard it) past the angels, the angels conceived as constituting a sort of ring or barrier enclosing the world. This fits exactly with Paul's conception of them, and with that of antiquity in general; to get here, Christ must get through them -- past them. This is dealt with in THE DIVINE INVASION. The entire rebellion against the Divine Government was in fact by angels (those who fell with Satan/Lucifer), but Paul may mean the angels associated with Moses and the Law; these are simply entrenched, rather than in rebellion against God; Paul is ambiguous in discussing these matters; he seems to use the terms "Thrones, Dominions, Powers, Sovereignties and Authorities" interchangably for both. But in either case they are angels. Oh Lord; I just thought of this important passage: "Through all the ages, this (mystery) has been kept hidden in God, the creator of everything. Why? So that the Sovereignties and Powers should folder 90 - 023 folder 90 - 023 -11- learn [Note] only now... how comprehensive God's wisdom really is, exactly according to the plan which he has had from all eternity in Christ Jesus our Lord." Eph 3:1 [Note] The evil spirits were unaware of God's plan for salvation and so they persuaded human beings to crucify Christ, and it is only the existence of the Church that makes them aware of it now. (And then there is a citation to 1 Cor 2:7/8: "The hidden wisdom of God which we teach in our mysteries is the wisdom that God predestined to be for our glory before the ages began. It is a wisdom that none of the masters of this age have ever known, or they would not have crucified the Lord of Glory" [Note2] [Note2] The "Glory" is the manifestation of Yahweh's power, Ex24:16, the incommunicable attribute of God. The title "Lord of Glory" implies the same dignity for Jesus as that of Yahweh himself. Exodus 24:16 is: "And Moses went up into the mount, and the cloud covered the mount. And the glory of the Lord abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days; and the seventh day He called unto Moses out of the midst of the cloud. And the appearance of the glory of the Lord was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel." There is a note about this in my Torah book: "The glory of the Lord was a 'certain light,' also called 'Divine light' (Maimonides). Perhaps the cloud shrouded the full brilliance of the Divine light." Etc. This would fit in with my seeing the Sacred Tetragrammaton in connection with the words, "He has been transplanted and is alive," on the basis of which I wrote THE DIVINE INVASION. That is, it did not just (sic) involve Jesus Christ; it involved YHWH Himself, which may refer to these very passages from Paul. The NEB 1 Cor phrases it: "I speak God's hidden wisdom, his secret purpose framed from the very beginning..." etc. Secret. Here is the word I was looking for. Although I am not sure at all how the folder 90 - 024 folder 90 - 024 -12- other word, "stolen," fits in; yet I feel confident that "the secret stolen" refers to this very selfsame secret, which the J. Bible note on Eph 3:10 says (as I quoted above) refers to God's plan for salvation which is obviously Christ and Christ coming here. Thus (as I construe all these passages put together) Paul means that YHWH himself is here, as Christ (in some sense or other) and that this is indeed a secret. "Secret" in the context "secret stolen" syntactically means "knowledge of the secret" not the secret itself, as a little analytical thought discerns. Am I then to presume that these ancient Thrones, Dominions, Powers, Sovereignties and Authorities who handed down the Old Law and who encircle Earth and enslave us, or perhaps the rebelling angels themselves, are keeping Christ's presence here secret? Keeping the news from us? It is impossible, absolutely impossible, that "the secret stolen, through the angels" runs contrary to Christ's purpose here. Obviously, the angels are denying us knowledge of this in order to preserve their own tyrannical, occluding power. I cannot suppose even for a moment that my seeing Christ --and writing about it-- is hostile or contrary to His purpose. What I think is involved here --at the Second Advent-- is virtually a diametric reversal of the situation pertaining before and at the First Advent. The first time, the ancient angelic powers did not know, and were not supposed to know, God's plan for salvation (Christ), but men, Christians, the Church, were to know. This time, however, the ancient angelic powers know because --for one thing-- they are being dethroned systematically by Christ. Thus it is their intent to keep this knowledge from man; viz: