the work -my writing - that justifies giving up so, see, it is good. My faith + t because of my logic were justified. recent work breakdown (associate with "BTA") I have consciously forgotter this, but my unconscious remembers the importance of my worl. Consciously I am temporarily blind to it - in fact Thus here looking for diversion from it is an instance of the heroic winning over the tragic, + this is my whole line of inquiry in my work - inc my "exegesis": the heroic over the tragic the stoics are right: providentia heimarmene are one + the same. herein at last I am reconcited to Malebranche world + find peace. correct - thus I can cease my hurrying I lose my anxiety + fint peaces folder 55 - 178 folder 55 - 178 D-128 The dream I had last rught - where I committed an elaborate theft + hopel I wouldn't be found out - shows that the key term as to why I can't pursue the relationship with so is: outlaw. This was to do with (1) my work; + (2) my oblugations to Tess + Chris, to me on a moral spiritual, social + religious basis, so is what I want but it is an "illegal" act; I am an outlow, outside the law of what I ought to do (work + family); thus the relationship must end. This goes beyond guilt + neurosis + the psychological but is existential + outological. So is what I want but it collides with what I should) must do. This is a terrible tragedy of the spontaneous will. Its utter defect. My whole (entire) orientation is: my will - all my efforts- must be channelled into my writing (first) + second my son right or wrong, this is my perception, my Dasein, my stance. + I did recently suffer a work crisis of exhaustion; I need to conserver what little will I have left (for "ows" it is too important. Russ was right about the artist (writer) + his work, the other operational term is: rest. I need rest is I seek to find God in my work; that the purpose of my work, + this need transcends all else - + should the fact is folder 55 - 179 folder 55 - 179 D-129 I am in a state of grace; + the relation ship with so reintroduces guilt + this causes me to fall from grace, nullifying my justification, + I cannot + will not allow this, nor will God allow it. Hence he rightly blocks me absolutely. my relationship to God is the most precious thing I have - i.e. my state of grace which is real + actual. This is not neurotic because so is married, my relationship with her is illicit outside God's law, o + hence it would destroy my state of grace. ladesire) t out if the collision tragedy between absolute law (Christ s (heimarmene) + absolute desire, Christ is generated, as I realized last night: absolute suffering overcome by the heroic, which is a perception that - as Felix culpa - the remedy is greak than the malady, God + God's law are right, + create the greater good in the long hun: but at the cost of absolute sffering. The order of the cosmos must be maintained. I am not being necrific or a wimp; I am bowing to God's law, + out of this, Christ is born. The 3rd attribute - of Spinoza is that every mundane thing + act + event participates in the absolute, + to view it this way, to see it so is to see Spinoza's God. my Gnostic insight of last night was, "te taste of the apple justifies (i.e. outweight) the Fall." But, as I realized, Gnosticism - the protest against God's law - leads ulti mately folder 55 - 180 folder 55 - 180 D-130 to the same realization of distis: facts I him: that more good accrues from his law than the breaking of his law; hence "Felix culpa": the remedy (law) outweighs the malady (fall expressed as what is absolutely desired forfeited in order to obey his law). (The argument runs: both roads - voluntary compliance + rebellion - the Faustian striving - lead to God, + God is the highest good, outweighing what was absolutely desired, it being finite whereas God is infinite.) the Fall itself has to do with the absolute head on conflict between God's law - what he has ordained in order to uphold the cosmos - + what man desires. The ultimate religious experience is for man to be reconciled to God's law as the summumbonum through Christ (that is, out of this headon conflict absolute suffering for man is created; Christ is God's solution, + Christ is Felix culpa: remedy not just balancing the malady - the suffering - but outweighing it. Thus tragedy becomes ecstasy in the realization + actualization of the heroic: that this headon conflict gives rise first to suffering, then to Christ, then to victory hence the heroic, hence the noble; + this from before creation, was God's plan). "the taste of the apple justifies the Fall" - not just the Gnostic motto but the Faustian; Thus Gnosticism + Faustianism are one. folder 55 - 181 D-131 but the horror on the night of 11-1-81 has forced me to abandon (1) Gnosticism; + (2) my Faustian striving in favor of the Greek idea of the cosmos - + even to identifying, as the stoics did - heimarmene with pronoia, I yield to the will of God because I must; but more, I see that through Christ - Felix culpa- his will is good, not just necessary; so I say, "His will is my peace" + am content. I am defeated, but not by evil or blind necessity but, rather, the will of YHWH which is good - for it creates + maintains the cosmic order - i.e. the cosmos itself. physical + moral law combined. I no longer rebel but through Christ am reconcited to God. I see YHWH as omnipotent, omniscient, loving + good. "Not my will but yours. My Faustian strivings - first in my work + then in my personal life - were killing me, literally. YHWH intervened + blocked me implacably. I now give up. Not in faustion victory do I know + find him but, rather, I in exhaustion + defeat (of my striving will by his implacable will). Thus in resignation I win what eluded me in my ceaseless striving. He blocked more than my relationship with Sandra's he blocked my Faustion striving, per se (I had transferred it from my work to Sandra, whereupon YHWH stepped in + said no. No further.) Like lucifer I pitted myself against the cosmos: the divine order, failed, + am reconciled to God at last. Malebranche is right, it is he who acts in + a me folder 55 - 182 folder 55 - 182 D-132 Malebranche is proven right; though I love so + desire her absolutely I cannot will myself to go (i.e. to pursue her) because God in me does not act; in fact he decrees against it - + I find myself powerless. This is occasionalism. proof of God. The hooded adversary who played against me across the table - i.e. the game board - revealed himself as God. Thus God has aided me (Paraclete) + ipposed me, thus (I see at last) he is all-in-all. "There is no God but God" - I understand at last. All comes from - + is - God (in the dialectic: he is both sides' as Boehme realized. This the 2 adversaries are both God have is monotheism, not bitheism, + arrived at an understanding of it - it is the case - at last: + dramatically, not intellectually, he showed it to me "Spinoza's 3rd attribute: infinity." If every thing, event + act extends into infinity (the eternal) would this [principle alone) not explain 2-3-74 + the "not 2 mothers once but one mother twice" meta-abstraction? That is, saw world correctly, extended into the infinite Deus i the absolute, the eternal, i.e. as Spinoza's " Thus particulars sire substantia sive natura"! became for me their own archetypes. (Which is why Plato's anamnesis + noesis were involved! folder 55 - 183 folder 55 - 183 D-133 This is not merely a perception of world-as-itreally-is; this is perception of God! Hence the infinite space. + this was intelligible, not just sensible. It was predicated on a cognitive act (on my part). This (infinity) would be a perception/experience by me of reality as the pre-existent ideas in the divine mind. + also the "dream-time"; this, in fact, is what the dream-time is: a perception/experience of reality as it truly is: the eternal pre-existent ideas in the divine mind. (V. Malebranche.) In 2-74 I must have caught sight of a particular as what it truly is: an eternal constant; + Thus I ushered in infinity by the power of my own comprehension/cognition: I understood world seen properly extends into infinity (each thing, event, situation, act + when thus seen partakes of God ("where infinity is, I am") + in a certain real sense is God (as with Spinoza); thus I saw Valis as world - or world as Valis. 3-74 was my seeing world as it is (as I say, this is a 3rd attribute of substantia, along with extension -res extensal - + mind). It's like pantheism + yet is not. If a situation extends into infinity it by definition partakes of the -is- eternal, + of eternal, then what we see is only an instantiation of it; actually it lies outside of time, +, within time, repeats itself endlessly. If a thing event, situation + act extend into infinity they would de facto partake of eternity, + if they so did by definition they would not be transcent folder 55 - 184 folder 55 - 184 D-134 This would be, I guess, the MMSK + is either God (if you accept Spinoza) or pre-existent ideas in the mind of God (Malebranche). Whe I had this perception-insight last night - saw it in terms of Spinoza + his multiple attributes of the one substantia; this was a third attribute - like an axis orthogonal (as it were) to mind + extension [res extensat] I think I would be wise to go with Spinoza that was my impression at the time + it would tie in with the notes for "sepher Yezirah": that for God, idea, word, writing of word + thing are all one. (Which beyond any doubt Spinoza draws on. The appeal to me here is, simply, Judaism - i.e. YHWH as conceived e.g. by the Kabalists + by Spinoza here, in my perception last night, is not only an explanation of 3-74 but also a simply staggering view of God-substantia-natura, i.e. unified reality in Judaic-Kabalist-Spinozan terms - what we call "world" is a finite transcent, utterly partial (even occluded) view of one unified total system that is Deus/natura/substantia this would explain why normally we just see transcent multiple particulars: we are missing at least two "axes": mind + infinity. the This is a vaster vision that Platonist Forms - i.e. Plato's metaphysics, since the Forms are an aggregate - they are plural - but here There is a glorious unity that reasons (but not as we do; idea, word, writing of word p thing are - as I say - one). folder 55 - 185 folder 55 - 185 to D-135 This is the absolute inverse of Gnostic acosmism. (But I have also dealt with Bitheism by my perception last night that God acts both as advocate -paraclete - + as adversary, i.e. as both sides in the dialectic; which, of course, is true monotheism; viz: he is both what I call heimarmene + the pronoia that defeats heimarmene - an extraordinary Thus when