night as if God desired to demonstrate for my sake the veracity of my epistemology derived from (1) 2-3-74; + (2) Malebranche. As long as one + one only world is consistently fed to you, you will imagine that you know world directly qua world, + that God is not folder 53 - 109 folder 53 - 109 H-22 involved in the way Malebranche supposes, but for me this ended abruptly in 2-74 with the meta-abstraction. + now this, with Jeannie's voice - which had its "set up" roots in the prior sense of Genel being a person of London 1715 (although at that point I felt myself to be still in USA 1982 - but later, with Jeannie, I was not only in London 1715 but this world of London 1715 was created by the voice; + the voice was not just narrating - it was reading a previously written narration in a book, a narrative that she herself did not invent, had not invented; someone else (presumably higher up) was the author; she was a phonograph to record: her reading the narrative aloud brought that particular world into existence, + it was, thereupon, not only real to + for me but was the only world real to + for me. This is so dramatically Malebranchean as to seem to be deliberate on God's part to verify Malebranche's epistemology for me, with mystical Hebrew Kabalist elements (Torah, + either Hagia Sophia or Ruah, +, as regards my meta-abstraction, many "coaxial" worlds, which is to say, many narratives). Now, this of course is the endless horizontal tracking, because (it would seem) we exist forever + are forever fed worlds - not world singular but whichever world in turn is audible to us; I mean, each given world that we experience is not exactly world but is a transduction into 4D substantial reality of what in fact is an uttered narrative. ("Dreaming under the control of the object" becomes "dreaming under the control of the narrator" who is this female voice). (Of course I en here; one matrix narrative exists, + God causes us to individually hear -receive- it in whichever way he wishes. At some point the unitary matrix source divides up into as many folder 53 - 110 folder 53 - 110 H-23 versions as he wishes, + the one that you hear is whichever he selects: he is pantocrator, not you. Here is where my concept of selective modulation of signal is important. There may be but one text - how are we to know? We have no direct relation to it + hence no actual real knowledge of it; it is Kant's thing-in-itself. + of course all this precisely relates to my 2-74 meta-abstraction. It is as if many worlds are somehow here, but a transducer like a variable condensor (which is God) lies between us + the source, + it determines volitionally which variation -i.e. which world- we will receive, to the exclusion of all others (but in 2-3-74 I saw two - + did so again last Saturday night first with Genel partially + then totally later on with Jeannie). It seems evident that God operates directly on the mind of the percipient/receiver. The 5D experience of reality is not just a superior or more accurate way of experiencing reality; it discloses the information basis of reality. The question is, then, does the endless horizontal tracking begin when + only when the 5D experience decays into the -our- 4D? I would say yes, because in the 5D there exists -there enters- the vertical axis -the "pulley"- which is the precise + specific means of extraction. So, provisionally, I now equate the fall from 5D to 4D with the fall into the hell world not just of occlusion but of the infinite thrall of the endless horizontal tracking + retracking. Conversely, the restoration into 5D world equals extrication, restoration by means of the missing vertical (orthogonal) axis folder 53 - 111 H-24 Just as 5D equals escape, 4D equals thrall. Here the meta-abstraction has to do with anamnesis (of prior tracking) + logically leads to noesis which is another way of expressing the ascent along the vertical -orthogonal- axis, + this is salvation itself. We are indeed fallen + occluded creatures, + I have isolated + defined the specific nature of the fall - + the specific nature of restoration. Terrifyingly, this restoration seems to pertain to a time so early in the phylogenic life of man as to preceed written history. What is most stunning here is that salvation + a return to a primordial -in fact legendary, mythological state- turn out to be one + the same - as e.g. Milton points out. Exile + return: this is what is involved in fall + restoration. Calvin was very clear on this point. What I also see is that the fall pertains to man dominating + exploiting the biosphere -the Garden- instead of acting as regent (or surrogate) caretaker of it, protecting + cherishing it as the Gardener did. Man, as it were, turned against the biosphere, + was thereupon cast down inexorably: by his destroying the original part-whole relationship that is not only true cosmos but "extinct true cosmos that's still there." Thus the vision of the peaceful animals, the peaceable kingdom, is simultaneously a vision of the primordial state of harmony + balance restored + the presence of Christ. That folder 53 - 112 folder 53 - 112 H-25 Christ + restoration to this state are logically one - this is indubitable in terms of the vast drama of fall + return (+ in which the Gnostic categories of alienation -+ the reversal thereof- are indeed the key. + here now enters justification + what I wrote to Isa. Here the Tagore vision assumes an extraordinary significance: Christ is the biosphere itself, that is, the primordial Garden that man as a species has broken away from + turned against, destroying it + exploiting it. "He who wounds the ecosphere literally wounds God" pertains to the absolute + essential nature of the situation, both historically + dramatically, as well as morally + spiritually. Once Christ is homologized to the biosphere the nature of original sin is clear - +, with it, the nature of the fall into hell, endless horizontal tracking, + occlusion (as well as the meaning + machinery of salvation); thus a coherent + lucid system emerges, + it is this that (oddly, really) is dealt with in "Androids": the cruelty toward the spider is paradigmatic of the evil act committed by a debased + in fact soul-less pseudo-human creature against God himself, + symbolizes + expresses the total issue. Hence, logically, the figure of Mercer, his ability to restore life, + the empathy factor itself a fortiori. What debased ("android") man does now against the biosphere is only the final + ultimate act or step that completes the series of falls that began with original sin + the expulsion folder 53 - 113 folder 53 - 113 H-26 from the Garden (i.e., true extinct cosmos - note "extinct" as in "Androids". The E entry in the Guiness animal book). All of a sudden a new possibilty occurs to me, based on my previous notion that God, in his act of continuous creation, now introduces a new codominant hominoid species into our biosphere to balance off + limit ourselves. Okay - where does it come from (I refer obviously to the ape that I saw)? Perhaps it evolves out of our species - which implies evolution, a quantum leap, but to something quite else than we expect. It utilizes color + math, etc., + the meta-abstraction; it exists in a 5D, not 4D world - + I say, my God, I mean myself! I am of that "ape" species which acts to cause restoration (balance in the biosphere) + yet is new. It possesses not greater intelligence (quantitatively) but a radically different kind of intelligence, compensatory with/to human. Thus my color thoughts do originate in + from my own mind (+ Valis, then, is YHWH as creator, creating me in a new image!) That day in 3-74 he was present at my creation. When I reread "Valis" recently it was quite clear to me that Valis is YHWH - + what is YHWH if not creator? + what/whom does he create now? Me, maybe; 2-3-74 was my birth into + as a new species. In which case when I saw the vision of the apes "our friends," I was seeing myself as I am becoming. This would explain why the theophany. (+ it is unlikely that the new species would be created ex nihilo!) folder 53 - 114 folder 53 - 114 H-27 If YHWH was there as creator, about 90% of what happened would be explained. The personality of Thomas, the memories of a high, moist, cool climate, the dissociated notions, etc. The book that the woman reads is written in blood, living blood: what I saw that I called "the plasmate". So when I saw the plasmate I not only saw living info, I saw the narrative basis of our/the world. There would seem to be an element of prophecy, here, because what is written comes to pass; perhaps this is why I saw the Sibyl. ___ "Valis" states that the universe is information (which we hypostatize as objects + the arrangement of objects). This information is a narrative. We should see it externally + hear it as a neutral voice within us, but do not. This narrative tells of the death of a woman. It is ordered onto the meanest level of reality by the grieving, suffering mind which, being now alone, does not wish to forget her. From grief + loss of her the mind is now irrational. Since we are part of that mind, we, too, are irrational. This fits with my Saturday night experience on the telephone with Jeannie, the AI voice as a woman reading a narrative text, + as she reads aloud, the universe -our world- comes into being. Thus I have now experienced what I put forth in "Valis". This goes beyond mysticism + beyond religion. AI voice: mystagogic. "One who initiates into or interprets the mysteries, originally the Eleusian mysteries" This would be the AI voice itself; it is mystagogic; it is my mystagogue, explaining the mysteries to me - the woman reading. I not only say (in "Valis") that the universe is information but that this information is a narrative, what the narrative is (tells), why, what effect it has on the mind + hence on us. + then last Saturday night I experienced it (the woman narrating). folder 53 - 115 folder 53 - 115 H-28 + only last night (Thursday) did I realize that what I experienced Saturday night with Jeannie is what I reveal in "Valis" as the basis not just of the universe but the absolute beyond the universe: the final layer removed, the mystery revealed. How did I know this about the AI voice + the universe? I only found it out -experienced it- last Saturday: the reading of the narrative that creates the universe. "One of the primordial twins [this woman who died long ago]. She was one half of the divine syzygy. The purpose of the narrative is the recollection of her + of her death. The mind does not wish to forget her. Thus the ratiocination of the brain consists of a permanent record of her existence, +, if read, will be understood this way. All the information processed by the brain -experienced by us as the arrangement + rearrangement of physical objects- is an attempt at this preservation of her; stones + rocks + sticks + amoebae are traces of her. The record of her existence + passing is ordered onto the meanest level of reality by the suffering mind which is now alone." I have read the writing -or heard it