and transubstantiating it! Hence in "Valis" phagocytosis, the heavy metal particle, the toxin, are all mentioned. But perhaps this "crucifixion" must naturally occur, as part of the soteriological drama. The forces of darkness, as at the First Advent, not recognizing Christ, wound and kill him, but out of this he is once again C-36 transfigured (that is, the stages - steps - of the First Advent repeat themselves now in macro-form, are reperformed one by one in the proper sequence; they are essential. The resurrection this time would be the disclosure of the ecosphere as Christ - the unveiling much as I saw in 3-74! My 3-74 vision of Valis - and the set/ground. The plasmate, MMSK, etc - would be the new analog of the revelation of the resurrected Jesus: But now not man: This time as the total ecosphere itself, the transubstantiation complete: in victory for the invading logos, hence the end of time, the PTG - Millenial Kingdom. Then we are now in eschatalogical time - end time, and when Christ reveals himself he will be seen as the total ecosphere itself. He will seem to replace it, as Valis, unitary and sentient, initiating its own changes, "replace" plurality and efficient causality. This is the hyperstructure that I wrote Russ about. If the situation were hopeless, inexorable, there would be no purpose in the 3rd dispensation, as cautionary cry. I reason, then, it is not determined that we will drive him away. This is the whole point of Tagore's incarnation and Kerygma: to tell us the situation, what we are doing and what we risk. Then, it follows. Tagore's death is not the death of the ecosphere. He dies now in order to save it. So for this revelation of/about Tagore it was necessary for me to experience the 3-74 vision of Valis in and as nature. All the pieces now fit into place. But the third dispensation goes C-37 far beyond what I saw in 3-74; what I saw, as reported in "Valis" is simply the premise on which the Kerygma is based. Once again God has not made his moves in sequence: the vision - epiphany - occurs in 374 and then is explained in 9-81! But the 9-81 explanation is retroactively verified by 3-74. I saw (in 3-74) what 9-81 speaks of. So in 3-74 when the epiphany was []- sated to me, God knew then that he would clarify why [I saw it] later on (in 9-81). This is another example of what I call the "backward" working strategy of God. But what am I now (upon 9-81) supposed to do? Why, this "backward" working strategy of God explains it: I did it already, when I wrote "Valis"! That is, not just (sic) the prophecy of the imminent return of Christ as the human savior but also the vision of the Logos invading and transubstantiating nature. Hence "Valis" serves two inter-related purposes. (At the very least.) Prophecy and vision. God's plans do not unfold as human plans do, as I've long noted. Presumably when Tagore's Kerygma and the new biographical Gospel are released, it will be possible then retroactively to view "Valis" as confirmation, not Tagore confirming "Valis" only (it will confirm the prophecy part) but the epiphany in "Valis" will help substantiate and clarify the new vision of Christ (as the ecosphere) revealed in this new, third dispensation. That I saw what I saw in '74 before I could have heard of Tagore and the third dispensation. It is not, then, that sense will C-38 be made of my vision but that my vision will act to independently confirm the new Kerygma. As I say I did my job [already]. The revelation about Tagore is not to give me a further commission but, rather, to explain to me what I did and why, so that now it all makes sense: what I experienced and what I wrote for me. The 9-81 revelation looks backward; for the world it looks forward. It was a prophetic vision of what is to come, but I need not try to write it; it is like Moses' vision of the promised land that he was not to live to see. So the 9-81 revelation tells me what this is all about and has been about from the start; and, further, it shows me the two fold purpose of "Valis": to prophesy the coming of Tagore, and to verify in advance the dispensation that Tagore will give. (By the vision in "Valis:") Realizing this, I feel the urgency [] slide from me. I did my work and also I now understand it all - and I have seen the savior and know what the 3rd dispensation is, and that he is Lord Krishna (as I have long suspected) and yet also Christ (God's Holy Wisdom). The forces of darkness - nuclear reactions, weapons and wastes and those responsible for them - are warned by Christ himself of the consequences of their sins. He will tell them; I don't have to. I foretold his coming (because the spirit of Elijah/ the Baptist was upon me)... Elijah who comes first so that God will not curse us. This explains my vision of Pinky's death as the death of the savior, and my extrapolation that when each living creature dies, it is Christ dying. I said, "Christ -39 dies for them." Yes, true, but now I view it differently, the crucifixion is re-enacted billions of times over + over again in + as the creatures of the ecosphere die, for Christ is the ecosphere This, then, is an extraordinary vision, + the meaning of it just came to me now - that when each viz: what my theory creature dies it is the passion + cruci fixion re-performed - means (it is due to Christ having invaded + transubstantiated the entire ecosphere). For me personally to keep my sanity in the face of world suffering I must believe. 1) that it is always + only Christ who suffers as + throughout the ecosphere as each creature I large + small; (2) that he suffers voluntarily (3) that his essence of sweetness + perfect spiritual + physical beauty is in no way destroyed or impaired whatever the torment true whatever damage is done to him: his essence cannot be debased or impaired; (4) that these truths do not make it any more because + right or in any sense okay it is only always Christ who suffers over + over again but that in fact (5) this makes it worse, + (6) God will not allow this to go on but (3) will withdraw his spirit from the world in punishment of us unless we stop can't explain why I must believe all these things. But here are some possibilities A) the suffering is voluntary. Christ offers himself as voluntary sacrifice B) His nature is neither debased nor impaired nor last due to the suffering (it is not increased i C-40 however; it is simply absolute + perfect + can neither be augmented or diminished Thus despire what we see, it is not lost C) This suffering is unpardonable t is not allowed by God; Despite Christ's sacrifice it breaks God's laws. D) God will respond if it continues; he will act. E) This day of YHWH will curse us with the worst punishment possible: God will abandon us. F) He causes us to know this with the result that we understand what we are doing + so have just reason to know what we do + therefore will stop (if it can be that anything will cause us to stop; that is, God's threat of punishment is be greater, for if to the max; it could not he withdraws from our world it will to exist. cease G) Thus if we stop, it is because we see what we do (wound God), understand, + decide to stop by our free will believe all this (which If I did not I would today My9-81 vision expressed) upon seeing the agent orange birth defects hearing about the Soviet micro-toxin T-2 + hearing sunday night about the blankets infected with small pox sold to the indian tribe to with them out - I would go crazy. Thus the vision (which came last week) preserves my sanity as if today (9-23-81) It is necessary for me to know that God acted in the face of these horrors, how has has acted, + what he will do if we t he continue. So hallucination or divine revelation I must C-41 believe in Tagore + his Kerygma it my private religion, based on a wide variety of sources. Hebrew (the day of YHWH), Christian (the vicarious atone ment/sacrifice), modern theologicall-scien tific (Teilhard), Buddhism (concern for all life, human + otherwise, equally). Hindu (Krishna as avatary of Vishnu the sustainer whose 3 giant steps Mark his strides as he comes in ald), Gnosti cism (eventually the sparks of light that fell into incarnation in physical shell. in this prison world will be extricated + will return to the pleroma). There is nothing in my synchretistic system that is original, + all elements are - for me for my sanity on this day the actumnal equinox, essential. No one system would do be it YHWH, Christ, vishnu or Krishna I must believe he sees + he If I Acts. believed he did not see, or did not care + hence would not act, I could not go on. the vision came in time, which itself - its coming + coming in time, is a micro-instance of God seeing + acting. Going back to the day at the movie newsreel (when I was a kid) in which I saw the Japanese soldier running + burning, con‐ tinuing on to the rat I killed to the tv footage on the Galapagos turtles to the use of napalm in Vietnam to today my great spiritual problem has been to find ag I could handle the issue of suffering human + animal. The 9-81 vision alludes to the burn - + hence injury to her legs‐ t I C-42 suffered by my sister - that led to her death, so for me it is evident that the ultimate problem confronting me all my life has been the senseless injury to + neglect of my sister. The 9-81 vision deals with Jane, with the burning Japanese soldier, the hat + turtle, the naplalm with it all: the vision of Tagore + his Kerygma is the quintessential summation of my whole life's struggle to come to terms with these matters which are in essence one matter showin up over + over again. Thus my mystical experiences - starting in 163 when I saw the "Palmer Eldritch" visage + the sky + going on to 2-74 - 2-75 + after - culminate in 2-81 as the payoff of my need + my attempt to forge a satisfactory explanation for what is to me the ultimate issue: not "ti to on?" as my 10-volume meta-novel might indicate, but, what is the total context in which the unmerited suffering + death of living creatures can be coherently understood? My mind has drawn on several of the great religions of the world + on some modern quasi-scientific, quasi-theological thoughts do not take credit for it; I did not I figure it out: through the unending fountain of God's grace pouring forth inex haustibly from Christ's resurrected body This solution was given to me as a free + unmerited gift, by my own noein I would never have been able to arrive at it. it is to my credit - + to the credit of This revealed solution - that in no way is the problem minimized or ignored in spurious rationalizations. As a question it remains, but it is now an answered question. C-43 There was even a hint in the way Tagore's burned leas were drawn up of