the sacramental reperformance miracle in which time is abolished - all the times it is performed is one time; i.e. once - is: My analysis last Feb on the two postcards of the coaxial common essence realization of last October ([picture of two rectangles connecting to one rectangle]) is in fact an analysis -+ a correct one- of the sacramental miracle; in February I conceived it abstractly independent of religion + sacrament: a pure cognitive event - as I call it, a meta-abstraction. 63-2013 63-2013 D-54 This relates back, then, at once to coaxiality, which is how reality works + to which the cognitive meta-abstraction pertains. It is not only a conception; it is how actuality is (cf Anselm's ontological proof of the existence of God). What is conceived is physically extant (as compared to a triangle which can be imagined as such without existing. + here is the quintessential point: that it is both a conception -expressed as meta-abstraction- + how reality is. What does this tell us? That there is an intelligible or abstract way-of-being (basis?) of what we know as physical reality; if arranged conceptually this conceptual arrangement turns out to be how in fact it is arranged in itself. Thus it is idea (in some fashion). This is the correct (true) arrangement + one which is not sensible perceived; it must be understood cognitively. [Note] Hence all this led to what I call the MMSK... in which both space + time vanish, to be replaced by a purely conceptual arrangement. What all this seems to point to is not so much the eide as such but, I think, Logos. (What I call template, itself insubstantial.) [Note] But in this case Malebranche is right: we do not 63-2013 63-2013 D-56 experience objects but, rather, a representation; +, moreover, this [Cartesian] representation is the ideas pre-existant to creation + on which creation is based. + my meta-abstraction is, then, a comprehension that the idea is in fact an idea + not a thing (object) at all - which at once raises the question of whether the term "object" refers to anything beyond or other than the idea that pre-exists vis-a-vis the object + on which the object is based, the created universe now being an unnecessary redundancy. (viz: Idea perceived as object, not (1) idea; (2) object, these being different. + here I bring in my own notion of the power of God to compel our absolute assent to reality; that is, it itself need not be real; all that is needed is that we take it to be real (this is the concept of Dokos. [Dokos]. The key to all this is abstraction. + this is what I find in Beethoven's 3rd period + in Dowland; that is, in Dowland some kind of radical conceptual breakthrough occurs, not a given concept but how conceiving as such is done, such that it deals not with one thing or idea but all things + all ideas. (If indeed there is a difference 63-2013 63-2013 D-57 between things + ideas. Because it may very well be that 3-74 was the experiencing of objects as a field of ideas organized + structured, which (I think) points to their being in a mind. What I finally say is: My "not two mothers but one mother seen twice" meta-abstraction solves in a theoretical way the sacramental reperformance that overpowers time (+ also space), +, because this meta-abstraction is necessarily related to what I call coaxiality or common essence ([illustration of two boxes each connected to a third box]) it has to do not just with cognition but with world. The distinction between world-in-itself + world understood intelligibly disappears. Once this distinction is abolished, Malebranche's contention that we do not experience objects but rather the archetypal ideas in the mind of God becomes a plausible option. World is now not truly perceived sensibly; this is only seemingly the case; the archetypal ideas are somehow in the mind + not external to it. Yet the mind does not itself create them. Thus Malebranche's contention that "we see all things in God" seems to be the case. But more fundamentally I am saying that Malebranche must necessarily be correct because were he not I could not have experienced world as I did in 3-74. 63-2013 D-58 (Or some variation of Cartesian "representationalism" - + his system has the specific advantage of rejecting the notion of causation, + this appeals to me. 3-74 was essentially an awareness that in some way (1) objects were in my mind; + (2) were not, properly speaking, objects at all, but were, rather, exemplars, archetypes, ideas outside of space + time + causation but were instead conceptually arranged. What I am saying is: I am no longer speaking of reality itself -Kant's Dinge-an-sich- but rather the representation of them that we experience, the so-to-speak surrogates - this is pure Cartesianism; dualism. Whether there are in fact actual objects I have no idea, nor can I have any idea. What I experience are ideas. What I now notice about Malebranche is that he points out that we do not experience a representation of God, because God is infinite + a representation is finite, + indeed at that time in 3-74 I did experience God (I think) in me (in my mind) + in world - but the inner-outer dualism was abolished; this experience of Valis would seem to confirm Malebranche, that God is immediately -i.e. directly- known (in contrast to all other things - i.e. world itself; so my experience of Valis at that time under those circumastances - i.e. when I found myself aware that what I took to be objects were in fact ideas of objects - is logical within Malebranche's system; experiencing God or Valis is the flip side of experiencing objects as ideas of objects + in my mind. 63-2013 63-2013 D-59 This is the "access" spoken of when the universe is regarded as an information storage + retrieval system to which we normally have no access: because the corpus of ideas (eide?) are somehow in your mind: would have to be; [Note] but in fact it is not your mind now but the Mens Dei - this must be the case. [Note] This is an essential premise of Cartesian rationalism vs empiricism; the issue (for me) is not if there are innate ideas; the issue is, how many? To what extent? My 3-74 experience suggests an infinite extent. Malebranche uses an ingenious argument to prove the existence of God. All beings + objects are experienced by us in terms of surrogate ideas / representations. But God, being unlimited + infinite, cannot be represented by an idea or representation because these must be limited (finite). Thus we must experience God directly, although imperfectly: "Our vision of God is immediate + direct" so that to conceive the infinite is to experience it [Note], i.e. God. God, then, is so-to-speak a field in which all the ideas or archetypes of objects exist, + our mind is in that field -our body as well- hence occasionalism. [Note] + not a representation/idea/surrogate of it. Hence in 3-74 I experienced infinite unlimited boundless [what I called] space; that is, I experienced this infinitude in terms of space - which is to say the void. 63-2013 63-2013 D-149 This means that the assertion in "Valis" that "the universe is information" is only half the story: the major half -the other half- is simply not presented: that this information refers to something, + in fact I saw that something + report it in "Valis" without discerning the connection between it + the universe as information. Now, I came to believe a couple of weeks ago that when loaded I upon reading Luke realized that this was not a verbal (informational) description of a world but was that world itself in its verbal/informational mode/state/form. + this is precisely what is said in the "Sepher Yezirah" notes about idea, word + writing of word, + object being one for God, that for God "idea, word + writing of the word are the thing itself". It cannot be a coincidence that I felt this about Luke, then; I had actually encountered what the "Sepher Yezirah" notes declare. This is where my concept of plasmate comes in. (Here, now, in this line of reasoning I close the noose, for the enhanced "infinity" mode was in fact the world of the Bible, specifically Acts - the 2nd half of Luke. Now, the great intuitive guess on my part was that the plasmate is the blood of the resurrected Christ + that because it is here now (in its verbal/written/information mode) he must be here now. [1) The world of Luke-Acts is actually here now. 2) This world -sacred 63-2013 63-2013 D-150 story/drama- is a story about Jesus Christ who appears in the story as the principal figure - it is his story. Then the telling of the story verbally is identical with what the story depicts: if it depicts Jesus Christ then Jesus Christ is present (in the mode/dimension/attribute of what I call infinity). Thus (I say) Jesus Christ lives in/as/through/by the Gospels. According to my theory, what we take to be objects + processes if seen properly (all attributes/modes perceived) will form into a Gestalt that will authenticate itself as the Christ - + this was precisely my experience in 3-74; I refer to Valis. This is because these objects + processes are not truly objects + processes at all but are, rather, information referring to something, + he is the something because the real world referred to is Luke-Acts. We are pervaded by a powerful text that is (as I say in "Valis" alive + a living thing -not description of thing- its cardinal purpose is to apply Jesus Christ as the form (Gestalt) to which our seeming reality points (our seeming reality, in contrast to scripture, is a description + not the thing described). To perceive this cosmic form everywhere distributed as how things behave + fit together (that is, what they as information refer to) is to perceive correctly (in "Valis" I say that the universe is information, + if you 63-2013 63-2013 D-151 read "Valis" carefully you discover that this information is about Christ or rather is Christ writ as large as reality itself. Several steps in perception/comprehension must occur. (1) Our universe must be discerned to be information (expressed by the mutual arrangement of objects). (2) This information -that is, this arranging- signifies something or rather is something as a Gestalt. (3) What, then, is this Gestalt? It is Jesus Christ who can literally be seen when idea, word + the writing of the word, + the object are all seen as a unity; he is not an object but how objects behave in relation to one another (this is both how objects can be information + what this informaion signifies, i.e. the thing signified which cannot be separated from the information (word + writing of the word) that signifies it, unlike human information "which are signs for a thing" + not the thing itself. With God, where the idea, the word + the writing of the word + the object are also there as one unitary "thing". Therefore Christ is present in a macrocosm-microcosm correspondence: (1) in all reality; (2) as scripture wherever it occurs (I utilize the idea expressed e.g. in Matthew -+ which I believe; Paul often refers to this- that all scripture -that is, the O.T. or Torah itself- secretly is an account of Christ, + that this secret nature of Hebrew scripture 63-2013 D-152 was only revealed at the time of the First Advent. In a certain mysterious way, then, the Torah "encloses" like a shell the knowledge of, the story of, Christ, + therefore is Christ (but God concealed this even from the prophets through which he spoke). Thus there is a secret accord between the two testaments.This