me in 3-74 vis-a-vis the Xerox missive. This is the sacred breaking into the profane + is certainly illo tempore. folder 53 - 049 folder 53 - 049 E-5 The color, musical score, math triune info: like an illuminated manuscript from the Medieval period. Ach: I have always said that the plasmate info (e.g. King Felix) looked like an illuminated letter, suggesting that the idea of an illuminated letter was derived from a perception of the plasmate. Color, coded in as an essential integral part. So here, the illuminated letter or word becomes musical annotation (which adds the element of music) + at fixed ratio intervals (math): {illustration of musical annotation} But the 4th note doubles back, + what is formed is the log spiral of the Fibonnaci numbers. The colors signal the phosphenes of the receiver + so are so-to-speak read backward, i.e. in terms of their phosphene analogs. A pure concept is conveyed using no words; all three axes are nonverbal(music, math ratios, color). Pythagoras, phosphenes, symbiote biochip, mycelia, vine, circulatory system. But by stimulating the appropriate phosphenes, then pure energy + not light is used. (Radiation instead of photons). Being non-verbal, the information is "lingua franca" like math itself (which would be why math is the ideal inter-species language; it is not -like words- arbitrary. Studying the above diagram, one can see that objective structure lies at the basis of it. Position is involved (where the unit is); frequency (quantitative; both are quantitative). Color can also be quantitative (millimicrons, as with Hertz: audio frequency: color is to light as pitch is to sound). (That is, fixed, exact, precise; + both are correlates of math ratios + interval. Purely quantitative info transfer is ideal. The cypher verification were sequencing, which has to do with pattern + pattern completion (A:B::B:x - solve for x, etc). The phosphenes sever color from light-as-such + cosign it to e.g. radiation (energy), a broader category. "God as light + love." (The "Commedia.") folder 53 - 050 folder 53 - 050 E-6 then light may be a direct experience of the ultimate being; as phosphene response it is known a priori + intelligibly, not sensibly. That this is a formal (non-verbal) annotation system seems probable to me; whether it is their normal "internal" system, or designed for inter-species use alone; I can't be sure. The linear sequencing was so complex + sophisticated (the 6 or 7 cypher-verifications) that it could not have arisen spontaneously in my own brain, at least not that fast - which is exactly why these sequences served as verification of extrinsic origin (adventitious transmitter/source). The problem of intrinsic versus external is complicated by the fact that in terms of brute spatial location, it is internal to my brain (i.e. it does not travel over spatial distance; it is the "mycelia" or "biochip" paradigm where a 5D organism has grown in + through my own brain tissue + hence is in my brain but is not me nonetheless - symbiote is exactly the term; I have always believed this to be the case, but it does complicate the "intrinsic-extrinsic" issue. Then they were verifying the veracity of my 5D model - which was based on the pulley dream. So here is transmission, feedback, confirmation. (I.e. their transmission to me, the pulley model; my figuring it out: my reception of their self-authenticating 3-axis information "lingua franca" message; my comprehension of it as extrinsic; my request for cypher-verification; instantly, 6 or 7 such fired at the highest speed possible: for the first time two-way traffic.) The meta-abstraction is the activation of the symbiote, + the phosphene graphics is the start of it firing - like GABA-blocked neural circuits. There is no possibility that the normal human brain is programmed to fire upon seeing the Xtian fish sign; the symbiote is already there but dormant (latent, inhibited). Hence the dream about the little boy Philip on the raft, + Scotland Yard etc. Teacher: "Miss Redman." Red. CP. I turn against the Party when the symbiote is activated. My true nature is the symbiote itself, hence the memories. folder 53 - 051 E-7 by the symbiote of being Thomas. In dealing with the xerox missive the symbiote ("biochip") was in control. This is "Firebright". Thus I said, "I am a machine". But in point of fact there is only one symbiote: like a vast vine, like mycelia or circulatory system growing in 5D through our world; it penetrated our 4D world as Jesus. All the "biochips" are it, in a unitary sense. (This very language is used in "Valis" regarding the plasmate: interspecies symbiosis, homoplasmates, crossbonding etc. Ah; the yeast in the bread. The mustard seed that grows into the vast tree. "We are the body, & Christ the head. The concept I want is: the 5D world can intersect with our 4D world without our being aware of it (this intersecting) or the 5D world itself, even though the 5D world is in some sense corporeal; this precisely is the coaxiality & precisely what the meta-abstraction pertains to (the best example is "Tears", it is one thing, a unitary object, but it occupies one "life" here in our 4D world & tells one story here; in the 5D world it leads another "life" & tells another story even though the text is the same in both worlds. However, in the 5D world because of the 4th spatial axis (which we experience as time) there are multiple, discriminated sequences of text (& not in 2D but 3D). This is how one object can be at -seen at- two times & two places & yet remain one object; Viz: two "worlds" operate off it, using it as a shared or common matrix. This is the "space-time sharing" that lies at the very heart of the meta-abstraction, but one coaxial world is 4D & the other is 5D, & if you are in the latter, the former looks like (or is) a prison under the rule of "astral determinism" (causation); thus the loosing of the power of heimarmene (causation) over me in 3-74 was due to a reascent from the 4D world to the 5D one. Thomas is of course living in the 5D world, in which case in 2-3-74 the 5D world invaded this 4D one, in the form of Thomas seizing control of me. It is prolix to say that this 5D world is the Kingdom of God of which Christ is King, & it is "among you" but concealed from all outsiders. folder 53 - 052 folder 53 - 052 E8 Because the 5D world depends on deep recess along the 4th spatial axis it appears very old (depth along this axis is for us time). But in fact it is exempt from time, as witness its role as transtemporal constants. But in terms of our time (the 4th axis) it is ancient + is gone; on the 4th spatial axis it is deeply recessed but still here, because when the 4th axis is converted from time to space, things don't pass away; they as the Form axes in "Ubik" only recede. + in the 5th axis -hypertime- either nothing perishes, or - well, who knows? Oh yes; I know; it can "fold" time + juxtapose vastly separate time-periods- that is vastly on the 4th axis. The two linked spatiotemporal continua are linked by what I call "common essence" or communality, which has to do with the Forms: each eidos is always + eternally unitary but appears (instantiates) at plural times + places (at least in terms of our 4D world). An example being any reperformance of a sacrament: if it is done exactly right it is de facto done once + once only. As I'm sure I say supra, this permits travel along the 4th axis which for them is spatial, not temporal. They use the same corporeal constituents as our world but they organize (structure) them differently because they are in a unitary continuum-field reality, whereas ours is discontinuous matter + void. (What is posited here is Pythagoras' premise that mathematical structure is the essence of reality; which is what makes this possible.) A structure by them 5D is experienced by us as discrete objects; thus when I saw Valis I saw their structure or one of theirs. Will Durant points out that the ascent in Dante's "Commedia" resembles Plotinus' ascent through the successive concentric rings. Absolutely; + I say, the passage over from the 4D world to the 5D -which are concentric or coaxial- is the crucial one - this line of thought leading back to my durable conviction that we (in our normal 4D realm) are in Purgatorio ; in which case passage to the 5D realm is a fortiori a passage -truly + literally- from Purgatorio to Paradiso (not als ob but literally; this is what Dante is talking about, what happened to me folder 53 - 053 folder 53 - 053 E-9 in 2-3-74. Now, the interesting thing is that once you are sprung you can see the world you have been as a prison. But it is a prison from which you are being removed - the "pulley" dream/vision (my God, it was hypnopompic, + not a dream!). So presumably there is also an Inferno, + once again we get: {Illustration: "Upper Paradiso" and "Lower Inferno" overlapping at "Purgatorio"} Well, I was massively sprung. But this is all just terribly important (+ except for Plotinus' system really unsuspected). But -contra Plotinus- the mechanism that springs you has to do with grace + this in turn has to do with merit in a complex way. The "pulley" vision shows that anamnesis + being sprung are inexorably fused; if you do not remember (that you have been tracking + retracking) you will go on with this horizontal 4D tracking forever. But upon anamnesis you are lifted vertically -i.e. into the 5D world which is Paradiso. This is due to God's grace, but His grace depends on your own voluntary free-will moral act in circumstances in which you do not know it will spring you because in fact you do not know you are literally in Purgatorio + can be sprung. V. p. C-14 passim. Plotinus, Dante, 2-3-74: sprung suddenly, vertically for the first time orthoginally to all axes in our normal 4D world which is Purgatorio. Lifted suddenly up + out of our endless horizontal tracking -- lifted to safety (salvation)by YHWH because he has found you to be good + pious according to his law, the Torah, as the AI voice said long ago, "one by one he lifts us out of the world" - which I never understood but do now. Where we are lifted to by the rope-net pulley is the 5D Kingdom of Light + Love that is Paradiso. The structure is Platonist + Neo-Platonist, but the decision to extricate [you] lies solely with YHWH; it is accomplished through anamnesis + the meta-abstraction - the latter being a comprehension of 5D axes. (The apperception of coaxial worlds, or, folder 53 - 054 folder 53 - 054 E-10 as Plotinus puts it, concentric rings of emanation (I just realized: my term "coaxial" is simply a restatement of "concentric [rings]"!!!! The links between Platonism, Neo-Platonism & YHWH (Judaism, the Torah) is: the Commedia. Dante has produced a synthesis of both. He shows how YHWH adjudicates which realm or ring you should occupy, + the basis of your being suddenly lifted up vertically -i.e. orthogonal to all axes you formerly experienced- is based on his appraisal of your being a good + pious man - + this, then, clearly is justification, but justification fused with mystical, islamic, Platonist + Neo-Platonist (+, very likely, Cabalist) elements so that a vast + very striking system at last emerges. folder 53 - 055 folder 53 - 055 F-1 Well, it is now evident to me that my "coaxial realms" is an independent rediscovery of Plotinus' "concentric rings of emanation" because I