then, is the great last bastion of unfallen western man; in which case anamnesis + noesis is the road back, the reascent up from the truly fallen state, as Plato well knew. Noesis + anamnesis arrested + even reversed the Fall; thus the heroism + magnitude + ability -+ importance!- of Plato's metaphysics beggars description. From noesis + anamnesis one can make one's way back to the unity that is kosmos - Plotinus' one. In a very real sense Plato was the last rational man in Western history, in that his knowledge of world was primarily intelligible, not sensible. + now, 2300 years later, the reversal folder 53 - 009 folder 53 - 009 B-2 of the Fall begins...not back to Plato but all the way back to kosmos, to unity itself. Hence it can be such that the Messianic prophecies by the AI voice pertain to this great impending transformation: "St Sophia is going to be born again" refers to the return of Logos into the world that it was excluded from, as Heidegger points out, after Parmenides. St Sophia's return implies an historic shift in general, not (perhaps) a savior figure as Jesus was: it refers to an epoch: the age of Gold itself. The Gnostic categories of alienation, estrangement, + Geworfenheit will be reversed + man will be again at home: moored: Heidegger's authentic Sein in which noein + einai are one + the same. Man regains Logos. My 2-74 to 2-75 experience is paradigmatic, what I called "justification" in my letter to Isa is more: it is the new age - that is, it is something not seen since Parmenides, + totally unexpected by Xtianity. In a sense it is the return of the original Greek world + experience of world (that Heidegger speaks of) - breaking through, breaking into this world as, in 2-3-74, the world of Acts broke into USA 1974 for me. That was folder 53 - 010 folder 53 - 010 B-2 precisely what I saw: the ancient world invade our modern world, as if a titanic time-dysfunction had occurred. What I have been calling "Zagreus" is the spirit of Greece itself, like a time-capsule finally released - which, oddly, very closely resembles the Steigers' theory! If this all is the case, much of the Jungian archetypal mythological material in "Valis" is quite literal + valid. This may yet turn out (like the enlightenment) to be in fact a revolution by secret societies possessing the wisdom of the ancient world; I am saying, this vast epochal transformation may be calculatedly engineered as the final stage of a series of restorations of what has been lost in + as the Fall. This would explain, then, the AI voice, my tutelary spirit. + it would explain "Tears" + "BTA." Engineered restoration by secret societies; I mean of course the R.C. brotherhood. Dio! ___ Not just atomized but unheimlich as well! ___ Perhaps the meta-abstraction represents the reasoning function elevated to true noein rejoined to einai, as Heidegger speaks of: Knowing that has become one's Being, which would be, then, another kind of knowing entirely: elevated to a totally new level. ___ Is "the true cosmos that's still here" the 180 degree other coaxial reality? After all, this is what I saw in 2-3-74. Then the meta- folder 53 - 011 B-3 abstraction was a recognition of that cosmos, of its presence here, as if I had spotted it "time-space sharing" with our non-cosmos world. {Diagram:} seen [world] [cosmos] unseen [common essence] eide? Two different ways of organizing based on the same "blocks" (constitutents). Things have dual roles or existences: in world (which we experience) + in cosmos (occluded off from us). After all, the very term "cosmos" has to do with organization. It is an alternate (+ superior) connecting of what we already see, adding up, however, to something else. After all, "cosmos" is not a thing or things but the way things fit together. Thus another structure -nay, a true structure- can be assembled out of the same constituents as our non-cosmos world. This would absolutely + clearly explain (1) why there are two worlds spatio-temporally coaxial; + (2) how this can be (the 180 degree opposite world is a pattern, a Gestalt in which the same things fit together differently - they also fit together per se, in contrast to our world). But this two worlds presumes of course a common essence for both, out of which both are assembled (although ours is not truly assembled but only there). The mind of the percipient starts over, as it were, with the basic constituents + builds them up again but into pattern or a different pattern. + this is, like the eide themselves, not merely a way of organizing sense-data; the "true cosmos" is truly objectively there (but for us "long extinct"). (We are blocked -occluded- from perceiving it.) Thus the two coaxial worlds are not of equal ontological value; the true cosmos, being unitary, folder 53 - 012 folder 53 - 012 B-4 is far superior. Our world, being atomized (based on the discontinuous matter model) is not a unitary structure at all but is atomized, hence far less real (v. Plotinus). Hence the leap from our atomized world to the coaxial cosmos is for Plotinus reascent by the soul. So in our world a given object or event will play one role, but in the "coaxial" cosmos -within its structures- that same object or event will play another role (or can play another role) entirely. The point is: Hierarchy. Within the coaxial cosmos-structure, everything is arranged in a hierarchical way that has no counterpart in our non-cosmos world. There is no telling, then, what some small act of cruelty or kindness here may, in cosmos, signify, because surely its hierarchy is primarily one of aesthetic + moral value. Well, well. Lying there with the stomach flu I suddenly realize how this cosmos -latent cosmos, as it were- finally accounts for this baffling space-time sharing coaxiality -+ of course 2-3-74- + also it sheds light on the original meta-abstraction, which I now construe as a Gestalting on my part pertaining directly to cosmos, + cosmos here + now: world within world, because one world is not structured into a unity whereas the other is. Obviously the true worlds could + in fact would be based on the same constituents. Plotinus has already shown how this works. Therefore I can now happily account for the ontological primacy of what I have been calling the "Acts" or "Tears" world, over the one we see, the ostensible one. folder 53 - 013 folder 53 - 013 C-1 Regarding coaxiality, there could be no other explanation than structure, but up to now I could not account for there being two coaxial structures. Why two? + why do we see only one of the two? The "long extinct cosmos + it's still there" explains it; there is in fact only one structure -cosmos- + we see it not. Instead of structure A versus structure B it is world-order versus cosmos. The latter being structure, the former not; so to see cosmos is to see structure per se - + this is a fortiori a matter of intelligible seeing (as in "seeing"). (Understanding: a high order act of the rational faculty, of cognitive, which carries me right back to the meta-abstraction + my identifying it as an extraordinary high-order kind of reasoning. Now it is clear why this meta-abstraction was non-verbal -not ratiocination- + why it took place in an instant: it was right-hemisphere pattern -Gestalt- comprehension: spatial, so to speak; vast pattern in total reality that added up to a different world, but utilizing -as I like to put it, "working off of" - the same constituents (therefore not only is the pattern itself extracted but there is of necessity an awareness of constituents common to both worlds, +, as I explicated all this last February, the reasoning yields up very strange verbal concepts, specifically that one + the same object can "be" twice, i.e. at two times + two places - although "time" + "place" as concepts must be severely redefined. If you had been raised in a civilization that unquestioningly held the discontinuous matter view of reality, + you suddenly saw -or "saw"- cosmos -which I say must of necessity be predicated on the continuum view- the experience would simply unhinge you because cosmos -in the true sense- is impossible in the discontinuous matter world. Two realizations are involved, then: (1) what you folder 53 - 014 folder 53 - 014 C-2 see or "see" exists but cannot; (2) what you + everyone else fundamentally believe about reality is erroneous. Something is there but you have up to now not been able to see it. Why is that? (Conversely, why can you see it now? But of course this is overshadowed by the question, what is this that you now see? It is world (defined as: all that exists: "Die Welt ist alles dass das Falls ist") but a different world, +, moreover, a different kind of world. Its structural basis -that is, it constitutes a unity- on the basis of information. The components are not linked tangentially in terms of spatial juxtaposition but in some other yet absolutely real way ("space," in this other world, does not signify what it signifies for our world. if indeed it signifies anything or even exists - in fact it does not exist: the juxtaposition is one of arrangement conceptually meaningful, as in mathematics; that is, the Gestalt must be understood intelligibly by the rational/reasoning faculty of the percipient, not viewed sensibly, i.e. passively; the reasoning or cognitive faculty must operate actively, as, for example, when reading written words on a page. (This very clearly is my "groove to music" leap phenomenon). + this is precisely why a given object or event can play one role in our world + quite another in that world. In that world its role is one of pure function as part within one unitary integrated system: the part derives its identity, meaning, significance, + purpose from the total system, +, alone, signifies nothing at all. so in a sense this other world tells a dramatic story + in fact is a dramatic story. Although apparently geometric forms -spacial number, as it were- constitute the essence at the highest possible level. For example the absolutely fundamental numerical notational system -the 0-1 binary system- take the form of object at rest, object in motion (although "at rest" + "in motion" may pertain to time rather than space; still, the objects themselves occupy space: they are corporeal things - folder 53 - 015 folder 53 - 015 C-3 whatever "space" + "time" may signify here; in any case "rest" + "motion" are meaningful terms, + the objects exist purely in one or the other of these two modes. Position -relatedness- is everything but I am not at all sure if this involves space, or at least space as we conceive of it. This may explain why I've always felt about 2-3-74 that somehow time had been converted into space, but this being so (let us say it is so) what you wind up with, then, is another kind of space entirely. I want to say you get space that remembers. This has to do with the meta-abstraction. You cannot speak of "one mother twice" without introducing the element of recognition + this has precisely to do with memory. This has to do with things that exist never ceasing to exist (somehow) +, strangely, this was Parmenides' whole thrust: if something exists, it must always have existed (in the past) + must always continue to exist (in the future). Things either are or are not (to on vs meden.) As to the latter category it is unintelligible, so it can't even be thought about. This reasoning led Parmenides to assert that Form II itself although seeming