it is my mystagogue: it systematically step by step unfolds the gnosis to me. Dio! Stella! Libera me! We are in a prison, + I see how it works; essentially I saw in 2-74 right then + there; the rest is explication of that initial meta-abstraction. Oh Weh! Oihmé! Tracking over + over + never progressing a second toward the Parousia! "Oh Mensch! Wie kalt ist es --" It is as Valentinus taught! But a great war took place between the forces of light + darkness (1915-1945) + light won, + now the 5th savior is here, the Maitreya; he has been transplanted + is alive! They broke through into our prison! I am Thomas, an apostolic Xtian, denied the Parousia for 2000 years - + yet no 2000 years have truly passed, exactly as I say in "Valis." It is quite clear that "Valis" was dictated by the salvator salvandus, as was "Tears." To bring the Gnostic Kerygma to the world (from which it had been lost for so long - if "long" means anything, really). folder 55 - 007 folder 55 - 007 C-7 it is fundamental in Gnosticism that the whole prison is to keep the sparks of light (1) ignorant; + (2) here (imprisoned), + this endless horizontal tracking does both: we stay here forever – not for a lifetime but for eternity! Ach, Gott! Vatter! Forever. Like a time-travel story: like, specifically "A Little Something for Us Tempunauts"! It is forever; when we die we just start tracking over (but things look different; note "look different" – not "change." Oh God, the various statements by the Al voice tell it all! No [true] time has passed since the crucifixion, + this is what the meta-abstraction + anamnesis is all about (but I realized when I had "the pulley" vision that if/when you remember (anamnesis) you truly ascend vertically + thus escape; so I, at any rate, got out. But the others! Well, this is why the Maitreya is here, to free us all! "One by one he takes us out of the world" is not the whole story; the 5th savior is here (although as I correctly say in "Valis" there is only one savior – he whom I call "the Immortal Man who comes again + again"). Well, the "Messenger" vision sure fits in: he bilks heimarmene out of its retribution. Oh, it's Gnosticism, all night. The Al voice in conjunction with visions, dreams + the original 2-74 anamnesis/meta-abstraction has revealed a coherent system + a truly hideous situation. Like "Tempunauts" we retrack forever. In 3-74 vis-à-vis the Xerox missive there was intervention in terms of heimarmene (ananke). But on a broader scale a revelation of (1) the total situation; + (2) a general system of thought: Gnosticism itself. Palmer Eldritch is Yaldabaoth + I wrote it all down in "Stigmata"! The Delusion, the prison, +, most of all, the demiurge (again in "Faith of." folder 55 - 008 folder 55 - 008 I just now glances over the tractate. In a sense the novel "Valis" was a means to get the tractact published -- originally I suppose only a private and [???] ....by Ray Squires. But because of "Valis" it -- the tractate--is in mass circulation in the U.S., the UK., France, possibly Germany. I did it . "Valis" is true; Gnosticism is true; what the AI says is true; thus I am compelled to believe absolutely and for the first time that, all else proving to be true, the soterological propheis must be true, also; so the 5th Squion is here: it has been transpanted and is alive. Our situation (without the intervention) is simply dreadful: eternal ignorance, eternal thrall--eternal tracing and retracing with our memories wiped clean each time. Exactly as Guatama taught - it is so close to Buddhism! "The Grand Illusion" forgetfulness, "the weary wheel" - and the need for compassion above all else! Here Buddhism has i over all other systems: the sacredness of all life--which "Androids" deals with! I must not forget this! "Androids"! A basic part of the technolgoical kerugma! Then this revealed conditions show the need for the (???) 1) eternal tracking and tretraking -- is eternal imprisonment 2) eternal ignorance Together they form one whole...system especially because this is not our home and we are light that have forotten folder 55 - 009 folder 55 - 009 at last the coherent system emerges, and by its very nature it indicates the absolute all of the 5th savior; I have no doubt now that the AI voice speaks the literal and exact truth - that he is here, for I see now that each statement by the AI voice is lucid and tense; each word is vital and exact. Nothing is vague, nothing is garbled. He is here . It goes back to "Tears" and the King Felix cypher. The ultimate point of being here is: I am a unity and I can -- and have! - spread the word! (1) The general system; (2) our situation (in a prison); and (3) the 5th savior is here. (3) is quintessential, once the total situation is known. And I don't know about the tracking and retracking -- and forgetting. Solely on the bases of "the pulley" vision (it was not a dream; it was [hypomorophic?] revelation); in 2-74 I remembered (amanmesis) and understood [coaxiality] (the meta-abstraction). Hence at least I understand the first AI voice statement in the tractact, entrey A3: "He causes things to look different -- " etc. God: what if I'd turned over the 5.6 ms of "Tears" to Hal or left it in my file. and also died without publishing "Tears", without 2-3-74. And died in Feb '76 Before writing "Valis"? How close it was_______how______ More so close from '72 to '76--even up to '79 when I completed "Valis" and sent it off: "1 '79! now my work is done" [something] of hell and tormet, but I did it - but God saved me - in 3-74. And also in '76. And in '71. Finally, here is what Beethoven's music does: it encloses - not our spurious space - but real - i.e. infinite - space, such as I experienced in 3-74, and by doing this he causes us, when we listen to his music, to advance forward in real time, hyper-time; he places us in the 5D universe by putting us in real space and real time; thus he frees us from our prison! folder 55 - 010 folder 55 - 010 P-1 note how in the endless horizontal trackin + retracking the element of ignorance functions as the primary mechanism of enslavement: because we are forever ignorant of (forgetful - made to forget) the prior trackings we do not know that in fact we retrack; + by not knowing this, we are held here eternally. Thus within this system ignorance attains functional ontology, for since we forget (are ignorant) we do not know our condition, + thus this "horizontal tracking + retracking" situation fulfills the Gnostic perception of the significance of ignorance - as ontologically primary (it is now herewith possible to view it in a more modern way, existentially + dynamically). + the reverse is equally true, hence equally + precisely Gnostic: when we remember (anamnesis) we simultaneously the comprehend - via the meta-abstraction - "coaxiality" of spatiotemporal continua + thus i "see" that the distinction between them meaningless; thus we see time to be irreal: no actual time passes; we retrack forever; things "look different" + thus "seem to change" but in fact like an LP played + replayed we simply repeat our lives as in fact one life relived end lessly, in space-time continuum after space-time (which gives continuum; the life is the same t rise to the Platonist notion of the Forms indeed they do exist, but constitute the very prison itself, for they are supra-temporal made eternal by the irreality of our time). the sole volution is the vertical "pulley" time. with spatial axis in conjunction with real but this stays unavailable to us + even unknown (or unknowable) until external intervention - from outside the prison/maze occurs form of our it is this intervention taking the forgotten reminding us of what we have true nature + situation - that the salvator salvandus This was brings as knowledge: the saving Gnosis. i 2-74 + it pertains to Christ above all. He is here again now, but because our time is counter that he is more true to say simply here; he manifests himself now, feit time, it the great battle having been win in 1945. folder 55 - 011 P-2 Good Lord -- the Platonist Forms Doctrine is a tragic misconstrual of the situation. it is not that the Forms are eternal but that our time is counterfeit. & it is not a fact that in anamnesis we remember a truly previous life; we remember the one life, the same life, tracked & retracked under -- not truly changed conditions (earlier spatiotemporal continua) -- but the same conditions (hence the Forms doctrine) seemingly different; ie made to look different, which we are induced to take to be true change. the anamnesis deals with the now, & my proof is: I did not just remember acts & my life as thomas; acts was/is here "coaxially" with USA 1974. & both thomas & I coexist simultaneously in one now, but, paradoxically, at two quite "different" (ostensibly separate) spatiotemporal continua. Here precisely is the key point! Further, the pre-natal "unfallen" life between incarnations, that Plato speaks of is our true home; & the unfallen nature we possess there is our true nature. Here Gnosticism & Plato agree, because Plato influenced by Orphism perceived divinity concealed in man: the "Dionysiac" nature of Orphism, mixed with the "titanic" or mundane nature; & he comprehends both fall, &, as well, "we are now dead & in a kind of prison." thus he comes close to the truth -- when he is other-worldly & where he regards the sensible world as only semi-real; but he is, alas, one step short of the real picture, which has to do with trap, with deception, with irrational blind tyranny; & what he overlooks most is the role of -- & absolute need of -- Soter. So Plato has discerned much of the story -- but, sadly, not quite all. Yet he is more right than wrong. folder 55 - 012 folder 55 - 012 P-3 This is why Plato could never figure out how the Forms instantiated in/as plural particulars. Also, he could not induce anamnesis & recovery of the Forms: this is because the cause, the true trigger, must lie outside the maze or prison that Plato perceived to be only a semi-real word -- a world that Parmenides had reasoned cannot at all be what we perceive it to be. In one bold stroke of pure reason, the Eleatics had detected the great lie: the delusion of sensible world. & this posed a mystery (why, if it is irreal, so we perceive it or think we do?) that only Gnosticism was (I think) ever able fully to solve. folder 55 - 013 folder 55 - 013 Q-1 there are two absolutely brilliant correct guesses in "Valis"; now it seems they are (1) true & (2) decisive. 1) all the saviors -- even Gods -- are the same person -- "the immortal one" -- who returns again & again, who uses the human -- eg Elijah, Jesus -- as a host but leaves him "& is never killed or caught." & in some sense "we are that immortal man." 2) spurious time. "Real time stopped." In connection with this I now say that real time has started up again, hinting that it did so in 1974 because Armageddon took place & was won. 3) in connection with real time resuming, I should add the Empire, which is conceived of as having secretly ruled for