out - 7 years after I literally saw what is in fact the case, saw but did not understand. Well, anyhow, as Boehme saw, evil is a no (or zero) stage in God's evolution, + is self-limiting, always being subsumed by a later, higher, good synthesis, a yes (or one). This is what happens when you see a pewter dish struck by light; you suddenly know everything. I guess you are awakened for a bit. "They are like dreamers in private worlds," as Heraclitus said 2400 years ago. I raised an issue 32 years ago, got yelled at for my presumption -by Pat Wilson- + went on asking + questioning, + then in 1974 I got a look at the real state of things, + spent the next 7 years writing notes + studying books. Finally the selfsame thing that I saw in operation in 1974 explained it to me, + now I have my "two-slit" model, based on Whitehead, Hartshorne, Taoism + Shannon + Wienger etc. Oh yes: + Malebranche + Boehme. Is this what I wanted out of life, my life? Yes! The teenager in the Forties + the old man in the eighties say yes in unison. This knits the decades of my life together. I asked the right question in 1949 + got the right answer in 1981. Thus I reveal my character (my einai): I want to know the answer to "ti to on?". Now, as of a few days ago, I think I have that answer (with a little help from what Bob Blake calls "Louie." folder 90 - 082 folder 90 - 082 F-10 + this is not a facile self-serving answer (if it were it would have come long ago!) A comment on Descartes, which is to say on the first modern philosopher. He saw problems, real ones, that no one had ever seen before. He couldn't answer them, but in seeing them he ushered in the contemporary world. The problem I saw -that of the only seeming reality of causation- derived from Cartesian preoccupations, so it is essentially a modern issue. It is a problem believed to have been solved by Kant. I view it as unsolved. I set out to solve it. The solution -not mine but given to me- is nothing less than extraordinary. A totally unexpected world-order is uncovered by the fact of this problem (as to causality). My solution, my knowledge, will probably die with me, but for me there is satisfaction; I only wanted to know the answer; I never intended to teach it to others. I know it. Or was caused to know it. Patience pays off. Contemplating this model I realize one very important thing: it never could have arisen a priori, because it serves to answer questions that would never have been asked except for the fact of my 2-3-74 experience. Thus I now perceive my 2-3-74 experience as the basis for a model of the universe, rather than an end in itself. The model is the goal; the experience is the folder 90 - 083 folder 90 - 083 F-11 opportunity from which the goal has been derived. As precious as the experience was + always will be, its real value lies in its causing me to ask questions about reality I would otherwise not have asked; it caused me to discard -it forced me to discard- conventional beliefs that, apparently, were not veridical (yet until 2-3-74 seemed to be). What I have been doing these seven years is: philosophical inquiry in the old sense, that of the Pre-Socratics, before science + philosophy parted company. I'm not sure my issues are in fact metaphysical. What confrontred me in 2-3-74 was "a perturbation in the reality field," that is, reality behaving in an inexplicable way which no known theory would explain or account for. How does this 7 years of study + analysis differ from scientic research? This has not been a game. Something I witnessed puzzled me + I set out to understand it. When I did finally understand it, I found that my question went all the way back to the forties. + I had not been the first to raise the question. If the traditional, fully-accepted theories of causation were true, the "perturbation" that I saw could not have occurred. This is the bottom line. How do I differ from Einstein vis-a-vis newtonian mechanics! It was a perturbation in the reality field in the sense that something more than the forces we know of was visibly at work. The problem is real. + I took it to be so. folder 90 - 084 folder 90 - 084 F-12 + look where taking it as real has led me: it has knitted together my whole life into a coherency. That alone would justify my effort. Now it is evident to me that this model, like Boehme's model, accounts for the existence of evil (pain, disorder, death) in a clear way: the zero or no stage is generated by the past (so in a sense it is Karmic, + most certainly it is the result of mindless determinism) but the nature of the system is to contain it by converting it --when the time is right- into its opposite; thus it is self-limiting, having a finite lifespan. As Boehme says, it is a no-stage that a higher yes-stage will inevitably subsume. Good, however, is not subject to such conversions or revisions; thus Good is cumulative in a way that evil is not (evil is episodic). The mind of the system does not contest evil in a power struggle; evil has the entire force of antecedent reality behind it. This is like the mind of the system (Noos) versus the force of the contents of the system. So the mind is in fact organizing itself internally + is confronted by the brute fact of its own real existence, which it (mind) must manage, must get under control. Good inevitably gets a chance to convert evil + always does so, but until that conversion can + does occur, evil must run its course. (The system, as I say, is dealing with its own self; to abolish evil it would have to abolish its own contents.) But it is evident from this model that evil is always under scrutiny. (Hence my dream of the 3-eyed Sibyl. The mind of the system folder 90 - 085 folder 90 - 085 F-13 understands the exact situation but waits. Hence this dialectical interaction resembles a two-person game, whereas actually it is the raw force built up within the system versus its choosing + judging faculty: mind as such; thus I saw that the wise horn -the good horn- possesses intelligence, in fact absolute intelligence, but the horn that moves first does not (on the other hand it has raw power, but it is a mindless power - which, paradoxically, is why mind as the wise horn, the good horn, must revise it, if the system is to continue to evolve). To get back to the BIP: there apparently is a sort of phantom reality summing up all the zero moves; it displays their characteristics of mindless rigidity + vast power, monotony + entropy-toward-death. This is the anti-soul so-to-speak of the system; this is what its choices are designed to avoid. However, since inflexible force is always generated within + by the system, this anti-soul -the BIP- is always present; it is therefore a constant + can be discerned at any place + any time in the form of pure mechanical tendency. (This is why new constructs + forms perpetually turn into the BIP, why it reasserts itself always: it -the BIP- is the system as if it were based solely of mindless cause-+-effect + did not make decisions, corrective decisions. Thus the mind of the system is always spotting the BIP + always acting to edit it out by conversion (perceived by me as revolution). This rule can therefore be formulated, "without the act of discriminatory interventive choice the direction of the total system will always decay into what I call the BIP." folder 90 - 086 F-14 The BIP, then, is natural + related to entropy. It does not reassert itself due to a conspiracy but due to mindless forces (directional pressures). It is what occurs if the disjunctive 0-1 choosing were shut off; it is essential stagnation pure + simple (which is why its enemies eventually become it; "it imposes its nature on its enemies like a virus proliferating"). The very factor that renders the BIP perpetual is what makes it undesirable: its monotonous sameness, the fact that it does not change, does not grow or evolve. Put another way, if the BIP did not naturally occur there would be little if any need for the 0-1 choosing + uncoupling which is the introjection of newness. Alignment with the BIP in a person, then, is an expression of ossification; this alignment is more a mere drift than a real decision. + here, again, is why the BIP is so dangerous: of their own accord all things will gravitate toward it + become it, unless newness (0-1 choice) is repeatedly introjected into the system by something that can truly think. It is heat-death itself of + by + in the total system. It all arises from the tautology that unless deflected, all things will of their own accord follow the line of least resistance. Thus in a certain real sense sameness, simplicity, monotony, formlessness + chaos are the natural state to which all things revert unless thwarted. This is the key word as to the 0-1 choices: thwarting by the wise mind of power's automatic direction. Like art itself, form requires skill + effort; things do not naturally (spontaneously) arrange themselves into pattern or design. I think I now understand why the BIP folder 90 - 087 folder 90 - 087 F-15 keeps coming back (as Goethe says, "He only deserves his freedom who wins it anew each day."). The BIP is the immutable Yin world of cause-+-effect; thus I am correct in equating these 0-1 choices with freedom (identified with or as newness introduced into the system). Like death, the BIP stalks everything + in a sense wins just by waiting: it occurs simply if something new fails to occur; thus the wise mind must perpetually initiate ex nihilo choices not based on the antecedent weight of its own system. But every choice, each newness, is inevitably absorbed by + reduced to the sameness that I identify as the BIP (but newness -0-1 choice- occurs again). (So the dialectic is perpetual except that the order -internal order- of the system is cumulative; I saw this in/as the MMSK. Its complexity evolves in one direction only. Thus the victory of Boehme's "Yes" is of a different kind than that of "No": presumably the system will ultimately end in a state of absolute realized order, at which point time ends. However, the more complex it becomes, the more inertial thrust (pressure) in the system; decay from order -decay into sameness- is progressively more + more of a threat since more organization hence loss, potential loss of that very same organization, is involved. The stupid deterministic horn becomes more powerful (by reason of its antecedent mass) +, to offset this, the wise horn must (if it is to succeed) exercise an increasingly wiser choice in order to effect the 0-1 conversion. Viewed from outside, it would appear as if Good + evil are pulling farther + farther apart from each other, both moving toward absolute folder 90 - 088 folder 90 - 088 F-16 states as a limit, until finally pure infinite Good (wisdom) will confront pure infinite evil (power). This is the dialectic that in "Valis" Sophia speaks of. Based on this realization, one could say that the BIP will become stronger, more violent, more repressive, more dangerous, more uniform - while its conversions engineered upon it will