in view of Acts showing up in "Tears") no one 1900 years ago could have written that. The Holy Spirit wrote it. So what I realized light night (via Luke & the "Bishop Archer" novel) is that when the Holy Spirit descends on you, it creates a Christos out of you permanently as the final birth in evolution of what you already potentially are (Bill is a perfect example of this) it is the culmination of what must be a series of Growth-steps. But this final one requires the "Birth in the Spirit" no matter how far along you've advanced in enlightenment, the Spirit Then, in 2-3-74, didn't enter me just to decypher call or even rescue me (pronoia); what we have here is "Birth in the Spirit" & son of God adopting as co-heir (with Christ) & son of God (the spirit being God's spirit ). I guess this is a hierogamy. I discuss this in "Valis": the interspecies symbiosis with the plasmate to form the homoplasmate, the metaphor of Bride & Wedding may not be metaphoric at all. It just seems to me that the N.T. is really clear about all this - this is not a forced exegesis. The reason why we don't recognize Bill is Christ is that we don't know what to expect of a from and by the Holy Spirit What is all this K-4 that is described is what it does: utilizing appropriate raw material - the guileless human being - it produces a Christos modeled on Jesus the first Christos. it duplicates (more or less) what it did there (adopted son & heir with God that is a composite creature, part human, part spirit of God, surpassing the angels. This is what John the Baptist meant when he said that he only baptizes with water, but the "Greater one" coming after him would baptize with the Spirit & fire Thus the entry of the Holy Spirit into the person did not produce just transcendent spectacular gifts (these are just signs 4 its presence) it produces a hierogamy using the human as female host (same thing now & permanent in DNA, compounded of the person's soul & the spirit of God, exactly as is found in Jesus; if one says, "Such a compound is impossible," let him ponder this is what Jesus is). This compound entity is immortal, & although God is also human, hence fallible. (This is what I have spoken of as Firebright & resembles what the Taoist alchemists called "the mysterious embryo.") The Holy Spirit eventually departs but it leaves the heirogamy syzygy behind permanently The Holy Spirit does more than accentuate or clarify the ostensible text of the Bible; it (even more) uncovers the stegenographic meaning which simply cannot be extracted any other way. What did it show me? two interrelated things. (1) It wove acts into & as a modern police state in which we now live. (2) the Messianic expectation (as the King Felix cypher). thereby it disclosed an antithetical situation. K-5 in which we live in a - no, there is more: the apostles are here. That is what is revealed they were at that time preparing for the imminent return of the bridegroom at that time - 7 years ago, the AI voice says, "he now has returned. K-6 1) Physical reality to language (or information) is like record groove to music. 2) Schizophrenia concreteness to normal abstracting is as normal abstracting to meta-abstracting. 3) sensible world to Logos (+ forms). This is the same as #1. Achieved by the percipient by means of #2. 4) Normal consciousness is machine consciousness. Meta-abstracting is "Anokhi --" full, pure consciousness 5) 3 Distinct divisions of stages of consciousness, not 2. (A) Before Christ: Babylonian Absolute programming : the Law. Christ broke this. (B) the normal consciousness that we know. Some autonomy (C) Pure consciousness: absolute freedom. (A) is familiar to us as schizo phrenic concreteness (hence the schizophrenic is abreactive - a throwback from a prior epoch). (B) ability to abstract. This is the age of the son, as Joachim puts it. Grace + love replace legalism. Mercy replaces the talion law. Judgment replaces inflexible cause-+-effect. Yet - some "occlusion" remains. The "groove" is still experienced (the flux world of particulars). (C) Joachim's third age: of the spirit. Man is totally-inner‐ sensible + physical + substantial,but information (language). (A) is inferno as metal world, machine world of immutable determinism. (B) Purgatorio. Soul enters, & some autonomy & Freedom. (C) Plato + his recovery of the Forms by anamnesis. This s paradiso, referred to by Pythagoras as a world based on number + ratio + harmonic intervals + music, + esp by kosmos which was no substantia but structure: the way the parts fit together. K-7 the word for this is: beauty. The totality of Greek philosophy can be seen as an effort (by + large successful) to overcome Empirical concreteness, the given sensible world in favor of some kind of abstract model based on a priori reasoning so that Babylonian concreteness is mitigated or (as with Parmenides) abolished + the mind as a reasoning power asserts itself by various abstractions. (the view that Plato's concept of the flux/phenomenal/sensible world as "semireal" is "psychotic" is itself in fact psychotic. These Greek philosophers (excluding Aristotle) were freeing men from "astral determinism," the power of the concrete. Much medieval thinking - in fact the medieval "Gothic vault" worldview - was the broad dispersion into a vast geographic area for a very long time of what for the Greek had been limited to a few aristocrats + individual exceptional thinkers. Xtianity made it the property (to some degree) of all people rich + poor, educated + formally unschooled Thus Xtian represented a stupendous triumph of the spirit - in Schiller's sense of the term based on a fusion of Judaism + Hellenistic thought. But this is not the end of the story because man remained vis-a-vis the 3rd age (of the Spirit) still a machine, + Joachin saw this, correctly, in terms of the authority power of the priests. The beginning of the 3rd age lies in the protestant revolt - with the Elector Palatine + the Dutch. The 30 years war, the Reformers. Then comes the age of reason + the German aufklarung. K-8 but pure consciousness ("Anokhe-.") is only sporadic, episodic, scarce. it can only occur when the divine syzygy occurs based on the Holy Spirit fully active in + as the person; at this point the Bible is "unlocked" by the spirit reconstituted into world here + now; the book becomes the lens, the mediator or 3rd party between person + world so that world is "open" + can be understood. Here is absolute freedom, absolute con‐ sciousness, absolute abstracting: Heidegger's sein, +, most of all, absolute a priori knowledge of God's law + Kingship (2236:274 The spirit is the sole authority. World is no longer "that which compels assent" but becomes "that which in dialog with the person; it is language - it speaks, + the person responds; it is not in fact an "it" but (as Buber says) a "thou." Deity has progressed from the Umwelt (nature) to the Mitwelt (Jesus as friend) to the Eigenwelt (spirit is syzygy within the person; he "is" the spirit, + the spirit "is" him in a certain real sense). Civil + church authority is unnecessary + is to be abolished. i.e. there is a classles: society in which church + state wither away. Each person is responsible only to the spirit in him + as him. He cannot violate the law of the spirit without violating his own self, literally. This third age is ushered in by a disclosure of the nature of all persons by word + deed. The spirit instructs whom it will + abandons whom it will; this is eschatological judgment some are sanctified by the spirit as adopted This is the sons of God; some are not. rea I ass o K-9 the presence is real, palpable + actual + everywhere in the world-order itself, as Pantocrator - Christos Pantocrator. the distinction between Bible + world vanishes, as Bible is converted (by the spirit) from information into world, + world is abstracted (by the Spirit) into information. Bible + world become one thing which can be viewed either as world (in which one lives) or as information (which one understands + reads). Both constitute narrative that is known intel‐ a libibly + perceived sensibly, but as abstraction in the manner of Plato's forms which are known a priori, yet constitute external reality. Thus "intelligible" (inner, a priori) + sensible. (external, empirical) are one + the same, overcoming the disjunction + bipolarization confronting e.g. Parmenides who had to choose one over (over + against) the other. this unification of inner - + - outer intelligible - + -sensible, information - + - world (through a massive leap in abstracting) is of colossal importance since it restores the primordial lost unity of self + world. This is accomplished by the Holy Spirit its book the Bible: + this is Joachim's third age (of the Spirit). K-10 Thus through the spirit there comes perfect (absolute a into existence between Bible + our correspondence world. The Bible as information applies to this world here, this world now; world is meanwhile revealed as information (derived from information as its ontological basis) + this information is identical It is to the Bible as information as if the Bible derives from + applies to world; world derives from + applies to Bible, so that when you perceive world you perceive the Bible as world. + when you read the Bible it is no longer information about a world it is the same but is a world world that you live in here + now. the spirit accomplishes this through supra-temporal archetypes analogous to Plato's eide; these archetypes are identical for both world + Bible, a "common source" that can be said to be world-asinformation or information-as-world. If I hadn't experienced this - both in regard to world + the Biblewouldn't believe it could occur but (as I say) I know how it is done: by means of supra-temporal archetypal constants found both -11 in world - underlying world - + in Thus the Bible - underlying it. what we know of as world + what we know of as information are viewed as two aspects of a single substantia each equally real, in the exact fashion Spinoza sets forth.) To repeat: world properly seen is information + this infor‐ mation is the same as that which we call "the Bible"; Bible properly see (via/per the Spirit) is seen as a description of -infor‐ mation about - a world at a This not past time + place + not, really, even about this world here at time + this place but is this time world) + is this place (world). That is how what is known a priori cintelligibly) + what is known through the senses (empirically) a Thus if you become one - + -the-same This is extraordinary! You would find were to write an ontological description of our world as it really is, to your surprise that you had written this I pasinges from/ of the Bible, right down to the correct names of people explains "Tears." World can be deduced the Bible from our world; + then are one + the same. But what is from the Bible. K-12 perhaps most unexpected is that world is now viewed abstractly as information which no one anticipated. + this infor‐ mation is scripture. the trans-temporal constants, then, on which world is based, are as much informational in essence as they are anything elses intelligible concepts in the mind of God! This is a totally new understanding of the informational basis of reality - + the possibility that a mind exists (the Spirit) in which the Bible ceases to be an informational description