key partaking of the supra-rational. I stipulate that on a purely rational basis there can be no indubitable knowledge of anything other than self, which of course is Descartes' premise for all modern epistemology. Nonetheless, I say, there now is genuine + in fact necessary knowledge of world, +, in particular, other life experiences from folder 53 - 060 folder 53 - 060 F-6 within. Although this knowledge would seem to arise by reasoning from analogy ("Do unto others as you would have others do unto you") in fact it does not. It cannot. There is no valid basis for analogy; analogy is speculative & dubitable. Nonetheless (I assert) indubitable knowledge of other (experienced from the inner side of other) arises. How? Here (I say) the divine has entered in a fashion clearly comprehended by Nicholas Malebranche. There is an interface between self & world (unsuspected but nonetheless real). It is this interface (which like Kant's transcendent self that organizes sense-data by the ontological categories but itself lies of necessity beyond our perception) that transcribes world into or onto the self, not from outside (as sense data) but from within the self utilizing sense data. Bergson views this as a transformer of some kind. It is compatible both with world/other & self & creates a degree of part-whole compatibility, mitigating but not reversing the cognitive estrangement of (A). Apparently it is able to relate constituents in world with correlates or analogs in self (so is related to & resembles reasoning by analogy, but this is imperfect: there is a real degree of part-whole compatibility but it is relative & partial & falls short of establishing part-whole identity/isomorphism. Whereas the categories in (A) are absolute, here there is fluctuation, signifying the possibility & actuality of growth, change, learning, development, improvement, etc. But although genuine, this knowledge is incomplete. However what is shown here is that (1) atomization can be overcome; (2) real- i.e. necessary- knowledge of world can arise in the self (c). This is an extraordinary Dasein & is predicated on at least one absolute. Here, part-whole compatibility is complete, originating in a blitz in which the self-world/other dualism is annihilated by (1) absolute knowledge by the former (self) of the latter (world/other). This seems to be based on a cognitive operation by the knowing self in which the self incorporates other as knowledge (information) in such a way that other is transformed into negative entropy engulfed & assimilated & acquired in a single act that both transforms world into folder 53 - 061 F-7 information, _pure_ information & _only_ information. But crucially information that now belongs to the self & is within self as structure of self derived from world - this both _requiring_ that world be absolutely comprehensible & _rendering_ world comprehensible without qualification, as if self is now in the relationship to world that world was formerly in in relation to self; _self & world have changed places_ & world as information _is at the disposal of self as source of the self's own structure_. Here, knowledge by self of world is absolute because self contains world in the form of information that is at its disposal in terms of its own structure. How is this done? I think that the interface mentioned in (B) is the essential constituent, cause & explanation of this transformation. What has the interface been doing all along? This is the correct question. It has identified analogs between self & world to a relative degree. That is, there _are_ true analogs between self & world; the interface looks _in_ at self, _out_ at world & sees some analogic elements & on this basis establishes a genuine relationship between self & world, inner & outer, as in Kriegspiel in which the Monitor can see both chess boards but neither board can see the other. However, here something quite different occurs; the two boards are assimilated into one board : the relative & partial have become the absolute & the complete. How? Why? Clearly, neither board (self, world) can do this: only the Monitor (interface) can do this, since only it can see both. Ask : what has been its task all along? To locate & identify corresponding constituents on both boards. (this is certainly the case.) But there are axiomatically two boards. However ( I think) something unanticipated, unique & extraordinary is suddenly possible. The interface can homologize each board to the other - in which case "two boards," "inner -outer," "self-world" no longer signify anything. Why? What has the interface discovered or encountered, or seen or figured out? Is it possible that there was only one board in the first place (all along) but the interface erroneously took the view that two boards somewhat alike, somewhat different existed? Is this discovery - the correction of an error - the "not 2 Mothers once but 1 Mother twice" folder 53 - 062 folder 53 - 062 F-8 meta-abstraction? Can one board "be" at two places & two times (e.g. inward as self, outward as world/other) based on the General Consideration that any one given thing can theoretically be or appear to be -be seen- at two places & two times (& yet remain unitary)? (obviously if it does not remain unitary it is de facto not one thing.) This is a statement of the unity that Plotinus consigns to the highest possible level of ontology (& the sequence & concentric rings of emanation). It is also a statement of noesis, pertaining to the Forms. &, moreover, it is Sankara; "Tat Tvam Asi" equation : the self (Atman) is world/other (Brahman). In this blitz (a unique blitz since it concerns all that is) the categories of existence that pertain in (B) vanish. self possesses world as information, but the information is generated -arises- within self once the blitz -the meta-abstraction has occurred : viz : the interface or monitor now knows that since the two boards are in fact one & the same board seen twice, all information can be extracted from "either" board, which means that in point of fact the self (inner board) always absolutely corresponds in every detail to the outer board in the first place; here any & all information about the outer board is already in the inner board. (this is, besides noesis & "Tat Tvam Asi" the Hermetic Macro-cosm Micro-cosm identity equation). But what, now, is the role of the interface, once the realization occurs? What task does it now have? It need no longer compare boards, searching for analogic constituents. Does the interface disappear, its task accomplished? But here precisely in this statement ("its task accomplished") is the answer! This is its "task accomplished"; that is, its success is total, final, absolute. It does not (now) obliterate itself (its job done). What the interface has done is to heal the breach between self & world. This breach is a defect & it is also an error (since in fact only in an erroneous & illusory sense were there even two boards, self & world, inner & outer). The interface has rectified this error, & at this moment a key concept not previously employed folder 53 - 063 folder 53 - 063 F-9 (because it was not the case) now emerges: Kosmos. The true task of the interface was to reconstruct what must once have existed but then been somehow lost: Kosmos in the strict, precise sense. This is cosmic repair all along. The self-world dichotomy being illusory was a defect of unknown origin; unknown to me, anyhow. In any case this illusion, defect, breach or error has been reversed. But it is not the interface that vanishes; it is the self that vanishes as self; it exists still but not as self (to understand this, restudy realm (A) in which self is an absolute entity / category possessing no necessary (Genuine) knowledge of other / world at all. Upon examining this state, the true significance of the interface's repair can be appreciated). If only realm (B) existed, one could say that part-whole compatibility is now perfect. But in realm (A) this issue - the relationship between part & whole, self & other / world - does not even arise because for self there is no world; there is only itself. This is the atomization that Plotinus speaks of. Atomization is an absolute condition; to say "partial atomization" is nonsense, comparable to "somewhat unique." Here the most profound issue of all ancient philosophy is expressed: the one-many problem. In realm (A) there is only the many. In realm (C) there is only unity: the one. Realm (B) is puzzling, because it seems to consist of some linking, some relatedness; that is, it is mitigated atomization, or, conversely, mitigated unity - but both statements are unintelligible, & clearly so. Therefore it logically follows that while realms (A) & (C) can exist, realm (B) cannot; either there exists the many (atomization) or the one (unity) & this was precisely the dispute between the Eleatics & the Atomists. This is not only a real issue, it is the real issue; it is the "continuum vs discontinuous matter" issue, & all future physics & worldview in the West (save the stoics) chose the atomists' view: the many is the case; Parmenides was wrong. But if this is so, then realm (C) does not exist. However, it does exist. folder 53 - 064 folder 53 - 064 F-10 I know because I entered it. But I did not enter it from realm (A) -pure atomization- but from realm (B), clearly (+ I say this a fortiori) a defective realm (C) or a defective view of realm (C); it can hardly be argued that it is a defective view of realm (A) unless you are willing to stipulate that for the self no knowledge of anything other than itself is possible. & yet this precisely is the issue; on this issue everything stands or falls. What I say to this is, valid -even necessary- knowledge of world/other is possible & does exist (that is, realm (B) is real). But I say that it does not arise rationally or sensibly (a priori or a posteriori); it has as its source a third thing that I call divine because it transcends & encompasses & enters into & participates in both self & world - it must do so if it is to identify analogic constituents common to both self & world. If you grant the existence of this interface then you have already granted that realm (C) is already the case & realm (B) amounts only to a defective awareness of what in fact is realm (C). Realm (B) as a genuine realm (possessing being) is impossible & unintelligible. There are only two intelligible choices, realm (A) -atomization, in which each atom knows only of itself- & realm (C) in which there is unity & only unity (but defective awareness leads to the illusion of realm (B), in which case the atomist view is faced with the calamitous threat that no knowledge is possible, in which case the question "ti to on?" can never be answered at all. Any real knowledge of world/other turns out to abolish the contention that realm (A) is the case. Thus either we are totally & absolutely imprisoned in our own private solipsistic "world" -as in "Frozen Journey"- & don't realize it (what we call "world", then, is only our own prior thought formations fed endlessly back to us: each of us both creates & then passively perceives his own self as "world") or, contrarily, we actually have total knowledge of world (but don't realize it) because "self" & "world" signify the same thing. All that is needed is for us to come to our senses, as folder 53 - 065 folder 53 - 065 F-11 if waking up. Which, then is the case? Realm (A) or (C) - realm (B) is excluded as logically impossible and must be a confused