world. I had not known that until 2-74 but then I knew it: I understood world but also I understood myself. The Golden Fish sign reflected back to me -as a mirror- my own hidden, real nature. This can never be denied (by me about myself). Hence when I read Luke that night I read what seemed to be my own writing. This is a great mystery + miracle; it is world's salvation + my own. Christ reconciles me to world + world to me the language can be read through I think this is the essence of him. it, when all the mystification + faise leads are edited out. This for me in The true point (110 What if "Ditheon" expresses two ideas, not one? (A) that there are two selves in a person: his individual conscious ephemeral seels of which he is aware; + an impersonal pure consciousness, not exactly a self - this is Atman + looks out through a number -perhaps very many- individuals at various spaces + times (all individuals at all spaces + times); so a person's nature is di: double. (B) Atman is not human but -roughly- God; i.e. it is absolute in 2-74 Atman responded in me + so-to-speaks I became aware of it + of another human sirred through whose eyes it looked: an early Xtian (be cause I had seen the Golden Fish sign). Now, this Atman would be Valis in me, not thinking in The dialectic is the words but purely knowing. growth-process toward enlightenment of all individual selves, through a series of "epiphaniess" in Joyce's sense, toward awareness of Atman in them + its identity what I saw outside that I called with (also) Valis: unitary, sentient, volitional something posing as the universe of causation + multiplicity it is Atman-Brahman which transcends space+ to So "Ditheon time + sees world abstractly. means: (A) Each of us has two selves; + (B) one of them is God. The "adventitious psyche" is me the waking up of Atman- or at least becoming aware of my dual nature, + that that nature is in its essence not human but God, + the same thing as world which is impersonal, conscious unitary + absolute, as Atman is to PKD, Brahman is the world. Does this not fully explain the meta-abstraction? I did not remember my identity as an early Xtian (reincarnation) but as Brahman the "common essence; voz: by means of aI Thomas is not a former me; no: we both exist now with a common essence, + that common K111 essence is Atman. This is like with Plato's anamnesis where memory of a former life yields up recovery of the eide, for "eide substitute Atman. + the verification of this that I saw Valis externally: posing as is the universe. Camouflaged. + I know it was the same as the impersonal mind in me. This bears directly on the postcards I sent pat: the inference drawn from seeing the same object at 2 places + 2 time: "not 2 mothers But I mother seen twice." You need two "particular" selves (minimum) that "are" one + the same thing - that is, they both possess the same Atman- for you to draw the correct inference about Atman; (1) that although it is in you, it is distinct from your conscious self (in my case PKD); + (2) it is not just another self of the same kind -as are fred + Bob in "Scanner" - but is an "eidos" or common essence; it is one thing (unitary) but it is "seen" in 2 places + 2 times. This is exactly the meta-abstraction involved in recovering the comprehension of eide on the basis of anamnesis of a former life, except that the "eidos" or common essence is internal. However, it turns out to be external, too. Reincarng oper se yields no meta-abstraction either in Plato's sense or Sankara's sense unless there is achieved thereby the perception of one thing at two places + two times; i.e. the two lives are simply standpoints by which to obtain a binary view, axiomatically denied a single self. In this sense, then, perhaps "Ditheon" as a concept applies: if there exist the two K112 vantage-points (this is the "DI" or double). theon will result or become apparent, this is Atman. Because of the "Dis" "Di" as cause, "theon" (or rather realization of "Theon" my meta-abstraction) takes place, + this has the effect -for obvious reasons- of simply abolishing time + causation; + this trans‐ formatmakes it possible (apparently) to see Brahman camouflaged as the universe of plurality, simulating cause + time ("He causes things to cook different so it's appear time has passed"; this refers to Maya). the meta-abstraction, interestingly, is not [yet] of "tat tvam asi"; it is awareness of "Di" + "theon"; only when world is seen as Brahman does the inner-outer, micro macro equation occur. Given the initial crucial meta-abstraction it would follow of -would see Valis (Brahan) necessity that outside me. How did I know it was the same entity whose mind was in me? (1) although external + is or as world, it communicated in my mind with no interface; + more stariling (2) what + knew a priori pertained to world externally; hence I said, "I am no longer blind). + felt as if I were outside the universe, on its sking looking in. Also, Valis external in/as world was clearly mind, it only appeared as world: a disguse it took So "DI" could refer to me + Thomas or to me + atman-in-me, but "DI" is the word, + "theonl is the next step either way. So Di+ theon are logically linked. 9113 To see the same thing at 2 places + 2 times -+ to recognize it as one + the some thing- is to grasp the unity that underlies multiplicity; "two places + 2 times" is now unintelligible. + when this recognition has to do with inner reality (the Adman) as well as outer - then self is not self; there are not many, pluralized, separate selves but, rather, one ubiquitous self, + for it time + space + causation are not real. This must be what the meta-abstraction amouts to: an awareness of literal unity, not a figurateve sappy emotional view but a literal abstract rational view, involving the highest human reasoning powers The question now arises: (1) is this impersonal self the source of the AI voice? probably; it is detached + impartial. + (2) Does it exist in a "world" radically dif. ferent from the one Isee? Not in time. e.g. (3) + did I see that world in 3-74: s put another way, is the world I saw in 3-74 the radically different world of this impersonal self that not only is me but is not limited to this body not at this place + this time? I saw (I think) the world as Atman sees it, with time as "spatial" depth, + the constants, + the informa + the set-ground, the rest-motion, the one of the Indian schools (Mayha‐ MMSK. Yang Buddhism?) argues that there are not plural selves. This would seem to form the very basis of my meta-abstraction Many mirrors reflect back many images of the Sun, but there is just one Sun. This enlightenment (based on this) is directly proportional to how little distinction you draw between yourself and your neighbor: this sums it up. The ethics are based on a hyper-abstraction, a very high order of reasoning, not on sentiment, and this is what Paul means by “agapê”. It is predicated on - follows logically from - intuitive knowledge (wisdom); this wisdom - by the very nature of what is Karma - leads to Compassion. (I checked, and the view that there is actually only one ubiquitious self, rather than multiplicity, is Sankara’s view) (Plurality of Selves is to Ātman what plurality of things is to Brahman; and Ātman and Brahman are one.) This, then, about Ātman, was my meta-abstraction: to lean to the intuitive I Am, tandem of unity ( “not 2 mothers, but 1 mother twice”) It is only Sankara’s Atman-Brahman equation that will do justice to my meta-abstraction. The E B speaks of this realization coming suddenly. This realization is what the term “moksa” refers to. Once you have it, you are free from Karma (hence the Wheel of Rebirth). This specific realization fits in with my 10 volume meta-novel. (Because of the “acosmism”). The idea of one single self is to me a new possibility and would account for a great deal. The route by which I arrive at Sankara’s “tat tvam asi” (“Thou Art That”) formula - Tim through “BTA” (Bishop Timothy Archer) - is as follows: the psyche “Bill” is the normal empirical ego of Bill Lundburg. But after Tim dies, a second psyche “enters” Bill. Thus, Bill identifies as Tim. Then “Tim” is a transferable psyche; it can be in prison A (Tim Archer) or in prison B (Bill Lundberg). Thus it is not limited to one Psychosomatic Organism. The real insight comes when you begin to suspect that this is in fact NOT a human psyche at all But is God; that is, it is Christ. The next logical step is that it was “in” Tim but WAS Christ, and theoretically could enter anyone and everyone. Thus the idea of a ubiquitous Divine unitary psyche occurs to you (i.e. there are not a plurality, a multiplicity of Christs but one Christ). Now, as I say, this is a two-self situation in Bill; the Christ psyche has not replaced his, but has joined his. Thus the di-psyche concept appears in which each prison has a unique empirical ephemeral psyche which is human, and there exists one additional ubiquitous unitary psyche which is Theon. Hence Di-Theon. Next, I note that what I depict here in “BTA” is derived from my own experience of Thomas in 2-3-74. Suddenly it occurs to me that the meta-abstraction & anamnesia may apply to a unitary divine ubiquitous psyche (“Christ”) & not my own, so this is not through MY remembering a former life (this realization is reinforced by the strange fact that Thomas seems to exist NON, not in the past - & his world is Now, also, and (?) Blends in with my own (?), suggesting that Kill what we take to be an inner plurality of selves is in fact a unity, + what we take to be a plurality of spatio‐ temporal worlds is in fact a unity, + the inner + outer unities are analogous + may themselves form an inner-outer unity. This seems indeed to be the "not 2 mothers but one mother seen twice" meta-abstraction, the idea of common essence both inner + oter. Then I ask, "Did I see anything suggestive of an outer unity in which the multiplicity of objects was seen to be illusory, that in fact one essential conscious unity existed as if posing as multiplicity? (this would be Brahman.) + precisely this, + in fact I saw at the time I recognized it as the external form of the pure consciousness I had discovered in my mind underlying my empirical self this then, is precisely Sawkara's "tat tram asis" the Atman-Brahman equation based on a sudden realization that is Moksa + irreversible. I geanced over the E of Ph article on Sankara once more, + his notion of the one self -otman- underlying all the multiplicity of empirical egus (+ which that is this unitary self or Atman- is pure consciousness, the 2nd attribute of Brahman + thus this unitary self or atman "is" Brahman) is specifically what Ditheon seems to imply. K117 So I am saying "Sankara teaches that each of us has or is two selves, is 'DIs" + the unsuspected one beneath the unique empirical ego -Atman- is pure consciousnes (as I found Valis to be) + therefore is God. also, this brings