unitary, pre-existent archetypal idea what I say is of rose in the divine mind? It is built into the + wer of God as creator cause the icon (all plural representatives a point descartes to to be faithful analogs I say (this is my faith) that we deals with. do have in a certain real + valid way genuine access to the unitary archetypal pre-existent idea in his mind, insofar as our creatureal (?) limited needs are concerned. we do know the archetypal idea absolutely (i.e. as God knows it - i.e. a priori) (which is to say, as it is) but none the less this is legitimate access to what is a sort of information storage + retrieval system: our own particular icon is valid information as information, truly pertaining to the archetypal idea hence not worthless or false - but (we must realize) less than perfect: we do not possess from within (so-to-speak) the pre-existent archetypal idea itself (for one thing we do not understand it intelligibly but only sensibly; so there is a degradation of the information: Plato is right: it is a copy that we possess of something + not that something. But it is not we who copy that something to the best of our ability; God implants the representation as part of folder 55 - 141 D-69 his act of creating the universe; that is, he creates cosmos by what I call Logos. it is bogos in man that regulates governs what I call "template" ubiquitously (Malebranche studied this problem). This Aogos is (as was believed by e.g. Philo) the intermediary in/of creation: 7070s causes the plural "particulars" (representations) to be valid, faithful, correct insofar is our limited needs go. (This of course presumes something like pantheism, as opposed to the orthodox pantheism, + of course this is exactly what Malebranche teaches.) (God as sustainer, not just prime mover unmoved.) now, of course, there arises Eckhart's notion (stated long before the Cartesians) that under certain ideal + exceptional circumstances we can experience the pre-existent archetypal ideas in God's mind; it would seem to be a question of degree, in that our normal representation is a copy admittedly but a faithful copy; under such exceptional circumstances as 3-74 there is (I thinks a far more accurate experience No. It is qualitative, not of degree but of kind. The idea itself is experienced + known to be an idea; hence the category of multiplicity is abolished - + this is precisely the "not two mothers but one mother twice" meta-abstraction. cognitively performing this abstracting operation + ceaping from copy (representation) to actual re-existent idea in the divine mind are one + the same: for there is an infinitude of copies "Particulars") but only the one archetypal this is how the reperformance of the idea: sacrament works to abolish space + time plurality folder 55 - 142 folder 55 - 142 D-70 with particulars (representations) you do not get unity - you get multiplicity with the archetypal pre-existent idea you do not get multiplicity - hence the meta‐ abstraction precisely; this is what the "not 2 mother. But I mother twice" meta‐ abstraction is all about (+ why time + space are abolished); this is the core of it, This is what my realization in 2-74 was all about Dio. Eureka: I found the all the way back Christic institute. to "Tears"; the Acts material, the dream Karen silkwood. the King-Felix cypher. The Parousia is here + the Holy Mother church knows it. My 2-3-74 to 2-75 experience (back to '70 if you include "Tears") has to do with the Parousia. Eleven years + hold it in my hands + it does at last I have to do with pere Teilhard. My Tagore vision is authentic; Christ is here. Point omegai "Portugese states of America" represents as does the posse the Roman Catholic church. in the "Tears" dream (it also represents the KKK). It's all true - the plasmate, everything. Covenant House! The eschatological sorting has begun. have linked up with the true, I Christic institute, a secret Xtians. subform of the Catholic church Holy Wisdom. I read the Karen silkwood when literature originally that day I saw folder 55 - 143 folder 55 - 143 D-71 in it the convergence - at last - of my political involvement + my religious experiences right up to my Tagore vision, now today I get verification - the national Catholic reporter + Christic institute (founded in nov 1980) It is all true, + the new radical theology is ecotheology linked to radical political action, as we have is the here (i.e. with silkwood). + it Roman Catholic church - or rather a subform of it: the true secret Xtians My vision in 2-3-74 of Acts was indeed a -the- Xtian apocalyptic vision (i.e. revelation). The Holy power of God is established here covertly, pitted against the Satan + political reaction. It Holy power) operates through the Roman Catholic church: my intimations have been correct all the way back to 3-74 when the stegenographic covering was removed from "Tears" + I read what is there have been a Befahltrager. Now I am a Geheimnistrager; I know + understand the message that I have carried (as expressed primarily in "Tears" + then in "+ "BTA" + the Tagore t Valis," "D.I. is vision - everything. What -I think - is the most exciting is that due to 2-3-74 my Tagore vision, what victor ferkis I can has said + Christic institute - albeit dimly - the out now discern wane of a new theology, rooted in t folder 55 - 144 folder 55 - 144 D-72 the epoch we are moving into. It is a Xtian-Buddhist neo-pantheism very close to pere Teilhard's Christo centric point omega but having specifically to do with the unitary ecosphere - + for me, closely related to Malebranche's cartesian pantheism which of course goes back to Augustine + Pauline mysticism - + may also include the new physics + field theory, a merging of science + theology in defense of a palpably living universe. There may also be an information + a o Platonist component. feel confident now that my I 2-3-74 experience is not reactionary but is carrying me into the future a vast quantum leap from political action to one colossal metaview of reality that embraces the political the spiritual, the scientific + the religious: what for me personally may be the quintessential summation of my entire life of inquiry + world view, for me + for mankind a new age is opening in which the holy, ejected from the top, so to speaks returns at the botten, at the trash stratum of the alley, humble + noble, beautiful + suffering + alive + conscious, personified in + by my Tagore vision. of indeed it is the triumph of Xtianity to dignity the lowly here now is a whole new folder 55 - 145 folder 55 - 145 D-73 leap along that axis: the lowly snail Darter becomes identified with the suffering ubiquitous Christ + by being assimilated to him is glorified as if nature itself - + the electronic environment of info + signals + message traffic - is able to perish + be resurrected as + with the cosmic Christ (Jesus patibilis) of pere Teilhard. Thus Christ extends even beyond the realm of the organic to bits of newspaper + song lyrics + random pages of popular print: one vast entity that evolves + thinks + has both personality + consciousness. It perfects itself + includes us all, subsuming + incorporating progressively more + more of its environment into arrangements of information - which is to say negative entropy: this is, in fact a runaway positive feedback loop of greater + greater complexity + organization Malebranche is not only compatible with this Neo-Pantheism - more: it is a highly sophisticated modern day version of how God can be here - all around us - + we be yet unaware; that is, he is everywhere yet unseen. Malebranche's mystical pantheism is the philosophical explanation of ecotheolgy in other words, Malebranche is the how + ecotheology the what. folder 55 - 146 D-74 No, it is not Malebranche. this: in 2-3-74 the cosmic Christ who is transubstantiating our world as pere Teilhard de Chardin describes was made visible to me: this is ecotheology + I saw point omega: Christ not God - exactly as I say in "Valis"! Hence the plasmate, which is living information + his sacred blood. This is a new theology unknown before pere Teilhard This is why the Manichaean doctrine my of Jesus patibilis appealed to me. experience - in 2-3-74 - was with Christ assimi‐ lating the total ecosphere. This is what I saw as set to ground: Christ as set, as Valis, as the plasmate Why cannot I get it through my head that Christ is here, penetrating + assimi‐ lating our world (ecosphere) invisibly, + this is what I saw (ecotheology)? No, I am not giving up my Malebranche; especially his (my?) notion that a given pre-existent archetypal idea - single + unitary in the mind of God - pluralizes as an infinitude of representations in the minds of living creatures - a Cartesian forms-doctrine. We do not in fact really see creation as such; so what I s 2-3-74 may have been creation as such, + it is quite different from what we suppose we do not see the pre-existent ideas as such erther; we see representations but they are representations of the ideas. I'm not sure there is a creation as such. If Malebranche is folder 55 - 147 folder 55 - 147 D-75 correct, we have only a knowledge of God directly, everything else consists of representations. If indeed I saw creation as such in 2-3-74 saw was God or Christ (Logos). So what I wonder if the term "creation" signifies anything I other than God (this sounds like Spinoza indeed). the Lord has returned; the No: Holy Spirit told me (caused me to realize it) + then showed me (caused me to see him). Like the lightning he is every where. common essence value signs I (our world) its between A + B world B a reversed 1800 Christ not here. Christ here i I c it's like time-sharing in a computer. nothing is what it appears to be; only by the power of the Holy Spirit can you see what really is. The key is the power of the sacrament when it is reperformed in conjunction with the Holy Spirit to abolish no time is the key to true reality. (world B.) time has passed (in the eyes of the spirit) since Acts - i.e. pentercost. That place, that time, those people, those events: the moment between the two advents. Christ is made present literally - not symbolically - present; this is the miracle. + I experienced to the sacred body is everywhere present - ultimately the ecosphere itself folder 55 - 148 folder 55 - 148 D-76 "the book of creation" says that the universe (creation) was formed out of the letters of the Hebrew alphabet. would this be the plasmate? as I realized one time while conded, the Bible is not a verbal description of a world; it is a world - in its (the world's) verbal form; this is the great secret. + surely all this is the plasmate + either is Torah or related to the Torah I found it in a footnote to "sepher Yezirah". "the idea, word + writing of the word are signs to man for a thing + is not the thing itself; to the creator however. idea, word + writing of the word are the thing itself "Not viz: "idea, word + work are one + the same to God, there is an ideal world in the divine intellect, according to which the sensible world was made. The difference between the human +