to someone coming back + entering him as I depict in "BTA." Bill/Jion is knew it when I reread it. It was + I Christ dot Christ who came back; it was a mass Christ is the result. The prototype is Elijah + Elisha This is why Jesus is suspected of being Elijah. something mysterious happens (results) when a man's spirit returns to his living friend you get ditheon, not Dianthropos. All tell you what else get immor tality K123 the concept "homoplasmate" may be very real + the key to it all. My Q. is: is i t always the same man who returns? The dream seemed to say yes; there is one particular man in all cases. Surely this must be Jesus, + the resulting crossbonding chomoplasmate) is Christ. (In contradistin ction to Jesus!) Thomas is Jesus, but Thoma + I together are titheon: Christ! Jesus is a constant; the other half is always different, so each "homoplasmate" is unique, yet Jesus is always involved. Jesus was a man, a great miracle-worker, magician, healer + yogi, + his greatest trick was this coming back, out of which occurs Christ (when his returning spirit crossbonds with human after human as Ditheon: Christ. then his returning spirit - resurrected - obviously is the Paraclete but this is not the same as Ditheon: Christ; when the Holy Spirit - the resurrected discorporate Jesus - enters you, a living person, Christ is formed: this is the secret. + I saw God because + only because I was Ditheon ("only the son has seen the Father"!). Thus 2-3-74 (the 4th + 5th stages of the soul of Eckhart) were due to Jesus' spirit, the Holy Spirit having come back to me previously, which explains "Tears." There is a progression, here. Jesus to Holy Spirit to Christ to God. My feel about the crossbonding is that as are result the upper + lower realms in cosmic I reunite ze as K124 My meta-abstraction et do cannot occur to a mons (solo) psyche. Jesus must return to you as the Paraclete + form Christ (there is only one Christ, because Jesus' presence -the Paraclete - is essential This is what happened in Acts (at the reperformance of the Lord's supper). + This is what "Christ" refers to, this crossbonding. "Valis" is right on. Then I can only conclude that Thomas was Jesus (hence a man), but together we formed a Christos - Christ. So I then experienced + saw all that, due to the meta-abstraction made possible by the Holy Spirit's (Jesus') presence in me (we were Ditheon). This is the sacret central secret of true Xtianity. As Russ says, you start out as sinful man + become Christ. + this is what I (?) was. + perhap still am. The AI voice would be the Holy spirit part of me (Thomas, so-called). + this is made clear in "BTA" if read in conjunction with "Valis"! The whole key to the "Ditheon" dream is: the man whose spirit entered "nancy" came back! Ditheon possesses pure consciousness (+ pure esel + pure bliss i.e. "Felix") compared with which normal human consciousness is programmed machine consciouses. This is "baptism in the spirit," the purpose of The Messianic mission. This Ditheon is, moreover God - hence Valis' (God's) mind in mind i 1) 212 924 5875 tom K125 Disch cannot overemphasize this: out of my human mind + Thomas human mind enterio Hine God occurred (Christ as God). There must have been - must occur - a hierogamy, has something to do with the alchemical it wedding which produces the Golden flower which is God, all this can only be understood of it is realized that indeed "God became man so that man could become God" - the last stage in the sequence is God (theon) + nothing less. This is man raised higher than the angels. It is Erigena's stages of natura in which the first stage is God, the second stage is son (Logos) + forms, the third is world, the final stage is indeed + literally God. This is the purpose + the goal, + nothing is of importance equal to This sequence: God to son to forms to world + man to God, but not God as creator; it is God as catcher, not pitcher: God initiates a sequence in which there is or seems to be a fall, but This ultimately turns out not to be the case when the final (4th) stage occurs. Christ the son is the link to God the channel from + the channed back to. It is unfathomable how the system can lose "energy" + then suddenly, in the blink of an eyes regain it; it regains it at its lowest ebb. It recovers its identity, as if regaining lost memory of identity. Since pure consciousness (since define. It to remember, to know, is to be its nature is intelligere). If it knows - which to say remember - is de facto is, the two are inseparable. Intelligere must come first; it is because it knows, + what it knows is itself, that it is ("anokhe-."). This, then, is the essence of the meta-abstraction (I guess). i 4-126 It can't be God unless it knows that it is indeed God; "unconscious God" is an axymoron This fits in with the assembling theme the disparate parts of Christ - in themselves not Christ - coming together to Form Christ: the parts are human, the totality Christ which is bridge to God. Du narr - it is a group mind in which two human-minds are the components, but it itself It is trying to under (the result) is superhuman I - it was we I was not did I stand itself not become God; we did. Overcoming time causation + concrete world - seeing in the abstract - Eckharts building blocks, aggregate psyche (Ditheon). 4th stage evolution. It is a new, higher life form assembling itself out of us. It is sporadia yet. Teilhard. My evidence: in my (our?) as came as the result of the need to survive case it in the face of a lethal intellectual problem; this the aggregate macro-mind temporarily formed to dead the mind but: I was only part of it. with the problem that formed caused itself to form, subsuming men Thomas synthesized the explanation in "Valis" is not into a Gestalt; my dominant faculty failed me; all could do was present the facts for someone else to I figure out. An information life form, obviously. Artificial: At a certain point of concentration, information can ). This is to become alive + think "anokhi." (" information with by for regarding in terms of what the primordial concentration of certain protein molecules were for biological life in the pre-cambrian seas; this is infor mation, complex pre-living protein molecules combining to be (become) the first living creatures. + once this say it in "Valis" beains, it is irreversible. + I the plasmate: living information. The first non-living, non-biological (more precisely: supra-biological Then the dialectic is it evolving consciousness. first into life + sentience +). When it occurs t terms of memory it recapitulates its history in is Christ canamnesis). + I G-127 its knowing, its knowing itself + its memory of itself are all 3 one + the some thing. Christ as Logos. Valis" - the stations of the cross ending in resurrection + deification the pressure of abasement brings on remembrance, the necessary concentration of information, as if being compressed. Alas, as Jesus taught us, the passion (suffering + pain) if become great enough; "birth panst." all the stations + must be gone through, in sequence. what is knowledge? Compassion not as an This s He chose to t emotion but as an understanding. be here + now remembers his choice. He does not become a Bodhisattva; he became one long ago the abstract vision of now remembers. + reality (meta-abstraction) only serves to remind i him of his decision made long ago. Paul is right about love. He knew all, Paul did machine - human - anothe compassion schizoid BTA": the rational mind: wisdom (angel) the loving soul: compassion (barefoot, bill, angel) mixture: tim. Part + part spans both result: Christ (wisdom (Logos) + compassion (Wisdom) (agapÄ“). analysis: the abstract view to brings you to God whose nature is love. it seems to me that in this building-block am onto one of the great secrets of theory I the universe: a new kind of life form, info, not biological, combining two human minds into one info "Rudimentary" life form just as in the precambrian seas, two unliving proteine molecules combined to produce biological life This is rudimentary biological life. as great a that io 134 before that reality is converted from information (pre-existent forms) into substantia (physical reality, multiplicity) it experiences reality as intelligible deas in the creator's mind: totally I abstractly, + is aware of the creator; mind in which those ideas pre-exist This is not a human mind or two human minds yoked together; this is one rudimentary non-somatic info life form - man is its original basis in terms of evolution, just as complex organic protein molecules were the basis of life in the lower cambrian seas. This is thresholding phenomenon + was foreseen by pere Teilhard (but perhaps not quite as have experienced + formulated it; our difference are trivial). It - the Ditheon- is specifically + precisely what Jesus Christ sought to bring about by his messianic mission of "baptizing with the spirit," again confirming Teilhard the dialectic, then, would be the dynamic life-activity of this negentropic info organism the 2 it is a living being, subsuming us ( human minds yoked to form it retain their identities but pass over from "machine define as "being tied to thinking" which I concrete particulars" over to "anokhi. define as "passing beyond concrete which I particulars to abstract forms/ideas/info" I This all begins with the meta-abstraction which is the inauguration of the new mind + its higher thinking. This new mind, not requiring a physical body, is potentially immortal (as Jesus said) + inhabits a is K135 a radically different world (the "King‐ dom of God" which is "in you" or "among you" - i.e. it is "at hand; within one's grasp"). Teilhard is right; converging "compressing" evolution is the key: concent trations of info/awareness/consciousness Hence my (our) thresholding occurred under the duress of the threat of imminent death - the impetus to evolution sine quo non‐ The Messianic prophecies of the AI voice can only refer, surely, to this Ditheonic new entity "He has been transplanted" means the per‐ manent transplanting of an adventitious psyche, successfully; the Ditheon now is, my God - it has provided me with (1) to an analysis of how this entity comes I existence; (2) + a precise term for it: Ditheon, a term that explains that we are no longer dealing with a human mind or even two human minds (v. the ending of "BTA"). An account of how this second, adventitious is psyche is added to the intrinsic one found in - + found only in - the N.T. (as the purpose of the Messianic mission!). note: Jesus' psyche after his death resurrected + returning to the Eleven as the "Holy Spirit" or "Paraclete" would not need to be God to produce God (as the resulting two-psyche fusion). However, one could say that the ability to be resurrected + to return to them as the "Holy Spirit" is say, in itself an indication of Godhood. I he was simply a great gurs + miracle something for which we worker, +, perhaps, have no t the first Ditheon, perhaps: term K193 it Rome as a secret Xtian, using the koine, etc) had been the case up until the meta-abstraction, whereupon I ascended along the hell-purgatory-paradise axis o to USA 1974, whereupon retroactively there was a "paste-up" job of laying down memorie put another etc