tragic (archaic fatalism) by heroic (modern dynamism, the future This is all caught victorious over the past). in "Valis"; the search for the new savior 2) the heroic quest par excellance; whereas death is the tragic, the succumbing to fate - bipolarized to the savior - + fat rejects this succumbing + goes off to seek victory, rather than defeat: the savior or the search for the savior, not death this is what "Valis" is really about: victory by the heroic (modern) over tragic defeat archaic fatalism). Expressed as a battle against ananke or heimarmene. The true c future (time) entered in 2-3-74, +, in relation to it the present was revealed the past! when I read the Disch foreword I knew at - that the heroic had won. (Due to what I used to call "the decisive new act.") The subtle temptation is to try to lose grandly rather than win humbly; often the heroic is meek noble or not, it + small, the tragic "noble." is still a way of losing: this is what led the Nazis to their doom, + "the King" was their the model. They strove not to win but to fail the grandest possible scale - + did so. "heroic" becomes mis defined as "losing on the on grandest possible scale" rather than winning temptation subtle at all - agnet is Satanic s -201 viewed this way, Xtianity + especially Gnosticism represents the great revolution in human history that divides the ancient world of fatalism (which included the Greeks) from the modern world of the heroic - even when the heroic is disguised as sacrifice, for this is how it (the heroic) entered the world: as the Lamb - i.e. sacrifice. It is precisely this that the "Messenger" vision deals with. It is absolute + crucial. The total power of the divine must be construed as operating so as to interrupt + nullify the "retributive machinery" which is the instrument of tragedy + is in fact the condition of our thrall per se, rather than merely related to it or an aspect of it. The Xtian-Gnostic revolt, then, is a revolt against the total machinery of world as an enslaving system, the instrument of punishment + the source of ineluctable tragedy + human helplessness in which man is a captive of the world into which he has been thrown - under his which conditions not even -especially!- death is his (Eigen). These are radically opposite (1801) ways of Dasein: victim of world (while maintaining a lofter, noble, aristocratic stance) or hero confronting + overcoming world-a‐ Fate (while posing as sacrifice, which worlds "swallows" as bait). In both cases (modes) the ostensible + the actual are opposites of each other: the King succumbs; the slave trumphs. we are here not merely at the heart of Xtianity - at its true secret - but at the heart of 1) how one truly is victor in + vis-a-vis world; + 2) why everything is 1800 opposite to what it ostensibly seems to be, + 3) the modern world versus the ancient: the modern (that C-207 is, from the first advent on how man now wins, whereas before the first advent he lost, he lost grandly but still was doomed to lose; he now wins in a gentle + meek way yet truly wins: a little winning is better than a lot of losing + s all this is the transformation that Christ has brought us. + in the Tagore vision his (Christ's + hence our) victory i s complete: the eschatological predictions are fulfilled in + as this vision: this is the form that true victory takes (once you know the 180Â° "mirror reversal" coaxial system in which ostensible victory is grand tragedy - defect - + osten sible sacrifice is small but real - + now total - victory. Total victory "by the Light" must take the Form I saw in my Tagore vision; I understand that now. Armies of warrior angels + a stern eschatological judge + king would be the ostensible "victory" of antiquity which was actually grand defeat However, in covert - muted - actuality Tagore is the eschatological judge who sentences us as a species + a planet to doom if we do not repent, but he does so as sacrifice, martyr, wounded & dying - + forced to with draw from world - in defeat. No; in [true but concealed] victory; it is we who as the evil ones of world are defeated; the light successfully unmixes + withdraws the vision of the second Advent as the suffering & dying self-sacrificing Tagore could not be other than it is, because now if + when he withdraws he takes -203 with him the spirit of the world itself; thus in a covert sense he has power over - which is to say rules - all life: the ecosphere as a having whole, being now identical with it - assimilated it to himself upon his original act of invading it. the weapons of power - coercive physical power - lose because then inevitably encounter some adversary more powerful. The only real victory can occur by being conquered (as bait/sacrifice: swallowed by evil) + then coming-into-being at the center of evil, + this is precisely what true Xtianity - in secret has done; thus it is subversive + invisible at the center of power in its disguised form i.e. to evil, (mimesis). Evil poses as good; good invisible within it, unknown to it i the BIP). All this is taught in the "Tao Te Ching," oddly: this is how the Tao works "a perturbation in the reality field"). note: "Evil, which is in power, poses as good." this is the BIP, both church + state. But good does not, conversely, pose as evil; "good is invisible secretly at the heart of evil, trans‐ forming -i.e. subverting it" - + this is what they do not pose as saw: the true secret Xtians + their "protess" anything at all: they are invisible by way of information (plasmate). I an uncanny mimicry. (mimesis.) Since we ostensibly experience evil as good the logic of a "secret good" hidden at its heart, 1800 the opposite of it makes no logical sense - but if the ostensible good (which rules) is correctly seen as evil, it does make sense - or, which is how it worked with me, suddenly o - as seeing the covent good causes the percipient at once to reverse his understanding of that my way works + is the ostensible good but to better, since the inference is have noted before. ineluctable; comprehend which rules -204 the ostensible good - which is in power - as in fact evil does not logically yield up a perception of the secret Xtians at the very core of affairs. My way is infallable, which is to say, the BIP can be deduced if one knows of the true secret Xtians + their (the 180Â° mirror covert message traffic. the opposite coaxial worlds working off constants of commonality.) (In which situa + grand success sacrifice is victory, is defeat mere tragedy stemming from an unacknowledged premise of helplessness in the face of world - this premise, unknownst controlling all the ruthless + powerful; concealed within their aristocratic grand designs is an enslavement to world + fate - heimarmene - that is absolute + total + emanates from the ancient world, as if o for them the first advent never occurred they are not only damned - they are doomed, as in the Tagore vision. They lose here, in the grands classical (antique) tragic sense (Hitter being the perfect example; they will their own doom by 1) unconsciously assum that fate will win; + 2) therefore opting for grand ("noble") defeat: defeat on the largest scale possible, i.e. gutter dammerum understood thus, my 1800 reversed coaxial" perception in 2-3-74 is logically the case Once the situation (as for example described in the "Tao Te Ching") is understood; viz: it not only is so - contingent truth - more, it then my must be so (necessary truth? awareness surely was more cognitive (intellin alble) + only secondarily sensible. It was pure + simple awakening / enlightenment of a trans-system sort G-208 in my vision Tagore manifests himself as absolute victim of world, absolute sacrifice in which all injuries done to all creatures appear on his body as burns (i.e. Stigmata); this is a cosmic Christ as cosmic crucified "person" - the "crucifixion" pervades our world as does he himself: he is personification of world, + his insuries personifi‐ cations of all injuries (crimes); this is indeed not anthropos (as was Jesus who was crucified. as a man, a human criminal like any other criminal, receiving only the wounds literally inflicted on his literal physical body); Tagore accepts all wounds, all injuries done on a cosmic scale - + no human body can endure that; yet, paradoxically, Tagore is human, for these wounds are indeed killing him - thus he combines the human (he can be killed) + the cosmic (he voluntarily accepts all wounds resulting from all crimes: this is quite different from Jesus + the first advent). This is Christos pantocrator as suffering sacrifuce, + voluntarily so. But now the sins (crimes) of the world are too much for him to bear - but this dooms us, not him, for this means that he cannot suffice as vicarious atonement, now, to render us spotless, because our crimes are too great theologically, this is an extraordinary idea, but, when examined, we suddenly discover that hidden within this situation is - eschatological judgment I in my opinion the Manichaean doctrine of the deliberate defeat + sacrifice of primal man - to save C-206 the light + God of light - in the form of bait swallowed by aggressive evil, with two results: (1) the swal‐ lowed light Acts as a "soothing poison" that pacifies the dark; but (2) also that engulfed sacrificed light is itself poisoned by the Dark so that it becomes drugged, forgetful intoxicated, asleep, alienated, etc. i but that eventually it recovers (remembers) its identity there within darkness + unmixes itself with the aid of the various saviors (salvifor salvandus) + withdraws leaving the Dark "in deathly stillness" which is total victory for light (i.e. the Kingdom of light - the "full flock" is spared, + the sacrificed "lamb" is all this strikes me as a healed -) more profound + moving interpretain of Xtianity, of Jesus + especially the Jesus patibilis, than is found in Xtianity itself - + it collates with my experiences beginning in 2-74 + going all the way to the Tagore vision. I believe it; it makes sense to me cognitively + spiritually + drama. tically. I really think manis through the Paraclete (as Mani claimed) gives the full + genuine explanation of the real meaning of Jesus + the whole C-207 fall + soteriological drama; manichae‐ ism, then, to me is true Xtianity with mani as the savior following Jesus, "the apostle of Jesus," as he colled himself, + incorporating e.g. Zoroaster + the Buddha + others as well. It is all beautiful, convincing, highly profound + the most spiritual system I have ever read of. The "true, secret Xtians," then, constitute the engulfeds sacrificed light within darkness, one by one regaining their identity + overthrowing (defeating) the dark from within + I am one of them. Here is the secret of Manichaeism: "Victory" here on earth, in this world. ostensible victory, is here defeat, not just in the next world; + sacrifice self-sacrifice - is true victory i not in the next world, as in [ortho‐ dox] Xtianity, but here + now. Thus + therefore, we have two mutually opposite coaxial worlds here: the ostensible one, seen by the eyes of ignorance, + the real one, known through the saving Gnosis brought in two ways: (1) adventitiously by the savior salvandus; +