the older something is the farther away it seems - what would final cause look like, since it arises from the future? Is not the immediate present seen as closest set? Then teleological cause would be as in a hologram; it would thrust itself out of the reality field entirely, toward you: more than set: closer than set. more important, you would see a displace. ment, exactly as I saw ("perturbation"). Have I not repeatedly said, "Valis was the effect of something itself unseen, like the patterns in iron filings that a magnetic field creates by which we detect the field"? Then the source of the perturbation lies in the future, not in some ultra level of reality This ala Plotinus or the Gnostic I heavens. totally explains pretextual cause; efficient cause was literally not true cause - it had been reduced to literal pretextuality. Then Valis was the future acting on the present t 9218 reality field. For years I conjectured that Valis was from the future, like tachyons ("Three-eyed aliens from the future"). As I say, I sensed retroactive time. + vis-a-vis the Xerox letter I was acting on the basis of knowledge I did not yet have (were my "dissociated" action additional "displacements" perturbation. I sensed that + had reached into the future for information I crucially needed. Now, when I saw Valis ("perturbation in the reality field") - that was when I had the headphones on, listening to "Strawberry Fields" - the lyrics got changed; I saw the flash of light; the info about Chrissy was transferred to me ("God struck me with a beam of pink light"). Okay; the truth t is, sensed a presence there, sentient possibly related to technology + from the future. All my help (2-3-74) came from the future. Where else could it have come from (except God; so the choice is (1) help - which is to say invasion - from the future; they changed their past, our present. Esp. vis-a-vis Nixon Have t not deliberately put "answers in my books to show I knew + was responding Hence (1) my writing to charles Wiggers; + (2) to the wall St "Journal" about the tapes? This is one of the theories presented in "Valis." our children, vastly evolved is 3 1219 did I not often conjecture that King Felix had been inserted for future readers - hence the message put in a book, which would survive time travelers Here's the big question: Does this explain Thomas + why he had trouble with the car all that? + why this world looked like a prison; it is his past. Thomas was already in me in '70 when wrote "Tears" + probably earlier ("Ubik"?) He was triggered to be disinhibited by the Golden Fish sign; it told him the Xerox missive was soon coming: the moment had arrived. This is how I knew the exact day the Xerox missive would arrive the Greek was technical. the adventitious The Ditheon dream. psyche is an invader from the future The "meta-abstraction" - 2 times + 2 places, all right; Thomas remembered his "Theres identity + life from/in the future. someone else in my head + he's living in another century." Supra-temporal view of reality Thomas remembered, + what he remembered most was himself; he became conscious: "Anokhe -" all right had already written "Scanner. our communications media cooking it + being ridden I've always said, "God doesn't do this. it Valis in my mind: binary computer from 220 the future, a construct. Hence the dialectic Have I not recently written, "we don't evolve into Ditheon; it - the higher, more evolved life form - imposes itself on us. invades us, uses us." Then it already exists Firebright. Something placed permanently in me "The meta-abstraction," I wrote, "caused me to shoot forward in time so that I saw this world as the past." Ill opt for something even more extra‐ ordinary; in the meta-abstraction I saw the present, the past + the future; it was a true meta-abstraction, out of time + into eternity. (Hence I saw the supra-temporal constants.) This is how God sees (time + hence world). This is the ultimate experience God: time seen as I saw space: infinitely of vast see, the supra section K216 passim proves that anamnesis + reincarnation are not the explanation; the future was involved (or also involved). But this does not point to technology + time travelers; it points God + intervention in history: the to divine + the eternal had invaded the temporal + mundane. That means that it was the apocalypse; my parousia dream in March was correct; God has taken the field; the great assize occurred. the "adventitious" psyche is not a the psyche at all but is justification (221 person perfected. The missing half added, with Christification] as the results. "Thomas" contained all that I lacked. Justification at the final hour as promised. Ditheon is the two parts that make the whole. Adopted son + coheir. That's why it was a man's psyche in The Ditheon dream; not the Holy Spirit. is human, the other half of you, who it are human, after all. But justified man is no longer man; he is Ditheon. The medicine that nancy took in the Ditheon dream was the communion wafer dark rel because it had been dipped in the sacramental wine; it was the host. the Messenger "dream" expressed the concept of justification to me, + Oh the pain, to know God justified me by his grace through Jesus Christ made a current event (the passion + crucifixion) lifted out of time out it history by the Holy Spirit made for me now - it is the Holy Spirit who does that. I know at last I looked it up Valis ploic passion. i i I must not allow myself to think of this in terms of sin, sinful, depraved man, negative judgment + damnation + man' inability to save himself, as the Reformers + Paul thought of it. I must remember 9222 it as I experienced it: the in-rushing of those part lacking in me that by their bestowal by God rendered me comple +, really, ensouled me. Last night the idea came to me that angel Archer is no my soul but the completed person of which 1 - PKD - was only one half. She is unique + ideosyncratic but a complete person. I guess this is the same as soul, + it i created by but not by the person - i.e. by me - but by God through justification Hence it is restored (pre-fallen] man. as I suspected. So Thomas is my missing hal o Angel is the totality of the two of us. This was God's grace bestowed as a free gift. It is also "Anokhe --" or pure consciousness + it is bilateral hemispheric parity. + it i being a Ditheon or Christ (as the EB speaks of in discussing justification). It is a sancti fication of the person so that he is a temple for + of the Holy Spirit my seeing Acts as now is the work of the Holy Spirit, wherein the passion, cruci are fixion + resurrection not merely a historic are event in the past but, as the E B says. contemporaneous with the person; this is necessary for justification to occurs since it was Christ + his sacrifice that is the source from which God's grace flows. I must now face the fact that my anamnesis back to Acts is a miracle of a specific Xtian nature, necessary to justifi‐ cation: Jesus' time + place is made compen contemporeneous with the person so that ceases it: I t a K224 to be a historical event in the past; this is done by the Holy Spirit. This is why this anamnesis was triggered off specifically by the Golden Fish sign. Hence I did not just remember Acts; Acts was present here + now So (as I say in "Valis") reincarnation has nothing to do with it, + (as I say) Thomas is not a former me but the missing parts which when added to me create one complete (justified) There is complete belief in Christ i self. (arising from this) + a sense of it being here + now + (in a real sense) for me. So my anam‐ nesis is not tangential but central to my experience - + its purpose; necessary, in fact. For justification to occur I had to believe, + this is the meta-abstraction: sudden total, perfect + complete belief that amounted to a that bursting realization linked to memory of the that as if I had known it, seen it, but up to this moment had [merely] forgotten; that had not been knowing + believing is, I seeing simply because I had fallen into + forgetfulness. Thus anamnesis means "the loss of amnesia," not mere remembering another aspect of this is my sense, when I read e.g. Luke that this is not a real world but the real world. Tied in with This, of course, in the Acts material in "Tears, a miracle within a miracle. Hence for me. scripture is alive + is more real than the regular world. + of course the reperformance of the Lord's supper with Christopher fits in with all this. Perhaps most remarkable of all K225 was my fear of the Romans: graphic proof of how truly real the Biblical place + time had become to me. + then, too, I witnessed The supra-temporal constants of Xtian apocalyptic history. So Christ is involved + necessary; the Holy Spirit is involved I necessary; God is involved + necessary. My assent was compelled that I might be justified, that I be made saved + safe + placed under God's protection; that pronoia vis-a-vis the Xerox letter + the tax matter was involved can't be doubted. It also occurred at the time of passover. So the question, "which God?" is totally answered, + in fact always why did I feel pain last night where was. I I realized that God had justified me? guess it is this pain: that I write on this exegesis year after year not to figure out what happened but to preserve it because it is so precious (as witness the "wind in the Willows" section). I don't - or didn't - want is explained. Here joy becomes so intense that, as in Schopenhauer's phrase, "it bursts the human breastbone"; it can't be endured, + God knows this. it (passion, crucifixion + resurrection) 1) true. (The Bible is the real world.) 7 2) It is now (contemporaneous) (anamnesis. 3) It is for me. (I am an apostolic Xtian. I guess the realization last night - that it was justification- is in itself revelation of the same kind as 2-3-74 plus such revelations as the (226 messenger + bill of particulars instance. I sense a meaning in the term "justification" not connected with sin but with incompleteness (perhaps this is Jung's influence on me.) But I believe that the rest of me entered me as an adventitious second psyche, + this is the subject of "BTA" & Russ' letter, how this completion is (or resembles) being Christ being perfect (Hence the adventitious psyche wrote recently that now Hence I is human.) I seem to have a center, but did not before more important, I see this as being ensouled. the work has reached its end, suddenly, by an act of God; the person has been searching for his missing parts (i.e. his soul) throughout all time + everywhere, with the possibility that the person may - on his own - never I consider this search for be complete. one's soul as the modern way of viewing redemption from bondage to sin, enslave ment, or as I speak of it, machine - level consciousness. We are dealing with evolutionary development of the human being through + in history, as if completenes lies not