is a guilty verdict. (Viz: "unless you cease -" I neath the perfect loving beauty there is a under sentence of death for us unless we - as the Biblical terminology has it - repent; i.e. change our ways. This [the 9-81 vision] is clearly Judo-Xtian good thing I said so in my mail out. It is purely so. Tagore (as I say) is Christ; + we have broken the basic covenant. That underlies our entire relationship to God. The message is congruent with the mosaic dispensation not only are we covenant breakers we doom ourselves + all life by our destruction of the ecosphere; thus God is intervening to save us: the warning (Kerygma) is for our own good since we are part of the ecosphere we are destroying, + not above it. the ramifications of this Kerygma are extensive. God wishes to save us, but "us" refers to all life on this planet. It is not the wrath of God we need fear, God loves G8 - enough to take the burns onto himself+ is warning us of the consequences of our own Acts. The fact is, it is an ecosphere. its life is indivisible. The solution to the situation consists of a return to our covenant-relationship with the total life of the ecosphere. Thus the proper C-72 Covenant-relationship is not only morally right, it is essential to our own (the human species') survival. + time has run out for us. This is a basis for the second Advent that (I realize to my surprise) fits in with apocalyptic thinking: God intervenes at the last moment to avert our destruction; but our destruction is at our own hands + so has a moral basis; we destroy ourselves. Thus the intervention is (1) necessary; + (2) could not be postponed. If we do not change our ways. God will not solve our problem for us but will abandon us; so he warns us because it is within our power to correct the situation (it isn't t as if the Earth is threatened by a comet; This is something we are doing.) Yet this situation is another Felix culpa, because to save our physical lives we must comprehend come to with the spiritual dimension + the ecosphere - that is, Christ because now of there is a convergence of the ecosphere + Christ: because Christ/Tagore has taken on the injuries done to the ecosphere, + also because he is the anima of the ecosphere - psyche, rather. Thus Christ escalates his involvement to include all life, not just human life + the spiritual element is revealed as being here in our world (although it can withdraw - + may) all the elements of classic apocalypsis are here. The imminent peril amounting to - G-73 total disaster for all life on the planet God's intervention + warning - in the form of Christ; the call to repent, to change our ways while there is still time. The threat of God abandoning us - practical moral elements are interwoven so that there both warning to repent as well as is salvific intervention (a paradoxical situation in which two mutually exclusive antitheses be that are absolutes lie ahead and will , not imposed on us); + must chosen by us is all, ultimate life - spiritual life of bipolarized clearly with death. That we have been warned (of the peril) reveals God's providentia, his care + concern for us; but as say, he will not choose for us: we our t selves must choose, + if we choose wrongly he will abandon us, the basis being that we broke the Covenant + thus forfect his protection am satisfied that (as the vision So I stipulated) Tagore is Christ. The overall Judo-Xtian situation fulfill eschatological expectations however new + complex + surprising some of the constituents are (especially Tagore born or at least living in the East + apparently a world Buddhist or Hindu; but this is rescue). II just now reread a section of "Valis": about amfortas' wound, fat's wound, cosmic phagocytosis. the heavy metal splinter in the macrocosm + in each of us as microcosm + how the physician destroy - kill - it by will surround it + phagocytosis. The writing is powerful + extraordinary, but moreover one can discern in this whole section - which also i G-74 deals with Fat's decision to seek the new savior - the predatory origins of the vision of Tagore, the Kerygma about the wounding (sic) of the ecosphere by radioactive (i.e. toxic metal) wastes. "Heavy metal particle can readily be equated with radio active is wastes dumped in the ocean. + world spoken of as a single, unitary, living organism. Thus the Tagore vision is not only consistent with themes in "Valis" but profoundly + strikingly so (I think that initial dream about the "bichlorides - a very poisonous poison - was largely responsible for this!) i it suddenly flashed on me how uncanny it was reading "Valis, because of the growing theme about (1) the anticipated birth of the new savior + (2) the search to find him - uncanny now that I had the Tagore vision; the book seems truly "written backward" i.e. from 9-81 on back, esp. the "Garlands of flowers + singing" quote at the very end, + the mention of islands the "music, per‐ that quote fits right in with me fumes + colors" statement in the letter, plus sitting before the to set. + the theme of the wounding the savior - + by a particle or splinter of heavy of metal. The issue in the book is not, "will a new savior be born?" But "where?" This is extraordinary dream/hypnagogic: I have a wound on my leg a vast Vaging like healing wound, like a slit with a start I wake "lesions." voice is saying, it ur fully; this is Tagore's wound (+, I realize now mmfortas; + by extension Christ's, from the spear). i C-78 franced steger phoned I have achieved spirituality (the Buddha or Christos state) but by sacrificing myself point where physically injuring myself to the death is now a real possibility. Not the spiritual element would not die; it would simply ascend out of this world back to its origin + home begs for an but Tagore, my spiritual self, end to the inflicting of these burns which (I repeat) I have taken on voluntarily by identifying myself with all life + the suffering of all creatures. It will not end by my ceasing to take on these stigmata that is not what Tagore pleads for. Tagore pleads for an end of the crimes against life - not my life but other lies - that result in these voluntarity-assumed burns Tagore -myself - he is crippled, now, + yet he emits "an ineffable beauty, absolute. not relative, loving beauty, like music + perfume + colors." Tagore - my spiritual self could cease at any time this voluntary taking on of the injuries, but he will not; he will die first; to repeat, it is the injuries that must stop, not his taking on of these injuries agent grange + T-2: the day I typed up the Xerox letter. "Wounded + in pain + in mortal peril cries out for our help." The spiritua element in me, making one last appeal âž€ This says it all i -76 So the themes are: spirituality + voluntar physical injury serious enough so that death is a real possibility. (1) what I have achieved, become (Tagore); (2) the price porid c serious physical insury boding death. + #2 is voluntary). #-1 + #-2 cannot be separated; each implies the other. they are one thing expressed two ways. It is quite clear that #-2 is a means to #-1; #-1 is the qual + it has been achieved ("music, perfume + colors; absolute loving beauty, not relative." But look at the still, Tagore would not be Tagore if a cost changed his ways. It is out of the question he to abandon the spirituality There is another interpretation possible the stigmata Tagore (myself) bears are due to the insurces inflicted on him (me) during his (my) lifetime (connected with anne + Nancy, 1971, being driven out of Marin My possessions stolen, being abandoned, county. the totality of it as an indivisible etc.- + what has come out of this unitary whole). - these crimes committed against Tagore, myself but the dream shows that as a i is Tagore. result of the accrual of these injurces Tagore is dying; mentally he is made spiritual but her physically he is "tragically burned" ( "burned" suggests the street idea as in "I really got burned" or "you could burn t him"). His body can't take much more. Bu Tagore as a spiritual entity would not be abolished by physical death; he would simply regretfully withdraw + return to hi t source, leaving the world as too evil a place for him to live in. The fact that Tagore offered himself, C-77 his body, voluntarily to these injuries is what has made him Tagore, they didn't simply happen to him: he agreed to endure them, + this is what both reveals his spirituality (it is spiritual to have decided to do so) + creates it (voluntary crucifixion also generates further spirituality; so we have a spiritual entity to start with (if it werent spiritual it wouldn't voluntarily have taken on these injurces) who completes itself by means of these seefsame voluntarily taken-on injurces. This its decisions results both in physical damage + spiritual completion/perfection; hence there can be no discussion of ceasing to take on such injuries. that would violate Tagore's nature, which gets brighter + more sweet every day. Tagore could save himself physically any time simply by electing not to take on the injuries, but my t reaction to the news about T-2 (destroying whole stash of dope) shows that he will not ong do This - because, as I say, he would then cease to be Tagore This is the essence of both the Buddha + the Christ: he - this spiritual entity - is born, + because he is already to start with a latent spiritual entity he voluntarily takes on t suffering ("crucifixion"), the suffering of others + in fact of all life (the "ecosphere") + by means of this taking on their suffering voluntarily he actualizes, completes, realized + finally perfects his Buddha-Christ nature "De imitati Christi" - likewise the Buddha). but by then he is physically destroyed. He has elected to save rather than be saved, + in is choosing becomes his true self, which is C-78 unfortunately (+ this is where the ultimate tragedy comes in) is not able to live in This world; thus he is forced out of it because he is literally killed; but by then spiritual victory is his. Hence the secret "the victor" He name of the Buddha is he gave up a has made a wise trade: temporary perishable, ephemeral physical body (as sacrifice) in exchange for eternal bliss as a purely spiritual being released from the wheel (as the Buddha expresses it) or return to heaven (Christian view). So the Tagore dream shows my unconscious realization of two things: 1) What I've achieved 2) The cost plus a third 3) + I did this voluntarily, intentionally, knowing all the time - throughout my lifetime - what I was doing: trying to achieve #-1 + being willing to pay #-2, the lost. + both came true; I have achieved it + I have paid the lost. Thus the - in fact Tagore dream reveals two tremendous colossal - insights about my whole life + my fundamental nature: what I have become, how did it, the price I paid, + that I did it knowingly + voluntarily; no one made me do it t chose this read, knowing the price + the goal only now, at the end,