- but not in fact be - arbitrary (since a very high order of intelligent judgement wouldd be exercised; viz: a luque - i.e. reason - would be involved, but its pattern would elude our minds. The 23rd letter is not just added on; the torah returns to its jumbled matrix state & then reforms anew: differently. My god - if you add a 23rd letter you get a broader, larger, more comples, higher, more sophisticated system. While new combinations [of letters] would be generated, new kinds of situations would arise (analogous to my meta-abstraction vis-a-vis of normal abstracting. The plasmate is the hyper-information (the 23 letter system) feeding into the old original, mechanical, limited, fossilized 22 letter system. As the blood of Christ, just as Valis is his cosmic body. Thus I can view the combat between the two information systems in terms of Hebrew monotheism - with this E - 7 proviso: the 3rd epoch - the messianic age - is here: freedom & mercy. This a new - of several new - stages / types of human minds arise having a new, higher, more flexible relationship with reality (I of course think of protestation of Beethoven). new ways of experiencing reality would arise. Moral law would change - from thie lex talions to Jesus' xtion system of forgiveness. We are aware of this, but also - & this no one thinks of - physical law (i.e. causality) would loosen! An uncertainty factor (freedom) would enter karma would relax. Then the ancient "Babylonian Cosmos" is not just a view of reality; the reality itself has changed, not just the view. &, highly instrumented in this is gnosticism (if Hans Jonas; study of the contrast between the Greek - Babylonian view of the cosmos & the Gnostic "revolt" in faustion view. Information - Gnostics is [Dr?] not just to humsn minds but into the world-machines itself. Stall this machinery is information or based on information. The retribution machinery is the unit- machinery, & christ (Valis) is that new information, or, as I call it/him, hyper-information modulating the older information-carrier as a carrier. This is what I experienced in 3-74 or the loosening of causality. Additional ([Dr?]) information was poured into the system (it E - 8 turns the newtonian mechanics into modern quantum mechanics; there is an element of uncertainty. Causation - as it used to be know & used to be!! - is decisively altered tou are flexibility. This there is a direct connection (I now see) between Chritst - the messianic age - & modern physics, post-newtonian physics. & the influence of this added information - i.e. christ - will increase proggressively as he penetrates the worldmachinery more & more. What we call "acausality: & "uncertainty" & "the new physics" is Christ involved in - an invader in - the world-machinery at a niglad insight: (1) the universe is an information system. (2) Christ has secretly penetrated it. (3) Christ can be viewed functionally as hyper-information verturbim the prim universe-information system, using it as a carrier. This is what I saw in 3-74 (the plasmate, Valis, set to ground, terminal parallaxis, etc). Now: the "king-felix cypher: hyper-information that both referred to the messiah & (fascinating!) also was the messiah as hyper-information (the plasma described as Christ's blood in "Valis") This (3-74) is all beginning to make sense. It replicates & distributes itself as I say in "Valis" it is living information system which is merely mechanical; this hyper-information can think! E - 9 "King Felix" is Christ as in the notes in "Seven Yezirah": for man, the writing is a sign signifying the indent [that it refers to] but for God the wrtiting 11 the timing refers to (1) Q.E.D. (1) Hence Luke - Acts is the unit that describes! As I already realized. This is simply an ultra extraordinay realization! & the "cypher king felix does not unit refer to - stigmata - Christ, it is Christ (as what I called in "Valis" the blook of Christ). Well, I have said since 3-74 that "terms" has scripture in it (eg Acts). & this scripture is living information that put itself there. Now I [Dr?] that the two-uni "cypher" in "tear" is Christ himself: no wooden it stood out in calor (red) & as set to ground. This means that 3-74 was first, last, & throughout a perception of christ; those parts that were not were essential prerequisites for this perception (& this involved a very great amount of - well, cognitive - precept transformations in me). In other uni, the total contextual transformation - it of unit itself - had to occur were I to be able to see him. But, I think, this was not exactly a theophoany; it was (more likely) an instance of a colossal radical new [Dr?] coming into existence for the human species & connected with evolution in the new E - 10 physics & our analogous theories. It is apparent to me now, suddenly, that Gnosticim is - as Jonas makes clear in his analyses of it in contrair to the Greek-Babylonian view of the cosmos - the absolute theoretical key-system that both (1) described the entry of the hyper-information into the older, rigid, mechanical system (to combat Heimarmene) & (2) that hyper-information (Gnosis) itself; as a theoretical system, Gnosticism is/ was what it described & it is [Dr?] & it is (as Jonas says0 the vasis for modern (post-ancient) man. (1) Only of the closed cosmos is viewed as [Dr?]- trated from the outside (i.e. by the messenger bearing the new, added information [Gnosis]) [Dr?] the situation be understood. I was right, then; to base "Valis" I my 2-3-74 experience on Gnosticism, at somee ultra-high level there bay be monotheism, but functionally there is an adversary dialectual combat between the old order & the new into penetrating it. Hence I have is, formally & convintims a bolt Faustion man - of "owl." (1) the 3rd Epoch, the messanic age. E-11 There is essentially an adversary situation between the 2 info systems (old vs hyper) even if this is the 23 letter Torah replacing the older 22 letter Torah, the older system involves + operates by Heimarmene; the newer system on a flexible, sentient, more complex, more evolved, etc etc basis. these are such radically dif‐ ferent worlds that - well, the term "Cosmos" cannot contain both: it is cosmos penetrated from outside - hence the Gnostic premise of the transmundane necessary premise on understanding the stration: transmundane deity as overruling the creator + his creation. at the very core of this lies, then, Faustian man + the Faustian ideal + Dasein; + this is the topic of "onl"! + as I wrote ultra supra: it is the heroic (the new, the Gnostic, the Faustian) vs the tragic (the old: "sidereal passivity"). This is an issue of unprecedented importance - + has directly to do with fate (heimarmene) hence the very basis of what the world order is + how it works, + the newer way of being (Dasein) by man that order. saw world as info (3-74) because I had seen a sacerdotal object as object (2-74), true object, existing simultaneously in several + hence performed information continua (space-times). The meta-abstraction E-12 I think it a brilliant theory that the universe is an information system, consisting of + governed by information - + that a hyper‐ information system has entered it + is using it (modulating it) as a carrier. thereby overruling + modifying it with the result that a great deal of flexibility + complexity has entered an otherwise very rigid + mechanical (deterministic) system. Thus not only are our theories about the laws governing the universe (hanging - the universe itself is being changed. It the s intent of the hyper-information to thus modify the existing system: this is the reason for its existence: it serves this purpose. This is an epochical adversary situation, combat between two ages; in a sense combat between two universes i you take the text (which is linear sequential + digital) of Acts + convert it into a world: objects + their mutual arrangement. (Acts is part II of Luke.) What is the basic story of Luke - Acts? Jesus Christ but when you turn it into a world, although the narrative is still there, Jesus Christ cannot be seen (i.e. as an object amone objects). The linear, digital text is now a Gestalt (bild) + is read simultaneously but by the right hemisphere (the linear digital text of course as narrative is read by the left hemispher). Where now is Christ, if not a an object among objects. He is missing. Then you discover that in the unified total Gestalt (pattern) read simultaneously E13 by the right hemisphere anologically Christ is present as the pattern itself. It as unified totality. the puzzle is solved. Luke - Acts is not a verbal narrative about Christ - i.e. referring to Christ - it is Christ. s t Luke - Acts does not describe something s it is that something, + that something is Christ: it is what it describes. (viz: when Luke - acts is transferred from left hemisphere scanning - i.e. sequential, digital, linear - to right hemisphere scanning - one unitary visual Gestalt read analogically - it ceases to tell about Christ - it ceases to be information - + becomes Christ. Thus this is information that is what it refers to. Every word + sentence + paragraph of Luke - Acts is part of the Corpus Christi; moreover, the entire intact corpus Christ, can be reconstituted out of a key section (piece) of Luke - Acts just so long as that key section is sufficiently complete as to represent access to the text itself: to Luke - Acts rather than any other text. This fits in with the intuition I've had for some time: that the Bible is the real world + appears in our spurious "world" a putative book the way "grasshipper" as does in "MITHC." If what we possess in the form of a book (info) is actually a world, then what we experience as world is perhaps only info - a book. Everything is backward. E-14 I have it: I know what the "two mirrors positive runaway feedback" self-awareness loop was all about the circuit (myself) reached back in What Hofstadter calls a "strange loop" reached back into its own programming + altered it (viz: that part which is programmed - i.e. acted on by the programming - changed the programming. Thereupon the altered programming reprogrammed + hence changed the part that is programmed which, now changed, reached back + changes the programming again to this was the phosphere graphics trip. This strange loop speeded up its cycle faster + faster (runaway). The result? the programming reached its limit, the programmed part reached its limit - i.e. the total circuit reached its limit: reality became visible as information which apparently it is). My mind had evolved to its limit, as if exhausting time. What set this off was the recognition experience that I call the "not 2 mothers but one mother twice" meta-abstraction. At its limit the system had complete control over its own programming (the DNA?) E 45 that is it programmed itself by programming its programming Thus it had power to generate its own reality (the other) out of itself; in terms of Cartesian representationalism the representation was not supplied (Fees to it as a brute given but was its own creation; thus the circuit (my mind) became Pantocrator, not psychotically but truly. This it became this what I call Valis or God that it God took the form (bild) (my mind) best -ideally - conceived (knew as self-knowledge, drawn from itself: its intrinsic a priori knowledge - archetype - of Christ. what I experienced as Valis in me + outside me was Christ as my mind ultimately conceiver of him: I created him +