visible link of action between them to fill in the gap: this is the projected illusion of causality. Static disjunction is then converted into continuous flow which we term "time." We err twice: in supposing space to be discrete plural objects acting on one another when in fact space is a unitary field, + we en in supposing time to be continuing rence we project "causality; to compensate for these twin errors." I understand now how my meta-abstraction made it possible for 9284 me to drop out the notion of causality (as no longen needed) + to see space correctly as a unitary field all loci of which somehow mutually signal or / + are pre-synchronized; the basis of this field, then, being information + the transfer of informa‐ reality, then, in a certain real sense is information. When causality departs (due to "before" + "after" ceasing to be intelligible notions) force as a concept is converted to the concept of mutual notification, as if locus A tells locus B that it is to do something, a something pre-programmed intrinsically in locus B; information replaces dynamism + harmonious cooperation as if by a unitary very intelligent macro-entity replaces a universe of Harshly colliding multiplicity of things I conceive This whole transformation - out of which the perception of Valis arises - hinging on the initial meta-abstraction (which had to do with temporal "coaxiality"). The meta-abstraction was con‐ ceptual; the encounter with Valis, on the other hand, was perceptual (+ grounded in the original conception having to do with contem poraneous times. yet it can be argued that if indeed causality does not exist (but is supplied by the mind of the percipient) the meta-abstraction is simply a matter of more accurate perception a matter of dropping out a conceptual error of seeing what is really the case. But to drop out This conceptual error you must initially make staggering abstraction which I call a not two K290 mothers seen once but one mother seen two i at two times + two places. This times requires the percipient to fathom the possibile that one + the same object can exist at two places + two times + yet remain unitary. The weak link being in the concept "two time," + "two places" - which brings us to Plato's form theory. Specifically the idea of derived particulars (many particulars - potentially an infinitude - deriving from one unitary eidos that is somehow in all its particulars). ( This leads to an intimation of acosmism or semacosmism). (it instantly desubstantializes phenomenal reality. when "before" + "after" cease to be intell ligible, change is seen to arise due to the synchronized mutual cooperation of "things" rather than due to a chaotic impacting as at random; change is now coherent as if the product of a single will or mind manifesting itself everywhere equally; it is as if "things wish to do what they do, as if motivated internally rather than being aimlessly coerced. Thus order + harmony replace disorder + strife Everything is unified + organized, brought under the dominion of a single benign will. "things seem eager to do what they do; the voluntary has replaced the forced, + all is a scene of assent, initiative + cooperation (Empedocles Krasis, perhaps, where eros rules). Or, with the elimination of blind, deterministic efficient cause, aristotle's prime mover + final cause operates solely. This would tend that what we normally to indicate see i if it 291 efficient + final cause; we cannot discrimina them. Now, would not final cause, operating from the future, perturb the present reality field "from outside"? + haven't I given some thought to the possibility that what I call Valis - or more accurately the source of the perturbation I call Valis - is in the future? (Which would explain why I saw Valis as set to ground, normally "camou‐ flaged" + hence imperceptible to us; after all at this time I was able to perceive what I call temporal location. This would certainly (it in with (1) the valence away from plumb; + (2) the time dysfunction in which I reacted to things before they occurred - also (3) my knowledge that the Xerox missive was coming (4) + precisely when; + (5) perhaps most important of all, my "dissociated" ideationless actions vis-a-vis the Xerox missive based on info I did not yet have (which in fact could not be yet obtained - this all certainly looks to be the future perturbing the present. But then -1 reason - as a result a different future was caused to come into existence due to my radically altered response to the Xerox missive. This definitely would explain my profound sense that it had all happened Once before + I had fucked up + perhaps been imprisoned or even died as a result Then are we not dealing with a survival talent - related to precognition yet critically different from it. Why, it is mind - my mind? working retrograde in it time al 292 time is the key to it! + I did sense retrograde time something working backwar from the future. But probably this was no my mind; it was the Holy Spirit who (it is said) operates backward from the end-hos of creation. Or what if it were my own perfected mind "from the other side," come back to extricate me at the moment - in the situation - that caused my death? then the AI voice is my own future self - myself justified: completed + perfected; this theory is I presented in "Valis," is it not? I just had a stupendous insight take the above (viz: my future mind broke into the present - 2-3-74 - to aid me). Consider my recent presentation of the ontological axis of movement toward accelleration of change-rate velocity, toward complexity, freedom, flexibility, con‐ sciousness brighter color, organization of structure, to complexity of organization a very long + involved recent analysis that presumed two psyches producing Ditheon in which the in-breaking adven titious psyche is from another time did not all 3-74 partake of qualities associate with the future (along this axis), including world looking like a Black Iron prison - that is world seem to jump back but in fact mind has ➀ + abstraction or 9293 jumped ahead in relation to world! My adventitious psyche saw USA 1974 as the past - mechanical, rigid, unfree super substantial, simplistic; I think I have assembled a complex of reasons for (1) assuming an adventitious, second psyche; + (2) it is from the future, not the past - if indeed my ontological axis correct in its assortment of bipolarities is (now, as I point out this theory is hy t forth in "Valis," but as only one of many possibilities. Yet I sense it to be the correct one. It is not logical that a past self could help me or would help me (what would it know about USA 1974 + esp. the Xerox missive?) but a future psyche could help + would be motivated to - + its entry into my 974 mind would usher in vistas of I organizational complexity (the MMSK) not visible to us; + because of its higher degree of abstracting it would see the universe as info. I had thought that my right hemisphere evolved forward in a great quantum leap, but this would not explain the impression of invasion by an adventitious psyche - confirmed by the Ditheon dream. Not an evolution forward a return by the present - 1974 - me but to me + 1974 of a future me. The time barrier was broken, but not by me in I me 74, a fut ure moving B retrograde 294 in time to help. The "koine" Greek would be technical language, as I recently figured out. But - why assume this future psyche is me? Suppose technology is involved Have I not realized often that I was very deliberately putting stuff in my books + speeches aimed at the future, where I con strued my aid to have come from? but I sense the energetic, dynamic, high-speed, complex adventitious psyche as representative of the "rate" that will exist in the future: it existed in the future - state of all the elements I construe as lying along the ontological time-axis. + as if in confirmation I recently wrote, "We don't evolve to the next level [Ditheon] the next level as the higher organism seizes on us + impresses itself onto us the lower level organism - so this is not evolution as normally envisioned." Ditheon is not some thing you evolve to; Ditheon is something done to you - by the future psyche "BTA" seems to clarify this This is very important: I have arrived at one specific conclusion by several there are invaders here + disparate routes I they are from the future + I have long sensed this. Esp. in view of my seeing the cybory entities - the whole 3-eyed people + Russian technicians. + if technology was involved in 2-3-74, would it not most This means they likely lie in the future? came back here to change (their) past history I mean vis vis nix K295 which is why I knew (sic) about the tape transcripts being forgeries, as I wrote the wall street Journal But there is more. This is what "baptism in the spirit" refers to: a human psyche from the future comes back in time + enters a present human mind, + these two human psyches create ditheon because (for reasons go extensively into ultra supra) they can see time as space: they possess temporal parallaxis, as I call it + so have a totally abstract the perception of reality; + the in-breaking of future into the present (or past) is by its very nature negentropic, because of the change-rate velocity axis a future psyche would supply a fantastic charge of renewing energy (rebirth, regeneration, immortality) which memory of a former life would not. After all, the general laws of progression toward entropy do not apply to biological organisms nor to evolution of species or life on this planet as a whole; this axis is moving toward negentropy Now: "perturbation of not away from it. the reality field" conveys everything: by using such terms ("perturbation," "reality field") it is referring to quantum field them not to religion, + I say, the very language + employed to explain Valis answere the question: the future is pointed to by form (the terms/language) + content (meaning); a future event, entity, thing or the future itself can affect the past - i.e. our present This is what I saw (i.e. Valis) I 19296 then the AI voice's prophecies should be taken very seriously. "He has been transplanted" would perhaps mean, "to this time-period from the future." I am going back to what I read Russ' letter realized that day I at my s + 2, collated it with my Ditheon refers ditheon dream + "BTA." the specifically + precisely to Christ. books of the Valis trilogy analyze what 3 Christ is, how achieved - for sure - + also possibly pronounce veridical prophecy of his return. But even if this last is not the case, taking the 3 novels as a unitary whole, it is a profound study of the origin of - the so-to-speak making or creating of - Christ + says, as well, what this is divorcing him from the he is historical Jesus but not entirely. Christ the topic of the trilogy, + by the time is you have finished the 3rd + final volume you have seen Christ + know what he is + know how he comes about. All other are tangential. All issues in the trilogy He is present in this trilogy; he is not ty starting wi as just discussed: he is there the child Sophia. One can say, Christ is the character common