in such a way as to make it absolutely clear that Christ was meant! Now, suddenly, this all converges in Christ as this pre‐ existent word-wisdom person. I doubt if it would ever be possible to roll back reality to its informational (Logos) basis unaided, since our assent to reality seems to be compelled. Only the Holy Spirit can see the Christ-basis of reality, + its revelation to us of this is a major part of its mission + task: so we will know + understand the mystery that is Christ, who + what he really is, in all its dimensions. It would seem to me that the disclosure of this Christ. basis -hence Christ as Logos- of reality -the universe itself- must be the ultimate revelation. First he sets up a frozen framework -known to us as Torah, justice- + then he enters his own frame‐ work as world + asserts his volitional -yielding‐ mastery over it, from the time of the first Advent on, the Logos can be appealed to for mercy it is no J-89 longer a rigid framework, ossified. Thus the is a perpetual revolutionary motion by the divine (perhaps, now, as the Holy Spirit); it keeps the system evolving + changing + new (regenerated). perhaps each hypostasis was more mechanical + inflexible (symptom of entropy or Fall), but this is more than offset by four the "outbreak" of the spirit of God here in the lowest realm Farthein from the Godhead (I am viewing this in Neoplatonist terms). This is -as Erigena saysthe great return. (This goes back to my prior intimation that creation is a sign of entropy of what I call "splitting" - the dialectic). What if creation (verb) was accidental? A byproduct of the Godhead's self-awareness expressed by it uttering the word (perhaps "anokhi-."?). Its self-awareness gave rise to the word; the word in turn gave rise to creation. a splitting, entropic process (ohyes; the word gove rise to the first plurality: the forms). So the Godhead "inhales" this exhalation in stage four. the universe, then, is an unavoidable con‐ sequence of the Godhead's self-awareness: the uttered word is a sort of map or blueprint or schematic of the Godhead itself (+ so in a sense is God, as knowing or wisdom). The Godhead may have foreseen the consequences of its moment of self-awareness (the uttering of the word or self-map) + put into action the salvific responses to penetrate the lowest, farthest level -what I call the trash stratum, which is debased - + thereby reverse the falling, splitting + sinking. the rigidity of the Torah is indicative of this fall, + Jesus' mastery over the Law the indubitable sign of restoration + salvation. This is a fusion of Xtianity + neoplatonism + The word, the map, was is like Erigena's system. somehow only an ab straction of what it represented. J90 Yes; the map could by definition not be the Godhead; it would be a mental bstraction - which explains why (as o realized a week or so ago) my perception of reality in 2-3-74 was abstract the map is, then, identified with knowledge + reason, i.e. Hagia Sophia + the Logos. This implies that all "levels" (God, map [Logos], forms, spacetime universe. Holy Spirit at the end) are in a real way stages or forms or hypostases of God + this seems to be what Erigena teaches in his 4-stage natura. All stages are events (process!) within God. There is simultaneously both a sinking (splitting) + a rising (inte‐ grative). The sinking moves toward the mechanical + unconscious + the fettered; the rising toward unity, volitional, conscious + free. The former toward forgetfulness (a loss of self-knowledge); the latter toward anamnesis (a regaining or gaining of self-knowledge!). This schema would account fully +b‐ solutely for 2-74 to now. This is probably a ceaseless cycle outside of time - which explains the abolition of time in 2-3-74, my apperception of "coaxial realities"! In fact, one could proffer my anamnesis, abstract view of reality + apperception of supra-temporal coaxial realities as verification of this (Erigend's) system. the "Fall" involved in the map (Logos) of self-caiting knowledge may have to do with the map paradox. by its very nature the map fell short of the reality (God) it depicted, thus ushering in the fall - which did not end there. Once started it had to take its course. This is the "crisis in the Godhead" of Gnosticism! J-91 It progressively knew itself less + less falling into forgetfulness (of its own identity). viz: the very act of self-knowledge ("anokhi." triggered off a vicious regress of progressively less + less self-knowledge - until, at the most debased + forgetful stage, it awakens itself to restored self-awareness (salvator salvandus) Each ring, emanation or level is an inferior copy of the one above it, with necessary loss of "detail" - i.e. form, integrity: the map is a copy of God; the forms a copy of the map; the space-time universe a copy of the Forms - + then restoration occurs not by chance but by (due to) the absolute foreknowledge -a priori- of the provident Godhead - hence my dream of the 15 minute taped warning-reminders while I (sic) am in a spurious reality that I myself generate. (this even brings in "Tat tram asi.") Now. Now all you have to do is bring in Yaldabaoth - you have, then, the dialectic. Heys here's an idea: in this fallen, debased, forgetful state we misperceive God -the sole God this way; there is only one God, but at this level our view of him is distorted into the illusory figure of Yaldabaoth, so that even if + when we become aware of God we are alienated from him. He assumes (to us; the fault lies with us) a horrific punishing, cruel, deranged aspect - but this just shows the debased occluded state we are in! He is tryong to signal to us to wake up, but, not knowing our condition, we misperceive him this way (i.e. Palmer Eldritch!). This is both a symptom of our fall +, as well, perhaps the greatest tragedy, this alienation from God. since creation is a hypostasis of God, as the sufis say, one should look for Beauty in it, as manife ions J-92 the divine. There is no sharp disuunction between God + creation, because of the inter‐ mediary word + the Forms. + lotinus' concept of "concentric rings of emanation" sums it up. we must totally trust God + his wisdom: that the value of his uttering the word -his becoming self-aware ("anokhi..") - more than offsets the unavoidable fall engendered by it (as God explained to me last november: the pain -ordeal- of this separation + fall + forgetfulness + alienation is more than offset the by the positive gain sought for); thus uftering of the word is to be regarded as a good event, + each level thereafter as ultimately good - which fits in with my ecstasy in finding him again, + begging to be keft away a little longer, a sort of paradox of mystical ecstatic love. seek to bend the world's beauty can see the I for my salvation beauty but I cannot so bend it It is not for me. Ah, wretched creature that I am; who will save What means can this beauty y me mady to 'be tor me? It will not change, the be beauty itself. A redeemer is necessary. The beauty will save, but not me. Whom is it meant to save? be connected to it -+ enly can I it to- through a mediator. This is the word made flesh "The world is a place of such beauty as to be symbolic of salvation, yet not Note I cannot (apparently) "for" man." N Regarding Katky t J-93 connect directly to the world; I must do so through a mediator (what I call -know of as - the "Acts lens/grid"). can see the world + I can see its beauty, but its beauty is not "for" me + hence will not save me. But, seen through the mediator, the beauty becomes "Mind" + will save me. This refers to the basic Gnostic category of ontological Geworfenheit + das unheimlich. Because of this condition for me the world's beauty is deformed because it is not mine (it is freend to me). The mediator changes this; he comes between me + world; +, as a result, world's beauty is Eogenlich - mine... My own. + will save me. Who is -what is - this mediator + how does he do it? He must partly partake of what I am + partly partake of what world is. (Like Koestler's holon he has two faces; he faces me + he faces world.) He acts as a lens of comprehen‐ sibility (me to world; world to me). (Viz: through him as a medium, I can understand world, + it me. Thus he decodes each of us as message to the other, like a translator speaking both our languaged. So -I reason- he must be "in" me partly + "in" world partly. Thus he is both me + not-me I feel him internally + see him externally, as of the terms "internal" + "externall now, in reference to him, signify one + the same thing; + this J-94 homologizing is precisely his salvific work + victory. The calegories of fremd, unheimlick + Geworfenheit are abolished. who is he? That he speaks all languages - this is certain. Through him as lens/medium I can read world's languase, +, presumably, I am analogously comprehensible to it for the it speaks comprehensibly first time. to me when it speaks to me through him But if I confront it directly I cannot "read" its "language." Likewise, assume, I must be foreign to it, so he is a two-way interpretor. This use to which he puts himself in my behalf explains 2-3-74, which (solution or rescue) can only be under‐ i stood if the problem that required it - seen to exist, as solution is recognized although not necessarily explained. It is simply a given. "Valis" p. 15; all creation is a language + nothing but a language, which for some inexplicable reason we can't read outside + can't hear inside. something has gond wrong." through him, things do not hint mysteriously, do not signify but signify cryptically, rife with meaning but amboguous meaning, no: they speak directly + clearly + unambiguously; they do not allude: they state. Nothing could be more different from the schizophrenic "spread of meaning." 595 they deal in declaratives. They are syntactical signs not symbols. Each thing speaks for itself as if naming itself, identifying itself. Nothing is latent. In fact what was latent has become explicated + explicable. The message is perceived, opened (or opens These are not itself) + is read. riddles + enigmas; these are solutions: simple assertions. As if decoded. in contrast, reality seen directly is totally closed, foreign, ambiguous; it There is alludes but does not clarify. meaning but not "for" me. Its language foreign or at best obscure. Thus it is says nothing to me + if I speak it is unaware + unresponsive This is the strangest insight about (1) salvation; + (2) the normal (opposite) condition I ever did have. I only state facts (based on that sentence regarding Kafka); I do not know how either condition (1) or its opposite, condition (2) the normal condition -in which the mediator-redeemer-savior- is lacking came about or what they signify. The cleared-up cypher of the solution(con‐ dition (1)) does not explain it, since each statement or mesinge is only about itself + does not pertain to the total situation, + in condition (2), the normal condition nothing can be understood. Yet I sense that -as in me of Joyce's "epiphanies" - This is a major conceptual breakthroug ugh on J-96 my part (+ applies precisely to what I call