he would have to exist folder 55 - 035 folder 55 - 035 L-34 if this line of thought were correct + he would have to invade my mind when the "Acts" world invaded my world as a Thomas is no longe "second signal". a problem to be explained: he amounts to varification of a whole system of hypothesizing. "Tears" is an example of how one object can lead a dual existence, i.e. in both of the coaxial worlds. What I saw in 3-74 in "Tears (the stegenographia removed) is how it looks in the other realm; it tells another story, there. Also the way the animals were, as it able to speak; + arranged as in a nativity scene but there may not be "secret real Xtians" in this realm; like Thomas, they may be tracking the other realm. then - + here the realization finally stegenographic the dawns story in "Tears" was not meant for anyone in this [coaxial] world, any more than it was written by anyone (i.e. by me) in this world. So the explanation of who it was aimed for explains how it got there; Thomas wrote it + it is read in that realm by those in it. This is indeed Christ's Kingdom. True, it is an apocalyptic vision + it is Acts, but essentially it is Christ's Kingdom of which he spoke. I guess it's outside of time (+ hence t is eternal). It is the peaceable Kingdom I believe hence the transformation in the animals. bia role there, + if that the animals play a This is the case, "Androids" has much meaning There (presumably the spiritual material in it was placed there by Thomas - hence it collates with The Tagore vision). folder 55 - 036 L-35 I just remembered (5:45 pom.) A right-hemispher graphic image in hypnagogic sleep last night; I was been thinking about the two coaxial worlds in which one - hidden - is Christ's Kingdom. All of a sudden I saw a network of real threads forming a vascular system, as in our bodies; at the save time this was also: a growing arboring vine constantly becoming more + more intricate; + it was like the mycelia of a mushroom. This intersticing arboring network (I realized when I saw it) grows invisibly within our world, + this is what t saw as the plasmate, Christ's blood as living information - literally saw. But here now I peheld it as a network, a structure so-to-speak "invading" or internally penetrating our reality invisibly, + ever growing + becoming more complex This is both Christ + his Kingdom, + in 3-74 I had done a set-ground discrimination of it - this is what Jesus meant when he referred to himself as The "true vine" + it is the vision I had that day at the dentists. + this fits with Valis here (i.e. Christ) camouflaged in our reality. Then all portions of the plasmate form one organism or entity, + the living information does not pertain to it but is it, is Christ. remember 191s0) thinking recently, "I did not see I Christ in a vision or as an anthroporphic figure but somehow involved with + as transubstantiation" + this is all very well - I was thinking about Valis - but that does not take into account the plasmate Oh Dio - recently I figured out that the "cypher" King Felix not only refers to Christ but, more, is Christ! Which the "vine" vision verifies So in a sense "Christ's Kingdom" is Christ himself, the Corpus Christs; this fits the "organic" model Paul puts forth in the captivity letters. folder 55 - 037 folder 55 - 037 L-36 "information metabolism" is, then, probably close to the mark, + this is its own internal negentropy: its internal organization (structure). I'm very tired (again?) But I want to get This down. In 2-74 I comprehended that two worlds coexisted in one space-time in out 180 I began to figure out how, theoretically, this could be, which is to say, yes, it could be (my Diagram). Then in 2-81 I put it into t words (the meta-abstraction: "not 2 mother, but one mother twice"). This led me to a profound study of universals + finally to Plato's Forms + to a comprehension of his universalia ante rem + noesis. So here (I think) is what I did: A) The Kingdom of God (Christ's Kingdom) + our world coexisting (what I now call "two coaxial realities"): this realization. B) How? (How can this be?) C) universalia ante rem + noesis: the eide D) back to (A) + (B); that is, from the issue Christ's Kingdom - where it is, how it can be of here + yet not be here - to Plato's Forms + then back to where I started. (C) - noesis - proves that a coherent, rational, theoretical, philosophice metaphisial system can be constructed to account fore + the meta-abstraction in which one I t I objects exists twice + yet remains unitary E) Look! I am attempting perhaps one of the most difficut + uncharted explorations in the whole history of human thought. How this can be - i.e. (A) - + not just that it is. I believe that by means of (C) I can show that (A) is theoretically possible (the notion is intelligible but it requires a radical metaphysics that resembles Plato's + yet think, is only similar to it without being it Each object, act, event + process exists twice folder 55 - 038 folder 55 - 038 137 (i.e. in each of the two coaxial realms) + his different -if not opposite sign-values in each - + yet remains unitary, as if seen twice (+ differently) + yet is, as I say, yet one just as a given eidos can instantiate repeatedly but remain unitary such concepts as I am dealing with force my mind to such limits as to beggar comparison almost have it - after 7 years + 10 months what I do know is that (1) it - the I almost two coaxial realms - is the case; + (2) a rational I theoretical explanation is possible. Why do this? Because Plato's metaphysics comes so say close that the goal is within grasp. But dio‐ what a task I have cut out for myself; Jesus. when asked by Pilate, did not explain (but presumably he could have); no one (that I know of) has ever given a rational theoretical planation of - given that it is the case - how it could be the case have been struggling all this time not So I just to say what in 2-74 I realized but also how what I realized rationally- theoretically could be. I am now at the point where - over + above the meta-abstraction itself - I conceive of two coherent systems of lawful, regular + orderly behavior that operate in parallel without infringing on each other although they function within one space-time continuum. (Rather than, say, heimarmene vs pronoia, the latter being a so-to-speak arbitrary suspension of the hence had former - Spinoza foiled to solve this + to deny the latter as conceptually unintelligible. to succeed where Spinoza facted? I? i am The key is: Jesus' ethical system versus folder 55 - 039 folder 55 - 039 1-38 the Torah, in particular the issue of the lex talions: mercy replaces justice + severe limitation. which is to say, the Messianic age enters some‐ how within the previous age (these are not - but resemble - temporal, sequential epochs. The Kingdom of God is the Messianic age with different laws, but both "ages" are here simultaneously, each with its own laws/rules, +, as I say, the key is the lex talionis). (Versus its He who Acts out of mercy thereby opposite.) places himself under the direct jurisdiction of heaven, which doctrine/Gnosis Jesus explicitly taught. This undercuts the very will to survive (as expressed by, "greater love hath no man than that he give up his life for a friend"). (He dies that others may live; + in doing so, he lives in a new, higher way - that is, he dies - he truly does - + yet, inexplicably, lives, but in a transformed, higher way. Out of this death + resurrection, in which Christ Acts as blameless surrogate, he ceases to be man + becomes a Christos. But he must die; Jesus discussed this in his parables. Thus in 2-3-74 cat passover) I died, really died, to this world, + was reborn in Christ's Kingdom. For me, the in-breaking of the Messianic age meant the obliteration of what I term "cognitive estrangement" + the occurring in me of sanity: world + I became compatible - what I call "part-whole compatibility," but the older. the ostensible, age means for me all the Gnostic categories of Geworfenhect: either no cosmos or a hostile, implacable, mechanical engine of power (mekkis) not kindness, i.e. hilfe (Parakalein: to call for aid, as Harvey called to me when he got lost + shut out + disoriented the folder 55 - 040 folder 55 - 040 1-39 the other day. I am for him advocate, comforter; This is the crucial story -drama - of the Messianic age, as I describe in "DI": it is a new evolution in the divine strategy. without This crucial figure the new situation, new Thus order, is unintelligible; it is inefficacious. all the components of the Xtian Kerygma turn out to be logically coherent, as a structure, none can be stripped away. This aid is the aid of heaven (viz: Paraclete = God). This is like the primal cry + response in manichaeanism with which, as I recall, involves a twinning man. dyad: so that in a sense that which helps is that which is helped e What I call distinguishing set to ground is the perception - the of this other domain; that traction a set to is, the two domains separate. ground distinguishing - "feature the same as per‐ is extraction" ceiving Christ's Kingdom: the two are not just somehow linked they are the now b same [act/perception/realization] seems to me that it is possible it that set (Christ +/or his Kingdom) structure (+ becomes set because this has it is one, coherent structure) what I call a higher negentropy rate; i.e. it is more complex : it "moves" faster so that if time is somehow con‐ verted into space + spacial depth, it seems to move toward you ("temporal parallax 9). It is of more recent origin it I than ground. Is it, then, the newer age? folder 55 - 041 Expressed in terms of greater in terms of organizational complexity? Like any living organisim it must maintain a greater level of negentropy than its environment, + it does this by assembling negative entropy from its environment. "Its structure is information." Very well: our problem in distinguishing the structure stems from the fact that much of this information (& of the rest - motion binary modes. The linking and relinking. The mutual arrangement of objects into spatial gestalt, etc) is not recognized by us as information at all : this is what I cal the "groove music" - Quantum leap in understanding and it involves a meta-abstraction of some kind. I guess. This info and its intenral order (organizational structure) are one and the same. This info does not pertain to something [else] but is that something. Wait a minute: I'm missing something terribly important. In 2-74 I realized about the two coaxial worlds here sharing one space-time. In 3-74 I saw the set-groud; I then was discriminating the two worlds each from the other --and yet this was only an extension into particulars of the 2-74 meta-abstraction itself! The meta-abstraction was in itself a seeing of this; once the concept was there the rest did follow. Verifying the concept. And, in turn, this verifies that the