only two important choices open to us, + the correct solution depends upon knowledge (axiomatically] we can't know‐ This forces us to say "no he does not exist" ar because wish fulfilument fantasy gratifica tion-craving will cause us to not only K415 to believe that Jesus Christ (as defined) exists but, further, will cause us to falsify reality so as to "prove" if thus causing us to break with the reality principle. To avoid this, the rational machooses Stoicism + existentialism (in the absence of this knowledge) so as to remain sane. It is necessary that he Do so, to serve the good. The greater good is served by facing reality in contrast to the temporary pleasure of breaking from it It takes more courage to face the irreducible nature of necessity, + courage is the ultimate virtue, since without courage I all the other virtues (such as honesty) 90. There is, then, only one virtue; all thers derive from it. Courage 6 - the theological- philosophical premise of Valis, that the universe is irrational but something rational has broken into it poses as it, devours it, is one of the most noble + original ideas in the history of human thought; + to identify this rational element with the Logos + hence with Christ + Holy Wisdom is Christ a brilliant tactic, for thus is pitted against the irrational! + is new + in dynamic evolutionary In all my decades of process. K4.6 human us writing (epistemology, android) I have never come close to this: it is one of the most stunning + brilliant tactical moves in human thought. (Consider the trap lying in wait for counter arguments: (1) "I disagree; the universe "Oh, thenr you is already rational. believe a rational mind guides it. there victory is complete: world reason was already prevailed" I won. (2) "the universe is irrational but no rational thing has burst into it." "irrational in comparison to what?" "nonsense argument. + it appears in "Valis" + is analyzed. Viz: there must to - be rationality somewhere in the universe (world-order) or the juagment "the universe the is irrational" could not be made logic of having this belief -the premise of "Valis"- made by a man conceaded to be mad defends the belief against regress. by tying the questioner up in paradox viz: "I know a madman who believes I (Christ Well, then, he is wrong. he has encountered Christ "then world reason). "Then is Christ is defined as world reason." he has not seen world reason. the universe irrational?" "It must be"" "Then what is this madman made in relation statemate. The or contrast to? K407 proved by the belief system It is, context in which it is given in the form given, self-validating, since its contraries when analyzed turn out to be self-contradicting dream (analysis): Valis is me - i.e. my mind. it seeks recombinant info this way: it generates message A out of itself. Then it engage external reality where it encounters message it now combines its message a with outer B. reality; message B to produce one totally new recombinant message c. All new recombinant info comes into existence this way; given a vast number of Valis-minds there is a con‐ tinuous generating of supervenient message C's thus the total organism keeps itself from stagnating in the sense of not generating new info (as in, "one day nothing new came into his [or its] brain"). To accomplish this, the macro-entity must keep us discrete, independent + then engage us info is its life. Thus our occluded state is necessary, in order that we act independently, atonomously of one another This is how it can try out all combination of linking + relinking. But for us, the coming into existence of a message C limits, binds, is imposed as a stricture, like instructions we are programmed + controlled by these gressage the macro-entity is not. 3-74 is an example C's of this, with the Xerox missive as a message B I contained a message A, which, when added c to message B caused me to do what I did). this whole mechanism is anti-entropic. co K408 It would appear that the macro-entity does not know (does not wish to know what the A-messages are until the com‐ bining occurs; it must create a sharp division between itself + us: must partation us off, from it + from one another I t can view this system as deterministic + as free simultaneously; each of us is free to generate whatever A-messages he wishes, but having done so, he is bound by the combina resulting from the fusion of a given A-message + B-message. It seems to me that The result of this system would be that the kind of world we live in + Karma" we get would be quite substantially determined by the character of our own kind of A-messages, + therefore there would be differing worlds (or experience of world) by each of us - over which we have some (but by no means complete) control. Here is (as the dream explains) how the twin bipolarities of necessity + freedom co-exist in the world; I am free to generate my A-messages, but I cannot determine (control) or even know what the B-message will be that it will link up with, + hence what the resulting c-message will be - which will be binding on one absolutely; yet I acted as a causal agent of it. But not the sole causal agent So not only does the macro-entity exist God/Brahman /Tao) but we are parts of it, cut off in order to do a necessary Job. So in 2-3-74 I remembered my identity as part of it: Valis in me/as me + Valis outside: it 409 This way, through a dialectic (self-ca induced) it keeps itself young + viable + perpetually renewed it5 environment from which it absorbs negative entropy, consists of pieces of itself that it has severed off temporarily Thus it has achieved the miracle of absorb. negative entropy from itself + is therefore absolutely homeostatic.. It eventually reincorporates these severed pieces back into itself, who do not become it but remember that they are it + always have been (anamnesis. + karma, then, or natural law (causation) + is an interaction between the individual reality + partly depends on the "message" input by the person into the N.T him reality, so to a degree but by no means completely he controls heimarmene + therefore cut follows) has some power to modify or abort its power over him (by feeding the proper messages to reality which then return in a transformed state). I'm sitting here watching a stupid movie, when all of a sudden I realize that this dream, which has to do with info, has to do with a method of increasing negative entropy within a closed system by creating closed subsystems (within the system) that independently -in isolation from one another- generate information which is then applied against information that K410 is generated by the overall system so as to enhance the information of the total system by modifying it crucially; I mean: the subsystems feed by confronting info of the total system on a one-to-one basis, which means there is no way the total system can run down (loss of info = disorder) because there is a dynamic dialectic between the total system + each individual isilated subsystem. Is it possible that the total system does not know in advance the A-messages that will be pitted against the B-messages? It could know but curtails its theoretical omniscience, so that although it is a closed system it -when the subsystems are included by way of their interaction with it- has positive cooping with the result that it is able to yield internally progressively more + more messages - this is due to the deliberately-induced internal dialectic + may be the dialectic I "saw" (experienced). I am saying, then that the dialectic I saw is (1) between the total system + each of its subparts; + (2) the purpose is to generate greater + greater info within the system (defined as combinations of messages) hence more + more negative entropy, hence more order "info is not concerned with meaning but with the statistical character of a whole range of possible messages and is, in fact, a measure of the amount of freedom of choice we have in constructing messages." (E of Ph on entropy.) the structure: A + B unified + subsumed by C, + newly creating C, is an ( info model of Hegel's dialectic with A as thesis, B as antithesis, + C as new synthesis; C could not be deduced from A alone or B alone but thresholds, is truly new, not just a recombining within a single K44 system (A or B regarded separately). (in rereading my notes on this dream I dis‐ cover that I saw the implications regarding entropy; more precisely the existence of an anti entropic info-recombinant structure utilizing a dialectic - that I see would resemble a two person board-game in which the move of each side (message) is responded to by a counter move (message) by the other side, which results in a new + supervenient message. This amounts to a cumulative system - the MMSK, because the + my God; it moves along an axis of complexi‐ fication, change-rate velocity acceleration, structur + hence if structure then order - it is irreversible. new accretions when laid down are permonent. I saw the implications regarding entropy + degative entropy but I did not fathom that I was describing the wny dialectic that I saw, which was basic. Viz: if entropy = loss of information, then life + growth of an organism = increases in infor‐ mation can be expressed as info-generation (in terms of recombinations). my experience with the dialectic would be an in-breaking of the mind of the total system from which I have been -we deliberately isolated two things all have beenare explained: (1) our normal condition (we are occluded off from + to the total system; we experience instead the phomenal world) + why it is the case; + (2) what I saw the experienced in 2-3-74: the total system. + real value of this line of thought is that it explains why our normal state is necessary; not just why it is the case but why it must be the case. (Put bluntly, it keeps the system But now + then an from running down. experience such as mine would occur. I would K 414 expect it to occur only when a transfer of info from the total system to an isolated subsystem was desired by the former. C-29 I guess what I've done is figure out - since writing "Valis" - what seeing the Logos as the rational invading the irrational universe, subduing it, devouring it, transubstantiating it, signifies. The prior existence of the Logos is presumed; that is, I do not say "I saw the Logos, which is the rational, which is the Cosmic Christ"; I say "I saw it invading and assimilating the universe"; these are two different visions: the frame is mystical, conventional, static; the latter dynamic and asks the questions that it answers. Why is the Logos invading the universe? Presumably to subdude its irrationality. But then the Logos is not already immanent in the universe and, moreover, this is process. This is (it turns out) an antithetical dialectical combat. If the Logos is indeed the agent of creation, why is it not always already in the universe? Why is it necessary for it to invade its own creation? Or is the universe not its creation? But there is a doctrine that conceives of the Logos bipolarizing to creation and hence forced to combat and overcome it by invading it. Except the Fourth Gospel, in which creation is termed "Darkness" and the Logos "Light" - although it is stipulated that