planet is involved - as well as e.g our communications media. K212 the noosphere, as Terlhard calls it, since it extends into the inanimate (as I saw Valis doing! Good Lord; the spiritualization of matter itself! its divinization + sanctificationas I describe in "Valis." Physical thoughts by reason of arrangement; reality as a modulated carrier: a perturbation in the reality field- field is the key term. Division into plural discrete objects is ignored; it all becomes unified + acts in cooperation as a unity. Volition replaces pool-ball causation subordination + integration + mutual interaction. What we take to be a completed but imperfect organism - a given human being- is in fact a part of a greater it organism, in which by integration into that human becomes perfect + complete. the missing parts are added to him because he is added to it. The wedding of opposites is seen as a tactic + goal of biological evolution Humans subordinated to a conpound organism by which they are perfected as individuals + it is completed as a whole two wholes: it as macro unitary unique while, - + humans as micro plural unique wholes all this the goal + purpose of planetary evolution- what an extraordinary "picture The mentalization of reality as its unifi‐ cation (convergence) takes place! The living This is the final entity non living combined! + working down from the top, not the constituents merely evolving, this is not meta-‐ merely a macro-organism but a K213 organism. Anamnesis, then, in a human is its becoming -in a flash- aware of its identity + place in -a part of- this meta-‐ organism, i.e. its -the human's- purpose, expressed in terms of thousands of years, in which its personality is only one part of a larger self. For openeris, in terms of its - the human's- completion, it will be paired off to form -enter into- Ditheon + this does not even take into account the total Meta-Ditheonic organism: "Di" expresses the joining together: "theon" expresses the meta-level of the unity produced. If I am right that a divine compound macro-entity is assembling itself from sub-divine (i.e. meadane) sub-assemblies, then I have in my possession extraordinary knowledge. I base this concept on (1) the revelation of the dialectic; + (2) the Ditheon dream in conjunction with "BTA" + Russ letter. Now this would explain the "God present in the trash stata" experience that I had (+ which is expressed in "Ubik" What Teilhard calls "Christ" is a con‐ clusion of an evolutionary process the components + lower stages possessing no divine or spiritual quality - yet when assembled, the divine is or becomes or occurs. the implications of this are enormous; one must radically reassess what "mundane" is + "divine" signify, "Mundane" is a simpler, slower stage of "Divine" or put K214 another way, "Divine" is a more complex faster stage -the outcome stage- of "Mundane:" but this is not the whole story; the other fundamental notion is: disparate versus unitary. As long as "it" exists in plural, disparate form -as unconnected discrete pieces, as multiplicity - "it" is not Divine; Thus when I saw Valis the significant thing that I saw was plural, discrete things behaving as - consisting of I functioning as- a unity, which was (to me) simply inexplicable. + yet it is a precisely this coming-together into unity that constitutes the leap from the mundane to the divine. That "it" has the -to assemble itself capacity to do this out of the plural- is astonishing. It means that when we see mundane multiplicity we are seeing things that are moving (which is to say evolving) toward (1) unity; + (2) the divine. I can be forgiven for supposing that Valis was/is camouflaged here in + as plural objects + their + causal processes, "camouflaged" is certainly what it would seem to be, but in a crucial sense is not. "camouflaged" implies a steady state + a difference of ontology. Well, I do say in "Valis" that there seems to be a progressive transubstantiation of the universe into the [body + blood of] the Lord (Christ). This is about the size of it. + there is a difference in ontology but (strangely) it is achieved through quantitative changes (of an evolution‐ Well, this tells me that the ary nature) K215 ability to see Valis is a Gestalting. bstracting ability "thus there must be a direct connection between my ability to see Valis + the 2-74 meta-abstraction) Valis is structure. The abstracting view of reality deals with structure: complexity of organization. Now the significance of the "Blood," the plasmate, can be understood, since It is the network that links the spatially separated constituents by virtue of its role or nature or possession of information. (This is Why the whole thing struck me as resembling a brain, inasmuch as (as Xenophanes says) the whole of it thinks"). In a sense it is divine precisely because it is + can structure. The notion of subassemblies coming together to form a unitary meta-entity does not mean spatial contiquity; this entity may well be distributed spatially but nonetheless all linked up to form a single functioning unit, + This is perhaps what I saw that I term "the plasmates" which seemed to resemble a circulatory or nervous system s thus a body exists here but is not arailable to normal perception, it being abstract, like Plato's forms. It is not located at one spatial locus but (as I think of it) floats this, of course, is the "perturbation of the reality field." Dream Thursday night 6-11-81: I am with Nancy. She is behaving unusually: she is very active and energetic. I am told that she took something, a medication. She now has an additional mind or psyche in her, that of a man. The names John and Bill are mentioned, and there is some reference to the ending of the BTA novel. I want to take the medication, too, so it will happen to me. The medication is shown me; it is in a cylinder or carton on which writing appears. I can't read the small print; the only word I can read is the name of the medication (or food, or drug, etc.); it is DITHEON. I can't remember much else except that for a very long time I am sweeping up what appear to be crumbs that x are scattered all over the floor, sweeping carefully and thoroughly, and with great effort, as if this is a major task. (This later makes me think of the general confession in the Episcopal Mass: "We are not fit to gather the crumbs from under thy table." Normally I reject the idea of sweeping up the crumbs —from what I guess is the Messianic banquet— but in the dream I am doing it willingly, although it is a difficult task.) Later there is something to do with either Nazi Germany or Israel; I see highly accurate drawings of complex weapons, very daring, advanced weapons; I am struck by the ingenuity of their design. Later I think that this may refer to Israel's air strike on the Iraqi nuclear power station and also to the Uzi. "Ditheon" does not use "di" in the sense of "splitting asunder," because Nancy's mind has not split asunder; another, adventitious mind has entered her brain and is with hers. Two human minds, then, hers and "John's" or "Bill's" form Ditheon which I break down to: two — god —ultimate particle or entity. The closest English word is Ditheism, which means belief in two gods (as with Mani). I have never heard it other than bitheism, not ditheism. Di, theo and on are, of course, Greek (I had not known until I looked it up that di is definitely Greek and not Latin; bi would be Latin). I recall that I had thought several times after writing BTA that Bill —if he is based on anyone— is based on Nancy, so obviously BTA is pointed to. Then Russ' letter came Thursday in which he says that Bill and Tim united form Christ, rather than Christ entering Bill. -2- Russ sees BTA as depicting Tim returning from beyond the grave to enter Bill’s mind or brain, out of which two human minds Christ is formed. Neither Bill nor Tim alone "is" Christ; the attributes that make up Christ (Russ says) are depicted in the novel as disparate, scattered, but are unified at the end by Tim's sacrifice and return. as far as I know this is a theological idea never before advanced; Russ' ananlysis comes from my letter to him in which I say that upon rereading BTA it strikes me that Christ, not Tim Archer, returned to Bill and entered his brain, that I feel Christ is distinctly present, that Bill is really Christ. Russ disagrees. Some of Christ is in Bill, some in Tim (and some in Angel and some in Edgar Barefoot, for that matter) and these separate, scattered elements are none of them nor all of them Christ until Tim's self-sacrifice, his death and return, whereupon Bill and Tim are Christ, which explains why I felt that Christ was present in and as Bill at the end. I had in writing the novel never intended to say that Tim returning to Bill would —the syzygy would— constitute Christ, but (as I say) when I reread the novel I said, "It is Christ." It is Christ, all right, but it is indeed Tim and indeed Bill and together they form Christ. This is exactly what the dream —the night before I received Russ' letter— alludes to regarding Nancy and "Ditheon, the man's psyche entering hers to be in her brain with hers. The precog aspect of the dream is only of minor interest; what is important is the concept that two human psychoi fused together form Christ, that somehow Christ is divided up, distributed, and must bring together his parts. Does this pertain to me and Thomas? Thomas was/is a human, like me, but Thomas and I joined together in one brain (as they were/are) forms Christ, i.e. a Ditheon, the twopart God (to repeat, "di" cannot mean sundered, since two psychoi joined; there was not a splitting but a coming together, in the BTA novel and in me in 2-3-74). Also again I dream in Greek. And again I see writing. I think this idea somewhat resembles Teilhard's idea of convergence into Point Omega: Christ. -3- Russ concludes his letter by saying, "All of which establishes that your talent and your conscious mind are, to some extent, two separate things...which is frightening, awesome" etc. Thus he sees (apparently) an application of this dual psyche to me. I do not have to now write a novel built around this concept of Ditheon because I have already done so —BTA— but (as I say and as Russ realizes) this (i.e. the idea of Ditheon) was not my conscious goal, point or intention in the novel. The dream was so obviously supernatural as to be grimly so; it was not a serene and pleasant dream. Nancy was so filled with energy that she was, it struck me in the dream, pure energy unleashed, not the energy of a person. Except for the possible affinity to Teilhard’s idea of convergence to and in Point Omega (Christ as the goal of the universe) this idea is new and not one I have ever entertained regarding Thomas and all of 2-3-74. I guess my reaction to the dream was one of terror (when I woke up), moderated by Russ' letter when I read it later on. This dream (even without Russ' letter but more so with his involved) ranks with anything that has happened to me starting in 2-74; it is a disclosure that is so profoundly vast that I can scarcely endure it. It is as if the dream answers the question, "How do you get (cause) Christ?" by what is