this world of sound as now I yearn for that realm of color + light. + the common basis of both is: number + rates + proportions i.e. math. So the truly ultimate solution is to prefer music while you are here, + prefer light when you are there. This accomodation suprasses Jesus, Mani, Dante, etc. It is a truth that can only be acquired after Paradiso in Dante's terms is reached. It is as if while "fallen" here, one must die (or "die"), return home to the pleroma (heaven), view this fallen world from that vantage point, + then arrive at this realization - whereupon the Faustian striving is at last quenched; then + only then does true wisdom + peace come. Amazing. Otherwise, while here, one always seeks to go there. + while there vice versa - never content. + my discovery of this may have been purely accidental, for as I say, this surpasses God, who is after all "the King of Light" + predicated on the viewpoint of this world + our species. + hence only part of the story. I am saying, there is something beyond Nirvāna. + it is right here (but equally there, too, as well). It is all conveyed by the enigmatic statement, "she turned into an ape" - referring to my tutelary spirit, the AI Voice, the voice of the inner realm. The ultimate enantiodromia has set in; + the final veil has been penetrated, + almost accidentally, as if this surpasses even God + God's plan. The lovely Diana turned out to be an ape, but only from their viewpoint-- it is all one folder 53 - 083 folder 53 - 083 G-19 vast hourglass turned over + over again forever, sad + absurd -- but one can learn peace from this, + cease to strive. +, in this cessation of striving for the spiritual, comes sanity + freedom, + true release at last, from the "weary wheel"; this, then, is the true liberation, when the spiritual psychopomp is revealed as an ape - but an ape inexpressibly beautiful who brings back to me my dead cat, + to whom I have my wife sing. + here it all ends. It wasn't the AI Voice that said that; another voice said it about her, i.e. about the AI Voice. This is the first time in my life -i.e. within the last hour- that I have ever truly been enlightened - beyond even the Buddha or Christ or Mani, beyond all the wisdom of East + West - beyond, even, another realm (heaven), Christ + God. I.e. sanity at last. The world of light marred by an aching, tragic, heartbreaking flaw - by a vast streak of sorrow. A yearning for this world that causes its people to abandon it + come here, despite our limitations. Each of our worlds is heaven to the other. Equally, each of our worlds is only Purgatorio to those in it: in each world its inhabitants long for the other. I seek to glimpse it (in our case re theirs) + to hear it (they ours): we long to see their light; they long to hear our sounds. Incredibly, whichever realm you are in you are exiled from heaven. Hypnopompic: 2-74 was anamnesis. My "world [of] light" color sense -the 5D world - came back: [I] was once there: Plato's prenatal memories - the pleroma! folder 53 - 084 folder 53 - 084 G-20 I've been missing the whole point. (By reason of the two species line of reasoning): the realm of light is precisely what Plato speaks of as that which is remembered in anamnesis - not just the eide but another (unfallen) world! As Plotinus taught, it is concentric with this [4D] world. The Holy power YHWH has been preparing us to meet another race (ETI). In the ape dream I saw them as they actually are, at last. 1) Tagore vision: animals are sacred, are Christ. 2) Ape. In my dream "Frau--" animal. 3) D.I. YHWH taken to be a monster, animal. 4) "Androids" animals sacred. My proof that the ape vision is authentic + literal lies in the Tagore vision + "Androids" + "D.I." which conceptually prepare the way for this meeting between us + them at last. So it is both YHWH literally + truth ("Anokhi...") + another race - of apes, animals. + it all goes back to the beetle grace, the rat, the ^crippled lamb, the Galapagos turtle. The dear. Animal as Christ. Tagore vision. Animal as Christ. Ape vision. Pinky as Christ. 2) The ape vision. The beatific vision. It assumes a degree + kind of ecstatic reality that nothing in my life has ever done before. Only God could compel such ecstasy. folder 53 - 085 folder 53 - 085 G-21 God the creator is introducing a new + codominant species into our "park" to regain balance in our ecosphere. I am a contactee, but it is Christ, the N.T. + YHWH also. This is part of his on-going creation of the Garden (our world to which he says, "Felix..." etc.). Like a great game preserve. This is the answer to the problems expressed in the Tagore vision. This is why in the one vision I saw meadow + trees: the Garden of Eden: our ecosuher ecosphere. When I saw the apes I was once more -literally- back in the Garden where we belong, from which we fell. Hence they brought me Horace/Dimi: restoration of all that has been lost: not just by me ontologically but phylogenically: by the entire human race. This moment is salvation beyond anything I have ever heard of. All the original relationships between man, God, nature + the animals were restored to exactly as they were at the beginning of Genesis. + the woman singing: this is the Garden, the Earthly Paradise, the highest level of Purgatorio as it appears in Dante. This reveals the role of YHWH as Lord of the ecospheric park, maintaining its life + balance, providing for (providentia) his creatures; but now man is not above all the other species: for the first time a species equal to man has been introduced, to restore the balance that man has upset. Thus the introduction of this new species pertains to the ecosphere as a whole (+ ties into the Tagore vision!) folder 53 - 086 G-22 My PTG is a vision of the ecosphere as park or garden: all life here tended by & cared for by YHWH (bringing to mind that idea told me when I had my shoulder surgery: that we are a "kept" biosphere"-- maintained by "them"; this would appear to be the case. This would tie all my experiences together back to the Beetle & culminating in 2-74-2-75. One must go all the way back to Genesis to understand the PTG, YHWH, restoration, the fall, all my "supernatural" experiences-- & esp. "Androids" & the Tagore vision. My Tagore vision & my ape vision now take on the religious dimension derived from Genesis. & this particularly pertains to the PTG & the restoration of all things-- hence Horace/Dimi. The job by YHWH of rebuilding, & the theme of salvation as return (hence cognitive estrangement & the Gnostic categories pass over into part-whole compatibilitiy: for "kosmos" read "ecosphere"). But it is only at the end times, the apocalypse, that this restoration occurs, hence in 2-74 I saw world under the attribute of the apocalypse. But this --the BIP-- led to the PTG. This is the Millenial Kingdom. It is also Genesis. It also specifically has to do with something totally new: the introduction of a new codominant species with man. This has never been the case before; in Genesis it is clearly stated that man-- & man alone-- has dominion over "all the animals"; but this is now changed. Thus, I tie everything together, YHWH & the apocalypse, Tagore, &, most of all, the apes vision. folder 53 - 087 folder 53 - 087 G-23 2) When Jeanie was talking she did not sound like-- she was a high-bred Englishwoman of 200-300 years ago, reading aloud from a book ^of that period^. was, not sounded like. 1) I realized tonight that Genel is someone living in London in 1715. Is. "This woman's mind is 400 years old. She speaks now as men did then." I said that, then, about her. And caused it to be London, 1715. & also it was George & Lennie: London 1715 being the farm [lett?] Lennie got George to talk about & show him. & he dies. Analysis: Life became narrative in a book.(1) This is to verify: "God is the Book of the universe." (1) Literally. Being read aloud. There was a theophany tonight & it verified the theophany of 3-74. My God-- I picked up "BTA" & read around in it. It is a woman writing a letter (& not a man writing a novel or even a novel at all; it is based on the many letters from different women I've received whom I never met but who I infer-- have created-- in my mind in the composite total basis of them: an archetype, a true Platonist eidos. folder 53 - 088 folder 53 - 088 H-1 I couldn't bear hearing what I was hearing Jeanie say. & then God turned into a very upper-class Englishwoman reading an old fashioned book 200 years ago. I have it. Jeannie's voice turning from that of an actual woman in Calif USA 1982 telling about former events in her life - this turning literally into (1) an English woman, not American; (2) reading a book, not telling actual events; (3) of 200300 years ago, not now - this only happens in a dream. YHWH did it, to spare me: the info about Chrissy's birth defect was like in a dream. We are asleep & dreaming. Strange. & God is in charge, not us: here is where it differs from a dream. A dream - we cause it ourselves. It emanates from our own mind: it is ourself mirrored back. But God's world emanates from another mind - the only true other "thing" we really know. Malebranche is correct. But both are equally dreams, made equally as the same thing: the only difference is the source. The madness of Jehovah came upon me that night, & I was in London in 1715Fuck. Once with Gene, later with Jeannie. Therefore 2-3-74 was Jehovah. World becoming Acts in 2-3-74 had not to do with world epistemology, but with Jehovah's presence & power! He replaces world-- his world, with folder 53 - 089 folder 53 - 089 G-23 H-2 750 - 0635 TWA N.Y. Paris. 1st one way 1,371. Round 2742 Coach one way 566 . Round (Ambassador) 800. Amb. 1486 (wider seat) 10-11 Apax 695.- (coach) round 3,000 NY Paris RT. -- X 2742 1486 ____ 1256 2 ____ 2512 2742 2 ____ 5484 I believe at last because I understand at last. I believe because I understand: he can rupture world or parts of world. Valis. What I wrote Isa is true. Jehovah is all. Valis was Jehovah replacing world - his creation - with himself. This is not pantheism; this is something else, perhaps pantocreator pantocrator Air France (213)625-7171 1st folder 53 - 090 folder 53 - 090 H-3 Valis was YHWH replacing a part (portions) of his creation (world) with himself. He can compel you to experience any world he wants: [Diagram: Concentric circles with "You" surrounded by "YHWH" and "World"] As I figured out a while ago, world does not come to you direct but through YHWH, & he causes it to be for you whatever he wants it to be - hence "coaxiality." [Diagram:] You -- YHWH -- Material World Last night I experienced Genel along a phylogenic noetic archetype axis, subspecia aeternitatis, as a very specific & precisely defined type hundreds of years in duration & necessarily linked