Jeanie as the AI points to is: the AI voice is the voice of the universe, the Silla, as the Eskimo shaman said. She creates our universe by reading aloud from Torah; in a sense there is no universe, ontologically speaking - only her reading the word aloud, speaking, saying. Thus folder 53 - 096 H-9 she must be Ruah, the Spirit of God. Thus what is called "heimarmene" is the narrative itself, as written, + hense {sic} is ineluctable because the narrative is in fact all that truly exists. In that moment I experienced the universe as it is: the woman reading from the text: reading (it), not just speaking; thus the relation between Torah -what is written + read- Hagia Sophia -she who reads aloud what is written- + universe -the result- is at last clear (viz: why all 3 are necessary). "+ she shall see the sea." Essentially I move more + more into a direct relationship with her. Now at last she uses the world as an interface ("matter is plastic in the face of mind"). World dissolves; only she + I remain. I foresee how it will end; she will ultimately extinguish world, not me; I will survive with her, without world. This is the ultimate return. No world for me will be generated at all (she generates world, it would seem - or: I am caused to experience world as if generated by her. This is Pantocratrix. She has both the power to create world + to abolish world; she remains. There is a difference between me being abolished + world being abolished: I think that I will experience death as the abolition -forever- of world, + she + I will remain. This was the first time I ever heard her with my outer ears, rather than a voice in my mind (i.e. audible thought became externally audible). At the very least she can do with world what Valis -seen externally- did to world; here again is camouflage: Dema Deity or rather camouflage disclosed. This idea -that she creates the world by narrating it (+ that she creates many, many worlds by means of multiple narrations based on multiple texts)- is extraordinary, + the full thrust of it only becomes apparent when the meta-abstraction is taken into account as basic + irreducable. Coaxiality thereupon pertains to the otherwise inexplicable fact of many spatiotemporal continua "sharing," folder 53 - 097 folder 53 - 097 H-10 as it were, one receptacle + derived from a common matrix of some kind. Here we deal with the extraordinary quality of the meta-abstraction in which one + the same object, act or event occurs (is seen) twice; that is, it deals a dual + even plural life (in a number of worlds) while still remaining unitary. As with "Tears," what ostensibly appears to be a single narrative turns out to be several; that is, she reads several narratives simultaneously. As the narratives coexist, the worlds coexist de facto (by definition). Thus my "not 2 mothers but one mother twice" meta-abstraction leads at last to this further revelation (the woman reading from the text + thus creating -causing- the world), which on its own (the woman reading) would seem absurd. + there is more: this fits in with the apperception of the universe as information, which is to say, when Valis was in my mind I saw the written text upon which our world is based (here is groove to music, with her act of reading aloud being the transformer that renders groove -information- into music: the substantial universe). Now, it is very important to see how this corresponds to Hebrew mysticism: the woman is either Hagia Sophia or Ruah, the text is Torah, the reading of the text is God saying e.g. "Fiat lux," etc. Moreover, the cardinal concept "heimarmene" now fits within a larger + quite coherent structure - hinted at by material in "BTA": the Book of the Spinners [of fate] which Christ (St. Sophia) reads. Under this overview, my "dissociated" actions in 3-74 via-à-vis the Xerox missive are seen as awareness on my part that I was compelled to act out a series of role-motions within a larger, purposeful framework, roughly identified as world-history. Whether (as stated in "BTA") Christ acts to amend + revise the Book of the Spinners is (1) a matter of utmost importance in terms of this structure, + (2) explaining for the first time the real folder 53 - 098 folder 53 - 098 H-11 significance of the Messianic mission. Now, there enters another element. The "ape" vision + what it signifies. (Especially my hearing "She has turned into an ape.") I am going to say here something that has arisen ad hoc in my mind, at least as far as my left hemisphere is concerned. I see in my mind's eye the lowbrowed nearman (the "ape" who is in fact the first true man). What does his initial coming forth -out of the trees- signify? Why, he is able to have in his inner world (mind) an analogic model of outer reality, this model being based on the eidē. It has to be (because only the eidē are universal). Thus the inner model is not derived from the senses empirically (although it seems to be). This model, then, pertains to -+ even consists of- the matrix on which all the narratives (worlds) are based (world has to do with accidents, not essence). Essence -the eidē- obtains in all worlds; for each, however, there is a differing complex of accidents. This is how coaxiality can be. This nearman is the first "thing" that can sever himself from his accidents + relate to the eidē, + what this involves is the entry into the world of freedom; + all increments in model building are increased degrees of this freedom. Thus already + literally this nearman is Christ; viz: "Christ" is defined as that entity able to "trap" the narrative to his advantage, reversing + abating total rule of the narrative (heimarmene). Thus the birth of Christ is in fact a primordial event of liberation through cognition, + all else following pertains to degrees (quantity) not quality. This also is, however, the fall, in that kosmos (properly understood) is annihilated, for the absolute power (i.e. truth) of the narrative is impinged on; that is, the narrative + reality cease to agree precisely - + this of course is what all the mystery religions are about, the quintessential one being Gnosticism. (Here the rule of Christ vis-à-vis the Book as expressed in "BTA" is clearly correct.) Viewed this way, 3-74 + the Xerox missive must be reassessed, for now the narrative is seen as clearly the Gnostic heimarmene, + the "dissociated" folder 53 - 099 folder 53 - 099 H-12 actions take on the significance of -or consist of- clever "trapping" by Christ-as-nearman: the first piece of the kosmos to take control of the narrative + use it for his own advantage as if he has read the narrative in advance; that is, he remembers it + what comes next (anamnesis) + hence, by this recovery of memory, outwits it. This makes sense when narrative is presumed, because if events unfold based on an information narrative there is axiomatically inherent in the situation the possibility of reading the narrative before it occurs as the now -before groove is converted into music- + by the very nature of this act reversing the role of what signals, + what receives the signal. Thus this nearman is exceptionally clever, but his cleverness is concealed from us because it has nothing to do with the skills + faculties that we associate with human intelligence (e.g. tool making). It has to do with a form of cognition that we must be ignorant of + which Plato calls noesis. + noesis in turn has to do with anamnesis - which now suddenly is seen to strike precisely at the heart of this "narrative" basis of reality; the narrative is really remembered because it really keeps on being recited over + over again (which is exactly the pan-Indian view of the "weary wheel" + which showed up 2 weeks ago in my "pulley" vision in which an endlessly repeated horizontal tracking is interrupted by the net-rope pulley lifting one vertically (that is, ascent along an orthogonal axis not previously suspected; this is salvation + intervention per se). The horizontal tracking goes on forever unless interrupted by the "pulley" + precisely because it has always gone on (+ always will unless thus interrupted) does anamnesis signify so much - much more than Plato recognized. V. p. D-10 supra. folder 53 - 100 folder 53 - 100 H-13 The solution of "Christ / the nearman" is a loop-causation involving a continuum, in which there is some kind of feedback where a future act affects an earlier event + thereby is its own [ex nihilo] cause. What this amounts to (besides resembling TMITHC) is: double predestination; viz: the damned are in a hopeless situation in that horizontal tracking by its essential nature is forever + vertical extrication is by its essential nature ineluctable (because there can be no enantiodromia; each "mode" -horizontal versus vertical extrication- reinforces itself in such a way as to constitute positive feedback run away: a cycle that de facto can't be interrupted. Thus he who is saved is so-to-speak doomed to be saved, because if something new (that is, the vertical) can be introduced, then it always was introduced from the beginning. These are absolute states, analogous to Eleatic arguments as to the logical impossibility of motion. There was no cause for my giving to Covenant House - that is, none in the horizontal domain. But once the vertical intervened, it already always had; in which case there never was endless horizontal tracking ever, in the first place (this pertains to the very mystery of the truly orthogonal; it is inexplicable in terms of the extant axes. Put another way, what is must always have been + always will be; what is not can never be. (This is Eleatic thought personified.) Vital here is the realization that although there is infinite, eternal horizontal tracking over + over without end, it also only occurs once. This paradox is solved as soon as "vertical/orthogonal" is folder 53 - 101 H-14 correctly understood. Another way of putting it is that the mind can in fact never learn anything new but can only remember what it always already knew. Conventional notions of "time" + "cause" must be abandoned. To sum up: as soon as Christ / the nearman emerges at all, to any small degree, he is axiomatically totally absolutely there - Christ fully intact; thus the completion of eschatological time takes place in the first instant of that very kind of time; + yet, contrarily + paradoxically, eschatological time never fulfills itself along the "horizontal tracking" axes however long they are tracked - which is why for me Christ returned "long ago" (i.e. in illo tempore) but is for other people "always coming but never now, never here - in the hand, but, rather, near at hand" - to understand this -why both are true- you must introduce a new + additional orthogonal ("vertical") axis. Hence when I saw Valis/Christ in 3-74 I had always already seen him; that is, I remembered. This is salvation purely + absolutely + either it pertains or it does not, + neither category passes over into its opposite (such passage is logically incoherent + unintelligible). Thus my giving to Covenant House operated backward causally but this "perturbation" was as inexorably willed as is anything else, + is only disorder if one fathoms not the additional axis (this resembles the seeming paradoxes of quantum mechanics). A final way of putting it is: if you ever get into the 5D universe you were really always already in it + somehow knew it, you did not get from the 4D