the Kabalists + by Spinoza here, in my perception last night, is not only an explanation of 3-74 but also a simply staggering view of God-substantia-natura, i.e. unified reality in Judaic-Kabalist-Spinozan terms - what we call "world" is a finite transcent, utterly partial (even occluded) view of one unified total system that is Deus/natura/substantia this would explain why normally we just see transcent multiple particulars: we are missing at least two "axes": mind + infinity. the This is a vaster vision that Platonist Forms - i.e. Plato's metaphysics, since the Forms are an aggregate - they are plural - but here There is a glorious unity that reasons (but not as we do; idea, word, writing of word p thing are - as I say - one). folder 55 - 185 folder 55 - 185 to D-135 This is the absolute inverse of Gnostic acosmism. (But I have also dealt with Bitheism by my perception last night that God acts both as advocate -paraclete - + as adversary, i.e. as both sides in the dialectic; which, of course, is true monotheism; viz: he is both what I call heimarmene + the pronoia that defeats heimarmene - an extraordinary Thus when I experienced Valis" concept! mind + the dialectic I was experiencing a dialectic within God, as Jakob Boehme did: dynamic God of activity + ever higher stases as I say, this would explain how world + manifested itself in 3-74, why we don't see it that way normally, + what/who Valis was. Hey, if I saw a second + third attribute (in Spinozan terms) this would explain my "temporal parallaxis"! With the addition of the attribute of infinity, time would de facto no longer apply! But space - conversely. would be augmented, as indeed it was. What we experience as transient things, Acts, deeds situations, events, are facets of infinite + eternal narchetypes" (there is no term for this: "arche ture" comes closest). As if the things, acts, situations + events are rotating so that we get different views of what in themselves always are (hence the meta-abstraction!). Once the attribute of infinity is introduced the distinction between world + God (creator) vanishes. All transformations are internal; that is, within a system that self-initiates all its own changes, as in a unifies field (theory] folder 55 - 186 D-136 in fact even the distinction between "pre-existent ideas in the mind of God" + that mind itself vanish. Also, "mind" is not precisely right when using Spinoza's system, because for him mind + extension are equal - equally real - attributes (again: idea, word + thing are one). "Extension" signifies the physical universe of res extensal. If infinity is a third attribute orthogonal to the other two (which are orthogonal to each other + yet parallel) this would not be spatial infinite - that is, infinite extension - that would only augment an I attribute we already see (imperfectly), am speaking of a third, different attribute entirely (i.e. the system isn't simply physically larger!). What I glimpsed as this third attribute was a physical-mental meaning cparticipation in eternity), as if the spatial extension attribute when only seen - it seen a-the- is a sort of sign + no more, the attribute of infinity is that which is signified. (Hence: the dream-time, or, as Eliade calls it, illo tempore.) Object (thing). then, is like a word is (for us) to that to which the word refers; thus our physical universe (extension attribute) is viewed as + this was writing or information precisely my 3-74 experience: physical universe as writing (hyroglyths) or infor‐ mation, with the "thing" to which the "word" refers to as parallel attribute. Not not normally Not of infinity apprehended by us our physical universe, then, is a transcent register of the eternal, + that is God folder 55 - 187 folder 55 - 187 D-137 then for me in 3-74 the infinite (i.e. eternal) manifested itself as writing which explains the plasmate (+ may indeed be Torah or the 22 Hebrew letters used by God as the basis of creation in the idea dea writing-object identity-sequence). I equals Spinoza's attribute of mind; writing equals the attribute of physical reality (res extensal), object is the attribute that I call infinity. (Note that res extensal are taken to be object until the attribute of infinity is apprehended, whereupon res extensal becomes writing or word. My three Spinozan attributes are the three components listed in the "Sepher Yezirah" notes as one - i.e. a unity: the idea, word + writing the word, + thing; but what we see as of physical reality (res extensal) is only thing The 3rd attribute of infinity is perceived; (in this unified sequence) it is thing, + physical reality (res extensal) becomes word + writing of word ("infinity" is the true thing referred to by the word). (That is it is the ultimate expression in the sequence onto‐ logically speaking). {Note (word refers to it.) signifies it.) (But all 3 attributes are there is no "Fall" involved. equally real! (as is found in Plotinus.) ➀ This may be wrong. All 3 attributed are equally ontologically real. Nonetheless, maintain, once the attribute of infinity is I perceived/conceived, res extensal "become" word + writing of word; infinity is thing folder 55 - 188 folder 55 - 188 t D-138 is a great - if not virtually impossible leak to conceiving/perceiving this oneness of idea, word + writing of word, + object, but the unitary nature is the point that must be comprehended in this Jewish-Kabalist Spinozan system, or else we wind up once more with Plato (his forms us particulars) + Plotinus concentric rings of emanation which involve ontological degrees/levels. Well, this all relates back to "Joint" the slip of paper reading "soft drink + stand"! This [system) would account for the value of typological utilization of scripture, + would specifically explain why Acts (e.g.) is both book (writing) + world - world either outside of time + space always + everywhere the case (which solves prystery of "Tears": the object - the pribute of infinity - registers here as words. Dio! Timeo. The total system exists simultaneously + equally as/in its 3 attributes of idea, word I writing of word, + object? Scripture is world (object) + words simultaneously (+ also idea). (I.e. mind. + it all is God in all 3 attributes equally. My cherished meta-abstraction of 2-74, then, was a quintessential realization about reality/God indeed. I experienced all s attributes rather than just extension (res extensal). So now I know that, as I say But I amend in "DI" Valis is YHWH. antia with Spinoza's static subst folder 55 - 189 folder 55 - 189 D-19 Jakob Boehme's dynamic dialectic + its evolving hypostases. This is process theology as with A.N. whitehead + sequed right into Teilhard + ecotheology + the new dispensation, for these evolving hypo‐ stases occur here in/as our own minds or the entire unified ecosphere itself - as in my Tagore vision/dream. Perhaps as the hypostases advance, self-awareness through - out the total unified system increases (which would make my meta-abstraction an event in the general ground of being, as the Gnostics teach - but it would be in this Hebrew Kabalist-Spinozan system likewise (lets not leave out Boehme!)). term this 3rd attribute "infinity" but known, extan in fact term exists for it; however, it is the that extension (res extensal) is as to it, hence the physical universe (i.e. en reality we normally know) "becomes in relation to it information. It - this 3rd attribute - is, then, object to extension as-word... + this is what I saw in 3-74 + wrote about, as best I could, in "Valis - + in a sense in "Ubik" etc. As the notes for "sepher Yezirah" print out, this all runs quite contrary to Platonist metaphysics (in which the phen omenal world of particulars is a mere icon or copy of the forms which alone are truly real; in this system all attributes are equally real, but we mistake extension -res extensal - for the object when in fact it is either word or the writing of the word what I am forced folder 55 - 190 folder 55 - 190 D-140 re-evaluate my groove-music metaphor + restate it perhaps this way: binary info storage of a symphony + the symphony itself + the playing or sound of the symphony (is the score - the writter score - the "thing" or is the playing the score the "thing"? To back, e.g., the score was the "thing" I the proper view must be: they are equally real. modern theories about entropy suggest that info is real + not just a description of the real. in the sequence idea-word-object we may not be seeing the object but rather a very long binary number; were we to see the true object - my 3rd attribute - we would then correctly see extension (res extensal) as information (a very long binary number which is expressed not by objects per se but the arrangement of objects; i.e. how they are linked + relinked together - vide "Valis.") This misled Plato (+ many following him) to assume that the physical (i.e. phenomenal) universe - extension - is not truly read, based "the idea, word + writing of on the fact that the word are signs to man for a thing + not the thing itself" whereas "to the creator, how‐ ever, idea, word + writing of the word are the thing itself." That the physical (phenomenal) universe is not "thing" but only informational register of "thing" therefore does not make it less than perfectly real. certainly the greatest leap It is of intuitive comprehension on my part 2 in all these 7 years to view the folder 55 - 191 D-141 attribute of physical extension as the second item in the "idea, word + writing of the word, + object" unitary series rather than the third. This may well be the first time that anyone familiar with this Hebrew-Kabalist thought has done so (in or not in conjunction (with Spinoza's "Deus sive substantia sive natura" formulation, to which it is related). but it would explain why Plato came to the conclusion that the physical universe (res extensal) is only semireal (in relation to something else - the eide t this is real; this - these eide - are what are for me in the Hebrew-Kabalist Spinozan system the object, the true object). Lass mich non ruhen, bitte. Genuy. So all these months I've spoken about "rolling physical reality back to its word basis." {Note I've been within reach of being right - + yet an abyss away. ➀ referring of course to 2-3-74. This explains why my experience of 2-374 seemed to be Platonist + yet its content was Xtian. The mechanics seemed to be well the solution Plato's eide - yet - seems to be Judaism-Kabala-Spinoza the contents being Xtian because Xtianity evolved out of Judaism. + this solution nvolves me with the Great 17th century ost-descartes rationalists i.e. Spinoza folder 55 - 192 folder 55 - 192 D-142 my investigation of Faustian striving (seen via Hans Jonas' analysis of Gnosti‐ cism vs the Greek view of the cosmos) has opened up the most extraordinarily fruitful line of thought vis-a-vis my writing + my exegesis (two parts of one whole). Suddenly my own Faustian-Gnostic striving) rebelling ("the taste of the apple justifies the Fall") explodes in a compre‐ hension of Felix culpa as the ultimate solution, as the true source of the victory of the heroic (hence ecstasy) over the tragic (suffering due to heimarmene which I now identify with the will of the creator, he being both sides of the DI lectic). the explanation is: that which man on his own desires absolutely is finite (the apple) but God being infinite is more; hence God deprives man of what he desires (symbolized by the apple) knowing - God