been assimilated to providentia! “Fate” as contrasted to providentia has been conceptually abolished; the term has no meaning other than providentia, so that before world loses its power over man actually (in terms of causal law) it has already been conceptually obliterated—nullified—and replaced entirely by a realization of the absolute and total power of God (as Pantocrator). This, then, is a severe and major element making up faith per se, this reassessment of what “fate” signifies as a term, a concept. Man, having reconceived fate in this way, is now dealing with God; all transactions defining man’s existence have to do with God and not with world. Thus a vast conceptual transformation occurs in the mind, soul, and heart of man even before providentia and justification occur. And this of course causes me to reconsider the meta-abstraction, and in a new light. Thus “Tears” is not indubitably Xtian scripture but, more precisely, consists of a very specific strain or thrust of Xtian thought: Protestant existential Pauline folder 55 - 062 folder 55 - 062 G-9 doctrines of the Holy Spirit, justification in short, Luke. It also suggests Joachim's third status. The authorship + authority of the Holy Spirit in "Tears" now seems to me to be beyond question. + yet, in this absolute faith in God, I see a return - not to the Torah as code-ethics - but to the essence, the absolute + fundamental spirit of Judaism. It is Judaism restored to its single premise, that man is in the final analysis totally dependent on God, + the recognition of this is perse a refinding of God + in fact a restoration of the original lost direct relationship between man + God that obtained before the Fall. + perhaps this is precisely the purpose, here: not a return to Moses + Sinai but to Eden! + this would equate 3-74 + the 1800 coaxial world as both Kingdom of God + the lost original paradise before the Fall, which is to say restoration of man's original innocent condition. + this corrolates exactly with what I say in my letter to Isa about the unheimlich world versus the heimlich. This is what we are precisely talking t about, + I make this clear in that letter. Thus Heidegger, drawing his ontological categories from Gnosticism enables me to erect a new + radical notion of the real purpose of the Messi ision folder 55 - 063 folder 55 - 063 1-10 it is of the utmost significance that my solving of the riddle in "Tears" has led me - not just to Xtianity - but to the most advanced radical protestant existential form of it, + even a little beyond; that is, some elements in this highly internally consistent position seem to be new (the emphasis on man's responsibility to act, in the form of uttering the decisive call - which I deduce from the words Paraclete, Parakletos + Parakalein). (+ my emphatic concept that this happens - can happen - only once + that must be at the right time, at the extremity of the unique total crisis to which that person's life has led, due to his dependence on his own powers, + that this call + response cannot come before + that this call + response results always in an eternal + irreversible absolute change -transformation - not only in terms of pronoia + Dasein but in God completing his original act of creation of the soul, whose existence is now guaranteed forever: it is now absolute, + this is what "the birth in the spirit" signifies Thus I show that justification, being born again, pronoia + creating by God are all one - + I emphasize the new role of man as adopted son + coheir of God Christ. wa ac folder 55 - 064 folder 55 - 064 1-11 what is stressed too is the decisive act on man's part in calling out for aid (upon recognizing his own hopeless state but his own absolute helplessness, +, in contrast God's absolute power; thus man acknowledges God's sovereignly before God responds, which means that in my system the element of faith is exalted to the highest existential + even ontological value, for it is the act - the choice that sets off everything, sets the entire machinery of salvation in motion; moreover, this act of utter faith stems not from belief in abstractions but from the totally hopeless life-situation that man finds himself in + knows he is in). Does 2-3-74 show me at this point not just one of hopeless distress, recognition of it, recognition of my own total inability to save myself but - + this is so crucial did I call out to God, acknowledging as I did so his absolute power? Yes. Because I began burning the votive condle night + day: a religious act at a time when I had no involvement or concern with religion whatsoever. Harrey calling out to me for aid; this may have been crucial in my understanding, in rereading my letter to Isa I realized that when this response by God occurs in the form of the Paraclete. the folder 55 - 065 folder 55 - 065 1-12 anguished person is now one of the or in the role or position of one of the- eleven disciples following Christ's death, precisely + literally as they were + this - at last - explains why I saw Acts (for penterlost is told about in Acts), found acts in my novel "Tears" + most of all, as I wrote sherie yesterday + also declare in "Valis" have the supreme conviction that somehow I was one of the disciples - not with Jesus but just after he left. + this, then, is what Thomas is all about. + I understand, now. + am at peace. Because yes, it was th Holy Spirit in 2-3-74 as advocate + councellor + comforter, + this was indeed the promise Jesus made to the disciples as told of in John: "I will ask my father to send to you a second helper the spirit of truth, + he will be with you forever. I would not leave you as Orphans; I will come to you." Yes, it is so. The tongues of flame: the phosphene graphics. folder 55 - 066 L-13 So I perceive now that in the very act of lighting the votive candle was transfoming myself - + was then trans‐ formed - into some new kind of person; my understanding of myself, world my relation to world, + most of all God + my true relationship to God - total + utter dependence - all this was a vast shift in me predicated on the sum total of all that I had ever done + been in my life, all that had ever happened to me - +, most of all, my perception that the way had come to an end + I could not go on any further, as if I had reached, literally, the end of my life; at which point, then, I uttered the cry for aid, + in a state of profound sorrow, of grieving over corraine Hynes + my total inability to do anything for her or even to know how she was or would be. Although my call for aid was mute, it was utter + intense + involved the whole of me. it was a true - the authentic- turning around, which is perhaps the quintessential spiritual act (for all the reasons I've given) it was not intellectual, although it did involve cognitive understanding - my soul was suffering; my soul was dying. Thus it was an ontological conversion reaching down into - + emanating from - the deepest part of me, beyond words or thoughts; it was sickness unto death, even beyond the emotions folder 55 - 067 folder 55 - 067 1-14 of dispoir + grief. In my presentation - my credo - in the letter to Isa I say that there is one specific crucial moment + one only in the persons life time in which this crisis occurs; put another way, the person must (I see now) be brought to this moment - moment as malady - by a long series of events his total lifetime, really, if he is to arrive at what I regard as the indispensible requisite for the receiving of God's justifying aid; that is, the person must have tried everything on his own [powers); exhausted all possibilities [of himself saving himself] whereupon he then knows truly knows (rather than just believes, as in doctrine or creed) that he is powerless + that God can save him - + thereupon he cries out for that salvation, that deliverence viewed this way I see the astonishing affinity of my experiences in 1974 + my theoretical formulation with the views of the Reformers updated into the contemporary worldview of the existentialists such as Paul Tillich. This cannot be a coincidence. I did solve the riddle of "Tears" which in turn signifies I have penetrated the mystery of Xtianity finally, ex post facto: after my experience, so that as in all true existentialism mental understanding (theory) arises as the result of choice + action rather than preceding it moral choice, then, is primary. folder 55 - 068 folder 55 - 068 1-15 I can now make sense out of a con of the fundamental categories utilized by the Reformers that previously always were opaque to me (esp. "Man's total depravity... God's total power... man as nothing... God as everything," etc). + understand why Luther's primary position had to do with the concept of man's direct immediate relation to God, with no intermediaries whatso ever (esp. when viewed in terms of justification This being so crucial to lother). + I have now a vastly augmented sense of what the term (concept) "justification" signifies + how extraordinarily radical + profound this concept was as formulated by the Reformers contra the older catholic view. + of course This carries me right to Paul himself, since Luther got the concept from Paul, bypassing 1000 years of vitiation + accretions. Sin, guilt, salvation alienation from God - restoration to the original relationship - all this is at last beginning not only to make sense to me but t now strikes me as profound + important, even were it not connected to 2-3-74. However, all this is connected to 2-3-74 + in fact accounts for 2-3-74 (viz: 2-3-74 was indeed Xtian, but precisely the Pauline. lither protestant Xtian experience of justification + all that that implies). + This is charis outside the sacraments! This is God's grace "in the world," as it were, directly expressed to me + not folder 55 - 069 folder 55 - 069 1-16 through church, priest, sacrament, creed, doctrine; it was an absolute "trans‐ action" between myself + God, exactly as Luther taught Well, then; Valis + the dialectic in me may well have been Boehme's experience. Valis, then, was God himself both in me + in world; it was, then, an authentic theophany, as I've always claimed + believed. the general takeover of my mind was by the Holy Spirit (e.g. my ability to distinguish set from ground, etc) but for at least that moment when I experienced the dialectic that was God the Father or perhaps even Eckhart's Godhead itself. I see now (in 2-74 to 2-75) so many, many specifically Xtian elements (beginning chronologically with "Tears") that it is now impossible for me to reject or deny to myself that this was indeed Xtian justification + in fact Xtian mystical experience of God as is spoken of by e.g. Boehme + Eckhart. There is really a substantial difference between defining faith as, "I believe Christ suffered + died for me, for my sins" + mo contention that the essence of faith is, "I know my own powerlessness, know that alone I am doomed - I cannot