(recently) explained 2-3-74 - + I found all the pages blank! So I typed/wrote out the words given as the dream, about this sole creature whose the universe (as Spinoza supposes) body is but that body is only seeming (which Spinoza does not suppose!) This is both like Spinoza + drastically unlike. It is as if the dream is saying, "You will the answer not find the answer in Xtianity." seems to have to do with something alive + unitary, something very much like Brahman - I see how +, as I say, for the first time the meta-abstraction properly understood beyond Plato's eide; + (2) pertains 6) points The t to what I saw that I called Valis - into plural partitioning that space provides res extensal- is only seeming, + Spinoza + the other Cartesians seem to have recognized this; but also the partitioning that time provides - that is only seeming, too, + because of these two seemings. Causation is only seeming because "before" + "after" (neces‐ sary concepts in causality) are only seeming; remove "before" + "after" instead of "causation" you get something ese, which I call pretextual cause do not know what it is because I but the "effect" is self-generating, + is i 9282 taking place within - as an internal event a unitary thing. To repeat: if all of times are coaxial the notion "before" + "after" are unintelligible; + this is what I saw when I saw Valis in 3-74, so when I saw Valis I was seeing time as ubiquitously contemporaneous - time as unitary + not just space as unitary; this is why I saw "pretextual "cause it had to do with time, + this refers me back to the original meta-abstraction of 2-74 which had to do with contempor‐ aneous time! The identity of times + space becomes apparent when you ask, "Does causation occur in time or in space?" Immediately it is evident that that which causation occurs in is One matrix which is space-ture + This space-time is that which I saw to be unified - + yet (paradoxically) per‐ tubed from without. So true reality exists outside of space-time + impinges on it, perturbing it. But as long as time is construed as real + res extensal as multiplicity + discrete are construed our this perturbation is beyond the mystical sense of unity, perception. then, is only the antechamber to the true revelation - something that (if it was Valis in me) is a mind, but a mind K283 that does not think; it knows + it wills + somehow the dialectic is involved (which points to Taoism!) if time became contemporaneous (as occurred in 2-74: that was my meta-abstraction) causation would dis‐ appear, a since our perception of it requires a sense of "before" + "after. as a result of this temporal contem praneousness, the transformations taking place in space - visible changes - would not seem to arise from cause, so the perception of multiplicity + the plural discrete impinging on each other as a number of bodies located in space would give way to a perception of change arising in another way entirely: in no way related to the past but rather, intrinsic to - within - a unified field in which the term "sequence" would still be meaningful but redefined, so as to exclude "before" + "after." As a result you would see what I saw that I called Valis, + it would defy naming. I believe that the changes would be apparent as the result of will - a valence or perturbation - acting on reality as a whole; nothing would be transferred from one object to another: the total field as a unity 9284 would be ubiquitously (in space) + simul‐ taneously (in time) perturbed. + in no way could you say where this will or source of perturbation came from since "where" is a meaningless concept under these circumstancess that which exists, is real ("the reality field") would be seen to be epiphenomenal - in the exact same sense that an LP groove is epithenomenal to music; you cannot see the music, but for the fact that it impinges on -modulates - the groove as a carrier. Thus (I say) a vast metaabstraction is involved, here, exactly as going from LP groove to music; the in music is an abstraction, hierarchically speaking, + is known -even exists in the act of - impinging on the groove, being perturbing it in terms of it a physical - hence real - object. (I refer to the groove). This "music" that impinges on - perturbs - the reality field is (as I saw) information, so the analogy is not quite a metaphor but more an example; remove time as a factor, + causation would turn into occasionist pre-synchronizati is a unitary field all part of which would be seen to cooperate, pointing to a single mind acting throughout, in all the objects. on 285 in fact the concept "objects" - discrete plural things - would no longer have meaning. all this would occur as visible in space + in causation where in fact it is the element of time that has either been altered, reduced or even removed; you would be left with Leibnitz's pre-wound harmony, or occasionalism, + would realize you were seeing God or God's will: a single will expressed ubiquitously throughout a field. time + causation are a modem we have to employ because we see what we suppose to be res extensal; if we saw what really there, a field, we wouldn't need to employ this modem. But then we would have to confront what I call successive time frames each of which is complete + not acted all this goes back to on by previous ones. my 2-74 meta-abstraction, when + where I lost for a moment the modem of time + saw I contemoranity of plural "time frames"; I i.e. recognized that everything is contemporaneous So the 2-74 meta-abstraction - which had to do with time - led inevitably to a perception of Valis. I seess, the 2 times as contempraneous - a miracle was do to my being justified of the Holy Spirit. Vide note p. 287 (sub were talking about an ultra-state in which consciousness + memory are one - regained consciousness + regained memory, as upon waking up, whenupon the power of the dream (world) is broken, it is all 3 one thing 4286 This is not identity; it is identity return through memory. Consciousness likewise the meta-abstraction is like the breaking the power of a dream to compel assent of until waking. The universe is only seeming be (see dream sentences supra.). The universe must that we hypostatize. Are compelled to hypo‐ info statize. + this does fit Lem's paradigm based on "Ubik"! As a recent dream told me: a voice saying that Lem is right. Are not our dreams based on our own memories, i.e. our prior thought-formations If there is returned memory of identity leading to full consciousness combined with a radical re-experience of world as fundamentally irreal, one has been asleep + dreaming "under the control of the object" - an irreal object. "Meta-abstraction" implies "seeing world for what it is: essentially irreal" (to quote the dream: "the universe is his body + it is only seeming." + this is connected with there being only one (vast] living creature I keep having the feeling that the Bible is the real world (in contrast to what we The missing (forgotten) parts of self see). hence consciousness upon their return + abolish the compelling power of world (what call "the meta-abstraction") it is unitary I in both time + space, self-motivating, sentient + alive, + causation is irreal. Also, there is something more real than it, invisible, capable of perturbing + thus the true reality is pointer to + inferrentially known. (otherwise nothing would be real which is absurd.) What is a irreal. what is real is seen (universe) is only interrentially, by its influence on t wa 287 the universe, its tug on the reality field, the displacement it causes. That which is really real seems to be unitary, sentient, volitional + alive + to possess personality + to express itself toward us - toward the universe - in terms of its will as if its thoughts create a pressure or tug. We once knew, but have fallen asleep + forgotten, but it can remind + reawaken us: signal to wake up + remember. Whereupon we know it This instead of world; world as epiphenomenon. us suggests Sankara, inc. the inner part of the grand illusion: the illusion of the multiplicity of selves. which would explain Thomas. Note: this also fits in with what I have referred to as time dysfunction (in 3-74) when effects occurred before their causes, i.e. I reacted to things in advance to repeat, what we call "causation" occurs both in time ("before" - "after") + in space (impinging of one object upon another, with a transfer of kinetic force or motion). Remove the time element, + the spatial element is rendered vastly different in appearance. You get a unified field instead of discrete plurality of objects, with transformations internally pre‐ synchronized, as if all loci in the spatial field are conscious of one another, + change is set off more by a signalling system internal the field than a kinetic transer of force + to motion from one "object" to another. Thus temporal unity (contemporaneality) leads to spatial unity, to a field in space that is acted on by anything ("frame") complete, not on anything following i nor actin previous to 288 If time is removed, the idea of change in the spatial field arising in something that came "earlier" is unintelligible. Reality is wholly spatial, extensive in space, + so the concept of "time frame" arises to express the notion that things do pass away + other things arise. But each discrete "time frame" would be wholly complete, would not be affected by the preced time frame + would not affect the sub‐ Thus the meta-abstraction - which sequent one. has to do with contemporaneous "coaxial" time would radically transform our notion of space; res extensal would give way to an integrated field whose multiple loci would signal one another much like the pre-set (i.e. synchronized) clocks of occasionalism. "Causation" would appear as an info-transfer of mutual notification as if the spatial field as a whole were alive + unitarily so, that is, organic. To quite noes I made 41181. "the reality field is at any given time complete + cannot act on a later reality field Here is where reality is discontinuous: not between objects existing at one time... our minds supply a visible link of action between them to fill in the gap: this is the projected illusion of causality. Static disjunction is then converted into continuous flow which we term "time." We err twice: in supposing space to be discrete plural objects acting on one another when in fact space is a unitary field, + we en in supposing time to be continuing rence we project "causality; to compensate for these twin errors." I understand now how my meta-abstraction made it possible for 9284 me to drop out the notion of causality (as no longen needed) + to see space correctly as a unitary field all loci of which somehow mutually signal or / + are pre-synchronized; the basis of this field, then, being information + the transfer of informa‐ reality, then, in a certain real sense is information. When causality departs (due to "before" + "after" ceasing to be intelligible notions) force as a concept is converted to the concept of mutual notification, as if locus A tells locus B that it is to do something, a something pre-programmed intrinsically in locus B; information replaces dynamism + harmonious cooperation as if by a unitary very intelligent macro-entity replaces a universe