is superior to what most as I Humans voluntarily choose. Thus chaos gains [Note result of correct choice: "Birth 4) Ditheon. baptism- in the spirit" - inner certitude + salvation. the N But not everyone. Choice is risky. Law is not. Freedom + volition carry the risk of error + damnation: falling rather than rising. All of the "Grace" age is a vast, extended winnowing. It is as if K157 God now both tests + gambles - the dialectic as a two-parta wager - the period of the Law has taught man that enough that he will choose righty; the period of the Law gave man a basis to know what God prefers (hence the Law is good) + dislikes, but now the Law can't be followed slauishly; each person must choose in ambiguous test situations; this will determine essence through existential evidence (paradoxically the Law must be fought off + obeyed but obeyed voluntarily, as if inscribed on the heart, not on tablets of stone (or scrolls/ in books). (v. E2 36:27.) the Law cannot be obeyed + the person be human; if he obeys it by rote he is "correct" but only mechanically, because he is told explicitly what to do; thus time does not flow, because axiomatically no new -truly new-situation can arise (if it does, how can the law be applied?) individual judgment is indispensible. Yet the Law (O.T.) latently contains a "spirit se which is the N.T. "beneath" the letter + the N.T. contains -wow. Divine information beneath" the spirit! Theauthor of the spirit. God himself. Because time is moving backward, the mere failure to enact "the new heroic deed- restores the machine level. (entropic process.) to repeat: the N.T. is the essential 150 spirit of the O.T. + can be extracted, which is precisely what Jesus Did C" I come not to abolish the law but to fulfill it") - okay. But the N.T., spirit of the Torah (the O.T.) itself contains stegeno‐ graphically a supernatural living being - the blood of Christ ("the plasmate" capable of "interspecies symbiosis" or "crossbunding" - i.e. Ditheon. This is living info that can think + replicate + is Christ - as I saw; it is not info concerning Christ but is Christ, + swarms up the optic conduit to the pineal body to produce a hierogamy (the chemical wedding; more properly Ditheon). Thus as into it is limitless in its combinations or messages or contents - hence I saw the linking + relinking permutating through an infinitude of combinations - the universe as info; compare this to the fixed law compare too to the N.T. itself: now the "message" changes to meet each new situation, Regarding -dealing with each situation as unique, hence fluid - hence total time-process + evolution. There are no precedents, no rules; but this is not chaos; it is evolution, hierchical - + very zen, like perpetual renewal of the universe where what was true yesterday is not true tomorrow (reticulation accretions + arborization). The instructions permutate to meet continually permutating reality; therefore the info must be capable of thought. K159 This is as radically different from the N.T. as the N.T. is to the O.T., + yet "latent" in the N.T. as the N.T. is latent (as spirit) in the letter of the O.T (viz: the N.T. is the secret narrative of the O.T. but what is the "secret narra‐ tive" of the N.T.? It perpetually changes by means of recombinant meta-morphenes. yet as these meta-morphenes combine + recombine you can see that they are made out of the N.T. just as you can see that the N.T. is made out of the O.T but in both instances there is a vast quantum leap, the info would permulate so fast that it would have to make use of every ephemeral channel of info possible. it would not sell into a canon - it could not. It's like the stock Marpt ticked tape. Yet is remains N.T. scripture - retains it as its constituents. This is the spirit, in contrast to Christ (nots) + to Father (O.T. + to Satan (pre-Torah). Time is not only oving forward; its rate of accelleration is accellerating! YHWH: Um. Christ = mit. Spirit: Eigen. + causation is inversely propor‐ tional to the accelleration of time! with acausal change as the limit. all time (change) + no cause - i.e. pretextual cause (synchronicity, quantum field mechanics). instead of linear cause you'd get field perturbation. Finally time would accelerate so fast it's pass over into space whereupon you'd get simultaneous "grid-cause" or field perturbation to to escalated complexit of reticulation + arborization. + ultimately K160 you'd get a self-aware "vortex" which saw + called Valis. As Teilhand supposes. I am saying in effect that in the age of the spirit -in the Ditheon status choice in a certain real sense is eliminated + the person is compelled inwardly to do right; + this precisely accords with my "Parousia" dream of 3-18-81: in which God blocks each person (whom he callo) with the "written subliminal message traffic"; what I have worked outlogically here as obtaining in the 3rd age. Is what was expressed in that dream For this fast-permutating info to work it must somehow act on persons directly + immed‐ lately before they act, not as advice or guidelines but with absolute compelling power. The law did not of itself possess this power; this is not a return to the Law. this info pertains to unique situations, in contrast to the law, + pertains to only one given individual (in each instance) facing one given unique situation; there are no generalizations + no universal applicability. in several regards this is the opposite of the way the Law worked. (1) It -the infot changes constantly. (2) it applies to only one given person (3) in only one given unique situation + (4) is absolutely com‐ pelling (5) in an (161 inward sense - that is it is internalized although it comes in from outside, totally individualized, totally personalized, + no generalizations can be drawn from it. more over, the sentient, influencing - even compelling-agency is immediately at hand vis-a-vis the person (as a signalling system) this is epitomized by my experience with Valis as being "here," not "there" - i.e. Valis was immediate: on the spot in or as (camouflaged as) normal reality, + ultimately my mind (like Malebranche's occasional in ism). Source of world so-to-speak replaces world + poses as it (this isn't the case but the effect -result- is as if -alsob s it is the case). In the Parousia dream of Last March it was expressed as "God has taken the field" - he is no longer other + remote. It is as if the distinction between God + world is abolished, with world now an interface; this is theophany by means of world in conformity with certain apocalyptic prophecies regarding the Messianic age. But then, this is not "theophany" in the sense of an breaking because God does not come in God is [already in some sense] here (as immanentism, e.g.). As if world has been unmasked as having been God contrast the O.T. Theophanies in which c God is still "wholly other even during the theophanies, that is, God + K162 world were in the O.T. still totally distinct, but here, God has consumed world. Yet I think this only seems to be pantheism + immanentism; what it really is is "the Lord has suddenly the come to his temple." World is Holy place, rather than one spot being that Holy place; this is sanctific‐ cation of world, as in "Ubik" - i.e. it is ubiquitous. The term "mundane" on "profane" now signifies nothing; all is now hallowed (what I call "God manifesting himself in the trash stratum". or "Fat saw going on in the macro‐ world what normally happens in church during Holy Communion" i.e. transub‐ stantiation the info is not "all men will do x in circumstance A" but "this man will do X at this one particular situation A which is unique." For this to work, scripture must now permeate world at all places, strata + times, + not be limited to one sacred book, the Bible, analog to God not being limited to theophiny at one hallowed [special] place. + this indeed/is what I experienced, both in regard to Valis + to the plasmate. The key word I am looking for is "Dominion" as in domain as in Kingship 163 world compels but as if from within the person (like occasionalism or like one inner-outer field). Is the Ditheon dream saying that God ("the adventitious psyche." has invaded, the very mind (brain, rather) of the person? Without destroying the person's psyche - hence "Di"; this, then, is not. Enthus Iasmos as with Dionysos; this is "two natures, one person." The dream made it perfectly clear that this invasion is sought for + desired. one would encounter info generated as if ex nihilo on the spot as with "Tears": its source is here, not elsewhere. this spontaneous (i.e. self) generation of rearranged scripture I conjecture never used to happen. This is recombinant scripture (for one use -purpose. one person, one situation). Either it is self. generating (in which case it is a life form, as I declare in "Valis") or its source is on the sput; the results would be the same to function. This 3rd age scripture must be - not j ust available to the person, as the Bible is available to us now- but must impress itself on the person as instructions, invincible instructions, + not necessariey at a conscious level. + there is no reason to suppose that all people are "blocked"; in the Parousia dream It was only the elect, turned 180' against the general rush to doom. In fact all "acons" are here + now coaxially, + all the ontological types or modes of Dasein (i.e. levels) as if rotating at different time-rates (velocity). These may be evolutionary stages in as 9164 info organism that operates at variable -+ progressively faster rates- as our species evolves; first no law, then fixed law, then conceptual spirit replacing letter + now direct input to us to handle situations uniquely + varying from person to person; it evolves + we evolve. + each stage of it is latent in the precelding stage. declare, then, formally that in 2-3-74 I saw I an evolving information entity which we know as first the Torah (O.T.) + then the N.T. (Christ) but it has now entered a third stage for which we possess no term; I calli recombinant meta-morphenes + these are generated on the spot unique to the person recipient + the situation, based on the verbal content of scripture; + that accellerating time is involved in such a way that level, of ontology are involved resembling those that Dante describes, based on Juachin Finally, a new type of human is created by this who is a two-psyche entity plugged into this brd-level information as his control system, his guidance system. These 3 states or modes of this information entity explain why we experience God as 3 persons' each level is expressive of a different mode of one unitary being who (it would seem) evolves as we evolve (at least in relation to us). A close scrutiny discloses that each of its 3 stages takes the form necessary for human life at that evolutionary level + I: therefore logical + not K165 arbitrary (viz: initially there had to be a fixed law; later conceptual principle, + now specific unique combinations of info -instructions- for each separate individual person meeting ech crucial moral choice situation). By apprehending this 3rd + highest state (of the info entity) the relationship -in terms of affinity + of contraries- between Christ (not.) + Torah (O.T.) can be appreciated. Each succeeding stage is fundamentally revoluo tionary in relation to the previous one + yet logically evolves out