53 - 029 folder 53 - 029 C-17 saved. so it was YHWH in me, the God of Moses, Valis is YHWH. But also it has to do with the Platonist elements of anamnesis, reincarnation, the intellect, the Forms; so these two elements are both equally true & equally necessary: YHWH (which I have always called the "Xtian element"); & the several Platonist elements (anamnesis, reincarnation, & the Forms -which is to say reason- the meta-abstraction). Thus neither alone will suffice. It is a world constructed along Platonist-metaphysics lines, but it is a world created by & governed by YHWH, & our salvation is due to His Grace; so reason (noesis) & Grace are both equally necessary & both were equally involved in my salvation in 2-74. & it was salvation & I did remember a past life. & we do live over & over but forget (& so, paradoxically, live but once). & there was a superimposition of two spatiotemporal continua; I was saved by YHWH -Valis is YHWH- by & through His Grace, & this was due to an act, a voluntary act of Piety on my part - due, then to merit, to a little extent; & there was one object seen at two times & two places, & this one object is Moses Maimonides's "Guide to the Perplexed". When I read it when I was 21 years old I was rereading it - & my process of salvation -the rope pulley- was thus set in motion by a natural event (anamnesis & noesis), & by YHWH's intervention (Valis), His Grace & all this was revealed to me tonight by Him, due to his Love & Mercy. folder 53 - 030 folder 53 - 030 YHWH found me to be a good & pious man, according to his Law, the Torah. When I gave to Covenant House, I acted in accord with the Torah. & the Torah is sublime, transcendent & eternal, & it pertains to all humans at all times & places, Jew & non-Jew alike - to YHWH it makes no difference. I was shown that all 3 of us as one family (me, Tess, & Christopher) were saved, for to YHWH the family is sacred. The Law of God - of the Torah that I obeyed was what Philo called philanthropia or Sadakah. My God - I saw myself (in these hypnopompic visions) the way God sees me, not as I see myself : he sees me in terms - under the aspect of - the Torah, for the Torah in his Law : as a good and pious man (I would guess in terms of philanthropia). There is only one Law at all times & places for all men, & it is Torah. God is not concerned if you are a Jew or a Japanese or a Nigerian; the Torah is divine & existed before creation. "DI" then is essential & logical as the sequel to "Valis" but none of the 3 books in the trilogy deals with the Platonist metaphysics that must be understood if the whole story of 2-3-74 is to be understood (reincarnation, anamnesis, noesis, the Forms, reason, the metaabstraction, etc; these pertain to the _how_ : philosophy - no ; the repeated horizontal tracking is theological. The meta-abstraction - my analysis of it : "Not two Mothers but one Mother twice" - one object existing at two places & two times - is essential in understanding 2-3-74 & is Platonist, is noesis & the forms. None of my Exegesis has been in vain : the Platonist part is correct, & God - the God of Abraham - is equally necessary; he created the Platonist universe. I _did_ remember a past life, & indeed two spatiotemporal continua superimposed due to one common constituent. Adonay, God of Mercy. folder 53 - 031 D-1 All of a sudden I see how the power of YHWH (unknown to the Greeks, i.e. to Plato) can interact with the Platonist forms-icons world (unknown to the Jews [except e.g. Philo, but this is philosophy, not religion: I mean Platonist metaphysics & Hebrew religion, not philosophy]). The power of YHWH operating in & on the Platonist world that he created; one half of the mystery (of 2-3-74) lies in Judaism, & the other half lies in the Platonist metaphysics. 2-3-74 was YHWH operating in relation to me but in terms of a Platonist "two world" or "two realms (upper & lower?) world-system. Unless both Judaism & Platonism are taken into account, 2-3-74 simply cannot be explained; you cannot explain it in fact without taking the Torah into account - Torah, reincarnation. The forms, anamnesis; what I must do -& in fact have been doing without consciously realizing it- is to combine Platonism & Judaism- but there is also the yes-no of Boehme, the dialectic - the dynamic inner life of God, as Schelling & Whitehead speak of; yes, this last element, the prerational "Dark" will of God vs his "Bright" side, reason, logos - all this must be taken into account & the "pulley" extrication - is this not an xtian salvation, yet linked to Plato's Orphic concept of the descent and reascent of the soul? So we have YHWH who saves the fallen soul, extricates it & pulls it suddenly back up - but in conjunction with Plato's anamnesis & noesis: it is YHWH who wills (decides) who will receive this as a divine gift of charis & mercy & divine favor. I guess what I wrote Isa pertains: the absolute dependence & trust in God & God's power to save, abolishing the Gnostic "thrown" categories reversing them ( through justification). To sum up, YHWH & YHWH alone sets the Platonists machinery of anamnesis & noesis in motion by his judgment. So it, then, is no accident; YHWH wills it (not found in Plato's account) folder 53 - 032 folder 53 - 032 D-2 I now have - through revelation - arrived at a vast and terrible synthesis unveiling a situation of ghastly ferocity, but into which God reaches to intervene. Endless lives over and over again, "horizontal life" forever until anamnesis occurs, the person remembers what he has always before, each time before been caused to forget. And why does he remember (this act abolishing at once his terrible situation)? YHWH intervenes to pull him up vertically as if by a pulley of nets, rope nets that carry him up to safety and out of the endless tracking; this man has shown himself worthy and pious in the eyes of God and has thus found favor. Thus Plato's anamnesis and salvation are (in my synthesis) one and the same and this is a free gift from God; and yet, paradoxically, it is merited: it is pronoia, charis and judgement on God's part (as eschatological judge, the old white-bearded king on horseback). 2-3-74 points to a colossal dispensation that is a prison, down into which God reaches (the infinite fixed point that I saw that night: an infinite distance away, infinitely small but always visible). I now - due to revelation - have my overall theoretical structure, and it is YHWH, the Torah, Platonist metaphysics, radical protestantism (Boehme: God's prerational will in dialectic with his "bright" side: Logos or reason, the latter always triumphing). A profound moral element exists throughout this structure; the moral act is the basis of man's extrication (the Reformers to the contrary). The Torah is all-in-all, as Judaism teaches: the very frame of the Cosmos (& it is cosmos, truly! & long extinct in terms of our awareness of it). It is a titanic mechanism from which God extricates and frees the man of merit in terms of God's law written on that Man's heart + revealed by his voluntary act. Here is my edifice, complete at last. folder 53 - 033 folder 53 - 033 D-3 What is most striking is how little it resembles the world & world-design & -government that we suppose is there. Judaism, Platonism & radical Protestantism: & the dynamic inner life of God expressed in the Dialectic. However, one main point. The Platonism elements pertain to world (cosmos). But over & above there is YHWH as Creator & pantocrator; he & his dynamic inner life is the higher & more profound element; it subsumes the Platonism which is, after all, only (sic), philosophical & metaphysical, world not lord of world. Thus, to say "Valis has to do with Platonism" is true, but this is the lesser truth; the Greater truth is that YHWH, the God of Abraham & Moses, is the case; 2-3-74 had basic, fundamental Platonist elements that, if they are not included - well, 2-3-74 cannot be understood. But they are secondary. &, after all, anamnesis is specifically & explicitly described in "Valis"; but YHWH is the real theme & disclosure: theophany, not metaphysics. However, these elements fuse together (I see now) in one vast system of God, man, world & salvation (intervention suggestive of the mystery religions & their view of the God above the primum mobile who ovesees & overrules astral determinism. No wonder the solution has eluded me so long; the situation is dreadfully complex, & quite other than we suppose. YHWH & Platonism both -& the dialectic of Boehme- & as I say the main purpose of the mystery religions. I have had to synthesize much, & in fact did not: it was at last revealed to me (esp. the "multiple tracking" in which you live at two spatiotemporal continua, & you can remember - whereupon they superimpose. They superimpose because of a common ingredient (that is, both continua work off of -from- one common factor or element, & this, precisely, is what I realized last February when I at last explicated the meta-abstraction.) This is, of folder 53 - 034 folder 53 - 034 course, the eidos which instantiates at plural times & place & yet remains unitary. This means I did experience a cognitive act/perception of an ultimate order & degree - more, I did figure it out, first as {illustration of 2 rectangles connected to a base rectangle} & then, last February in explicit verbal terms. As far as I know, Plato never construed this aspect of his Forms theory. I have said for 15 months that the key to it all was a meta-abstraction. Now I realize that YHWH acts to trigger off this meta-abstraction, but nonetheless it is a genuine rational act, the coming into being of the highest reasoning powers possible dealing with the absolute basis of world : its true structure, totally unsuspected (hence I had to understand not only the meta-abstraction per se but also world to which it pertained : what it told me about world; i.e. the revealed epistemological implications over & above the logic involved. Since it did pertain to world & world alone!) But (as I say) it was revealed to me tonight that the meta-abstraction (noesis) & anamnesis break the power of the tracking-mechanism to bind, to enclose & enthrall; the person is de facto released instantly, whereupon time, space & causation evaporate as if they were illusory from the beginning : they no longer pertain once one remembers (anamnesis) & understands (noesis/meta-abstraction) : but this comes only as a Gift from God : & , in time, this Gift comes due to adjudication - &, finally, this has to do with the person having God's Law (Torah) inscribed on his heart & acting to fulfill that Law voluntarily. Love of God's Law is love of God himself : in fulfilling that Law, man shows his love of God the source & author of that Law. & thus I have been shown how to put it all together at last. Almost 8 years, & only folder 53 - 035 folder 53 - 035 D-5 did I understand through divine revelation. The synthesis was just too vast for me to encompass on my own, due to my own