(or actually being) Plato’s eide; in other words what I call an abstraction apperception of reality as information, music to what "one channel" conceives and perceives as groove — as physical and substantial. Suppose we reason this way. What each person sees is to some extent unique (a basic belief of mine). Suppose we further say that only what people share is real; what each person sees that is seen by no one else is either not real or only semi-real. What, then, if we could coordinate the perception-cognition of two brains and superimpose the twin fields in such a way that the elements common to both would appear as set, and what is unique —limited— to each one apppears as ground? Then we would know what is truly real. Well, this is what the "di" system accomplishes. Two separate perception-cognition systems are ultimate superimposed, and indeed certain elements do turn out to be common and other elements turn out to be limited to just one of the two systems. And this can be read off at a glance, once the two fields are superimposed into a single unified field. There is a radical new kind —not degree— of feature extraction. Certain constants emerge. This "di" system overcomes the gravest limitation to all perceptioncognition, that each system is private and to a degree unique and cannot be compared with another analogous system. I, seeing and interpreting what I see, cannot compare it with what you see and -17- interpret. But now the possibility of doing this arises due to the two brains —two brain hemispheres— in one human head. Thus an entirely different order of perception is permitted, and the cognition (appraisal, interpretation and analysis)based on it. No such entity has ever existed before, so far as we know. Now, this just deals with the "di" part. What about the "Theon" part? I looked up "Theon" in my Greek dictionary. It is the accusative form of "theos," but interestingly it often follows the Greek word "with" (kata or something) so as to mean godly, as a short form of according to God or with God. Following god. Is this "Theon," then, to be understood as godly or like god or with good or according to god rather than God Himself? In the manner of God, perhaps. "After the likeness of God." "According to Goa's will," are how my dictionary gives kata Theon. An adjective form, perhaps, of Theos? "Di": twofold, double, twice (a prefix denoting; from the Greek). Also denoting separation, reversal. Asunder. Double. This is from the Greek dis, not dia. Dia is through. "Di (from the Greek dis): twofold, double, twice (a prefix denoting)." There are two "di" prefixes, one meaning twofold, double, twice; the other meaning separation, reversal, asunder. I looked up (originally) the wrong "di," the "di" based on "dia" not "dis." It can mean divided in two or it can mean twice, depending on whether it’s derived from dis (double, twofold, twice) or dia (through, divided, asunder). I am sure it is double, twofold, twice. I must be nuts; I got the wrong "di." It simply means two or twice. I have now looked up the prefix "di" in the OED and it purely and simply means twice or double. Or two. Dipolar means two poles. I looked it up in the OED; "dipolar: having two poles." This does not vitiated my substantive interpretation of "ditheon" at all; in fact it reinforces it; rather than Asunder being implied, two or twice is implied...I have obviously been spooked and tired and frightened and awed. -18- It would appear that the two psyches upon viewing world experience very different worlds, the one Acts AD70, the other USA 1974, and that by superimposing this double perception, supratemporal constants can be discerned, and the plasmate (which is apparently living information) and VALIS (which is cleverly camouflaged, so cleverly that one psyche cannot discriminate it). It seems to me that we seem to be talking about some vast, even cosmic organism, brain-like, as world or camouflaged as and in world, posing as world and impervious to mono-psyche scrutiny. The two opposing, antithetical, mutually-exclusive psyches of SCANNER now are an integrated two-channel percept-cognitive system; it is as if the Bob/Fred situation is species evolution gone wrong. I think the greatest problem now is whether I wish to retain any of the religious —i.e. Christian— material as explanation, or whether I wish to think of it simply as biological species evolution. Utilizing Occham's Razor I would have to opt for the latter. The early —which is to say authentic— Christians may simple have discovered techniques to accomplish this, even (possibly) based on a study of Platonism and Pythagoreanism and the mysteries. Their terminology may be obsolete, now, although correct for that time and place (a Hellenized mystery-religion mystical Judaism). They used the best terms they had, the best concepts. After all, did I not figure out recently that the whole Eucharist derives entirely from Greek sources, not Hebrew, which is to say the worship of Dionysos/Zagreus? I have a deep and acute feeling that Orphism is involved, here. That it is true that the word "Jesus" is cypher for ZEUS-ZAGREUS, as I was shown. The ancients would not know of species evolution. After all (as Jane Harrison says) the whole worship of Dionysos and Orphism was for the purpose of the worshiper to become divine, that is, Theon. And I am saying, I now know anatomically and technically how this is done: the two brain hemispheres are utilized by somehow setting up twin staggered but parallel psyches whose two fields are merged —or merge— finally into one unified field, permitting an entirely new way of apprehending world, which is to Dasein, and this is to human as human is to animal; this last is the greatest point of all. Not how it is done, not what is perceived, but what the person becomes. -19- Turning the statement around, one can say, ’’This is what the ancients —especially the Greeks, the mystery religions— meant by man becoming God or divine, and this includes early Christianity; this is what they were involved in. So the term 'Ditheon' is to inform me that this two-channel, two-psyche entity is not merely (sic) divine but is what the ancient world meant by the term ’divine' or god-like,’ and was their goal." The past is talking to me; the past is affecting me; the past is instructing me. Eventually I wilx have to deal with the What Seen, specifically VALIS. I'll bet I never figure it out; it may take centuries of human thought and work after the Ditheon superman (or God) comes into existence. We may be faced with the true ruling (and truly most advanced) life form on this planet, which the mono-psyche human could not apprehend. It is also possible that now we meet our Creator and the entity that has guided and directed and determined and caused our evolution, like the great black slab in 2001. Because it is now absolutely indubitable (in view of this dream and what I wrote in BTA) that another mind, greater than mine, not a human mind, is working on me and, it would seem, directs what I write. And this is not simply wish-fulfillment on my part because this last dream was so heavy that it clobbered me, rather than pleasing me. I sense (1) species evolution: Ditheon to man as man is to animal; and (2) another life form here, which I saw and call VALIS and the plasmate, and it is probably directing all this. After all, when I saw VALIS in 3-74 it was communicating with me, and very likely it is what I call VALIS that put this recent Ditheon dream into my mind. Let people call me crazy; fuck them. This latest dream abolishes any doubt on my part as to the reality —and importance!— of all this. I'll wager everything I've got that deliberately directed species-evolution is involved, here, I have experienced the evolution, I have had it explained to me, and, perhaps even more important than the Ditheon state itself, I have encountered (I think) the life form that directs this evolution...so maybe the What Seen is more important than the What Become. Which is to say, the ultimate value of becoming a Ditheon is that you can now see your creator, the life form living here camouflaged that leads, guides, controls and directs us covertly and benignly. - 20 - I have been thinking it over, and I am going tc stipulate as an absolute premise that "Baptism in the Spirit," "second birth," "birth in the Spirit," "born from above" all refer to a birth (somehow) in the given person's brain of a second psyche, of the second psyche which creates the Ditheon. It, then, is not a revitali¬ zation or sanctification of the original psyche but —on the contrary— the addition of another psyche, so that now there exist two psyches in the person, one in each brain hemisphere. I am positive of this. Although I am less positive of the following, I am convinced that the second psyche is adventitious and is somehow introduced into the person's brain; it was not there in a dormant, latent stage and merely awakened. In any case, this "second birth" refers to another,additional psyche; that is my premise because that is clearly what "Ditheon" refers to: not (merely) becoming God or God-like but doing it through the possession of twin parallels psyches functioning in some kind of harmony and unision while maintaing their separate "twochannel" identities. This is not elevation to sanctificabion but sanctification ("Theon") through implantation. There is reason tc believe that this second psyche is that of a person who once lived and who has died, perhaps some time ago, and that this, for him, is resurrection, return from beyond the grave. I ami deeply persuaded that this is, then, a human psyche, that one innate human psyche plus the implanted adventitious resurrected human psyche creates a God-like binary entity that is more God than human, is to human what human is to animal (with enormous, fundamental transformations in perception and cognition, as outlined above — regarding cognition, specifically what I call the meta-abstraction). This is a very mysterious event. It does not happen by accident; I have reason to think that the selected person is somehow the subject of a judgment that he is worthy of receiving this implanted adventitious second psyche. This presumes, then, some kind of ultra-advanced entity responsible for the selection and the implantation. Further, I think Jesus was the first human to receive a second psyche, at the time of his baptism by John the Baptist, when the Holy Spirit descended on him and God said, "This is my son in whom I am well pleasea." This, then, -21- is also what is meant by becoming "an adopted son and coheir in Christ of God." I also have some reason to believe that this is a self-perpetuationg matter, in that when the second, adventitious psyche is implanted, it and the innate, original one form some kind of "offspring," the golden flower of Taoist alchemy, that is immortal and escapes upon death to return to someone else later on as an adventitious, resurrected psyche; hence this process, once initiated by/through/in Jesus (the first Christ) continues on, but in stealth. Thus I tend to think that my sense that Thomas is/was an apostolic Christian is correct. That in fact Thomas may have indeed been one of the Twelve. He was, however, a man, a Greek-speaking man of the first century C.E. (I guess he wasn't one of the Twelve because he had no memories of Jesus; but he did have memories of the disciples; he came somewhat after Jesus, like Paul.) So in the "Baptism in the Spirit" the person is not trans¬ formed as such, but transformed by being added to, and that psyche which