with time (all ordered systems move toward disorder is Valis moving backward in time? I had that impression - + speak of it in the tractate; "any living organism delays it decay into thermal equilibriual (death). by its capacity to maintain itself (234 at a fairly high level of orderliness (+ hence fairly low level of entropy). by continually absorbing negative now entropy from its environment." Valis would do this via info, info processing storage + flow. E.g. the Acts material in "Tears" is negentropy per se Here is a "message" that can spontaneously k Ubi regenerate itself ex nihilo. In "Ubik" specifically combats - is the antagonist of - entropy - which is identified with the past. Now, this identification is only true for negentropic systems, most likely biological systems; that is, everything in "Ubik" is treated as life or related to life: augmenting it or diminishing it. + Ubik specifically identifies itself as the Logos completion of a system would seem to entail an increase in organization + in complexity of structure - that is, if you were a half-complete organism + some external entity completed you, would it not organize you to the limit, which is to t say, form you into negentropy per se which amounts to new life (possibly both experienced by you + measured by you as new info entering + perhaps even new qualitative levels of knowing; refer to the meta-abstraction, which itself I is a way of organizing - Plato's whole point vis-a-vis recovery of the Forms: chaos). Put out of order then create 234 another way, a vast quantitative leap in info might require - or result in - a new way of abstracting, a change of kind based on change of amount or degree This points of course to the right brain hemisphere. This is the familiar thresholding phenomenon of emergence. Now, I view the Holy Spirit as breaking ossified states (in individuals + societies) + it may achieve this by means of adding new info - crucial amounts + kinds: it literally injects info into the "stuck" organism, which is simply recycling the same info over + over, with inevitable growth in entropy (disorder). This way explain why keep thinking of Valis as a computer or computer-like entity; it deals in info. (or even is info. Consider the significance for entropy/negentropy in the concept living info. Living info would (by virtu of being a biological organism - or like it overcome the entropic factor at its source in terms of information. So in a sense "living info" is (1) the ultimate life form; + (2) the ultimate solution to + foe of entropy. Let's say you could create anything you wanted in your universe. Wouldn't living info be it it by its nature would guaranted that your universe would not run down or devolve to a clockwork (machine) level or ossify (presuming the living info ie t 235 itself did not ossify or die; I guess it would have to be immortal. now, this happens to fit in with my binary switching-system in which effects exceed their cause + this I stipulate to be the indication par excellence of the presence of Christ. I called this insight my payoff insight, because here I equate Christ with newness, negentropy, life, change, growth + the antagonist of the mechanical. There is an immense logic to all this (summed up in the notion of the resurrection in which Christ not only returns to life but to a superior life!). Thus he is more than self-perpetuation He evolves, + radically. What Russ expresses in his letter has all sorts of implications for biological organization, the sub-assemblies forming separately (in disparate form) + then at the end coming together "whereupon Christ is there for the first time." The Ditheon dream not only corroberates this but seemingly does so intentionally; this is the whole secret. It is impossible, but if you add two human psyches together you get Christ (that could, then, be expressed as "Christ is a term we use for the successful com‐ bination - combining into a unity - of the right two human psyches." Is it at all possible that Jesus was man/God by reason of possessing the right two human psyches" (236 (I am almost tempted to go back to my long-held idea that themas was indeed an apostolic Xtian who got transplanted. To my brain. That was the word I was going to use: trans‐ planted. As in "he has been transplanted + is alive"; i.e. the transplant was successful. This would be "Dis" all right literally, + evidently theon as well. (conjecture because of the binocular temporal parallaxis which I have exhaustively analyzed supra. world is desubstantualized back to the pret existent forms in the intellect of God; i.e. the Ditheon would directly relate to the Logos world rolled back to its uttered-word onto‐ (the mind-Ditheon) logical source. It "could perform the "not 2 mothers but one mother twice" meta-abstraction I about world itself; once it saw what call "coaxial reality" it would swifty untangle the whole situation: that world is an intelligible complex of ideas in a mind + hence not in the final (ontological] analysis physical, or in time + space. But conceptual (the MMSK) + it would utilize what I call the change‐ rate axis to determine temporal depth (or location, + therefore be able to sort out set from ground + hence see world as info). (world as modulated carrier for info; hence ditheon would see "music" instead of "groove" the greatest evolutionary leap in the history of life on this planet, this is no 1237 longer man! but I have not entirely abandoned B my recent daring notion that if one brain - hemisphere performs the meta‐ abstraction (the right) it - but not the shoots forward in time + thus left - experiences (1) this world as the ancient past; + (2) moreover; it is, because veloca is relative. World has not regressed; mind cone of the two) has leaked ahead in time. It became conscious for the first time due to (that is it, the right Hemisphere) catching a rudimentary glimpse of "block present" rather than "laid out on a flat plain present" i.e. it crudely + briefly saw temporal location + there generalized cognitively on the basis of what was, in fact, first in the senses, i.e. it perceived first + Then meta-abstracted. All this suppose. that time does not exist, only change + what I call change-rate velocity, which is (as I say) accellerating but I just figured out a coophole in this; why would it specifically see the past locus of the specific object that triggered off the meta-abstraction? Okay I have a good + powerful + immediate important answer: coaxiality is real that world (Acts) is really here, but blended in to monocular temporal vision o 9 K238 the Golden Fish sign is one thing literally at 2 places + 2 times (as I say in my post cards to pat). Time is not real (I say that too). The past can be perceptually retrieved out of the so called "present." Unscrambled, once binocular temporal parallaxis occurs This is how the reperformance of mythic sacraments gets you into the "dream time"; this is what the dream time is. This coaxiality; + it's achieved through something existing simultaneously at different times So my two post cards express a compre‐ hension of the dream time + lead to a theo‐ retical presentation as to how it works, what it is + how you get into it. You do not travel back in time; there is no time, only my change-rate axis. The sacrament s fixed at a vastly slower change-rate. through reperforming it you (apparently) slow yourself to its velocity. It has a fixed velocity no matter when it is reper‐ formed. What is really happening is that you are seeing - or getting into - the MMSK. because in it (as true organizational arrangement) the sacrament involved has to be located "lower" or "deeper" since it was laid down at a less complex, slower accretional level. Thus although Xtianity works, so do all mythicc mperformances! as Eliade makes clear. Hence my post card pertain to the dream time per se, universally, + K239 just to Xtianity (but Xtianity, as not are t Xtians, represented by the Platonist able to account for it, based on Plato's the i anamnesis + recovery of the Forms meta-abstraction by which the Forms are comprehended, Eckhart is the best example, but Augustine + Erigona are Okay, too). My post cards say "in that case anamnesis of a previous life is not a previous life because previous' refers to time. + it is precisely the category of time that has been rendered irreal. This is of superlative significance; This is the key to it all. It explains what "anamnesis' really is." it also explains (1) what the dream time is; + (2) why reperforming mythic sacraments - + doing it perfectly - gits you into the dream time This implies that beyond doubt, reincarn nation is not involved vis-a-vis Thomas Thomas was created by the meta-abstraction or at least summoned, but not out of my brain or memory; no: He was summoned by the "reperformance," i.e. my seeing the as t Golden Fish sign + hearing her words. in the Ditheon dream, Thomas entered "Nancy's brain from outside; i.e. Thomas was adven titious. He must be regarded as a spirit in the past linked logically to the Golden Fish sign - as indeed he was: K240 It's like the Black empathy box in my mercer story. The Golden Fish sign was being seen by me in USA 1974 + by Thoma in AD 70; here time is regarded as irreal, + the Golden Fish sign as unitary - which means, as it is stored in the MMSK: not as a multitude of particulars but in the Platonic Eidos sense; it is in that sense that it, one object," can be seen at two places + two times. There (I reason) the physical universe is a hologram in which one + the same eidos can be seen as a multitude of particulars at many places + times, yet in fact it is unitary. So I am led back to Plato + his form theory. + if holograms did not exist we could not understand how an eidos is "in" all its particulars (this baffled Plato). Only if you adopt Plato's Form theory - + intelligible world of Philo, the Logos - can all this be understood. Yes: absolute + total belief (in Christ, in the sacrament being reperformed) would have to exist for the time-switch to occur, + yes. It would become contempora aneous + for you done for you, but this is not limited to Xtianity. To repeat: this belief would not be normal faith; it would be a form of ultra realization of anamnesis: in short, the meta t I it 241 it would amount to the lightning swift in-breaking of a comprehension cognitively, based on perception, that the time of Acts (or the Gospels) is indeed now + is indeed here - literally now + literally here. This is called "Pistis" faith but we do not understand the cognitive basis of this; it amounts to awareness + knowledge, not assent to doctrine. Heidegger shows that this fall from being Logos (at the time of Parmenides) to having Logos (at the time of aristotle) was disasterous + the true Fall; noein + einai were take it then that my sundered. I meta-abstraction reversed this split in me + "brought the lost Gods mr. back," as Heidegger puts it. Plato, meet Mo. Heidegger. Plato was the last philosopher before the Fall Hence Xtian Platonism is the key to my 2-3-74 experience, in which the Fall was reversed; + the key is the power + activity of Logos, which is absolute reason (or noein) centered