+ intricate, but spurious). + this was no enantiodromia. This was an invasion it of my psyche by absolute knowledge. bore no relation to what I had up to that moment believed, wrongly believed. There was not even a sense of insight, of satori; it was pure knowledge, like a sort of seeing: a vision of the situation as it actually was. + it was primarily a moral seeing. Absolute guess I moral rectitude occurred in me. It simply I took place. All at once it was. saw it as God saw it. + how different that was! + absolute! It was not a viewpoint It was knowing what I have been calling "the metaabstraction" is in fact knowledge - the act of knowing - as God knows (i.e. knows what is, i.e. world). In 2-74 + more fully later in 3-74 I saw as God sees + understood as God under‐ stands, that is, absolutely + a priori, in which what is known is exactly the same they are assimilated to each other is as what folder 55 - 164 folder 55 - 164 D-92 that the mind of God was at that time in my mind - I experienced that as Valis in saw (Xtian apola my mind. All that I lyptic world, the plasmate, set to ground, the prison, the secret Xtians, the abolition of time - i.e. coaxial reality + the conception/per‐ ception of eternal constants) - this is how God sees; I did not see this or understand this; God saw + understood this, +, as I say, I saw + understood because he bloomed in my mind like cold white light (hence I experienced an infinitude of space). {Note I realize this due to sunday night when the same absolute knowing by God in me induced a realization of my practical + moral jeopardy. Again there was certitude - total, unconditioned knowing - but what I knew this time was dreadful + lethal to me practically + spiritually. Once again the unitary fusion of knowing + doing occurred because for God there is no distinction between what he knows + what he does. Ratiocination - logic itself, thinking itself - does not occur because it is not required; God does not figure out; he does not reason because he does not need to reason. ➀ Augustine teaches this: the divine illumination later picked up by Malebranche It was - both times - as if my mind expanded into infinity (conceived as spatial infinity). The sense one gets is that one's mind contains all reality, + this is because all reality is known a priori + absolutely, not sensibly + contingently So this experience last sundary revivifies + folder 55 - 165 folder 55 - 165 D-93 explains 2-3-74. In that case the awareness was involved with awareness of imminent danger which suggests providentia + grace; in this case there too, was imminent danger, hence providentia + grace, but with the added element of my awareness of my own sinning - an element not present in 2-3-74 this time God saved me from myself + not from an external threat, + this time the threat was spiritual, rather than just lethal. Also, what I was taught sunday night is that the moral law is as real + So in a actual as causal physical law. sense the Gnostics are right about heim armene: causal + the mosaic law combined into one. This explains karma; the moral law has literal physical consequences -effects - like causal physical law. + This explains why Christ's sacrifice was necessary: it took an actual literal act to break the power of retribution Xtianity can only be understood (ran‐ some, the "nailing up of our death warrants) of this is understood first. + now (tuesday night) I can truly say, "His will is my peace" - after I had fr a time rebelled. To understand (1) that there + (2) that this is the Lord who governs all; order is moral order with the force of physical, causal law: what extraordinary discoveries. He did not force me to do the right thing as if I were an object in motion; he granted folder 55 - 166 D-115 whole thing: birth in the spirit, the purpose of the Messianic mission, as the J. Bible says.) But what more importantly revealed is that my 2-3-74 experience is indeed the authentic payoff of Xtianity: that which is signified by the phrase "birth in the Spirit," which justifies the ostensible part: the suffering. Xtianity, then, like Buddhism is a way of dealing with the problem of suffering (which to me is the greatest of all problems); it deals with it by - virtually alchemically - converting it into its 1800 mirror opposite: ecstasy - as was done for me in 2-3-74. How this is done no I have dea, but it involves freeing us retributive from punishment (through vicarious atonement; justification by surrogation, etc) + receiving the Holy Spirit + entry into the Kingdom: 3 points, each as essential as the two others - the Kingdom has to do with eschatology. become the adopted sons of God + are we restored to him: here in this life, here in this world, i.e. before death. This means that my lifetime search in plumbing the depths of suffering in order to unravel its mysteries has proven successful (this relates to the rat the beetle, the burning Japanese soldier, the Galapagos turtle; this has to do with empathy - my empathy - which is another word for agapē: + agapē is the greatest of the Xtian virtues, as Paul tells us: it is the true way of the Xtian. But why? because it is good, i.e. a virtue? Not folder 55 - 167 folder 55 - 167 D-116 exactly. Agapē is a road along which one travels in imitation of Christ to penetrate to the core - deepest ontological layer - of suffering (his passion + crucifixion), + there, if you follow that road - + that road only - you arrive at the secret: the resurrection - which is the miraculous conversion of suffering into ecstasy which is uniquely the Xtian miracle; this is how Xtianity + Xtianity This alone solves the problem of suffering. solution is not a philosophical, intellectual understanding (e.g. why there is suffering) but an event: the dramatic conversion of suffering - not into mere stoic apathy, the mere lack of suffering - but into its affective + ontological bipolar opposite: ecstasy - + here, precisely, Dionysus-Zagreus enters, Jesus "is" Dionysus-Zagreus as a solution to suffering; this is not just ecstasy but more, ecstasy as the conversion of suffering (this conversion is not found in the Dionysion-orphic system, ecstasy is sought for its own sake. There is then, no exultation in suffering per se, here; suffering, as in Buddhism, is to be solved (thus Jesus addresses the same address problem that Buddhism + stoicism but solves it quite differently. If Buddhas can be called victors, certainly, then, the Xtian (who goes all the way to the end of the road of agapē) is even more a victor, for he is not merely liberated from folder 55 - 168 folder 55 - 168 D-117 suffering - he experiences ecstasy. Why? My perception is: he remembers Christ the bridegroom having just been here + anticipates his imminent return, + is now as bride preparing for that return; the Xtian is right now making the wedding preparations in this the tiny interval between Christ leaving + his anticipated imminent return; this is the Dasein of the true Xtian, + this is joyful, in fact ecstatic. I know because I experienced it. There is memory of Christ (anamnesis) + anticipation (eschatology), +, most of all, the sense of oneself as the bride of Christ (which is, as soul, which is female). This hierogamy is consummated by the birth in the spirit, the purpose of the Messianic mission; + I do speak of this in "Valis." All time + all space collapse into this: the memory, the anticipation, + the understanding of oneself as the intended bride - which is literally (not just symbolically!) fulfilled by the birth in the spirit which occurs now: it is not anticipated but occurs. yet the road to this is through suffering, + it is not just actual (involuntary) suffering, such as is imposed on all creatures, but rather, the vicarious + voluntary ontological i ffering of agapē. In imitation of Christ ine voluntarily takes on all suffering, but as means, not end folder 55 - 169 folder 55 - 169 D-118 note: + "BTA": the road of compassion the bodisattva, which is the resolution of the whole Valis trilogy. So "Tears" to "BTA" - five novels in all study + resolve the problem. God, how this journey - expressed in in my actual life from 1970 to 1981 These 5 novels - almost broke me (nancy, Kathy, gaylene, Doris) - but look at the resolution! (as it finally emerges in "BTA The problem is posed + then solved, both in I my writing - these + novels - + in my life. did it: as a human being + as a creative artist. What a dreadful + yet victorious odyssy! twelve years in all plus all the prodromal years (beetle, Japanese soldie, rat, gressively oro turtle, etc). There is no way, then, that my + writing during these years could not be more more autobiographical. now all the steps/stages over all the years can be seen to inexorably unfold to culminate in 2-3-74; the roots + origins of 2-3-74 lie back over decades - + most especially in "Tears" - + thus 2-3-74 is withenticated by an internal logic: the logic of genuine Xtian ecstatic victory... victory over the adversary that is suffering, by way of the via of love. Birth in the Spirit is not only in itself a hierogamy (that is, an event: union with him) but, more, the spirit gives you knowledge of Christ: that he just now departed + will in a little while return. Thus the experience folder 55 - 170 folder 55 - 170 i D-119 with him spreads out + includes Christ in such a way that the spirit is in his own right (is in fact God) + is knowledge extending beyond himself: about Christ, your relationship to Christ eschatological history - hence your ecstasy although caused by the spirit involves Christ in a real + intimate + direct way. As the J. Bible says, the eleven have the spirit in place of the departed Christ but, more, the spirit knows of Christ + reveals everything concerning him (as in JN: "the spirit of truth who knows even the Father"). what these realizations provide me is a structur imparting coherence to a very long sequence of events making up my life over a period of decades +, most especially, the last 12 years. It is not that I have plumbed the depths of Xtianity; it has plumbed my depths Christ as bridegroom, soul (of Xtian) as bride does not suggest a return (second advent) like the first: the savior in human form: it suggests a wedding, i.e. a hierogamy something inner, mysterious + supernatural or mystical: a direct inward union - syzygy between man - man's soul - + God. Thus, under these circumstances, Christ would return (i.e. be here) invisibly, + perhaps this is what I saw that was Valis outside me + in my mind, plus the plasmate. This resurrected Corpus Christi is not material in the usual sense Wait. If Jesus Christ is paradigmatic (as I have long maintained) then such folder 55 - 171 D-120 concepts as "bridegroom" + "second Advent" although still intelligible signify something quite other than, say, were he an actual historic person or man-God or son of God. Let us assume Jesus Christ is paradigmatic, + his life is a formula: including + especially the