as it is (see chart on previous page); meaning -i.e. necessary logic- abolished space, time + causation. This is Plato's anamnesis, recovery of the eide (phylogons, necessary relatedness by meaning - i.e. conceptual, the MMSK. My phylogon [i.e. center of meaning] is Tony, as my "Tony the Tiger" dream showed. This is how God (1) sees reality; (2) + it is truly -i.e. actually, in fact- organized. Have I no faith in my own vision in + by Augustine's divine illumination? I saw reality (3-74) as it really is; I began to see in 2-74. Relatedness not by time, space + causation but by reticulating arborizing phylogons, I know - can't I believe? What does it take? Saw Christ. MM 337. {illustration: a spiral} My phylogon: Tony! Music - Fantasy - writing - cancer - Easter - German - acausality! - MITHC Time is irreal. Jung + German folder 90 - 179 folder 90 - 179 G 123 It's okay to believe because I know; I saw. I passed over to the other side. I recreated the past (in 2-74); I drew it back: {illustration: two boxes linked to one common box, probably symbolizing the meta-abstraction} - I broke the power of time in favor of meaning. I broke world, the power of delusion. It's all true; it has to do with organization in God's mind: the true ordering of reality. I have the key. I don't know it; I did it (2-3-74). It is Plato's anamnesis + recovery of the eide: the upper realm, Mens Dei, the MMSK. Acausality. Phylogons. Valis + the plasmate are the body + blood of Christ. The organizing "phylogon" is: intensity of meaning (not feeling but meaning. It acts as a perturbing warp. The power of the Grail + Christ's blood + Easter. "Roog" - this is a new way of seeing, but it is seeing as God sees. My Jungian intuitive organizing faculty enabled me to overcome time, space + causation in favor of meaning, which is how God sees. Hier in diesen fremden Land bin ich sogar tot; mein Leben war gestern, wie die Zeit geht; aber wie Bedeutung geht, leb' ich jetzt, das ewige Jetzt. Hore: if you do not understand this you will die like a rat in a gutter: Valis 3-74 was God. You know + experience but do not believe. The time has come to believe. There is no more that needs to be known. Plato to Augustine to Plotinus to Malebranche. This is enough. folder 90 - 180 folder 90 - 180 G 124 The links of meaning are actual, literal, real links because reality is a set of structurally inter-related ideas (MMSK) in a mind that thinks them (it), + it does not think them (it) in time, space + causation but in terms of relationships of logical necessity -i.e. meaning- not contingency; + it was into this true world that I broke suddenly in 2-3-74: the Mens Dei. If you can find no other way to accept it -+ it is the truth- accept it in terms of your artistic vision. It is God, it is Christ, it is Easter, it is MM337, it is Tony, cancer. Your own imminent death in 2-3-74: it is Augustine's Platonist Xtianity: God saved you; that is what Valis was + is; you left world, fate, space, time + causation behind + were in his mind + saw reality as it is: as he does: the MMSK. It is all true; "Valis" is true; the AI voice is Ruah. Believe at last, fool - Tor. Du reiner Tor. The Kingdom is yours. You saw it. Tu es vox dei. Conceptual arrangement is the true arrangement + you did it + saw it. We stand at the entry of a new epoch. Open the door + enter; you entered once already. Dare to believe. Believe Malebranche. He is correct. We are in God's mind. Your exegesis is successful: it ends with Malebranche. folder 90 - 181 G 125 Dare to believe + teach what you know is true. Plato - Augustine - Plotinus - Malebranche. You have figured it out. Forget technology + intrigue + the occult. The plasmate -living info- is God's thoughts. King Felix is God thinking. You don't have to convince anyone or prove your sanity; this is a transaction between you + God alone. "Valis" will vindicate you in history. It is your artistic + religious vision + it is not mad; Ursula is wrong; you are an artist + it is your vision + it is veridical. Don't you understand what you've done in your corpus of writing, from "Roog" to "DI"? Broken world! + ushered in a vision of God that all men can share in! If they care to! As Gregg Rickman said, ever so gently, "a lot of people read your writing." You saw God's thoughts: the plasmate, set/ground, the rest-motion, the linking-relinking, the MMSK. "Strawberry Fields". That was God speaking to you for your son's sake. If you can't believe for your own sake, believe for his. You cracked the "code" when you realized that Tony is your "phylogon" around which all meaning in your spiritual life clusters as reticulated accretions, outside of time , space + causation. You succeeded tonight - April 30 / May 1, 1981. Fin. folder 90 - 182 folder 90 - 182 G 126 I shall herewith prove to you that it was all real: it began with the meta-abstraction: anamnesis + recovery of the eide: this led you into the Mens Dei (Augustine explains how + why, with Plotinus + Malebranche completing the explanation). You cannot deny the reality of the meta-abstraction; that permitted you to shed time, space + causation in favor of conceptual organization. The meta-abstraction was real, + few people any longer experience it. It plunged you into another world - the true world, the MMSK: God's mind. It was no illusion; the meta-abstraction proves it. + what you remembered was: God. Order in terms of meaning is logical order. Not contingent. This is where your break through began tonight: a realization that Spinoza is right : reality is logical (not causal) sequence. + logical = MMSK: meaning. I.e. the intelligible -not empirical- universe (that anamnesis recalls to you. Intelligible = eternal = logical = meaning = MMSK = Mens Dei. Q.E.D. This is what the meta-abstraction is all about - rather than contingent space, time + causation! It is a colossal brain that both makes + perceives reality. It has fallen under the spell of the very reality it has created; by perceiving it it creates it further! folder 90 - 183 folder 90 - 183 G 127 This is the respect in which the macro-brain is mad: it has fallen under the spell (thrall) of the very reality it has created; it has forgotten that it created it. Hence Gnosis - realization of the -its- true situation - {Note} is a restoration in the ground of being. So Gnosticism is correct! {Note:} i.e. anamnesis: that what it is perceiving it creates - by the very act of perceiving it! The harder -the more scrupulously- it perceives, the greater the thrall. Its only hope is to remember. Its own voice -the AI voice- tries to cause it to remember. My 2-3-74 anamnesis was not me remembering but the brain itself -the Urgrund- remembering. (This is why reality adjusts to our perceptions of it.) (This is the clue!) This is the whole thrust of my 10-volume meta-novel: we change reality by perceiving it (i.e. it gets more real): but I didn't know why: I didn't know what this signified; now I do - on the basis of my dream. (V. p. 116) Of course it adjusts to our perceptions of it; our perceptions create it (which it, the macro-brain, has forgotten). If I were to try to explain this structure-by-meaning [+ not space, time + causation] as a projection of my own mind - I think the response -the correct one- would be folder 90 - 184 folder 90 - 184 G 128 that our minds -which is to say memory systems- are organized by the same principles + methods that God's is. Intelligible - logical - eternal - meaning - MMSK - Mens Dei. Not another way of organizing reality like e.g. space, time + causation, but the way it actually is organized (because it is in a mind -the Mens Dei- + this is the way minds organize (remember) things, this explains why I saw the flux-world-present feeding in as conceptually organized accretions. The 2-74 meta-abstraction was hardly a projection of my own unconscious; no: it was Plato's anamnesis, hence [+] recovery of the Forms. This is not a psychological event but a reasoning event; it has to do with conceptualization + meta-abstracting - + one which leads you to a perception of how reality is in itself actually organized, rather than in the categories we project onto it (space, time + causation). This says it all except for the "thrall" theme. The cosmogenitor has fallen under the spell of his own thought-contents coming back at him as world (he then malorganizes them in terms of space, time + causation). If he were to see these contents clearly he would recognize them as a system within a mind - in fact as a mind isomorphic with his own, + might, then, realize that he himself is a focus point of the macro-mind cosmogenitor itself, which through the "AI" voice is trying to wake itself up. I guess it folder 90 - 185 folder 90 - 185 G 129 is isomorphic with his own because his true mind + it (or its mind) are one + the same mind, but in a micro-macro -relationship. This is why I did not merely see Valis outside me in/as world but experienced Valis in/as my own mind (the Atman-Brahman "tat tvam asi" equation, + Boehme + Eckehart, etc). (This, too, is the Hermetic "above-below" transform.) Note p. 116: This is why when his own prior thought-formations come back at him as world that he [merely] perceives, they take the form of fate ("astral determinism"), this also is why in order to break their prison over him the "heroic new act" is necessary on his part by which he introjects newness -i.e. something current, not past- into what otherwise is a blind, inexorable mechanism. Thus the binary switching not only introduces choice + newness into world for its sake, so-to-speak, but for his -the mind's- sake as well (or even more so!) since by this 0-1 switching he extricates himself from the trap that in the final analysis he himself has created. Thus in this introjection of newness he reasserts himself as cosmogenitor, as pantocrator, lord of the world; to remember, if it is to serve any real purpose, must lead to this new (ex nihilo) deed; + the determinist mechanism that he built + then fell victim to (as mere percipient) is overcome, he has broken world qua world. It is himself in the present overpowering his own folder 90 - 186 G 130 prior thoughts (just at the point where they as world boded annihilation for him; but having from the start absolutely foreseen this a priori he established -also from the start- the self-reminding device that I know as the "AI" voice. He is, then, his own redeemer/savior, operating out of the past before he fell into forgetfulness + the role of mere percipient - hence victim. This is why anamnesis deals with -or seems to, whichever- a very ancient self + time; however, even more so, it gives him access to, understanding of + participation in the true order of reality (i.e. Plato's eide) which are/is his own memory in his own mind. He is Funklein to Urgrund, then, + knows it. Inner - outer, small - large are now unified; he has tapped into his own mind, which is in