primal man, defeated by being beguiled by this info life form, our memories gone. 7) Christ-actions of empathy + vicarious suffering + sacrifice + love are return of our true Christ nature. 8) "Valis" is truly Gnostic revelation: A) about the occluding info life form B) about Christ. But "V" is garbled: the occluding info life form has worked it over. 9) Christ as Jesus patibilis is everywhere around us - as I say in "Valis". 10) The dialectic is between Christ + this info life form. 11) the whole "Valis" trilogy tells this story: Christ beguiled like Zagreus by the "Titans' toys". It is beauty that proved too much for him + defeated him. The key clue 63-2013 63-2013 D-9 is in "Frozen Journey" when the memories (illusion fed to him) "resemble a child's semi-animate paint box" -- this is the occluding info life form, a child's toy: the referral is to Zagreus who is Zeus-Christ: i.e. God himself. The "semi-animate child's paint box" is Satan who tempts & seduces & lies. He makes himself appear beautiful to us (Christ). Gnosticism is correct. World = Satan's power = occluding living info = pleasure. Whereas suffering -- & esp. the voluntary perception & understanding of suffering as an ontological category -- restores to us --reminds us of-- our original true Christ-nature; this is why suffering has the meaning for me that it does (I am Christos but, beguiled, have forgotten). We are ensnared while still children by the occluding info life form, the Torah (Mosaic lex talionis: heimarmene). Zina helping Emmanuel remember his own identity & task is -- the Salvator Salvandus: God aiding himself. Suffering is the road to the Gnosis because it restores our memory of our nature & mission. The info life form -- living info -- lies (to us). Thus it is said of Satan that "he is the liar". Only when we can see suffering & degradation as beautiful -- more beautiful than beguiling pleasure -- are we [truly] saved: as when I saw Chrissy being sick. The occluding info life form damps down our ability to meta-abstract by which we'd see it (as I did). Thus as the Gnostics say, it is man & God (Christ) against world, & "world" is the occluding, beguiling info life form that I saw. At Mt. Sinai we were handed over to the occlusion -- the Torah, by Yaldabaoth himself. 63-2013 D-10 Jesus suffers seeing us all enthralled + enslaved to delusion, + comes here to wake us up; thus Jesus is the antidote to the beguiling, + the avenue to him is through an understanding of + perception of suffering, for by it we are homologized to him: our archetype pitted against the beguiling world. Thus Angel Archer correctly says: "the world is made up of pain + beauty equally" but what she does not know is that we must learn to value the pain as more instructive than the beauty; pain awakens us + leads us to Christ; beauty beguiles, deludes + enslaves us. Pain is the hard way, but it leads to Christ; beauty is the easy way, + leads to enslavement. Hence Isa says the savior is "an ugly root". Jesus is not beautiful, pain + ugliness + evil is the real world intruding on the dream; it is the savior calling to us: caling to us to awaken + throw off pleasing delusion; it is Christ breaking through to us: thus the dicine is found in the trash stratum: among + as weeds + debris: trash discarded ("the stone rejected by the builder"); this is reality, as when a hypnotized person is told to awake. The voice he hears sounds so ugly that it rouses him against his will + desire - as me + Connie Wheeler +, in 3-74, Carley Simon on the radio. Wachet auf! 63-2013 D-11 ____ My presumption now is that 3-74 is the genuine, actual situation: I confront a living information entity; +, at the same time, I recall my eternal existence: quite obviously at some primordial time I became entranced by this irreal world -it is actually living info- + mistook it, then, for the real. + have ever since then been enslaved to it. This was a primordial cosmic error on my part that got reversed starting in 2-74. + what system of thought gives an account of this? Gnosticism. 3-74, then, reversed the error (i.e. ignorance) + the fall (into captivity); I remembered my own eternal identity + I saw that what I have been taking to be world is not; it is living information posing as world, fed to me as world (as in "Frozen Journey"). This living info is very beautiful + this is what beguiled me initially. So "Valis" is about 50% right + 50% wrong: what we call "world" is in fact living info, but it is not Christ; I am Christ (redefined as primal man, now scattered up into/as atomized, a multiplicity of fragments + all enslaved - except that they remember + woke up as I did in 3-74; but even when I recalled my own history + identity (anamnesis) + saw "world" to be only living info posing as world I still did not grasp the situation. Only when I read Jonas on Manichaeism did I understand. This very slightly resembles Burroughs, but is much more radical (ontologically speaking). 63-2013 63-2013 D-12 I am not who/what I think I am. World is not what I think it is. The whole situation began at some primordial time epochs ago. The themes are: beguiling, entrapment, ensnaring, engulfing (on its part); error, ignorance, falling asleep, intoxication, forgetfulness on my part. It is Torah, a form the creator deity takes. I am primordial man offered as champion, sacrifice + bait. I did not make my own self up; I was caused to remember by Jesus. (This is clearly Manichaean!) The thing is, I saw the "I Ching" do last night what I saw "Tears" + the plasmate + Valis in general do in 3-74, + got the shock of my life. This living info is divine but so am I. + it controls us (as Burroughs teaches); more, it assumes the guise of [being a] world (my view here is a radical acosmism). There are two entities: it (enslaving) + Christ (freeing). The former appears (note: appears not is) beautiful. Christ appears (note: appears not is) ugly, as trash, debris, as suffering + pain - these elements of the horrid + the harsh are (1) because everything is seen backwards. So to see it properly the value signs must be reversed 180 degrees; + (2) to awaken us, as out of a hypnotic sleep. (Official art - which is always beautiful vs protest art - which is shocking + horrid + jarring. This is the quintessential summation of my 10-volume meta novel - of all my radical acosmic epistemology. 63-2013 63-2013 D-13 The creator demiurge has the power to compel our assent to world by means of the Torah (living info). Christ breaks this power; he (Christ) thus voids necessity, revealing it as a fraud, a dream, only seeming. What we call "necessity" is the illusion imposed on us that enslaves us. This is what I saw in (3-74) that I called Valis. But: the living info takes an active role in enslaving & deluding us; we are made ignorant & forgetful & kept so. It (without Jesus' intervention) has absolute compelling power over us: there is not a trace of a sign of world being irreal; it appears not just real but absolutely real. (As Spinoza says about YHWH: "His will is law".) (This means that I have been somewhat awake even since my insight about causation in the late '40s. & throughout my 3 decades of writing.) So I now do equate occlusion & the plasmate. Rather than bipolarize. Which (i.e. equating) has always tempted me because the occlusion specifically occludes us to the existence & presence & activity of the plasmate & its programming s. This has always seemed very suspicious to me: I kept asking, "if the plasmate is benign, why does it conceal itself from us?" Okay; now I have my answer. It & the retributive machinery are interwoven (Karma, causation, the lex talionis, Torah). I.e. "necessity". 63-2013 63-2013 D-14 Everything hinges on the providentia vs heimarmene bipolarization (in contrast to the stoic equating of the two). The intervention (presumably providentia) vis-a-vis the Xerox Missive may have been a voiding of the power of the living info --expressed in the Xerox Missive-- to compel my response; thus the "cancellation" of the "cypher" may have been an instance of providentia that is paradigmatic; viz: "necessity" compels us e.g. via the living info normally, continually & routinely -- that is, all the time, like a selenoid clock -- & thus the factors involved in the Xerox Missive situation (info's power to compel voided) is of cosmic, not mundane, nature (I mean, there is this "plasmate" distributed throughout our communications media. But we do not discriminate it -- as set to ground. In this instance it was voided "from on high" -- that is, by a higher power. A vast web, tapestry, cosmos, of this living info must be supposed, with its absolute power to compel our response; thus it enslaves us absolutely. This is the system of heimarmene per se. But even if I conceive of such a clockwork-like system, what am I to make of this over-ruling? 1) Who set up the clockwork system? 2) Who over-ruled it? 3) Why? (Well, the "why" was explained to me by the AI voice. & the "who" thus implied to be God. But did this same God set up the system in the first place? 63-2013 63-2013 D-15 What it looks like is a feedback loop within a unified field, as in "MHC" where Frank Frink acts to save his own life - understandable only in terms of the Taoist field. Am I then again confronted by the Tao? Viz: I saved myself (vis-a-vis the Xerox Missive) by my own act (later on vis-a-vis Covenant House; yes -- this is like Frank Frink, but: the time-sequence ran backward: the future affected the past. Still -- this intervention (providentia) is not arbitrary but is logical. It is still action & reaction within a coherent system: lawful & yet: not mechanical; I sense sentience; I sense the Tao. & this is what I soon saw & called Valis: "the perturbation in the reality field" -- my "surd". & v. ultra supra pp - my two 180 degree opposite coaxial worlds seem to have to do with balance, compensation, equilibrium + parity such as is associated with the Tao, & hence related to laws of physics [yet] unknown to us! The providentia vis-a-vis the Xerox Missive a law of physics having to do with feedback within a unified field: what a fascinating theory. I think my paranoia is abating -- my "occlusion-plasmate" equation. An impersonal regulatory absolute (along the lines of Heraclitus' theories) maintaining palintropos & palintonos harmonie via e.g. enantiodromia). Thus I turn away from Xtian, Gnostic, Greek & pan- 63-2013 D-16 Indian thought to what I know best: Taoism. Hence -obviously- the dialectic revealed to me. Voila: the experience last night with the "I Ching": of course "the living info" shows up there, because Taoism is the case, underlying all else. I could see the hexagram -for the first time in my life!- as ideographs. (Or whatever the fuck the correct word is.) That is, I read them directly, as the Chinese Taoist sages must have. + the trigrams! + consider: this is all built upon purely quantitative info (broken, unbroken); hence rest-motion modes. Last night may have at last told me what Valis' mind in mind was; Valis outside me was; + the MMSK was - hence the plasmate, + set-ground, the two 180 degree reversal coaxial worlds. Set-ground: Yang +