asic argument that we do not know E-23 objects (world) directly but only as representations (which for Malebranche are based on the pre-existent archetypal intelligible ideas in the mind of God used as the basis of creation); but that we know two things immediately: (1) our mind itself + (2) God (I have been saying Christ but the reasoning is the same for both Malebranche + for me) my Spinozan attribute of infinite (which I realized last Saturday night) be the intelligible pre-existent would archetypal ideas in the mind of God s quite obviously. This does not surprase me; then are many common elements in Also, exactly as Spinoza + Malebranche. I do, Malebranche homologizes God + infinity, a critical point. He corrects my solipsism, my notion that the human mind auto-generater all its own ideas; he shows why that is inplausible (but it is also not plausible that we actually experience objects, i.e. world). His arguments strike me as invincible. I yield So here (joyfully) I am back once more with Malebranche + the occasionalists! 2-3-74 can readily be understood in terms of Malebranche's "we see all things in God." We know God immediately (as infinity), world as representations based on the pre-existent archetypal ideas in God's mind, + occasionalism, in short a Cartesian pantheism, a theocentric system: we know only our own mind/self + God E-24 what for me finally clinches it is my realization / perception/conception of last Saturday night of the "attribute" (to use Spinoza's term) of infinity; this is -as I have said - not physical or spatial infinity (extension) but rather an infinity of what is best called meaning or significance. Apparently I glimpsed the pre-existent ideas in God's mind as such: as what they - which normally appear to us as extended particulars/objects - really are. This is the final + essential piece needed that has of the picture that I eluded me in terms of actual experience, although I knew it in theory from reading about Malebranche. What I saw when I saw Valis was a cooperation between + among abjects rather than a transfer of force from one to the next: each operating on - affecting - the next. This is Malebranche's occasionalism. God as info. The basic energy (i.e. the topic anti-entropic) of the universe. of "Ubik." + later I saw it - "Valis." negentropy + into homologized; entropy This is what I + loss of info likewie. first understood in "Ubik" + later 2-3-74 experienced: the plasmate as negentropy per se in its true form. This is what is meant by saying "the Logos is living info"; that it is negentropy perse a new religious idea. Found first in "Ubik" info that concerns itself: it is what it describes t E-25 It is a kind of info that is what it refers to e.g. King Felix refers to Christ + is Christ; this is a the logical breakthrough for the modern era. God as what I call "hyper "Hyper-info" defined as info." "info that is what it refers to." at the very core of 2-3-74 lies information, to which I somehow got access or retrieved; + it was correct info. The degree of info is the degree of order (organization) within a system God imposes order onto chaos Ergo God expresses himself as - Acts in the form of - info. The Tagore vision can be regarded as supreme info which I received + then transmitted (There occurs to me (upon looking over the Tagore translation of Kabir) that the most valuable interpretation of 2-74-2-75 lies in The bride-bridegroom conception of myself + Christ. He had just now been here but had departed, but + this present interval only for a short time of our separation from him was not sad (as if We looked back, to the passion + crucifixion) but joyous, because we were making the festive pre This parations for his imminent return. found in pan-Indian thought both in is the worship of Shiva + in the worship of Vishnu where it is Lord Krishna F-26 who loves you + whom you love). "Shion is the sole male in the universe"; we are all female in relationship to him (the soul is female; also in 3-74 I perceived myself as female, but did not know why; yet it was a valid perception). Within this system, the Lord (Shiva, Krishna, Christ) fills the universe + indeed this is how I experienced Valis (this is also said of the Buddha in has diamond body). Thus all this (the festive preparations for the return of the bridegroom - which fits in with the collapse or telescoping of time), my sense of being female, + Valis - i.e. the Lord - filling the universe + found in e.g., the debris + trash of the alley. There is another confirmation: my experience with God that day kaymone was down here + we smoked hash, when I was aware of God the Father + his intense love for me: love as his very nature - the presence of love was a palpable thing, as real as the physical laws of creation. This love shows up in "Tears but, see, this explains why I saw Acts as now; for the sense that Christ had just now left + would very soon be returning, time had to collapse - into, really, another kind of time entirely where 2000 years became - + was experienced as - a very short interval. This is, a course, eschatological time, but it is also the time (or time-sense) that makes possible the mode or state - both ontological + existential - of joyous eager anticipation of what is imminently pected + this renders real the passionate bride, bridegroom relationship between worshiper + Christ which is the essential mystical expersence found also in islam, + in pan-Indian thought, at this point you are not dealing with any single given religion - as Kabir shows. There + is another point + a crucial one. that shows up in my letter to rust about v E-27 This is something I am sure of. in 2-3-74 I was perceiving myself - the two-mirrors phenomenon - which is to say, thinking about oe own thinking. Christ is in me (this accords with the Cartesian representation-of world theory/realization); viz: when I saw Christ (i.e. Valis) in + as world, this was really myself viewing myself as if from outside, from an archomidean standpoint in which the totality of myself could be viewed. World became (sic) infor‐ mation no 2-3-74 had to do with perturbation the cosmic order (Palintonos/palintropos harmonie) reestablishing itself, enantiodromia, YHWH / the Tao, justification, heimarmene, justices mercy, etc - a vast oscillation + restoration of + internal balance: Taoism, YHWH, Pythagoras Heraclitus: an "eternal system must be definition ie exhibit a high degree of internal order Faustian man, negentropy, hence information. transgression/rebellion, until the cosmic order reacts in enantiodromia, + the fall occurs - must occur if the cosmic order is to be maintained the story of Satan emperiling the cosmic order - Satan's rebellion seen in terms of Pythagoras self-regulating kosmos + of Taoim ene key word pertaining to justification the accused person does not is lawful. deny he comitted the act; he is justified by the court if he can show a lawful reason for his act. Transferred from the law courts to theology, God has the power not just to but to render him call the person justified see "lawful" in terms of I justified in fact "in accord with the laws governing the cosmos. E-28 God has absolute power in terms of governing. regulating the cosmos. He can justify: cause a person - a person's act - to be in accord with the laws of the cosmos. Thus that person i not (in God's eyes) transgressed; he is not a has transgressor. These are moral laws defined by God. Thus God suspends retaliation the I retributive machinery, + this is done speifi‐ cally through Christ as surrogate; This is how the inflexible machinery is handled without Christ + Christ's sacrifice, the person cannot be justified, his act made - not just termed - lawful. the moral law since the breaking of brings physical consequences, justification causes changes in the actual physical universe of cause-+-effect. The Gnostic concept of heimarmene accounts for this in which physical law + moral law are combined justification is an adjustment in the cosmic order; thus in terms of the order as it - the adjust it was before the justification Here ment - is a perturbation [in that order]. the where my template idea comes in: is cosmic order is justified -aligned - to a template differing slightly from it (as If the template is ideal in God's mind: what the order should be; it is intelligible + having been thought by God it now is as the physical order itself; the physical cosmos conforms to it) -2 have it. What we call "justification I s a sharp, radical change of your status An improved status) in the cosmic order that cannot be explained mechanisti cally + could not occur in the Greco E-92 Babylonian closed system that existed (2) bits Gnosticism + against which Hans Jonas contrasts the Gnostic "Faustian or oven cosmos. This change of status does not occur due to prior (i.e. efficient) causes (prior states in the system regarded as a closed system - + thus in terms of Spinoza's view of the universe could not occur; but his view is the closed-system view that is in contrast to the Gnostic system, then I assume that Judaism, like the Greco-Babylonian system is mechanistic + closed, + it is precisely against this that Paul revolts. Hence in Paul's doctrine of justification, something entirely new has come into the world-order or at least into the understanding (apper‐ t 3-74 they, did not ception of the world-order. proceed from antecedent causes - exactly as sensed at the time. This is impossible even in stoicism - in all systems prior to the Pauline. Does this imply a trans‐ mundane power, as Gnosticism teaches - that is, reaching into the world-order (cosmos) from outside? + not an internal adjustment? will guess yes. This is precisely my I insight: that no internal adjustment within closed system can account for it; it a is analogous to an organism assimilating negative entropy from its environment it implies an outside. Thus in the messenger E-93 vision the machinery of retribution equals the closed-system cosmos of the Judo-Greco-Babylonians the Gnostic Faustian transmundane concept would seem to be the case; Spinoza's deterministic system in which all changes are the result of prior states is reactionary - a throwback to the mechanistic cosmology of pre Gnostic antiquity now, a decided link to Gnosticism is established if my meta-abstraction is equated with the Gnosis, i.e. a cog‐ nitive act. This does not answer all questions but it answers the specific question that his been bothering me: the Greco-Babylonian closed cosmos vs what Hans Jonas calls the Faustian or Gnostic: in favor of the latter. The key word that occurred to me as I drove home is: ewth. Orthodox Xtian or Gnostic, this is the common element of the two: + it means P18tos is the Messianic age. 2-3-74 is this may not verify Gnosticism but it verifies the o - soteriological being whom we know as Christ. The Messenger vision implies (by reason of the term "Messenger") Gnosticism ("angel" is not meant, t think). Thus the insight (moksa) I had on the freeway tonight identifies Valis as Christ i just had a terrifying insight: the man shut up in Darkness in "Tears" who emits the "single dreadful shrick" is the crucified Christ - Jason Taverner (who is also Dionysos/Zagreus.) yet also the E-94 white-bearded old king on horse. back is Christ as eschatological judge! He presides over his own sacrifice. This is the old Christ of revelation + Daniel sacrificing himself