brought into being in which "inner" + "outer" are homologized the issue then, of Christ's location is totally explained. The Parousia would amount to a sort of saturation point in terms of the world-order + of humans, in which the old passes crucially over into the new qualitatively due to incremental, quantitative growth. In us + in world the resurrected body grows ever stronger, brighter, more real + more in control. Yet we see nothing outside us + seem to experience nothing inside us, for we cannot see this "Form of Forms" - we do not apprehend forms at all, failing to perform what I call the meta-abstraction. To perform it (I now say) is not merely to see Christ but to understand ourselves as existing in Christ (or Christ in us); thus Christ is seen as the all in - all I recall now a strange idea that came to me in hypnopompic state: that the Torah, unknow ingly - unknown to itself - would contain a hidden account of "the mystery of God's plan kept secret for alons, Christ" since Torah must by its nature conform to the universe + vice versa. + in fact (I realize) this is precisely what the Gnostics teach; viz: that Sophia has inserted her own cryptic messages "in the inferior bulk" [of Yaldabaoth's O.T.) Withous Yaldabaoth - + presumably Torah itself it H-91 Thus there is cypher within scripture ("scripture" cognated with Torah) + This in fact is the case in "Tears": large sections of scripture appear (Acts + Daniel/revelation) but only the 2-word cypher referring to Christ: King-Felix. So am led back to Gnosticism Once again I (which is where Christ -hypostasis #4 in opposed to Torah -hypostasis #2: dialectical combat for possession of the universe + mankind -hypostasis #3- led me quite suddenly of I 2 a A of #1 onverted (Christ i on make (God) man f s - area of combat between source #2 which is less than God) + goal #4, Christ, who I is the same as A1) God, as Christ, seeks to wrest the physical universe + man away from the intermediary of creation, the Torah, which has come between God + creation) man, + is exercising a tyrannical sway over creation + man: it Torah" is ossified, but God foresaw this in this system, is homologized to + as the demigod-creator Yaldabaoth + declares itself to be [the only real + true] God. It is a rigid system of arbitrary moral + natural laws which the Gnostics knew as heimarmene the Torah was God's first thought (utterance) but Then elected to become creator on its own, an act of rebellion + pride + arrogance. If God hims cannot H-92 cannot act contrary to Torah + must consult it, Torah has compromised God's power, will, freedom + integrity (however, Christ is God's strategy against the rebellion. The Torah itself has been penetrated but does not know it; that is, it contains the information about Christ but it (the Torah] does not know this. This is the dialectic that I saw; Christ, as God, possesses his absolute a priori fore knowledge; the Torah can be fooled, for it is a lesser hypostasis that God + is fallable. Paul seems to see all this very clearly Hence the Gnostics utilized Paul more than they did the synoptics (I believe). "Felix culpa" is a concept of staggering + essential importance, for had God uttered the Torah + let it create the universe + man with the ultimate outcome in doubt or com promised, God would have erred in uttering the Torah. Everything is carried by the concept "Felix culpa"! God's solution - Christ - far exceeds as gain the fall of creation; this the Torah, even in its rebellion, serves God's purpose. This it can be said, "Torah is good not evil, but Torah is fallable + imperfect but Christ is perfect." The usurpation of power over God by Torah is what is meant by "the servant has become the master." Thus in the universe, hypostasis #3 God (Christ) manifests himself as a fool, a madman, a trickster, from is outside" (Hamlet, the stranger in "the Bacchae." Jason Tavener in "Tears," - he is here Horselover Fat in "Valis ie cam o br of 11-93 i Thus in a sense as the "information virus" controls + occludes + enslaves us, it itself has been penetrated by a living hyper-information (which I associate with Christ's sacrificial blood). This is precisely the dialectical. antithetical combat, waged at the onto logical level of "Frozen" info us "living" info, the former the Torah, the latter Christ's blood; this is the ultimate ontological level of combat, for information itself is ontologically prior/superior to the physical universe which derives from information. Thus Christ not only reads the message he alters it. [Note} (Bilking - the retribution machinery which demands that it no longer our punishment.) Not so can sentence us to death. The Xerox missive was my death sentence. Christ, able read it it (for what it was) changed it + saved me owe him my physical + spiritual life, literally that's why the one thing that appeared in Hebrew was the contents of the Xerox missive; It was Torah my "Messenger" revelation shows how The war is conducted in terms of information This is extraordinary! The old retributive system cannot function without information. is information. Christ is (as I say) it protest information inserted between trans mitter + receiver. 4-94 to quite an extent the interception + destruction of death-sentenses (under the Torah) is a primary task/goal of Christ the fact that the Xerox missive was decoded by Hebrew - it alone - strikes me as frightening confirmation that there are indeed two competing information systems - in dialectical combat - which explains why I say in "Valis": (1) the universe is information; + (2) the Logos as living information invades + tran substantiates the universe invisibly this 2-info-systems-in-combat theory resolves the issue of whether the info occludes us or Acts to enlighten us, that is, enslaves or frees. One enslaves + occludes; the other (Christ) frees in informs. most interesting of all, Christ, the plasmate, has as info penetrated the old corpus of frozen info on which the physical universe is based. Thus at the info level there occurs what I saw at a physical level. It is almost as if there is a parasite + an anti-parasite, an info toxing anti-toxin. The situation then, is far more complex than I had realized, but it boils down to the dialectic. We are both programmed - made into machines - by info + released to be humans by means of info. There is indeed war between the old law + the new rule of merca + grace + love s 95 This may be so obvious as to not require saying, but - Jesus freed men from the claim of the talion law over them, so that it could not exact its punishment (retributive justice). The law exacted its told on him as surrogate dictim (the sacrifical lamb). But also his code of ethics was an exact analog of this not exacting payment, viz: love your enemy, return evil with good. Would it not be the case that such ethics of followed would free you from the talion law, + therefore, given the fact that the talion law (Torah) actually takes the form of harsh karmic causation, would you not be freed from the claim of the law, i.e. would your death warrant not be annuled? + he taught us to pray, "+ forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us?" + did he not intervene in my case because I gave to the "bad" kids at Covenant House, which is his new ethics of mercy is this mercy not the grace (charis) of the Messianic age? So practicing Christ's ethics causes you to pass out of the domain of talion cause-+-effect into another universe in which "astral determinism" as justice does not occur because through love you have made yourself exempt from the literal, physical clairs of heimarmene? There is a way, then, that you can act by your own choosing to cause you to pass from the old age to the new. I accidentally did it. nonetheless for me to be saved, the crucifixion had to be ritually reinacted - the death warrant came, the angel of death came, Pinky as Christ was taken, I blee + was e as if actual physical laws were involved. injured hence Christ must ritually die in the place of each person spared. Meanwhile I "became" Christ as Holy wisdom; he spoke for me as advocate, as the N.T Gospels) promises but this can only happen in the Messianic age. In that respect, 2-3-74 is proof of the Parousing then. Causality itself is saw when annulled - as I I saw Valis. Then are the Gnostics right it the K-96 pressed in the Torah, is built into the physical structure of natural law as Karma which recalls to me my impression upon reading like, that Christ was a yogi; + this talion law is Karma, which Christ taught us how to overcome by his system of ethics - this makes Christ's system seem a pan-Indian system of enlightenment I freedom from retributive Karma. But what am saying is that (1) the Torah is the source of the rules/laws governing reality; + (2) Christ + this combats this, as Paul so clearly understood. would be the dialectic! Paul's saying that we are all sinners until justified by God expresses the idea that without Christ's intervention, the law has it power over us all. + it will act retributively. is (in the physive structure of out universe, bound up with the world-mechanism. It actually takes a form that no one would dispute the reality of physical cause-+-effect. Thus were we to see Christ we would see a suspension of causation! that the Torah is built into our universe as its physical natural law is a realization vast indeed, + it shows that Christ, in com batting the Torah, is combatting causation itself - as indeed I saw; so Valis is invading into his own + transubstantiating the universe saw exactly what I thought I saw! I body: + as ontological basis, this is one info-system war with another. at The overthrow of Torah will mean a transformation natural law itself ("the servant has become of the master"). The Messianic age is here, expressed by an interference with causation itself. saw it but largely did not fathom the ustively in that Christ 3 except nificance 9 197 himself was present, had saved me, + I had seen him. But the prophecies are confirmed. This is to clear from a careful reading of "DI"! + this fits in with my seeing apocalyptic constants, world in terms of Xtian apoca lyptic history - the secret Xtians vs the BIP (converted into - giving way to - the PTG) + the cypher in "Tears," etc. what if I boil it all down + say, the meta-abstraction of 2-74 was recovery through anamnesis of the [internal] eidos Christ (which is an abstraction possessing real, metaphysical existence, but only available via such a meta-abstraction)? Viz: was a realization about it Christ myself, world only secondarily common essence I t (but all the eide follow when Thomas PKD one eidos is recovered, because Acts USA 1974 the thinking needed applies to all). particular particular Thus Christ as particular 2 could be at Acts AD 70, + as particular, at USA 1974. It is not the two spatiotemporal sets that have a common essence but Thomas + I. There are many, many other particulars at other places + times (e.g. the Dutch wars) but the Golden Fish sign triggered to Thomas because the sign - + what the Girl said - is of that place + time. We are talking about