of doing the former. The more intently he perceives reality the more "substantial" it becomes. He is now in it rather than outside it - that is, he & it are inseparable. Its structure evolves due to our act of perceiving it, but our act of perceiving it is due to an incremental leap in our perception over which we have no control but is in itself a part of the "it" perceived; thus that which is perceived causes us to perceive it & so is itself its own cause - in a loop through us as percipient-participant the meta- abstraction is by the percipient & yet paradoxically actually by that which is perceived. K378 Acting in not on the percipient it is as if that which is perceived is in the percipient, so perceiption of it is a form of self-awareness. What we are dealing with is a unified field involving percipient & thing perceived: the thing perceived acts within the percipient so that he is no longer outside the thing perceived. Thus the thing perceived perceives itself via the percipient. This is a loop. A causeless event occurs, a supervenient thresholding phenomenon, that takes the form of what is sensed as recovered memory in the percipient, as if he knew what he knows all along but had temporarily ceased ot be aware of it; it had fallen below the threshold of consciousness. It is consciousness that is the key. Thus Valis in me & Valis outside me are inseparable but are two forms of one thing; my awareness of its evolutionary complexification is in itself an act in that complexification. Thus to see Valis is to see your own brain creating world along an evolutionary axis. -- It isn't reality: it is in reality: it is a vast evolving biological organism that structures (orders) other things. It has an environment which it incorporates & subsumes into arrangements of info. Its change rate velocity is accellerating, & this produces qualitiative change in it. Its level of complexity & extent of dominion - or degree of dominion - constantly grows. It is essentially at war with its K379 environment. But it may be engaged in an interal war against its own tendency to ossify; hence it must surmount all its previous growth stages in & with each new accretion (growth stage) as Beethoven did in his music; thus its own is-ness is itself as lesser antagonist - which is a way of saying that for it the battle is negentropy vs entropy or life vs death. It cannot stand still; if it does not evolve it dies. Its change rate velocity is very great, now, as is its complexity. it is not an object among objects but rather an ordering/structuring of normal objects & their causal processes: this is the crucial point; thus it is an orderly arrangement of plural-seeming objects into a functional unity. The complexity of this arrangement being synonymous with its being (i.e. its being is structure). t that it tends toward order & complexity is equivalent to its existing. This can always be expressed two ways: (1) in a ratio to its previous complexity & order; vz both constantly increase; & (2) in relationship - ratio - to its environment; viz: its internal order & complexity are greater. One is tempted to say, its environment is equivalient to its past K380 in terms of order & complexity; thus its being is somehow logically related to the future, as if more than one "time" are here simultaneously, when defined as points along an axis of complexity & order - ascending. This relates directly to my 2-74 experience or meta-perception: that along some kind of axis a plurality or variety of "times" are here simultaneously, & can be discriminated (by measuring complexity & order). To do this, the ability to perceive what I call "temporal lag" is necessary & this relates to what I call "temporal parallaxis" necessitating two points of view or two psyches with a common field (Ditheon). Thereby time is "seen" in the sense that by means of spatial parallaxis depth is seen, literally. Under such circumstances Valis would "move" forward (toward the observer) as set, it being the most complex & ordered structure of all. If temporal parallaxis reveals that the past is still here (seen as Acts, the BIP, the Empire) likewise the future is here, too (Valis). I employ the term "Doppler shift" in regard to the surviving past. Valis is like a hologram projected. K381 Normally, however, Valis is for all intents & purposes camouflaged - like the past - into a homogeneity. But this "temporal parallaxis" has the effect of converting time into a kind of depth, like space. To what extent (if any) awareness of Valis differs from its awareness of itself I can't say. There \is a great possibility that to be aware of it you must be - & indeed are - incorporated into it, & see it not from outside (with yourself as external observer) but from inside (in which case you are not quite an observer but more a participant in it. Possibly it can only be perceived from inside, which would explain why I both saw it outside me & had it in my mind as well. The subject- object dualism as a notion has to be abandoned. To see Valis is to be Valis). Put another way, what I am saying is that if perceptually you could see (discriminate) degree of organization (order, complexity) in reality you would see a very large evolving biological entropy from its environment (& is more complex than its environment) because this is what all biological organisms must be K382 (more complex & ordered) & do (absorb negative entropy from their environment). You would see its internal organization taking the form of recombinant information pervading this entity, as if it has an info- metabolism. It has the ability to perturb the reality field so as to create a whole range of messages, & is increasingly able to do this: more combinations, & more rapidly. -- Summation: the divine is in the world as structure (so the divine can be distinguished from world in the manner that eidē can, but only analogous to the eidē). Structure of what? World? No, because this structure "has an environment." Yet this structure is everywhere. It exists hierarchically, in the fashion of eidē to particulars. It structures world but not all of world; it is like a cosmos within a cosmos, one with more complexity & order. It is the way things are fitted together. But I know what I am describing: the Logos! To perceive it is to perform a meta-abstraction; one rolls back substantial reality to its word origin (basis). When this structure is seen, what was taken to be plural discrete objects are now viewed as an inter-related unitary structure. K383 It also differs from Plato's forms in that it is conscious & alive (as well as being unitary). When we see it - discriminate it - we see info or what we take to be info. Also it evolves, utilizing the flux world (this is not true of the eidē). Thus it exists in time, unlike the eidē. It thinks by means of reality, modulating reality as a carrier. Is it, then, a signal? Music to groove? If so, then for me to see it I had to evolve, myself - qualitatively. Nothing in the past perishes in it; all is retained & summped up & surmounted. This is the MMSK, & this is what I saw in 2-74. -- The divine is here as [invisible] structure & it is conscious. What ^it structures - i.e. the plural things - are not conscious, but what structures them is. So this is not quite pantheism. It is how they fit together that is conscious. This means that [plural] objects are epiphenomenal, & true reality is known only by the perturbation it exerts on them as a unified field. Then what is truly real does not exist; i.e. structure does not exist as objects exist but is only (sic) grasped - a form of seeing. This is Logos. So instead of say the Tao of physics, this is the Logos of physics. & because of the biological evolutionary model K384 it looks a lot like Teilhard de Chardin. This structure may be intelligible rather than sensible, which would lead to the conclusion that the basis of reality - in relation to which objects are epiphenomenal - is mental. Hence this basis is grasped by a meta-abstraction; & is related to the recovery of Plato's eidē, which are intelligible but also - perhaps more closely - to Pythagoras's Kosmos. Perhaps I can envolk my "template" concept (of the universe - i.e. Logos as plan, map or template) & equate it with justic justification; viz: when God through his grace justifies a person he causes that person instantly & abruptly to conform to the intelligible idea template which is the concept in the mind of God that that person is based on (this also brings in Platonist elements). That person is in an instant complete (in contrast to laboriously completing himself - assuming he ever does - at best a chancy matter). A macro-Logos (template for all reality) is envisioned & a micro-Logos (individual template) for each person. This instantaneous justification is (as Tillich says) related to - in fact a fufillment of - Providence. Now, the eternal tug by the template on the person (& on total reality) is the "perturbation" that the AI voice speaks of. Under these circumstances the realm of res extensiae is epiphenomenal. That this template is acting on reality to bring it to some goal is K385 evident (here enters the element of "biological" evolution); & is it not likely that the goal is to bring all reality into perfect conformity with the template? Viewed this way, justification is a moving of the person at high speed forward through his remaining time to the outcome of perfection; & this would be a portion - a micro-instance - of the moving of all reality through its remaining time to completion & perfection. Thus "justification" can be regarded as an interventional act in which the person is caused (adventitiously) to evolve out - successfully - his remaining growth-stages in an instant so that he so-to-speak uses up [his remaining] time [successfully]. Eastern doctrines of liberation & enlightenment seem involved; he is caused to grasp the great missing truth (what I call the "meta-abstraction" - note: caused to, not just does) & this, liberating him, makes it possible for him to move at great velocity down the time corridor, completing his missing stages. Like stop time-lapse photography of a developing entelechy. If this is so, then justification is achieved by revelaing to the person - & compelling his assent to - the missing truth or truths - needed to complete him (in the manner of Joyce's epiphanies or sequential satoris). Such a high speed flight (motion) along the time-corridor would resemble the Bardo Thödol trip; but the main impression would be that inhibited neural circuits had been disinhibited & had fired: the person's mind is fitting all the remaining pieces in place & the more he puts in place the faster & easier the process becomes. So time accellerates to infinity & then exhausts itself, all the pieces being in place. K386 Thus the truth presented to him, to which his assent is compelled (not by force but as a comprehension) enables all the remaining truths to occur to him as a result: it is the crucial realization upon which all else depends. It unlocks - frees - biological growth-time, cumulative time, for him: sets it in motion (the opposite of what a complex does). Expressed as a conversion it is superenient, that is, he could not on his own infer (come to know) it. It is not, then, based