performs it. Ontologically more real. "I think, and by thinking I am caused to be." Thinking, then, does not prove that I am; it actually causes the "sum." So the proposition, "Cogito, ergo sum" acquires a totally new meaning. Certainly, this all must begin somewhere, either with the hypostatized self or psyche or soul, or with the logical operation. It may very well be that the logical operation comes first; this is virtually an existential view of being, inasmuch as meta-abstracting is an act, eine Tat. Plato is certain that it is anamnesis, the loss of forgetfulness due to an encountered disinhibiting stimulus, and this agrees with my own experience. I would say that probably the mental function, the meta¬ abstraction, cannot be separated from the other self, that tnis other self has been only dormant and subliminal, but that when it performs the meta-abstraction this brings it into consciousness, and that only when it becomes conscious —if it ever does— can it be said to truly be, as a self, as a psyche; up to then it is only a potential, an unusued one. It is defined, then, not as something that is but something that does. It is a faculty allied to or identical to perception. Biologically this makes more sense than theological explanations. The innate potential for this meta¬ abstraction is in all of us, but in fact we never employ it; the faculty —hence the psyche— never comes into use: the metaabstracting act never takes place. This view probably discloses my Cartesian bias, but it may be the correct view. And we are talking about species evolution, an immense quantum leap. The crucial word (which the E of PH employs) is "see," in regard to, "The child 'sees' that not just one horse plus one horse equal two horses, but 'sees' that one plys one equal two." Nonetheless it is a great realization that this coming on of this higher reasoning faculty makes the person "di" and "Theon." It is another self; it is as if the person now has two souls, and by having two souls he is god-like. It takes a second self, staggered in time vis-a-vis the regular self, to perform this mental operation; it takes both brain hemispheres. A two-souled human is' not human. He is god-like; he has become divine and in fact immortal. -13- This, then, is not a quantitative increase on consciousness, or even a higher consciousness; this is two consciousnesses working in unison while kept clearly divided in two; it is necessary that tney remain "asunder." It is simply impossible not to see this as bilateral hemispheric parity, twin consciousnesses which differ from each other, one contemporary, the other either archaic or seemingly archaic. It is as if the dream (in conjunction with Russ' letter which means in conjunction with BTA) tells me that twin opposed human psyches (bilateral hemispheric parity) equal a Ditheon and not a Dianthros. It is, then, as simple as that. All the mystifi¬ cation and mummery have been cleared up. My confusion is due to two elements: (one) The event itself (the meta-abstraction/the other psyche becoming conscious for the first time, so that I found that I had another human personality in my head who was not me; and (two) What we together experienced/perceived/saw as world — a radically transformed world. Which is to say, (one) How the apperception could occur; and (two) What was apperceived. The blending of the two problems baffled me because I did not understand that in fact I had two problems (which, if you think about it, would be normal when any new sensory "mechanism" came on for the first time; taking sight as an example —presuming you had been blind from birth but did not know you were blind— if you suddenly began to see you would be baffled by the fact of seeing, and baffled by what you saw, and these two would blend together as a totally confusion issue, this how and this what by means of the how. I think I understand the how and a good deal of the what, although I must admit that I really don't know what VALIS seen externally would be. This is certainly the greatest mystery of all, and no doubt the most important; as I say in VALIS, "It is the bottom line." There must be another life form here, and it is an informational life form (I guess). And it is (apparently deliberately) camouflaged. And it seems able to control us — and does. And then the third and most important element of all: that just as when he began to use language he ceased to be animal and became man, now he ceases to be man and becomes Ditheon. So he is confronted by a fundamental ontological change in what he is, as well as what he can do and see. -14- This is what the dream, in conjunction with BTA and Russ' letter, wants me to know. The issue is not another and new, a higher sense or higher reasoning (or what is seen and known by this higher sense and reasoning); it is what the person becomes. This precisely is where Christianity enters, with its concept of "second birth" or "born in the Spirit" or "born from above"; this is precisely where Plato ends and theology —Christian theology, in fact Christ himself— enters. This is the real topic: man transformed into something else, something the dream identifies as Ditheon, the twin God entity. This is why neither Plato nor Ornstein will or can adequately account for the significance of this, even if it is bilateral hemispheric parity and recovery of the eide, because both Ornstein and Plato miss the point, the point being the whole purpose of the Kessianic mission, that man becomes "born in the Spirit," or "baptized in the Spirit"; this is what Christ came here for, and this, precisely, is what Christ was: the first of these Ditheons. So Christianity cannot be excluded from the explanation because it precisely deals with the most significant element of —as I compute it— three elements: how one sees; what one sees; and what one becomes by this how and what. If I miss this point I miss the point of the dream. Indeed, it is a great point presented by the dream that the two constituents of Ditheon are human constituents, but it is the greater point that these two human constituents when working together form Ditheon not Dianthropos. The result is astonishing, and only secondarily the means. As with sight, it is not how one sees or what one sees, but that one sees; with thought it is not how one thinks or what one thinks but that one thinks; one's nature is determined by this final point: that one thinks makes him a man, now how and not what. A man who thinks evil or stupid thoughts is a man; a man who sees ugly and unimportant things is still sighted. The statement "a two-brained man," then, is oxymoronic; "two-brained man" is not man at all, just as "thinking animal" is oxymoronic: he is not animal at all; he is man, and "two-brained man" is Ditheon. The dream clarifies my confusion regarding the ending of BTA in which, although it is Tim Archer who returns, Christ is somehow there (in or as Bill), -15- which led me to speculate —in fact declare— that it was not in fact Tim Archer but was in fact Christ (in contradistinction) . Russ argued the point correctly, that somehow both were the case; it was Tim Archer and it was Christ because Bill/Tim is Christ; this is the precise point that the dream makes. This is a major point, although it is secondary to the point that indeed it is Christ who is there as Bill/X. The primary point is, It is Christ. The secondary point is that it is Tim, which means that somehow Tim/Bill constitute Christ. The matter is cleared up by the dream, not above and beyond Russ* analysis but in confirmation of his analysis (rendering his analysis indubitable rather than dubitable). The mind that is working on me, in me and through me saw its chance to nail down this point, by doing so in conjunction with Russ* letter, especially if the clarifying dream came prior to my reading the letter (it is now indubitable, speaking of indubitable matters, that a macro-meta¬ mind is at work in, on or through me). (A mind not my own.) This means that I have already written a novel dealing with Ditheon, although I not only had not intended to but had not even realized that I had! It is almost as if I did a computer study of what the probable results would be if the psyche of a deceased person returned from beyond the grave and took up residence as a twin psyche along with but in no way destroying the psyche of the brain already there, and to my surprise the answer is, "Christ would occur." It is absolutely clear that Tim (in the novel) has not abolished Bill’s psyche; this is indeed a twin psyches situation, dipsyches. Bill hears Tim thinking. There is Bill and there is Tim; it is not Tim replacing Bill (as in occult possession novels, such as THE EXORCIST); it is both of them. They do not compete; they communicate with each other. Not discussed is their multiplex abstract view of reality; I can present this in THE OWL IN DAYLIGHT. --- A new insight (a slight amendation, anyhow). The term "Ditheon” stresses split (asunder, in twain) perception-cognition, not the former (perception) from the latter (cognition) but, rather, two parallel perception-cognition totalities, with emphasis on the split, which is to say the ”di" aspect. I have failed to see just -16- how much is signified by the "di" prefix. It is like stereo in contrast to mono; it utilizes not just two perceptional fields (each different from the other) but two cognitive apparatuses linked to them, with some kind of final unification, just as the two stereo channels are in a final sense the sources for a single "field." A single "sound." This is a wholly new organism never seen before in the world, because in fact the "di," the two elements, do get unified ultimately, or anyhow read in relationship to each other; they do not act antithetically, anyhow, but combine, so that each brain hemisphere sees both, the way each eye feeds into both brain hemispheres. I have no doubt that my set-ground discrimination is due to this "di" situation, and the ability to discriminate VALIS' camouflage. To see the plasmate, for that matter, and of course to distinguish the archetypal supratemporal constants, something like (or actually being) Plato’s eide; in other words what I call an abstraction apperception of reality as information, music to what "one channel" conceives and perceives as groove — as physical and substantial. Suppose we reason this way. What each person sees is to some extent unique (a basic belief of mine). Suppose we further say that only what people share is real; what each person sees that is seen by no one else is either not real or only semi-real. What, then, if we could coordinate the perception-cognition of two brains and superimpose the twin fields in such a way that the elements common to both would appear as set, and what is unique —limited— to each one apppears as ground? Then we would know what is truly real. Well, this is what the "di" system accomplishes. Two separate perception-cognition systems are ultimate superimposed, and indeed certain elements do turn out to be common and other elements turn out to be limited to just one of the two systems. And this can be read off at a glance, once the two fields are superimposed into a single unified field. There is a radical new kind —not degree— of feature