is invaded by Christ as the Holy Spirit, + this is the miracle, + it is this that is the end state of what we saw in "confessions" with no hint that it would end this Now, the true startly, thing would way! be if one read "confessins, "Androids" "BTA" + then "Valis" for having absorbel the idea of this axis + seizure, what would one now make of what "Valis" narrates? this very seizure that is put forth why, ther sparingly at the end of "BTA"! n the total analysis + presentation of the mechanics of it, as it were, the seizure step by step with all its ramification) appears in "Valis" - so, to put it another way, we now understand what "Valist is all about, then! i folder 55 - 077 folder 55 - 077 Yo + after all, it really was the purpose of but there "BTA" to explain "Valis. between "Valis" is a thematic link + "BTA" I've failed to note: bill is insane, + Horselover Fat is insane; So Fat is another avatar explicity of the fool, Holy Fool, madman, Christ Thus if "Valis" is viewed after one has studied "confessions," "androids" + "BTA" the results are amazing as to what "Valis" really depicts + it, more than the otter novels, is clearly autobiographical, + perhaps not a novel not fiction, at all after writing the above I went to bed, + as +I I was falling asleep I remembered 2-74 - 2-75 saw clearly that Christ was present at that time clearly present, in me + in world. Christ everywhere in countless ways, as if everything both individually + collectively had become - + revealed (disclosed) - Christ, Then I knew that Valis external to me + in my + mind was indeed Christ; but what I realized, also, was that by the logic of my "fool -madman" novels, Christ had seized upon me + invaded me + dwelt in me: I lived in him, + he in me both. As I quote in "BTA": "He who eats my flesh + drinks my blood lives in me + I live in him. + this is precisely what finally happens in "BTA" & this, then, is precisely what 2-74 - 2-75 was, this + exactly this: no more + no less thus I saw Christ every‐ where I looked: world under the aspect of Christ. Christ retrieved ubiquitously - in me + outside me self (myself) + world. + this as if Christ was abolishes the inner-outer dualism + results in a reversal of what I call "cognitive estrangement" + results also in part-whole compatibility; but folder 55 - 078 folder 55 - 078 Y-9 the whole is not just cosmos but is the cosmic Christ. Christus ubique! In my writing ("Tears") in me (Valis), in world (Valis), as an animal (pinky), etc. Christ dispersed throughout creation + yet one intact unitary entity (the vine, the "circulatory system. the mycelia); not many Christs but one as if (like Brahman) mirrored back over + over again. (later.) The full mystery is at last penetrated in a gentle, simple, almost pastoral way. What is involved is twofold: both faith + knowledge, which is to say understanding. By studying my many novels back to "confessions" I am by that means able to apperceive 2-74 - 2-75 as the real presence of Christ, in me + in world; + it is just that, exactly that (although, really, the details are elaborate, intricate, complex, many). What if anything this has to do with cernunnos + Dionysos, it if anything, I have no idea; but of a certainly it is Christ who entered me (enthusiasmos), which guess points to the Holy Spirit (it was not apotheosis; no: it was enthusiasmos, as the ending "BTA" verifies, + is clear in "Valis" as well). "BTA" is an extraordinary book, a quasiof novel like "Valis": part truth (dealing with actual people + events), part fiction, + told first person is a kind of educated vernacular: a mixture of street talk + super erudition. In "Valis" a girl dies + the novel is thereby generated, in "BTA" it is all reversed: everyone but the Girl dies, + she tells the story, as if Angel Archer is gloria knudson! had never realized this; its as if "Valis" + "BTA" regard + observe each other, each acting I narrator of the other as thing narrated Yes: Angel Archer is gloria knudson: gaylene o cunningham was precisely my model for angel strange... each novel is the other inside out; + of + hence myself bill is horselover Fat course seen by gloria knidson. A litermy triumph indeed unique + as folder 55 - 079 folder 55 - 079 -10 so to arrive at the solution (that Valis is Jesus Christ) we must tell the story one way (as "Valis") + then turn it inside out (as "BTA") + tell it once more, reversed, + then compare the two. Only then is the solution/answer) explanation yielded up the Holy madman-fool (Horselover Fat Phil Dick) must tell his view of the story that beging with Gloria knudson's desire to commit suicide due to drugs - + then gloria knudson as Angel archer (the spirit of analytical reason) must start at the beginning + tell the story once more from her standpoint with the living + the dying reversed - we then study both narratives + extract the common essence analogous to, + we find that the "common c essence" is Christ; viz: told either way, told both ways, it is Christ who can be extracted as the Thus, here is a kind of logic, shared thread. a kind of systematic analysis + synthesis (first analysis, then synthesis). + in both cases the answer is identical; + when I wrote "BTA") not only did not realize it - it was not even the case as stipulated; but it was my latent intent + conviction. + now is explicit folder 55 - 080 folder 55 - 080 -11 I sense now about 2-74 to 2-75 is that in an actual way God came between me + world, as if he were closer to me than I am to myself, as luther put it; that is: this was not pantheism (God as world, as in Spinoza) but world known to me by way of God. God directly known, but world only indirectly known, through him; hence Valis was -or seemed - both outside me (in + as world) + inside my mind, but in fact this distinction was irreal. All the magical transformations in world that I experienced were because God was closer to me than world was to me, so that I knew it only through him, but to try to locate him - as: in me or, in I contradistinction somehow outside one - this is both meaningless + impossible be perhaps This is a mixture of Luther + Malebranche o but as I say, God was more immediate to me than world, + he effected vast transformations in my way of experiencing world - he as Pantocrator. World is real, God is more real + more immediate; a But moreover, he is absolute master over bot world + me. s insight: to nurture. that is what I look for in people, especially women: their capacity to nupture. Looking up the word in Mnz I found that it means tutelage. This is the fundamental role of God toward folder 55 - 081 K-12 all life: first he brings them into being + then he sustains them (of my letter to Isa justification - being "born again" - as the logical the final act in the process of creating human). Thus these ideas revealed to me by the AI voice express - not an unusual or exceptional role by God toward man - but the natural, basic role: "You have been adopted" + "I am (or you now have) a tutelary spirit." From Tillich I learn that the protestant radical view of man + God is for man to place himself directly + absolutely under the tutelage of God + to no worldly person or power; thus man is related primarily + in a sense only to God in terms of man's tutelage; all other tutelage roles by man are abolished (e.g. to church or state to more powerful persons); + this is the message of "Tears" as I recently realized: this is the not that unconditional absolute trust - faith that is God exists but that he will sustain being e the sole -note: sole - guaranted of man's (again, of my letter to ISA) for it is from God that this being derives; +, moreover, that being partakes of the divine being, since it is of the same substance. + this relationship abolishes the atomized state of man which is the fallen state per se (cf Plotinus). Connected to this is the quality or state of freedom; tutelage by a man to any earthly power is a loss of freedom (as well as loss of God + hence the man's authentic being) a These are the ultimate, crucial issues of radical protestant existentialism, a fusion of Paul + Heidegger; thus the evolution of man into this state of tutelage only to God amounts to a titanic advance is ontology, freedom, autonomy, inner‐ all that e.g. Eric from speak directedness - of; + it is the critical issue in life -existence itself. folder 55 - 082 folder 55 - 082 Y-13 all the issues of authority, power, conscience mutuality, etc. are subsumed by this issue: the restoration of tutelage by man to God directly to God + God alone, bypassing + if a necessary combatting all earthly authority power. Here precisely the inner monitor, which is to say the Holy Spirit as source of guide for conduct, enters: "the law of God inscribed -in total 1800 contra‐ directly on the heart distinction to the external law (as Paul realized). Tillich p. 445. On schelling "the principles are eternally in union in God. the abysmal depth in the divine life, the prepational development of the will, the principle of the Logos or light or reason or structure or meaning, + their unity which he calls the spirit. These 3 principles are in the divine we..." etc. "So the myth of the fall is interpreted by him, following the line of Plato, through origen + Boehme, as the tran‐ scendent fall ➀ Valis. The dialectic. LSD) to synthesis (victory the yang or bright, the "intelligent sides" as I always a by called it; that is Rotos. I saw the dialectic: I understood the nature of each of the two sides; I saw them contend; I saw how the intelligent side always wins in the end: synthesis. In reading Tillich I know now, know at last. that this is God (the first vision of this was, indeed, by Jakob Boehme). It - the dialectic - is between the prerational will in God the Aotos or reason in God; the latter always wing + at the end of each sequence. Timeo, credo. It's all there in "Valis" in the "2 source cosmogony" elsewhere in the tractatus. My term "madness," used in an ontological sense throughout the book, refers to the prerational will of God (as the dark side of the dialectic) + of course Logos is - as I say the correct term for the bright side folder 55 - 083 folder 55 - 083 Y-14 it is as if the entire plot + drama a of "Valis" is set within - + consists of - the internal dialectic within the mind of God, with the prerational will being the "whacked out creator deity" + the inbreaking of the Logos as the intelligent reason of God So that in "Valis" God + world are Homologized; the conflict - dialectic between the "two Gods" (+ this shows up in microform in fate mind: his original