organizes reality (as by the Kantian categories). What is stated is: this "true cosmos" has an objective existence but we are unable to apprehend it, + in fact are prevented from apprehending it, due to our faulty "dis‐ continuous matter" atomistic physics, So I did move than simply change the way I structure reality. This "true cosmos" is (as the AI voice put it) "still there"; it is There but from our civilization's standpoint extinct long extinct, in terms of both our theories about reality + our apperception of reality. What I did was retrieve what is There what is objectively real in itself - I saw correctly. Not our 2000 years of discontinuous matter physics is fallacious. + it occludes us to what is really there, + since "true cosmos" I by definition includes the percipient himself as part of this total, absolute whole, we are unable to know our own true nature as well as the true nature of reality. Thus the Q: "Ti to on?" has been answered wrang from Leucippus on - hence our inauthentic sein, hence Geworfenheit: estrangement ➀ In + by the 2-74 meta-abstraction the fundamental error of 2000 years of faulty physics was annihilated in an instant whereupon true reality - Parmenides' continuum phased back into palpability for me. folder 55 - 103 folder 55 - 103 2-14 This error by leucippus & Democritus was incorporated by Plato into "Timaeus. even into his cosmology (I refer to the concept of the void which I guess is what Plato means by "space as the receptacle of being"), + "Timaeus" stood as the paradigmatic cosmology of antiquity the statement "a long extinct true cosmos + it's still there" appears to be an oxymoron, + in (or but in) solving the riddle that this paradox poses (i.e. if it is long extinct how can one say that it is still there?) one arrives at the truth: which has to do with the distinction between what is seen to exist (that is, what appears to be, what from Kant on has been termed the phenomenological) from what truly is (Kant's thing-in-itself). "long extinct" refers to the former, what we experience (not what we believe. It goes beyond that. What we experience is the issue). "It's still there's refer to the latter; it in itself is still there but not - by us - apprehended. our ceasing to experience this true cosmos long ago did not cause it to cease to be; It is not a way we organize reality but is the actual structure of reality perceived or not perceived. We are blocked from seeing it; we unconsciously posit some kind of existence reality or being to the void (we now call it space) + this is an error. This is the error, The flip side of which is the concept of atoms located discretely in that space. Neither term or concept is correct, reality is not made up either of void or discrete atoms folder 55 - 104 folder 55 - 104 2-15 + the extraordinary thing is that this error has to do - not with what we now term philosophy + certainly not with what we now term theology - but with physics. (This error does not enter into Taoism, significantly.) (Which explains why There is a mysterious affinity between post-Newtonian mechanics + Taoism.) the first philosophical/physics satore I ever had (which was back in high school) had to do with what I called then the fact that "space does not exist (put another way, "all space is the same size"). I had conceptually hit upon the very error that I now find to be the one that toppled our ability to apprehend true cosmos: we unconsciously + unwittingly assign some kind of reality/being / existence to space, + I realized this then, back in high school. Precisely this has to do with the Atomists' concept of to den, a concept that did not exist prior to the Atomists + thereupon hung in there for over 2000 years - until, finally. quantum mechanics. For me in high school ( I was, say, 16 years old) "to den" was "to meden period; for me the contraries were to meden + to on + that was that. Hence my decades of epistemological perplexity. Hence my experiencing world differently from the way everyone else does - + explains my writing "MITHC" At the age of 16 I literally saw the conceptual error regarding space that everyone was making unquestioningly + ubiquitously. folder 55 - 105 folder 55 - 105 2-16 Well, in a very real sense motion is illusory, as I realized when I saw Valis in 3-74. What we see as motion is a sequence in what we call time of static states, as with the light sequencing on Joan's tape dech, or in motion pictures. is what the AI voice must have meant when it + this said, "He causes things to look different It'd appear time has passed." so is not the same as change (here "change" + "Look different" "motion" signify the same thing). dynamic activity, but "motion," like "space there is t are actually unintelligible terms by which we seek + time" to account for process + transformation. noted this, but could not provide physics with Kant correct terms to replace the incorrect ones: thus he had no effect on physics at all ot would seem to the Newtonian physicist that there could in fact be no physics without the categories of space, time + causation. (The solution, of course, is found in quantum mechanics, but that came later. folder 55 - 106 i 2-16 what we call change or motion (a concept involving cause-+-effect in a discontinuous matter reality) is in fact a perturbation field, hence in a field - reality as continuum. It resembles modulation, as if by a wave form. the AI voice is presentian me with a coherent continuum physics impulse may be the term closest to - perturbation, like a ripple. folder 55 - 107 folder 55 - 107 D-94 me his absolute knowledge of the situation so that my actions sprang rationally from the moral nature of reality, a reality that all at once I understood. My horror (Yes, that is the word; not terrm but horror at seeing the true situation + my peril + total what I had done) stemmed from insight; I was anything but a robot: I recoiled in boundless horror at my own sins + at the peril I faced, + what I had done to Tess + Chris - + sought to remedy it, because at that point if I acted swiftly it could be remedied. Now I can say, "free at last!" I was enslaved + was destroying myself + others, exactly like Faust. If the universe were not moral in nature, It would have been okay, but (I see now) God's moral laws are built into the very physical basis of reality itself, inseperable from the actual; hence my sins caused me discomfort + a vague, dim unease that have never been continually grew. I aware of sin before, now it is real to me, sin in myself. + yet, was I not doing to Grea what Honor Jackson did to me? + God condemned him to death. This is the missing part of the moral equation: Sandra is married. This is adultery. the decalogue forbids it. I repented in horror at what I had done, just before there was no drawing back. I guess for a moment I was plunged into hell + discovered what it consists of: one is given absolute moral insight into one's own sinful nature, folder 55 - 108 folder 55 - 108 D-75 + there is no way it can be rectified; It is now too late; hence hell is eternal. This is clearly + obviously the just punish ment + the logical punishment: absolutely (by the knowledge of God's own mind) to see what one has done, illuminated by the divine light that reveals all. This is total knowledge of the situation + of oneself. It can be awful. By this divine illumination one's cognition/perception condemns one; This is absolute self-condemnation not based on arbitrary rules but on total comprehension of what, really, is structure + how one has fitted into this structure + changed it by one's deeds. The harmony + order of the cosmos are disrupted by what one his done. It was not guilt that I experienced; it was understanding. This is more terrible than any guilt. Erict admits of degree; this was boundless. +, interestingly, one of my major errors was cognitive: I believed I should do what I was doing (whether I enjoyed it or not). If it made me uncomfortable, I believed that I was being neurstic timid. what I see now in what I was doing is disorder (i.e. chaos). Lives all around + were being perturbed (!), as if shock laves were spreading out more + more turbut intly. The regulative nature of the moral aw in terms of establishing + maintainin osmos can now be appreciated. This howing disruption was what was essentially wrong in what we were doing, o folder 55 - 109 folder 55 - 109 D-96 I colluded with it + did not say no to it; I said yes to it, although more + more it distressed me. There was no telling where it would have gone had I continued to participate in it. Lives were being + the circle was irrevocably destroyed widening; stability was escalating wildly. Every day brought some new increment in the disorder, + I had lost all control now, looking over it + my own self. back from outside it, I am appalled + can fathom why my anxiety was becoming greater + greater. + the elements of stability + order + foresight + direction + coherent purpose are the primary elements I have at last managed to introduce into my life, after but this was engineered t years of confusion disorder; it was made - not just allowed to occur. "Destruction's our delight, delight guess the motivation our greatest sorrow." I is a need for excitement + the perpetually new. But there was no plan. Sandra did not plan to go anywhere, only to leave This is Southern California + the people here. dangerously close to nihilism. Here mischief becomes malice. The smart player (myself) would want to get out before ruin set in (which I did, due to God's wisdom + power) because ruin is the final stage inevitably since everything is pulled down + trashed - just as anne trashed everything. (This is perhaps allied to revolutionary art: the drive to destroy the old; here, again, is irritable impatience with whatever is) the mode of transit is flying; the mood is restless irritability becoming contemptuous anger with an abrupt 1800 or 90 turn folder 55 - 110 folder 55 - 110 D-97 without warning. But there is no building up step by step, no accrual. Time, as with Shiva, destroys rather than creates. My mode is pedestrian but for me there is accrual + time is Brahma's time of building of adding rather than breakingdown. Viewed this way, there is a sort of method to her ostensibly disorder moves; they are not whim + not random, not impulse. They have one very long-range purpose + that is to create havoc to cause the greatest disturbance possible, a sort of gotterdammerung for as many people as possible. This has to do with rebellious power + in many ways is good - as artistic iconoclasm. But in terms of human life it is disasterous to everyone. Whatever move will cause the maximum disruption is sought for. A methodical, sedentary, cautious person like me hungers for this as an antidote to internal ossification. But the only morality here is the morality of clever power. Hence pitted against it is not Xtianity -agape -