can be thought as well as shoken aloud.) can intelligible formulation: this collates with my apperception of myself as an intelligible notion -idea- in the mind of God; this is how things come into existence + what they are actually, + based on.) the only thing unorthodox about my formulation is that what I seem to have is Logos as intermediary hypostasis (as Philo taught); in fact a series of emanations: God to Logos to world (i.e. not Trinitarian). (With Christ + the Holy Spirit homologized: two forms of the same thing.) Valis' mind in mine, then, was the Alexandrian Logos (hence the linking-relinking, rest-motion, the MMSK etc. the dialectic.) whether the Logos would be immanent or transcendent to world is impossible to say because the relationship is more one of ontological hierarchy, the universe deriving from the Logos; hence Logos is not in the universe; the universe is Logos (if seen fully abstractly). (This may well be what I call the MMSK!) world is not an idea in the mind of God; world derives from Logos which is the first thought of God ontologically preceeding creaton J-82 the universe (reality), then, really is the word (the latter standing in relation to creation as do Plato's Forms). However, this word is a single living entity, + entered its own emanation (creation) as Jesus (this, too, is Hagia Sophia). Thus it transubstantiates its creation into itself, invisibly; the word is here camouflaged only the Holy Spirit can see it (+ through the Holy Spirit the sanctified human can see creation "revert" to the word - i.e. information, ideas, thought). This is living, thinking information (as I say, related to Plato's Forms). (Recovered or recollected through anamnesis which is really a meta-abstraction, this fits in with Pythagoras' idea that there is no underlying substantia, that reality is based on structure all this explains (eg) why I saw the golden rectangle! my line of inferential reasoning: Bible to Holy Spirit to Christ to Logos (to info basis of reality) to God. Then in terms of its task of revealing the true, full nature of Jesus - the Holy spirit reveals him as the word on which all reality is based. It has taken me over seven years to comprehend this revelation, so vast is it (I was on the right track in "Ubik") from an epistemological standpoint my 2-3-74 experience (+ subsequent exegesis) is simply off the scale: to see the informational basis of reality, not just to hypothesise but to apperceive it! +, gradually to come to understand the meaning of what saw, + what I is J-83 Thus the Alexandrian Logos as the inter‐ mediary of creation is re-evaluated now in the "information decade"; as concept it has new + startling meaning! ( ( bringing about God "Baptism in the 7Logos omre t Spirit [of God] to i so that there is not an entropic series Christ Io emanations, 1,2, 3. 4 is same as 1 (i.e. 4 is Ruah, the spirit of God put into men, making them coherrs with Christ as adopted sons of God; so the progression of emanations doesn't run down (i.e. it is not entropic but at its weakest point -most distant point from God- renewed). Why, these if items are Erigena's 4 states of God: [Natura 1) uncreated + creates. God the creator. 2) created + creates. The forms (regarded by me as the intermediary Logos, the agent + source of the universe/reality). N 3) The created that does not create. the universe. 4) The uncreated that does not create. God as spirit of God. "In that union creatures are not to be simply reabsorbed into God but will be transmuted + spiritualized." E ifph: "These archetypes came into being through the eternal generation of the word (Logos by adopting Erigena's system I can or Son." continue to view my meta-abstraction as Plato's anamnesis + recovery of the eide J-84 with each "emanation" there is a fall stage two (Logos) turns into plurality (the Forms). Stage three certainly is a fall because now multiplicity (the Forms) has entered space + time + causation. This clearly resembles Neoplatonism. But: stage four recapitulates the original uncreated unity. Here is a crucial difference from Neoplatonism At the most fallen debased level of, three (which is created but does not create) The Godhead re-enters + re-establishes itself. Time + multiplicity + causation disappear; the pure consciousness of God ("anokli--") reasets whereas in Neoplatonism the human itself. soul reascends, here the Godhead follows the falling debased soul + acts on it to transform + sanctify it thereby restoring the original state in an eterad cacle of emanation, differentiation + returnn Thus the fall can be viewed as necessary in the differentiation + explication + actualiza in of putentialities in the Godhead, probably pursuit of self-knowledge (by the Godhead). the I --" unless it knows itself; cannot say" It self-consciousness + self-knowledge cannot be separated. (Erigena: "Even God does not know what he is because literally God is not.") anamnesis would be recovery of self-g recollection in relationahip to world. can it be said that there is any differens between Neoplatonist reascent + Christian sanctifi‐ cation other than the fact that the latter is instignted by God as a( saivific act, rather than something the person happens to do? e N Delibarate - choice It would resemble the Neoplatonist But there would experience (almost exactly). gread. (The your t be another personality in Spirit. J85 the universe is based on the word (the Logos). The word is uttered by God. the word is Christ. Therefore the universe is based on Christ (not in Jesus, but Christ the word). This is what I saw when I saw Valis: unity, sentience, pretextual cause, warp away from plumb, self-initiating syn‐ chronized acausal processes (sequences). one could figure this out from JN/:1+ God ot So it wasn't just The info that I saw that universe is the Logos. t Valis reality also is the Logos. God viz: a Chris This is what I saw universe s reality that I called Valis. This is what gave me the impression that Christ had invaded the universe + was transubstantiating it Christ camouflaged as the universe. I think, now; I saw - not an invasion of the universe by Christ- but the universe as it really is the Holy Spirit in ne saw this). So I didn't just (sic) see infor‐ mation(e.g. the plasmate). saw Zebra or the resurrection Valis + recognized it as Christ. is proof that Christ was -Jesus was- the Son of God, the Logos. This is what, precisely, I saw: Christ as basis of the universe; thus proving his claim (this revealed to ne by the spirit this is the spirit's job). the blood + body - I recognized it. the risen Lord So it is from looking over these notes tarting with P. J-75 it would seem that although I grasped that seeing reality ab it J-86 as info I was seeing the word (Logos) did not grasp that this too, was what saw when I saw "something unitary camouflaged as plural objects + their processes, mimicking causal processes - i.e. Zebra or Valis" which I came to view as the Cosmic Christ invading the universe transubstantiating it + + this was the most startling + significant thing that I saw out of all; as I say in "Valis" it is the bottom line. + I identify it as specifically the Logos: Christ as the Logos. But it is not necessary for the Cosmic Christ (the Logos) to invade the universe: it is based on him, as JN1:it points out. Upon his resurrection he lost his anthropomorphism + resumed his pre-existant (? pre-incarnated) status. what the Messianic mission accomplishes (I just discovered the other day) is "Baptism in the spirit" fulfilling E2 36:27 which was to do with the spirit of God entering men - well, this is what happened to me in 2-3-74. The change was not in reality but in my perception of reality due to the Holy Spirit in me, which is why Tess saw nothing. up until last night I could not -not have- imagined the universe based on Christ -crist camouflaged as things + processes in this sort of Brahmanist sense- because although I knew JN it by Heart I did not understand it - just as in high school I "knew" archamides' principle last night but did not understand it. + sure enough; I reread JN This is exactly what J-87 it says. (The stoics had even given the "drop of wine in the sea" analogy of the Logos pervading all reality.) Well, this explains the perception I had of Jesus Tuesday night when, ripped, I read Luke: Jesus as a yogi to whom reality was mere Maya, of which he was total Master! "The miracle worken" - he could cause reality to do anything -be anything he wanted it to be, his miracles were, crucial, esp. the healing ones / But stage 4, the final stage ("not created + not creating") of Erigena occurs in[side] us when the spirit of God assumes residence + power in/as us. My view in "Valis" is too much dominated by apocalyptic thinking about the in-breaking of God. My confusion about Zebra/Valis -the unitary "camouflaged" entity posing as objects + their causal processes- has simply I construed it (correctly been enrormous, yet think) as Christ, some kind of Cosmic Christ, specifically the Logos. This would account for the Gnostic Logia in the Gospel of Thomas, "break a stick + there am I; left astone + there am 1. the whole set-ground, second signal is visible to the Holy Spirit, not just what is in scripture, but there, too. The Holy Spirit looks at reality + sees the Logos/Christ e.g. in/as Pinky. it seems probable to me that the Torah is this Logos in the age of justice + severe limitation; Christ is mercy, the Messianic age of this word. Tim power's appraisal of Jesus vs the Torah is valid, but there remains the crucial ultimate J88 state -baptism in the spirit- that I identify with "Anokh--" because it the absolute consciousness of God (+ this is what 2-3-74 apparently was). My God, my sense that reality is based on the word (or info) goes back to "Joint"! there are even prodromal hints in "Exe"! But in "Joint" the idea first emerges clearly, + of course shows up later in e.g. "Ubik" 3-74 is an apotheosis of "Maze," etc. + (saint) my whole 10-volume meta-novel. the notes of the J. Bible equate Hagia Sophia with Ho Logos as the word-wisdom entity existing before creation + the agent bringing creation into being. + the AI voice's initial stotement was about St Sophia, exprressed in such a way as to make it absolutely clear that Christ was meant! Now, suddenly, this all converges in Christ as this pre‐ existent word-wisdom person. I doubt if it would ever be possible to roll back reality to its informational (Logos) basis unaided, since our assent to reality seems to be compelled. Only the Holy Spirit can see the Christ-basis of reality, + its revelation to us of this is a major part of its mission + task: so we will know + understand the mystery that is Christ, who + what he really is, in all its dimensions. It would seem to me that the disclosure of this Christ. basis -hence Christ as Logos- of reality -the universe itself- must be the ultimate revelation. First he sets up a frozen framework -known to us as Torah, justice- + then he enters his own frame‐ work as world + asserts his volitional -yielding‐ mastery over it, from the time of the first Advent on, the Logos can be appealed to for mercy it is no J-89 longer a rigid framework, ossified. Thus the is a perpetual revolutionary motion by the divine (perhaps, now, as the Holy Spirit); it