God-entity. The double-God-entity. Thus the other self thinks, "There's someone else in my head and he's not living in this century," and he thinks in a foreign language, but this is not important; what is important is the discrete but overlapping fields of vision. The Bild that is received of reality. This also explains, "He causes things to lock different so it'd appear time has passed"; time, for this Ditheon mind, has become transformed —literally!— into space 1 The clues are all there in VALIS, but I never got near the real explanation. Staggered time-points forming a sort of extended slot, with two dissimilar images that come together to form a master image; unlike spatial depth-sense this requires dual psyches. So now one can say what the survival, evolutionary purpose of two hemispheres and two psyches is. -8- The fact that the arug or medication that Nancy (in the dream) took was marked DITHEON shows that the "Theon" (theos) element or state is produced by the entering of the adventitious outcome, so the God or more precisely the Christ element only occurs as a result of the two psyches; each psyche itself, then, is not Christ, is not God, is not Holy Spirit; is human (this is clear, too, in the dream in that it is a man that invades her, not a supernatural force). The outcome is Ditheon; Christ results. As Russ puts it, Christ is assembled out of parts that come together. Up until they are assembled, Christ-like qualities —traits— may be there, divided up, but they do not constitute Christ; thus Christ is "born” in the brain of the person upon the interaction of the two psyches, two human psyches. How this other, adventitious psyche gets into you is not explained, but it would seem that you receive it. This is the bride and bridegroom, to use Christian mystical terms. You do act as a female host for it. For Ditheons to come into existence there had to be a first person who died and was resurrected; that is, returned from the other side (after death); this would be Jesus. From him a group of Ditheons (the Eleven) came into being, as the psyches were soto-speak recycled and recycled; but, as I say, there had to be a first one and that first one was Jesus. Hence the necessity of the crucifixion; this also explains why the Holy Spirit could not be poured out until after the resurrection, which means after Jesus' death. This would also explain why Jesus spoke of himself as the bread of eternal life, because not only would the Ditheons be brought into being but the souls or minds or psyches of the disciples would be immortal (in this process of return). Two things, then, not one were accomplished: first and foremost the twin-psyche Ditheon; secondly, immortality for the disciples; they would physically die like everyone else, but they would come back just as Jesus had come back; that is, they would be resurrected. (I have played around with this idea many times, noting as I did that Thomas seemed to have once been an actual man, an apostolic Christian.) Now we arrive at Firebright (or the mysterioys embryo or the golden flower) created in me; Firebright is immortal, and will leave me when I die, and will -9- return (resurrection) to someone else, just as Thomas did with/to me. So the golden flower is indeed the result of a hierogamy, in the human mind, as the Taoist alchemists taught. Now, you see, everything begins to fall into place; why there had to be Thomas; why the anamnesis; why Firebright; why I felt myself to be a female host; why I thought it might have been Jim who came back to me, a former human being yet from beyond the grave, human yet divine, man yet Christ. The ingredient added to me was man but the result was Christ. To perpetuate this process, each return would have to result in a Firebright; the process must continue and not end, not die out. Thus because Firebrights are produced, the process is self-perpetuat¬ ing. Firebright, then, is Christ, a Christos: immortal, passing on from person to person. Hence my memories of what seems to have been the Thirty Years War, and the same role in history repeated again and again. One could speculate that with each resurrection, "enthosiasmos" and hierogamy, the immortal entity accrues one more additional human psyche, so that now we have a composite psyche although still Thomas, the original one (probably a disciple and certainly from the first century C.E.). Maybe it was Jim pike the last time it was here (i.e. before it returned to me). But these are all accretions to Thomas. Put in purely Christian terms, when you receive Baptism in the Spirit (the Holy Spirit) you and it together become Christ; Christ occurs. This explains the confusion as to whether the Holy Spirit is Christ discorporate, the resurrected Christ. I say no; I say that Christ results from "the Holy Spirit" descending on you and baptizing you. Yet you would be correct to say that you now had Christ in you. The Eleven, at Pentercost and afterwards, at their reperformance of the Lord's Supper, would all become Christ. Functionally, it would prove impossible to distinguish the Holy Spirit from Christ, then. The Holy Spirit would be like a fertilizing agent, fertilizing you, out of wnich Christ is born. Thus you become a son and coheir with Christ of God, an adopted son. VALIS is on the right track when it speaks of symbiosis, the homoplasmate. The crossbonding. And how the Romans wiped them out, but how the -10- "plasmate" (my neologism) escaped. The dream depicted Nancy to show that the human recipient acts as a female host to a male principle or element or psyche or spirit. All this explains why Jesus would speak of a "Second Comforter" who could not come to the disciples until he, Jesus, had died, and why he would distinguish himself from that Second Comforter, the Paraclete, and why Catholic Doctrine would say that the disciples would have the Second Comforterer with them in place of the departed Christ (but, curiously, the Second Comforter would know everything possible about Christ and his true mission; of course he would!). (The true mission, they would learn, would be for the Paraclete to descend on them and make them all into Christoi. Jesus had not told them that. Now the absolute necessity of the crucifixion can be seen. Indeed he would have to die and would have to be resurrected, and would have to return to them as the Second Comforterer who himself was not Christ, but by having him with them, Christ would be with them — as the result of the fusion. And this would occur for not just one disciple but for all twelve; it proliferates, multiplies.) (It is the resurrected body of Christ pouring out grace in an endless fountain; but only the resurrected body could do this; the man Jesus could not.) And this was indeed the plan of God from before creation, kept secret all through the ages, because God had equipped humans with two brains, left and right, which are necessary if this fusion is to occur, if Ditheon is to take place.) (Hence one could speak of Ditheon as an evolutionary event.) I have it. The Holy Spirit acts to briny the previous human psyche to you, specifically you; it is the Holy Spirit who decides, who (himself God) selects you, comes to you and fertilizes you with tne resurrected human psyche. The psyche alone on itself can't and doesn't pick you. This choosing is a very important matter; it is tatamount to the esci.atological judging. Once placed in you, this added adventitious resurrected psyche (as I say) creates a permanent "Firebright" who lives on after your death. What I must recognize is that in no way do I understand how this dual psyches is achieved. But it apparently is not random; the host psyche must do something to induce it. And what that is remains occluded from me. It may have something to do with the external entity VALIS. -11- So although I know something I do not know everything. It would seem that the superimposition of Acts and USA 1974 is crucial because it shows the dual fields —staggered time— that I feel lie at the heart of the augmented perception/experience of world. From what the AI voice said, it would seem that I was selected, so this is not a naturally-occurring event; it doesn't just happen. The way to render the explanation simple is to say that the older psyche (which I call adventitious) is dormant in the right hemisphere and is triggered into wakefulness by the proper stimulus encountered in experience with world (in my case the golden fish sign); that, however, would render the "adventitious" other psyche not adventitious at all, but innate. Yet this seems to follow from the golden fish sign regarded as a disinhibiting stimulus. Thomas was reminded into consciousness; he woke up. Something was in me as long ago as 1970 wnen I wrote TEARS. Yet the BTA novel points to invasion by an adventitious mind, returning from the dead, wha.ch is to say, resurrected, and the dream carries this idea out (although the dream may be based on the BTA novel and it in turn is based on my long¬ standing semi-belief that Jim returned to me, that this was what 2-3-74 was all about; that may not be so: it may have been a dormant other self, awakened by the golden fish sign; if it were Jim, why would it need the golden fish sign to remind it? Reminding, self¬ recollection, would not be a factor. The psyche would simply enter. And Plato's analysis of anamnesis seems to suggest reincarnation. The adventitious element may be the "Baptism in the Spirit," which is to say, there is such a thing as the Holy Spirit and it does enter you from outside. This, then, is like a medical or surgical procedure. Is it possible that performing the meta¬ abstraction creates, so to speak, the other psyche, rather than the other psyche existing first and then, because it exists, performing the meta-abstraction? Because this way this "soul" is the product of higher reasoning, not the cause. This is, then, a biologically latent function —reasoning function— and when exercised brings on the personality in that brain, the right hemisphere. This would follow from the Cartesian rationalist belief in innate ideas or categories (with which I tend to concur). This explanation also is more in line with ideas about species evolution. -12- Then the meta-abstraction is more primary than the personality that performs it. Ontologically more real. "I think, and by thinking I am caused to be." Thinking, then, does not prove that I am; it actually causes the "sum." So the proposition, "Cogito, ergo sum" acquires a totally new meaning. Certainly, this all must begin somewhere, either with the hypostatized self or psyche or soul, or with the logical operation. It may very well be that the logical operation comes first; this is virtually an existential view of being, inasmuch as meta-abstracting is an act, eine Tat. Plato is certain that it is anamnesis, the loss of forgetfulness due to an encountered disinhibiting stimulus, and this agrees with my own experience. I would say that probably the mental function, the meta¬ abstraction, cannot be separated from the other self, that tnis other self has been only dormant and subliminal, but that when it performs the meta-abstraction this brings it into consciousness, and that only when it becomes conscious —if it ever does— can it be said to truly be, as a self, as a psyche; up to then it is only a potential, an unusued one. It is defined, then, not as something that is but something that does. It is