or else do it for us. I who know about the Kingdom, who knows it is right here -- even I can't find my way (back) to it. Yet my "binary" model of the universe apparently calls for it, specifies its existence. It must be, it must truly be, that Christ does not in fact penetrate --invade-- the workings of the universe but, rather, invades our perception of the workings of the universe, the inner folder 90 - 038 folder 90 - 038 -27- representation that the Cartesians showed we experience as world; this (as I said before) is Christ as Christ consciousness: the occlusion is not lifted from the world --it was never in world-- but from us: it is in us. In my recent dream the Spinner, the little boy, went blind; the sun itself did not go out; it was still shining but he could not see it. He "lost his vision." This says it all. Even with a thick magnifying glass he could no longer see the sun, shining as it still was. He had been poisoned "by heavy metal" contaminating the soil under his feet. Then Christ detoxifies us. This goes back to SCANNER. This goes back to the occlusion I saw in 1971 among heroin users. All these themes show up in VALIS: the heavy-metal splinter, the wound, Christ as physician, as phagocyte, the two-source cosmogony, etc. Most of all the BIP versus the PTG, and the Christians bringing us back to the latter. It would now appear that my perception in 3-74 of the abolition of causation --which I called VALIS-- is the kingpin in being redeemed. "Being saved" and "seeing causation abolished" seem to be intimately related; if you are saved this is what you will see. And if you are not saved, if you are left occluded, this is precisely what you will never see. Maybe it's a matter of our neurons firing so slowly that we can't catch the binary flicker, the on-off pulsation. No, that is not it, because what started me onto the path of losing my occlusion was glimpsing the Christian fish sign, which triggered off anamnesis. My neurons fired faster as a result of this. Obviously, my experience was religious, not chemical, in nature. Purely and simply I lost my amnesia. Well, there is another possibility, and I have been chewing over it since last October; it has to do with what I call my meta-abstraction. This in turn has to do with a realization of what I call "coaxial realities." The argument goes in circles. Did I remember having been in the BIP, is that it? Which explains how I could write TEARS? TEARS is, literally, hell, and it is not past; it is a version of the present (Track A). It is, to be exact, the immutable yin world of cause-and-effect -- and I remember it; the Christian fish sign caused me to remember. Am I to assume I was previously there (whatever "previously" may mean)? I believe that somewhere supra I identified this anamnesis as recovered memory of folder 90 - 039 folder 90 - 039 -28- the discarded, provisional zero spaces, the rejected alternatives, and these, precisely, are what make up the yin world! Then am I to assume that a discarded alternative that --since it was discarded-- was cancelled, and our memory with it, and this is TEARS and what I took to be Acts, the BIP, and the sight of the golden fish sign recalled that yin or zero or discarded chain to me? There is almost no other way to explain TEARS collating with my vision of the BIP upon seeing the golden fish sign. Then there must be zero or yin or immutable cause-and-effect rejected prior choices "run" all the time, at forking after forking: falsework never real or no longer real or retroactively abolished as if they had never been ("For I am building a new heaven and a new earth, and memory of the former things will not enter the mind nor come up into the heart") -- to me the most beautiful utterance in my experience. This is really the most revolutionary conception in my "binary forking zero one choice" model of the universe, that there are provisional choices, chains, perhaps even programs, that are tried out tentatively and then discarded, whereupon they never really existed in the first place ... and we do not remember them -- unless something strange causes anamnesis. This, then, this anamnesis of a provisional Track A, the world of TEARS, may be the "secret stolen, through the angels, in one's hands"; by knowing this secret I can figure out how the system works; this secret literally is in my hands, if I would but put it all together (as maybe I am doing now). I infer from this that we are not supposed to remember these zero alternatives that later get discarded, and this seems like a good idea, except for the fact that apparently we did live through them, and if we can be reminded of their existence we can figure out the mechanism, in which case -- well, what? Are we emancipated? Or switched to Track C? That's what finally happened to me. No one else went with me and no one else experienced recovered memory of Track A. You get to the Garden by remembering the jail. The following now comes to me with the full force of revelation: my "binary zero one switching" model of the universe would fully and perfectly explain my meta-abstraction when that meta-abstraction is conceived of as involving coaxial worlds. Because this "binary switching" model calls folder 90 - 040 folder 90 - 040 -29- for the generation of and the cancellation of such palpably worse "alternative worlds"; this is why they are rejected as a causal train: they are worse. My model and my experience (all the way back to that first day in 2-74 when I saw the golden fish sign, remembered Acts and saw Acts, or what I took to be Acts --I assumed that memory by definition deals with the past--) completely agree and reinforce each other. And certainly this (perhaps uniquely, inasmuch as no other theory I've come up with does) this accounts for the cryptic statement about the secret stolen that I already have in my hands; that is, it isn't going to be revealed to me, it already has been. So I have to ask myself what it is I know that no one else knows. I am not sure what I know. Do I remember another world having been here, a dreadful one? And Christ got us out of it, is that it? Or Christ wants us to know what we're put through, is that it? Are we being fucked over by a merciless mechanism, a sort of program-running computer that alters the variables -which is good-- but we have to relive and relive, and maybe this is not good. "I am a diseased rat in a kind of cage," Rybus Rommey-Asher says in THE DIVINE INVASION. I think I have some new evidence establishing that Acts, Track A, is not in the past: is the PTG, Track C in the past? No, of course not; I saw it as recently as this week. What fooled me about Track A (Acts, TEARS) is that I remembered it, but the zero one switching (rejecting) explains that; it has to do with some kind of pulse-phasing flicker. Here's another point: there is a link between the three "alternate presents": the Christians. They certainly are here, and they certainly are in Track A; and most of all Track C. I have the solution; it lies in my recognition that in 3-74 I was seeing two signals -- what Jeter called "the second signal" had been added. It's like when a stereo stylus tracks two sides of the groove, each side carrying different information. The zero phase of the flicker amounts to a signal that we either are missing entirely or -- and yet we're living it. Each of us lives in this world, the folder 90 - 041 -30- one phase, and also in the zero phase, TEARS or Acts or Track A. That would be Thomas. From 3-74 on (for a while) two tracks were combined; hence Thomas and I were combined, just as our "worlds" were. (Coaxial worlds. Having nothing to do with time.) I have a strange but very strong feeling that the set/ground information that I saw --the "plasmate"-- only comes into existence when both channels are superimposed into a common unified signal. Why is world shot through with information anyhow? The information is the key. It starts off quantitative, in bits. The system must be running a number of alternative programs. The three tracks are not alternate presents in any sense that s-f has dealt with; they are not truly discrete but, as I say, are coaxial. Some kind of common matrix exists. The same "world" can be phased or tuned or modulated into at least three "versions," something like Bindswanger's Ur-, Mit- and Eigenwelt; Heidegger is involved, here; this is some kind of mystical, Gnostic, theological, supernatural Dasein. Way of being-in-the-world. But I don't think we ourselves have control over it; it's not a psychological matter. Malebranche and the other Cartesians have the handle on it; we don't encounter world -- we encounter a representation of world. There is one solution and only one to this "coaxial worlds" problem; it is Plato's Forms, which lie outside of time; hence they are eternal. As I said in my two postcards to Pat, "anamnesis" in which the universals (eide) are recovered does not deal with the past, is not memory of the past, because from the standpoint of the eide the notion "past" is unintelligible. It is meaningless. Which is to say, "past" has to do with the derived semireality of spatiotemporal sets. One does not remember the eide as something past, the way, say, I remember Marin County; the eide are here. So of course when I remembered "Acts" I saw it; "Acts" refers somehow to the eide and hence are here now. Plural sets of spatiotemporal accidents as if on different frequencies are connected with these eide. This great information-processing system, binary in nature, folder 90 - 042 folder 90 - 042 -31- endlessly choosing, is the body of Christ; his blood is the information it processes. The Cosmic Christ has not only invaded the universe; it has become the universe and we are in it, although we can't see it (i.e. see that we are in Christ). He completes himself through the arborization and reticulation of the binary choosing and rejecting, the on-off pulsation. + what separates us from the perception of this? Not something to do with our senses, our physical percept-system; it has to do with our capacity to understand - the problem is one of envisioning, of conceptualization. We are not physically blind, any more than when someone hears a Beethoven symphony or reads a Vaughan poem + does not respond -understand- it means he is literally deaf + blind. What is involved is the brain's capacity to construct an inner analog or model -as Wittgenstein points out- equal to the sensible perception. A cat, seeing a printed page, is not cut off from the meaning of the words by literal blindness, but by something deeper, something to do with perceptual intelligence + conceptualization - model building. What is out there has no meaning unless the brain can organize the representation of it, the data streaming in, into an analogous Gestalt. What I have achieved during these past seven years is to deepen + augment my mental ability to conceive of + comprehend what in 3-74 I perceived, +, ultimately, this is an apprehension, a comprehension, of God, of the divine nature + being. I do not know God sensibly; I know God a priori, comprehensibly.