with the Logos -word of God- or Christ indwelling (in the person's mind) through which all things -+ especially the Platonic intelligible Forms- were comprehended (perceived) + understood. Understood this way, 2-3-74 is in fact a disclosure (through the return of the divine illumination) of what truly is (esp in terms of the eide) + perhaps by Christ in my mind, teaching + illuminating. Then regarding Adam + Eve, this divine illumination went out or went away; whereupon they could only see things "up close to them." Augustine's formulation of what this divine illumination discloses shows why 2-3-74 was Plato's anamnesis + why specifically I recovered knowledge of the eide (the fact that Augustine associates the divine illumination with Plato's anamnesis folder 90 - 144 folder 90 - 144 G-89 indicates I'm on the right track, because now I can link Malebranche not just to Plato but to Plato's anamnesis, through Augustine! That would indicate that 2-3-74 is not just another possible way of viewing reality: one model out of many. + it would explain specifically how + why I could discriminate the Holy Scripture, the set to ground writing, the plasmate - the "covert" info traffic, e.g. KING FELIX. This is not a question of degree of perception / cognition but of kind. From the "myth" of the Fall - + specifically from "the First Book of Adam + Eve" I construe this to be a sense that man originally had + either lost or was deliberately deprived of. Thus 2-3-74 was a restoration. Christ's soteriological role is specifically to restore this. (This faculty to us.) My Good God! I just now realized I've discovered a link between Plato's anamnesis + [the recovery of] the faculties man lost in the Fall! [Via Augustine + "the First Book of Adam + Eve".] So there is a connection between apperception of the Forms + the state of unfallen (or restored) man: Plato's eternal intelligible reality! folder 90 - 145 folder 90 - 145 G-90 "Anamnesis," then, is Plato's term for what Xtians know as man's restoration to his original unfallen state; this explains why perception (recovery) of the eide involves memory, restored memory; it is a regained state of perception / cognition "in + by the divine illumination" - literally a seeing, not just a metaphor. Hence I said, "I am no longer blind!" The intelligible structure of reality becomes apparent. So we are occluded; or, put another way, we normally do not see in / under / by means of the divine illumination, hence only partially. It is not truly remembrance of the past; it is a recovery of a lost way of seeing that existed for mankind in the past. One experiences it as remembering because one senses that once long ago it had (somehow) been this way (world experienced this way). It is an old ability coming back on: it is not gained but regained; thus in a certain real sense it has lain latent in the person until disinhibited (as Plato discusses at length), by something in experience (as St Augustine points out, this is something that Christ / Logos in you does). (Hence the Golden Xtian Fish Sign set mine off - folder 90 - 146 G-91 In Malebranche's terms, the representation in normal experience is by no means clear. It would be of accidents + fails in terms of the "one mother three times, not three mothers" abstraction - a cognitive insight derived, however, from perception. The flux is not stabilized by the organizational power of the constants (eide). It is a very limited perception. Mostly chaotic, mostly of epiphenomena + the transitory. Probably the missing factor is a cognitive leap of meta-abstraction from experience; the in-coming data remains raw + brute, pluralized + unorganized. When the proper cognitive leap is made, it rebounds on perception; the two can't be severed. The whole thing amounts to a different way of being-in-the-world (Dasein), especially in terms of flux hence time. There is no retention of the past conceptually: there is substitution, not accretion! (Viz: thing B replaces thing A; thing C replaced B, etc. But this is not cumulation + not organized around a constant.) (Viz: B is not seen as a further state of some constant of which A is a prior state; A + B are viewed as discrete things connected by causation, rather than transformations in a constant which of course remains.) This is essentially an apperception of underlying structure. I am of the opinion that (1) this is real; + (2) Augustine is right: it requires the adventitious exercise by God himself of his divine illumination; it is not folder 90 - 147 folder 90 - 147 G-92 something you can do for yourself: it is a gift. I have the feeling that it involves a very deep transformation -fundamental + radical- in your way of apprehending world: possibly, since God himself causes it - an apperception / understanding of world as it truly is, in contrast to which what we normally receive is only a representation. I mean, it is not a lesser representation versus a better one; this illumination permits what may be an actual assimilation of world - creation itself versus the Cartesian representation of creation. An absolute contact with reality versus a derived relative contact. In that case reality itself impinges on you without the intermediary image. Then the MMSK is how God sees reality! From inside, + not in space or time, without causation, conceptually arranged. Then I am right in identifying Plato's anamnesis with Malebranche's "vision in God." (Via Augustine's Platonist Xtianity.) + I add my own idea: that this which Plato, Augustine + Malebranche discuss is in fact a restoration of a lost way of thinking / seeing (neither Augustine nor Malebranche seems aware of this possibility, yet to me it looms large; most compelling of all factors seems to me to be the perception of God impinging on creation, so that by means of this restoration one again "sees" God at least inferentially: world as iron filings to magnetic field or rather world as field perturbed by God: indubitable modifications in the reality field from outside. folder 90 - 148 folder 90 - 148 G-93 (I am not sure it is limited to this, for I experienced Valis' mind in my own, + as a result world became a system of interconnected ideas that never perished, but were, rather, added to. Other times + other places are here. Mingled with our time, our place. How can this be? One is actually seeing other times + places here + now but has failed to recognize it. This means that all at once one has seen into the MMSK, because this is how it is in it (cumulative, + conceptually arranged). The true arrangement is conceptual, not spatiotemporal: it is by meaning, not by when + where. Why, this is precisely the eide + recovery of the eide! Plato is correct! (+ I was correct last October in my "common essence" concept, +, later, my two post cards - "one mother 3 times, not 3 mothers." That "mother" is simultaneously at all 3 spatiotemporal loci, she does not move in space or in time. So when you see her it is as true to say, "this is Acts AD 70" as it is to say, "this is USA 1974" etc. The key to this lost faculties - recovered faculties lies in the Cartesian discovery that we (1) do not experience world but rather a representation of world; + (2) we are dependent on God for this representation. It is possible to see reality directly, however, if God merges his mind with ours; this gives us his cognitive perception of world. + originally we had this divine illumination, before the Fall. But folder 90 - 149 folder 90 - 149 G-94 it was withdrawn. It is what Plato knew as anamnesis in which the eide are recovered. On our own we have no power to apprehend creation directly: only the representation, which, apparently falls far short of a direct experience of reality. (This is not a matter of better vs lesser representations but representation vs direct knowledge - this knowledge is of an eternal intelligible realm outside of space, causation + time. This is access (in essence) to the mind of God, world conceived of as somehow in God. Or at least absolutely known to God.) World thus apprehended discloses itself as world under the power of God. That is, God is not perceived; but world is perceived as acted on by God, so that God is known by inference. World then serves as a link to God, + a continuum exists embracing percipient, world, God hierarchically arranged, God acts on world which acts on percipient. Yet when the percipient receives the divine illumination he somehow contains world in the sense that God contains world (I remember that I felt this in 3-74, as if I were on the outside -on the "skin"- looking in; I had assimilated world. The presence of the divine illumination (properly understood) would account for this (conversely, this is an argument that it was the divine illumination of Augustine; thus the hierarchy folder 90 - 150 folder 90 - 150 G-95 has changed. The percipient now stands, as it were, in the relation to the world that God does. (This sounds like the Hermetic transform, achieved through the alchemical wedding, the union of opposites from which the hierogamy occurs with the birth of the "Golden Flower" - hierogamy leading to the divine child known, too, to the Taoist alchemists. Viewed this way, the "Golden Flower" is God occurring in -as?- the person's own mind, + the divine illumination is related to this mysterious birth. Is this what Jesus meant by being "born in the spirit"? + is this new symbiotic life form Christ? (Back to Augustine! We have come full circle. The secret seems to be: world is found in the person's own mind, but it is world radically reinterpreted; we must abandon all conventional ideas of what "world" is. This is world in a mind: the person's mind; therefore world is a structure of intelligible ideas related to Pythagoras' Kosmos but not material. Since space + causation are abolished, it is literally possible for this structure to be in the person (as if he is Adam Kadmon filling all space; i.e. the universe; but this is due to the fact that "space" is a Kantian ontological ordering category.) Knowledge of this structure is a priori + absolute. It is like with a hologram wherein the picture is intact at any given piece however small. The percipient is no longer a percipient at all, outside reality with only an a posteriori contingent knowledge of the totality. He knows by the means that God knows: a priori + necessarily. This structure so known is coherent + intact, consisting of folder 90 - 151 G-96 necessary truths that always are; it as a totality can be defined as Pythagoras did: "the harmonious fitting-together of the beautiful." Everything literally fits together as what Pythagoras saw to be the basis of reality: not substantia but structure. I perceived it as dynamic + evolving in terms of complexity: reticulation + arborizing, incorporating new accretions conceptually. It may be alive. It may be an entelechy completing itself. It (apparently) is not God (I took it to be God) but is the world-order conceived by God; conceived in the sense of comprehended by God, as potter to vessel. He shapes it; it is under his control, a control exercised by his mind directly on it so that he, not it, brings newness perpetually into existence ex nihilo. I had the impression that it is a perfect sphere which remains the same no matter from which (what) point it is viewed (Parmenides), there is no motion in it, but it does grow internally (not in size but in perfection of