is not sufficient to explain the effect is in fact an oxymoron. Hume is right, that we are indeed inferring back from effect to cause, i.e. retrograde along the temporal axis, and this as reasoning, a priori reasoning, is suspect; we will always perceive the antecedent "cause" as cause because our argument is a sort of perceptual, inductive tautology. Nevertheless I saw in 3-74 when I saw VALIS that what we suppose is in fact not the case (I had figured out the logical fallacy back in the late Forties; all that remained was to undo the perceptual fallacy on which the logical fallacy, stigmatized as such by Hume, is based). The problem with demolishing merely the logical inductive-reasoning fallacy is that you are then left with no explanation of why things happen, what causes events to occur, so you trade in a totally determined system for mere chaos. You might say: More comes out of each forking than is put in (the effect is greater than the cause). Hence this is a negentropic system, gaining, not losing, vitality (expressed in terms of internal order and complexity, i.e. structure). folder 90 - 012 folder 90 - 012 E-30 Boehme yes - no Hartshorne 0 - 1 Quantitative (0 - 1) to qualitative (info) While it's off it makes a decision. While it's off reality ceases to be. When it comes back on it is slightly different. It (the system) doesn't transmit a zero bit; it (the system) ceases to be. This is when it makes a tentative move which it then cancels in favor of a better move; at every junction it discards an inferior move in favor of a better one; hence Leibnitz's view "this is the best of all possible universes." This is how a computer works. The 0 position is the void. The 3 tracks. Something to do with a fall from a spatial world into time. Some relationship between time and Ananke, hence causation and astral determinism. Abolish time and you abolish causation hence Ananke. (Fate.) The Garden is fateless. Heidegger's authentic Being: true destiny instead of fate. My whole analysis of the other day that the Xtian does not evade, hence is free of time. Time -- causation -- Ananke -- determinism -- Anankastic -- Yin world of immutable cause and effect the BIP -- Umwelt/tomb world -- winter -- dark -- iron space -- light -- vision -- color -- flying -- spring -- soaring. There is a way of moving through time (fast? slow?) so that space increases, and causation hence Ananke diminishes with no folder 90 - 013 folder 90 - 013 E-31 causation as a theoretical limit. This is the opposite of anankasion. Something to do with the "time frame" replacement rate. The key: causation (which is connected both to time and Ananke / astral determinism). Time dilation? Space = freedom. Time = bondage, experienced in terms of causation (viz: Ananke). Time rushes you toward doom. Time = necessity (again: causation). Causation can be abolished; I know; I experienced it. "Yin world of immutable cause-and-effect" - the BIP. "As fast as it is, it hastens away to nonbeing - to death: it loses ontology (due to time). Sri Krishna as time the destroyer: "waster of the peoples." Heimarmene (world tyranny) as necessity, hence cause-and-effect. Ah. If I conceive of each time frame as due to a binary (forking) choice, in which the lesser (zero) is provisionally tried and then discarded, I abolish causality (!) in favor of elective decision (choice), freedom. Volitional + sentient. No necessity, no causation, the "flow of time" regarded as illusory + projected. Thus the deterministic mechanism of necessity (world as inexorable machine) gives way to branching perpetual choice, dominated by decision-making, not determinism (visualized by me as [illustration: one line branching to 2, then 4, then 8 branches]: arborizing). Hence my conception is of restored world. It is entirely possible -in fact quite likely- that 3-74 (or 2-3-74) opened me up to an apperception/conception of this folder 90 - 014 folder 90 - 014 E-32 effect a new view of reality in which the element of indeterminism exists at every binary (0-1) branching. Thus I experienced an abolition of the projected modem of causality, +, replacing it, [an apperception of] volitional + sentient decision-making. Upon the abolition of the projected modem of causation, +, replacing it, indeterminate decision-making (Whitehead's principle of selection [of the good]) I confronted quite a different universe (which I dubbed Valis). Causation being abolished, "time" as a concept was ontologically reinterpreted/experienced. Likewise space. Also, instead of a Spinozan "steady-state" determinism, there was an acumulative one-way arborizing + reticulation of structure (the MMSK). Thus the "Yin world of immutable cause-+-effect" (the BIP) gave way to a free, open, non-necessary world-order. This amounts to a new way of experiencing world; it was not a theory (the theory -mental conception- comes only now, 7 years later, as mere explanation of what I ontologically experienced, that is, I was in that "new" [way of Dasein], then later I have formulated it. This, then, (3-74) is a Dasein breakthrough, mainly one in which causation (or the projection/apperception of causation) got replaced by something to do with internal decision-making. If it is assumed that we have an observer-participant universe, I was participating in world in a radically new + unusual way. folder 90 - 015 folder 90 - 015 E-33 Just consider this all in terms of the Kantian ontological ordering categories: the way (space, time + causation) our minds structure world. Then my whole model is not a scientific theory about world but Dasein itself, a way of being in world (in the Kantian sense). As to how new + radical it is, let me ask, how many worldviews (Dasein) omit causation entirely (!) + replace it with my "binary elective decision-making choosing" by a sentient, volition, self-regulating (perpetually choosing) system? That is temporally disjunctive - which virtually converts time totally into space (spatial "frames")? So my model is a new way-of-being-in-the-world, not just an explanation, theoretical + intellectual! My model is, in fact, a verbal description of a new way I found of Dasein! The modem that we project (causation) to explain process (+ explain it inadequately, as Malebranche was the first to realize) is the source of our enslavement, because it is the ontological structuring "causation" that is necessity, ananke, determinism, etc. Here precisely is what literally blinds us + binds us, our own modem: it reduces the universe of switching (enantiodromia as perpetual decision-making choice) to blind necessity, + engenders the tyranny of destructive time. folder 90 - 016 E-34 We are, then, participating in + structuring reality very inadequately, to our own severe detriment. Construing causation [as real] we literally blind (occlude) ourselves to the true nature of decision-making indeterminate world. It was Malebranche who first figured this out. The ultimate victim of the category of causation is the anankastic. My 3-74 apperception (ontological ordering) of space was the Gothic vault: vertical space, medieval, not our modern day horizontal space. The firmament of heaven. This is important. They had it right: space, not time: enclosing as much space (vertical) as possible + associating it with God. We have lost this. In 3-74 as I knew at the time I regained the medieval Gothic vertical vaulting space at the expense of time; I was literally in the medieval world. + yet paradoxically I've also broken into a new Dasein, in which causation is diminished. Even abolished. "Here time turns into space." This is the key. Space + time for medieval man was (I think) more accurate an ordering/structuring than ours is, + more liberating. It was a bigger world. Is this connected with my conception that in the zero position, reality becomes the void - i.e. infinite space? I think so! This is a critical part of my new Dasein. folder 90 - 017 folder 90 - 017 E-35 When man ceased conceiving of events taking place in space (the void) +, instead conceived of them taking place in time he lost touch with God, because there is some essential relationship between God + space - i.e. the void. Thus my procession of static discrete time frames is a return to space away from the "flow" of time: since these frames are really spatially conceived they occur in space. + in my system time is conceived of as accumulative, rather than (as with Krishna) destroying. In "Ubik" reversed time is entropic! Is the breakthrough from normal apperception of reality as a causally-determined machine to an apperception as a decision-making acausal sentient spatial structure a liberation that restores the observer-participant to the Kingdom? Because this transformation of world-experience gives rise to a sense of a conversion of world from immutable cause-+-effect blind machine, nonrational, into a thinking, choosing thou, as if God were breaking into world-as-we-know-it, overwhelming it + transubstantiating it. In fact, actually, the observer-participant is withdrawing his projection of causality, is converting the "flow" of time into space, it is a transformation of his structuring of world, his way of being in the world. But he would experience the process as the lifting of a perceptual occlusion. folder 90 - 018 folder 90 - 018 E-36 Strictly speaking, the change is in him, in his ordering of world; but since in fact he + world are one continuum he would seem to experience it as a change in world itself. (Which is true, if you take the Cartesian view -esp. Malebranche- as to what our perceived "world" is). Causation is not a new ordering category; in fact it ruled the ancient world, esp. Babylonia; theirs was a totally closed deterministic world-order - into which Xtianity broke! They knew causation as astral determinism, fate, heimarmene. The ancient planetary powers, the stars (hence astrology). This was a cosmic analogy of their own imperial society: absolute despotism. World, like government held man in a relentless grip, reducing him to the status of a slave. The fall of Babylon equals (in Revelation) the fall of Empire as such. Is this, then, the fall of the determinist world-order, oppressive + imperial, the vast machine? Hence in it -a view scrupulously retained in Xtianity- God is totally transcendent to world + not in it? World + God are carefully, sharply distinguished (although God is conceived of as breaking into the world-order "at the end of time"? Then replacing causation (which operates in time) comes synchronicity, acausal + having to do with the now (universal interconnected structure in space, not time). In my "branching" system change occurs -is seen to occur- in a totally different way, as a succession of differing nows based on open (free) decisions like successive imaginings: at each folder 90 - 019 folder 90 - 019 E-37 forking total reality could be other than it is, but instead is what it is due to sentient choice. There is a repeated indeterminateness (a "gap" or space at each forking) in the dialectic. (When I comprehended it) the stupider "horn" moved first (i.e. the tentative zero choice) which was then defeated by the second "horn", the wise one which did a switching that I construe to be an enantiodromia. Would not the first move -the zero choice- by Plato's ananke (power but no brains) + the second Noos? The first move is always wrong. Why, then, does it occur? Because it is more powerful, +, if it is ananke, blindly driven by efficient cause. Zero, the first move, follows (what came before) without intelligence, whereupon the system switches off, thinks, converts in a binary way to zero, null-zero or one. The switching-off gap leaves it free to decide, to make a choice, due to the [causal] disjunction. folder 90 - 020 folder 90 - 020 A worldview (Dasein) that repudiates strict causation and substitutes for it a concept of decision-making at repeated binary branchings overthrows a worldview anchored in antiquity, specifically in the Babylonian planetary determinism that dominated