unfolding (it could have done just as well solus, in a vacuum) + this precisely in what I have become aware of. This is what has fascinated me. Something very unusual is pointed to; I had thought, "this is how reality actually works" - but I may be a special case (I mean, true causality may be normally the case. My situation may be an anomaly. Simulating normal causality. So when I perceive occasionalism -pretextual cause- I may see only that which pertains to me. As I told sgt Kelly, "I am a machine." Then my perception of Valis -of what I called "pretextual causes"- is of stupendous importance, + it is related to engramming / pre-programming. There is terrididdle involved here; someone is being fooled; how widespread is this? Is the whole world run this way? Does this have epistemological significance, or does it just apply to me? What is Valis that I saw? There are only 2 possibilities: 1) Occasionalism. But you can't see occasionalism; if you could, fast shutter cameras would pick it up. Fuck; the whole set-ground. What is this? It goes back to the covert message-traffic riding our media. I give up. There simply is folder 90 - 116 G-61 no rational explanation. Cypher going by a mile a minute, pretextual cause - what is this really? No one has ever seen occasionalism in the history of the world. What was that camouflaged, + what is the connection to "Tears"? The religious material is a mask; the logic: whatever it is it can't be what it seems to be, + what it seems to be is religion. 2) Technology. It seems to me that the two extremes, absolute bipolarities, are: hallucination versus God. (Absolute skepticism vs absolute faith - or credulity.) In the middle lies: someone is utilizing laws of physics we know nothing about. They (the someone, not the laws) have vast but not absolute power. Taking this as a premise (+ excluding the two extremes) what seems to be going on? In other words, what is the objective of all this (this assumes that everything involved here is purposeful)? The Aztecs thought that Cortez + his men were the gods returning. If we were invaded, that would be a useful guise. (Oh, the hell with it.) ____ P 34 passim. "God alone has the power to make world real -absolutely real- to us; he acts directly on us rather than as immanent in world." This is, of all my years of conceptions + theories, my highest: God as creator: not making world real but real to us. This understanding can only arise from Descartes' time on, finding its ultimate expression in Malebranche. Prior to Descartes the problem would not conceptually arise. Thus I did not experience God; I experienced the world that folder 90 - 117 folder 90 - 117 G-62 he caused to be real (for me). This is proof that he is, that he is powerful, wise + loving, but other than that I know nothing, + all of that is totally inferential: indirectly known. 3-74: he let me see world as it is. Malebranche is verified, Platonism, Paul, Augustine, the eide, Plotinus. Occasionalism. God withdrew, + I saw no causation + finally no world as such, only a set of interlinked permanent ideas in a mind. I saw the truth, epistemologically speaking, but I saw not God. + he showed me something more (than reality as it actually is): the "perturbation in the reality field" that is indirect but indubitable evidence of him. Reality - + reality acted on from outside; + only God is outside (beyond) reality - the reality field. So I saw all reality as a sign pointing to God + God's real existence expressed in / through / by his perturbation of reality. This is my highest understanding. Up until this I had confused the world order + God. (In the way that Pantheism, esp. Spinoza does.) Then God is transcendent, + must not be confused with the world-order. But I know how he creates world; he causes it to be absolutely real to us. So by seeing the world-order (reality field) as it actually is, I then was able to see something more (as if this folder 90 - 118 folder 90 - 118 G-63 were not enough): I could see that it is acted on, impinged on, i.e. perturbed by something whose presence is only available to us because it acts on -perturbs- the reality field, something that in no way can be directly known but is, rather, inferred by its perturbation on the reality field. Unless you could somehow see the reality field as it is + for what it is you would never see this perturbation +, hence, never have any inferential knowledge of the agency acting on the reality field. What I saw was that the changes in the reality field do not arise due to the antecedent, the past, to what we call "cause" (that which comes prior to "effect") but are engendered directly (outside of time, or put another way, in the now). (Viz: "effect" does not follow from "cause," the antecedent but from God acting on reality now; this is what I saw that I call "pretextual cause" - it looks self-initiating. Here it all as: "Strawberry Fields" - knowledge about Chrissy - occasionalism - Malebranche proved. (Corroboration: pretextual cause.) 3-74 is proof of Malebranche. We know world only because God impresses it on us directly with absolute compelling power. folder 90 - 119 folder 90 - 119 G-64 If it wasn't for God's immediate effect on us we would either not know world at all or know it so dimly that it would not seem real. My whole 32-year epistemological journey has been an increasing perception of effects exceeding their causes until 2-74 when the effect was palpably in excess of its causes; thus it all boils down to Cartesian rationalism +, in particular, Malebranche. When the effect exceeds its "cause" (occasionalism / pretextual cause) the "perturbation of the reality field" arises literally ex nihilo - out of nothing. This is a miracle so ultimate that if we can conceive of it, then at last we conceive of God. For this is the miracle of creation itself: out of nothing there comes -is- something, + it is repeated endlessly. My binary switching-system 0-1 model of the universe (not of God) is what makes pretextual cause -i.e. occasionalism- possible, by dissipating antecedent blind pressure. Malebranche is correct but he failed to explain how kinetic thrust is harmlessly discharged, making it folder 90 - 120 folder 90 - 120 G-65 possible for occasional to occur. This is how teleology is perpetually introduced into the world-system in place of the mechanical. This is all summed up by my perception in + of 3-74 that God did not perform miracles contrary to causation (as is usually supposed) but, rather, in or through or as causation, what I called "pretextual cause"; this specifically is Malebranche occasionalism. 3-74 was different only in degree (or: only in that I could see this, that (1) the "effect" did not stem from its antecedent "cause"; + (2) it was due to a sentient, purposeful, volitional agency which itself was invisible (incorporeal). I had never heard of nor had I ever conceived of this "pretextual cause"; there is no chance that I had "read Malebranche + forgotten consciously about it," as people tend to say. + as I say, Malebranche does not have the whole story: what I add is the discrete differing time frames succeeding each other, +, in conjunction with this, the binary switching system that by shutting off repeatedly is able to discharge kinetic buildup. Mechanical causation, is then, real but is drained off for the purpose of interjecting newness (ex nihilo creation). Pure mechanical causation could exist, in Newton's sense, but the system would run down (in terms of entropy). But it is not only in the area of folder 90 - 121 G-66 causation that my worldview links up with Malebranche; my basic sense of plural private worlds, somewhat different for each person, is only intelligible -+ could only arise- within Cartesian rationalism; it (as a concept) makes no sense to an empiricist or a pre-Cartesian. So the issue for me is not "Cartesian vs non-Cartesian" but, rather, which form of Cartesianism? (Also my 2-74 meta-abstraction is clear proof of the Platonist-Cartesian notion of innate ideas that get triggered off by experience but do not arise because of it.) Because of my view re causation, + the verification provided by 2-3-74 it is only natural that I would finally select a modified -i.e. updated- Malebrancheanism. In fact I can find no other philosophy in which 2-3-74 makes sense. To reiterate: I saw that God does not act contrary to -by suspending- causation, but, rather, acts through "pretextual cause" where the "effect" seems to stem from its antecedent "cause" but in fact does not; thus God remains undisclosed within the normal workings of reality. Upon seeing this to be the case for sure, I then extrapolated as to how this could + probably does function ubiquitously; 3-74 was unusual not in what happened but in that I perceived it happening. This of course led to my extraordinary concept -put forth in "Valis"- of God camouflaged as the universe + yet distinct from it. I cannot now suppose that I have failed to find a philosophy that accounts for 2-3-74; I have in fact found one that accounts for my total worldview folder 90 - 122 folder 90 - 122 G-67 extending back to its inception circa 1948 (e.g. plural differing subjective private worlds in particular). This is, in essence, a worldview deriving from modern -which is to say Cartesian- philosophy. Also, Malebranche was -besides being a Cartesian- a Platonist-Neoplatonist, deriving his view, too, from Augustine + St. Paul, so again he is a likely solution to my questions (there is a vast internal coherence here: Paul to Plato to Augustine to Plotinus to Descartes to Malebranche). So "miracle" must be redefined; it is regular + natural + assumes the guise of (or we take it to be) normal causation, rather than a suspension of it. What had perplexed me was, if what I saw in 3-74 was God performing a miracle, why did he hide it as if it were causality - i.e. why what I called "pretextual cause"? Because this is what I observed: always, a "cause," an event serving as a causal pretext, was made use of. Malebranche explains why: this is what "causation" normally is. + this leads me back to '48 + my original insight about causation; this has to do with the regular, basic, normal way in which the universe functions - but, then, what we know as "world" is not in fact "world" at all but a representation in our minds that God compels our assent to (this last is my contribution; God does not have to make the world real qua world, only real to us). folder 90 - 123 folder 90 - 123 G-68 What this all adds up to is that for which Kant is so noted: that we do not experience "world" but only a representation of world (+ I say each of us probably experience a somewhat different one). (+ I say, too, that God does not have to make world real but, rather, real to us, which means that -in my system- he compels our assent to the representation by his acting directly on -more precisely in- our minds; thus the representation does not directly impinge on us but rather the representation in + through God - a view that Malebranche would heartily approve of, for it goes back to Malebranche's own source, Paul's statement that "we see all in God.") I suppose this, then, is what my meta-abstraction was actually about: that I did not experience world but world-in-God, hence