Eldritch" visage + the sky + going on to 2-74 - 2-75 + after - culminate in 2-81 as the payoff of my need + my attempt to forge a satisfactory explanation for what is to me the ultimate issue: not "ti to on?" as my 10-volume meta-novel might indicate, but, what is the total context in which the unmerited suffering + death of living creatures can be coherently understood? My mind has drawn on several of the great religions of the world + on some modern quasi-scientific, quasi-theological thoughts do not take credit for it; I did not I figure it out: through the unending fountain of God's grace pouring forth inex haustibly from Christ's resurrected body This solution was given to me as a free + unmerited gift, by my own noein I would never have been able to arrive at it. it is to my credit - + to the credit of This revealed solution - that in no way is the problem minimized or ignored in spurious rationalizations. As a question it remains, but it is now an answered question. C-43 There was even a hint in the way Tagore's burned leas were drawn up of the great pace maker symbol from "all that Sazz" - so even Joe gideon was there in the vision, partly as question but more so as answer. It is evident, then, that also involved in this is my own eventual death + my need to come grips with it - very much the true to cause of the colossal mystical break‐ through in 2-74; this 9-81 vision is perhaps, then, the great summation of the acceptance - + also anger - in me regarding that I am shown the total, absolute panorama into which my own mortality fits in context. There is no feeble acquesience to suffering + death in this vision but there is in it a sense of absolute beauty surpassing explanation + expression: it is a given (Christ's nature; or Krishna; if you will; names do not matter at this stage). All else is predicated on it. It is the ultimate brute dature of the vision; t simply must be accepted without explain nation (as some people are content to accept the suffering, which I am not; thus I replace one inscrutable mystery - unmerited suffering by another - absolute beauty. Not a bod way to end up.). The irreducable core of is: beauty. + there the search must reality end. Here now the true topic - + solution of "Valis" can be seen: topic being suffer as the irrational, solution as the invading rational that "sobers the landscape a + is Christ (the Logos) C-44 this Logos is a symbol for: that which compels things - urges, arranges them," to make sense, to form a pattern that is coherent. is structure triumphing over chaos. madness + suffering are homologized; sanity + order likewise as antidote. I just realized: 2-74 - 2-75 raised an enormous number of very difficult questions that I have spent 73 years trying to 9-81 raised to answer - unsuccessfully. questions; totally it consisted of answers 1) to 2-74 - 2-75 + 2) to my entire life from the day I was born to the day when, later on, I die Thus item II (1) can be seen as item I (2) exploded open as if detonating - + totally revealing itself, like an entire tape or le t played throughout its length simultaneously. 2-74 2-75 did not answer I (2); it was (2) bursting coose into undreamed of inexplicible dimensions but, since 9-81 answers both, it is obvious that 2-74 - 2-75 is related fundamentally to the entire "tape" that is my life. It is as if in 2-74 - 2-75 the total take (especially in 3-74) ran at high-speed fast forward from start to finish, asserting its own identity, authenticity + reality as my life existentially + ontologically + spiritually altogether. Hence how could it answer item I (2)? It was item #-(2) but now the answer comes, to both... Because both are the same, as if played at different speeds: #2 at normal speed, #1 at incredible velocity, as if insisting on playing through to its end before I died (death, at that moment, being imminent). (This is a very great insight: in the face of obvious imminent C-45 death my entire life, past, present + future played at ff right to the end; this posed the question (as if Krishna gives each of us -assigns each of it - one question) but not the answer the answer came last thursday night. the solution to the problem of unmerited suffering being that it is Christ who is wounded, always Christ + he allows it voluntarily, is a para‐ doxical solution + raises the question a higher level. 1) It is good to because Christ - + Christ alone - has an to endure infinite, absolute capacity suffering; hence he not only does take it (all] on, he can take it all on. but it is dreadful, ultimately 2) dreadful, that we wound God, + the that it is ultimately dreadful proof that if we wound him enough he is will withdraw from the world + abandon us (to our doom); thus he will not die; he will go away + we will die. But this is justice, whereas finite the "suading of countless mortal creatures (1) is unjust; + (2) they can't endure it. S (I see now) two it is the solution, for the reasons given above: (1) he possesses the infinite capacity to bear the -46 c sufferings of the world; + (2) if the insuries (sufferings) do not cease it will all rebound on those who inflict suffering. Thus God is both victim + avenger (the two sides of God! Love + wrath!). only if the problem is raised to this level can it be solved: God will take on our suffering to a point then he will decide to abandon + us, just as he decided to suffer in our place Christ's passion, then, a has both a passive (acceptance) side + an active (vengeful) side, expressing the binary nature of God. He can endure infinite suffering but elects to place a limit on his enduring it, suddenly he will act in what the O.T. calls "the day of YHWH" - i.e. wrath. Men must come to their senses: this is the one + only final solution, not God suffering Hence my 9-81 in finitely forever. vision is startlingly profound. an Elijah/John the Baptist is calling. man to repent. "Know that I am going to send you Elijah the prophet before my day comes, that great + terrible day." Malache. Here the O.T. passes over to the N.T. the suffering servant YHWH has acted already in sending Tagore into the world to teach + warn us. -47 when God abandons the world he will take the sparks with him: "one by one he draws us out of the world." It may well be that our world is doomed; no millenial Kingdom can be founded: only destruction - not at God's hands but at our own - les ahead, in which case God will extricate a remnant the elect, will take them back to him. i (The Gnostic view of the final burning of the Earth after the sparks have all been ave identified + extricated. some time ago I I studied this "identifying" theme: the covert message traffic that sends blocking instruction to the true Xtians preventing them from joining the general evil, the rush of the others to their doom (my 3-18-81 Parousia dream in which the wicked rush heedlessly over the cluff to their doom but God blocks - inhibits - the predestined elect with blocking messages that simply have now already been sent out. God let the evil ones act unhindered, + if their own nature, they rush to their doom. was it my perception that in 3-74 he blocked me vis-a the + it is the Parousia on the Xerox missive vis My revelations e. 9-81 vision confirms this i not compete but, rather, confirm one another Then the great assize has come, did come o accompanied by terrible destruction coming. 88 (perhaps, as with the Gnostics, total destruction the important thing was to identify all the sparks, to unmix them from the darkness, to separate then - the task of the eschatological judge, + then remove them from this world. it can go either way: the ecosphere as Christ will survive or it will perish at our hands in which case the separated sparks will leave the world is being long with Hagia Sophia junged now; if it dies it dies by the men, but the hands of evil good (sparks) is safe C-48 Tagore is paradigmatic for + of the sparke: he is here as pure light + teaches us; but if we will not learn he will Thus the final decision - which abandon us. way the world will go - has arrived; so this is the apocalypse. Through Tagore - in + by him - man is offered one last chance. he as a species does not respond, If there will be no further chances low + only now do I see the full sign mificance of the blocking information shown to me in the 3-18-81 Parousia dream. In the letter to Ed meskys a very curious impression comes across that I did not intend or foresee. Horselover Fat is real only insofar as he is part of me - so stipulated in the letter initially, but later in the letter (as in "Valis") he is treated as a real, independent person. Viz: "Fat saw Tagore but I did not." Fat is not imaginary; someone saw Tagore the effect resulting is that one senses that Tagore, like Fat, is not imaginary, not a fantasy or hallucination but, like Fat, a way of tathing about myself: a further hypostasis of me (like Thomas + Fat). Yet Tagore is w Lord Krisna/Christ; i.e. divine; so I no possess or reveal a saintly hypostatic identity, one which speaks for the ecosphere + also takes on the sins against the eco th sphere as stigmata: punishing himself my the sins of man. Interestingly, it is in legs that I feel pain. + my response today regarding T. 2 was to puniste myself I - C-49 destroyed my stash + also destroyed my exegesis, not quite as self-punishment but more as a sacrifice. Also, the fact is, Tagore is a far more real hypostasis than Fat, for I truly believe that Tagore exists. But as an "alter saw him. ego" he is sublime; I know: I fother he objectively exists - in which case he or is a saint or even Lord Krishna) Christ My dream showed me a hypostasis of myself which is also a genuine existence: in either today My conduct of am case Tagore is real when I look back on it suggests that I Tagore, + (as if to corroborate this) I note that do speak for the ecosphere; I do plead for it; it cries out through me (which is the role I assign to Tagore) Tagore is dying. have sensed for a while that I am dying. I yet I am not physically I'll but I become more + more tired, + where I feel it is in my egs, + I feel there is so much to do, to be told in my writing: novels about Christ show + Krishna + God. + for me, Christ (as I in "Valis") has become the ecosphere. This was my original primary vision in 2-74 + this mitivates + underlies all my efforts from then on My novels + in my exegesis as I try in formulate it all - why? In order to tell Thereupon t it correctly (in "owl," now) (+ began to die I what I