the mutual override + correction between the two halves come about as a strategy for prolonging its life This is representative of the strategies of organisms by + large, but what I see here is an extraordinarily high degree of incorporation of negentropy from the environment + subsequent incorporation into the organism's own structure. (There is an initial perturbation, defined as disorder.) If all goes well, the organism now possesses a vast increase in its level of complexity, in energy - drastic increase the capacity for in all the factors, by which a biological survival is measured. Hence it has bought into prolonged vitality, viability - the issue being exactly + extended life that: life versus death. (This extraordinary strategy is engaged in by an organism that is approaching death + knows it it has run out of time. It is vitiated; it has ossified. Its environment has been pressing against its perimeter threatening to invade + annihilate it. the level of internal organization has been lowering; it - the organism a perceives the ratio of order in it + outside it progressing toward less + les" internal order, greater + greater K265 Now, the concept expressed (external) order. the Ditheon dream fits in with Erwin Schrodinger's analysis of how "any living organism delays its decay into thermal equilibrium (death) by its capacity to maintain itself at a fairly high level of orderliness (+ hence fairly low level of entropy) by continually absorbing negative entropy from its environment." In fact schrodinger's analysis tends to support the idea that indeed the second psyche is adventitious in origin, because this is only an unusual example of the fundamental way perhaps by which organisms delay death - the only way they do so - can do so. Then This "transaction" represents a turnaround in what has been going on between the declining (dying) organism + its environment as if at the last moment the beleagered organism turned the tables on its environ ment + converted an invasion into an acquisition Having allowed the invasion to occur it must now assimilate into its structure what it has allowed to come in - or even induced into coming in. This - when studied from This fundamental standpoint - doesn't seem to differ qualitatively from what protazon do. It is not a basic strategy; it is the basic strategy, the irreducable trans‐ action between a biological organism + its environment, for the purpose of prolonging the life of the organism. Now, what strikes me at this point is that perhaps this 1266 transaction can be viewed in terms of information. First, the lowered structural organization of the organism should be regarded as conniting info-scarcity or depletion, at least relative to its vironment. It (the organism) does not know enough; it experiences this as a heightened strangeness, incomprehensibility + unpredictability on the part of its all of which renders that environment - environment threatening because it is not understood (this could account for many of the fugal tactics by schizophrenics then retreat from reality because reality is making less + less sense to them. But this in fact is not due to transformations in reality but in the relative information that the schizophrenic has about reality, + as he withdraws he escalates disparity; by exercising progressively This less reality testing he learns less + less; this a self-defeating tactic, this attempt at is disengagement. The solution is for him to advance into reality + so-to-speak s of capture + incorporate a sizeable hunk without at the same time losing his it own identity; that is, if the incorporated hunk of reality proves to exceed his capacity to assimilate it he is doomed to swift annihilation. In fact what was perceived formerly as an external threat is now literally internal + still a threat. In fact the threat has won out; the battle is over + the organism 267 dies. Viewed this way this massive incorporation of its environment is a desperate last strategy based on the recognition that unless it does this it certainly doomed; it must be convinced is that any alternative means inexorable death the massive incorporation is an end so game battle to which it commits itself utterly, knowing the danger in what it is doing but knowing, also, the alternates; 2 has but now it e they are dead-ends centers: its own self + the "self" that it has incorporated but not assimulated its environment is literally inside it, its + experienced "from inside" that is now- incorporated environment is known by I its inward face as an "I" not an it a sort of potentially lethal movement along Martin puber's "it - thou" axis; the "it" has become a "thou" - which is good but the "thou" is inside the organism as a second center or focus of consciousness. The boundary between the organism + its environment is eradicated, death for the organism which potentially is death in its true + total form; this is what organisms rightly fear the most. Yet (apparently) it has decided to allow this invasion as a means to incorporate negentropy - which it must continually + so the possibility of enhancing do‐ - as opposed to being its viability How should it There. is engulfed 9268 proceed? How does it go about dealing with an influx of reality so vast that constitutes a second center of con‐ it sciousness? first of all, it must deal with the startling discovery that what it has ingested - but not assimilated - is, like itself, conscious + even coherent. It + its acquisition - or invader- are roughly iso morphic. (Hence the adventitious psyche is perceived as human, a crucial point.) (Crucial because if human it is not fremd; it is "other" yet familiar in kind. Presumably too, it is finite, since humans are finite. ) next, it is discovered that this adven titious psyche is bewildered, as if plucked I from its own familiar environment deposited in a strange time + place; Thus it is at a disadvantage. It does not know how it got here - nor does it know the local customs or even the language, all of which creates the impression that it did not intend to invade, does not under stand the situation + means no harm. Its motivation is the same as the host organism. to survive. Regarding survival it possesses a variety of skills But the significance of this invading - or bitten-off - hunk of reality being human, isomorphic to the beleagered organism + hence no longer fremd, is extraordinarily great. While inexplic able, it is reassuring, because now the 269 I beleagered, vitiated organism possesses the information about its environment that it lacked: it understands its environmen s recognizes the affinity between them the net gain offsets the damage (if any). World is now radically trans‐ formed. was it just last Friday night that I stumbled at last onto the realiza of justification (P. K220)? (This i is sunday night.) + felt such pain - because the exegesis over. + I knew it. +, as I wrote, the real purpose of this exegesis has not been to find the answer but to preserve the experience. Today - was it just today? I looked up the legal definition of justification from which theological usage derives. is when the accused can show that what he did had a lawful basis not whether he is guilty or is innocent - he does not contest the charge that he did it but he had a lawful reasona God makes the guilty man, the sinful man, justified not just called justified but actually justified, + frees sin + Satan. him from For the justified man the crucifixion + resurrection 270 are made - by the Holy Spirit - no longer an historical event in the past but contemporaneous with the person + for him. He need only absolutely believe. Thus God justifies through Christ's sacrifice (what I call justification by surrogation as in the messenger revelation-vision) + this is applied to the person here + now by the Holy Spirit. This is the basis of Christian salvation. The justified person becomes "as Christ" or even "a Christ a yet, too there is "baptism in the Spirit," the purpose of the This means new Messianic mission. t life. What I see the two (justifica Baptism in the Spirit) adding up to is a transfer of the individual to from the Empire of darkness Christ's Kingdom so that he is I freed + restored both; hence perceive not just exculpation but completion, the missing elements of the person added so that he is intact + whole for the first time. 9271 I have my own expression for this. he is ensouled. This expresses the transfer from mortality ("the corruptible man") to immortality ("... must put on incorruption"); this is the essence of it, + it does happen in a flash, as Paul says; "in the twinkling of an eye! the Ditheon experience - the in-rushing of the adventitious human psyche- is both "Baptism in the Spirit" + justification because this "adventitious psyche" is not another human being but the missing pieces needed to complete your bsyche to perfect it with the result that "a Christ" occurs, a divine + immortal being (theon) based on these two parts (the "DI"). This is how I construe justification, this perfecting. Removed from a sinful state to a just state involves this completion of you in which as a result you are ensouled. 715 am. The normal process of selfcompletion is slow + arduous + takes long time + comes in bits + pieces as an extended learning process the same as or akin to enlightenment. Agains this, as contrast, justification by God occurs in a flash + the person is completed in one in-rushing operation 9 272 my interpretation of this then, is that (crudely put) we are here to learn + by learning we are shaped gradually as if by a master artisan; learning the specific lessons appropriate to/for each person extends over one whole lifetime or (possibly) many lifetimes; it is an arduous step by-step prolonged process (but eventually it will end with completion of the person then, thereupon, return to God. In contrast, justification by God's grace comes in an instant as if (note: as the person if) has somehow revealed that - he has revealed something regarding what he has learned, revealed it in an act, i.e. existentially (this is the R. Catholic view of justification connecting it somehow with merit + hence to some extent earned), whereupon God mercifully - in + by his grace - cuts the learning process short + supplies whatever is missing, needed to perfect the person. God does not merely judge him perfect, he renders him perfect by adding instantaneously what is still missing. This bears a very great resemblance to karma + "the short circuiting" of Karma. th books are in #273 thereupon closed on/regarding the person forever I see in this something like eschatological judgment, that justification" + "verdict of acquital rendered" somehow relate to each other. Did not God himself last nov it speak of our life here as an ordeal? I hold that (1) it is indeed an ordeal, but (2) it serves a purpose: not punishment or even testing, but is (3) a means by which the person is progressively shaped to completion by learning whatever lessons it is his "Karma" to [have to] learn. Hence in my schema, Satoris (Joyce's epiphonies) are absolutely crucial - are in fact now, this could be lessons learned. said to point to my 2-74 meta‐ abstraction as a titanic satori, in fact the satori, the master stori + was indeed a high-level percept cognitive operation of realization: so profound that it - my achieving it closed the books on me + caused the bestowal of justification all at once, without the need of further lessons. but what did