judge him perfect, he renders him perfect by adding instantaneously what is still missing. This bears a very great resemblance to karma + "the short circuiting" of Karma. th books are in #273 thereupon closed on/regarding the person forever I see in this something like eschatological judgment, that justification" + "verdict of acquital rendered" somehow relate to each other. Did not God himself last nov it speak of our life here as an ordeal? I hold that (1) it is indeed an ordeal, but (2) it serves a purpose: not punishment or even testing, but is (3) a means by which the person is progressively shaped to completion by learning whatever lessons it is his "Karma" to [have to] learn. Hence in my schema, Satoris (Joyce's epiphonies) are absolutely crucial - are in fact now, this could be lessons learned. said to point to my 2-74 meta‐ abstraction as a titanic satori, in fact the satori, the master stori + was indeed a high-level percept cognitive operation of realization: so profound that it - my achieving it closed the books on me + caused the bestowal of justification all at once, without the need of further lessons. but what did I realize? That this is really the time + place of Acts? + "Acts" refers not to an historical spatiotemporal set but to the Bible, in which cak i (2-74 was my meta-abstraction (1) that space + time + hence world itself are not truly real (hence what I call is coaxial realities") but more impor tantly (2) the rest of the realization is: the Bible is not a book contain info about a world but is a world - in fact the only true actual world - + this real world shows up here in this maya world as a book Thus Acts is not past, the past; Acts the real world + it is the world is "depicted" in the Bible. This is rather a different way of stating that one believes in Christ that he died for our sins, etc, + different even from the action of the Holy Spirit in rendering it contemporaneous + applicable to you personally; it is, rather, a realization that the Bible is the only true + real thing (world) + therefore what we see is not, in which case we have fallen asleep + forgotten, exactly as depicted in the Gospels when Jesus reproaches the disciples This indeed is the If for falling asleep. case, then I can see why a realization of it would short-circuit karma + the need to learn lessons; why instantaneous justification would occur + the books would close. Now, as regards God's grace K275 (defined as God's mercy + also his aid in your achieving salvation) one can see that it is very possible that he engineered This ur-realization on your part; it was not accidental. It was in fact his plan. yet nonetheless it depended on a choice you heade of your own free will, a certain act [of merit] that somehow told him something about you; viz: by means of your choice you revealed that you had learned something crucial; + the 2-3-74 meta‐ abstraction is bestowed on you by God as a gift, yet in response to your own free-will choice / act. t may indeed be the case that we are born sinful: i.e. with no knowledge of right from wrong, + learn right choice over the period of a life time or many life times, + are here until we do learn. "Learn," then, signifies "learn to distinguish the right course; make the right decision [in a "fork" between right + not right]," + there are very great degrees + levels of learning necessary. It is not a simple, easy matter. Here's a crucial point: you are not justified because of your satori (in my case the 2-3-74 meta-abstraction); you are justified by God through Christ. God's decision to justify me, then, was not based on or due to the 2-74 meta-abstraction; quite the reverse: the meta-a‐ abstraction was part of - a necessary part of - justification. + the decision to confer (276 justification on me - + hence the meta‐ abstraction was to some degree due to my the choice - act vis-a-vis Covenant Hours C meta-abstraction was a free + unmerited gift of grace (God's saving mercy) by which I am regene‐ rated (born again) + saved from sin transferred from the Empire of Darkness + its slavery to the freedom of Christ's Kingdom. Thus whereas the act vis-a-vis Covenant House was a choice on my part due to my own free-will, in no way did I achieve or even decide to have the 2-74 satore I meta-abstraction); it was conferred on me: c received it. This explains why it is still impossible for me to verbalize it. This is not quite right, I realize. The meta-abstraction is conferred because it is necessary + essential to/in the miracle of justifi cetit 1) total belief in the reality of Christ the crucifixion 2) It is now 3) It is for you So it is part of the event or experience or miracle of justification per se, + cannot be what it amounts to is a severed from it. drawing aside of the curtain to reveal the true state of affairs: Christ, yet somehow now (we are somehow living in the Bible) + we are - I am - a participant. + total assent to this is willed. Thus all of what I experienced can be said to be the will of God expressing itself I literally saw tre valence away from plumb. a will exerted on "the reality field" causing a perturbation o 9277 So this final great satori is willed by God as part of the justification process, that the person may know + understand the truth I was going to write last night: it was as if the lost parts of me had returned - So real does it seem to me that they were me. Dream: I am writing: athere is only one living creature in the universe + he is immortal, the universe is his body; it is only seeming. He loves us." thought: the meta-abstraction is, basically, a realization that what was taken to be two things is in fact one thing seen twice, at two times + places; but is not this perception of what I call "common essence" even beyond Plato's Forms, going all the way to what charles tart calls "the basic mystical sense of oneness?" What could be called awareness of commonality in what had always been taken to be multiplicity. Then the meta‐ abstraction of 2-74 finds it ultimate expression in my perception of Valis (later on) in which plural objects were no longer seen as plural or as objects but one unitary thing; this was the same meta‐ abstraction (but viewed in spatial terms whereas 2-74 has to do with the temporal axis). the "valence away from plumb was secondary to the unitary i is K278 plurality which is why I supposed a single body, + this body - whether Christ or not - was alive, volitional + sentient, self-motivating (initiating its own motion, rather than being o po acted on be external efficient causes). The meta-abstraction, esp as expressed in the two postcards, may a o beyond Plato's eide, one entity of which all things are expressians in both time + space may be involved. What about the notion of internal cosperation pointing to a common structure? Now, this fits in with Spinoza + his denial of res extensal, + fits in, too, with Male‐ branche. But my analysis of the meta‐ abstraction is absolutely correct: one thing seen twice (or many times) in two times + two places (or many times many places) yet recognized (!!) a + one "thing" - i.e. unitary Thus for the first time I link the 2-74 meta-abstraction to my perception If you now take 2-74 (which of Valis. had to do with temporal unity based on common essence) + ald it to my perception of Valis (which to do with unity in space due to has common essence) you get a unity along two axes within - expressed in (279 the total matrix in which reality is framed: time then space - + also, causation was involved so it was seen unitarily! So (1) time, (2) space (3) causality - unity in all the Kantion ontological ordering categories; this cannot be a coincidence! + it seemed alive, able to think: its movements issued from internal volition. + I saw the MMSK (yes: it was in me as well as outside me, so here is another axis of unity: inner-outer, me + not me; i.e. self + world). My analysis of the meta-abstraction (as expressed in the two postlards) is absolutely correct but I never saw its applica bility to Valis until tonight. + heres another unity: all information, no matter where, when + how generated formed a sort of unified fields in fact "unified field or "reality field" is indeed the key term + the correct term, trans‐ spatial, trans-temporal trans-causal trans-meaningful (the last referring to information which like everything else is integrated). Yet there is another key term: perturbation of this field by something "beyond" it that affects it + whose existence can be inferred (known) only by this perturbation; (210 This (I maintain) this total unified reality field (which is our universe experienced as an integrated oneness a unity) is not in itself ultimate reality, but, when perceived (correctly) in this unified way, leads to an inferrential awareness of something further - as witness the writing in the supra dream is what (1) one single living, + one only, creature (!) is posited which is not the universe; the universe - reality field - is its body, we see only the body, + yet paradoxically, that body is only seeming, so what we experience is only seeming, but what we know inferentially by its perturbation of that body is real; the body is an imaginary interface making it possible for us to know - or know of This living - + presumably sentient; creature (whereas if there were no body, or seeming body, we would not know of it). This is Taoism or Brahman or something akin to both having ism do with Auantum mechanics. What to is perceived is not real but it point by inference to the unseen real. The dream, then, is not nonsense. Now, the earlier part of that (281 dream was, saw a titanic book, the biggest book I'd ever seen, marked "concordance of the Bible"; in great excitement I took it down to look up "justification," which I had comme to believe (recently) explained 2-3-74 - + I found all the pages blank! So I typed/wrote out the words given as the dream, about this sole creature whose the universe (as Spinoza supposes) body is but that body is only seeming (which Spinoza does not suppose!) This is both like Spinoza + drastically unlike. It is as if the dream is saying, "You will the answer not find the answer in Xtianity." seems to have to do with something alive + unitary, something very much like Brahman - I see how +, as I say, for the first time the meta-abstraction properly understood beyond Plato's eide; + (2) pertains 6) points The t to what I saw that I called Valis - into plural partitioning that space provides res extensal- is only seeming, + Spinoza + the other Cartesians seem to have recognized this; but also the partitioning that time provides - that is only seeming, too, + because of these two seemings. Causation is only seeming because "before" + "after" (neces‐ sary concepts in causality) are only seeming; remove "before" + "after" instead of "causation" you get something ese, which I call pretextual cause do not know what it is because