Love that is Paradiso. The structure is Platonist + Neo-Platonist, but the decision to extricate [you] lies solely with YHWH; it is accomplished through anamnesis + the meta-abstraction - the latter being a comprehension of 5D axes. (The apperception of coaxial worlds, or, folder 53 - 054 folder 53 - 054 E-10 as Plotinus puts it, concentric rings of emanation (I just realized: my term "coaxial" is simply a restatement of "concentric [rings]"!!!! The links between Platonism, Neo-Platonism & YHWH (Judaism, the Torah) is: the Commedia. Dante has produced a synthesis of both. He shows how YHWH adjudicates which realm or ring you should occupy, + the basis of your being suddenly lifted up vertically -i.e. orthogonal to all axes you formerly experienced- is based on his appraisal of your being a good + pious man - + this, then, clearly is justification, but justification fused with mystical, islamic, Platonist + Neo-Platonist (+, very likely, Cabalist) elements so that a vast + very striking system at last emerges. folder 53 - 055 folder 53 - 055 F-1 Well, it is now evident to me that my "coaxial realms" is an independent rediscovery of Plotinus' "concentric rings of emanation" because I now posit degrees of unity/ontology/freedom. + the critical element of Xtian salvation by God was already put there by Dante in "the Comedy." So I was in purgatorio, + I was suddenly lifted vertically as by a rope pulley to paradiso; + anamnesis + noesis were crucially involved. (The meta-abstraction.) Probably no insight will ever overweigh this: that YHWH found me to be a good + pious man (starting with my reading of the "Guide to the Perplexed" - this act breaking the 4D time-barrier: it was my first sacerdotal act). + this in turn fits in with my letter to Isa about absolute faith in God - which in turn goes back to my great, final analysis of "Tears," + to my whole mystic view of justification, which in turn has to do with the messenger + the bilking of the machinery of retribution. But I must understand that God sees my whole life + knows me better than I know myself. As I say, I see myself more now as He sees me. I am extricated (from the sentence imposed on us here in purgatorio to track horizontally endlessly again + again - lifted along an axis orthogonal to anything we know, suspect, could know without God's graces). These are indeed the concentric rings that Plotinus spoke of. ___ To confirm Plato + Plotinus. To pinpoint the mechanics of the next higher ring as 5D in place of our 4D. To understand how we ascend + why. To equate the ascent with the levels of "the Commedia" - what an achievement! (+ of course to explain 2-3-74 by all this!) folder 53 - 056 F-2 I have brought together philosophy (Plato & Plotinus), theology (YHWH's reaching down to extricate you) & specifically figured out how "the Commedia" applies to this world (or worlds plural)- & to know what happened to me & why (how it was done, who did it, why, & where I wound up) - what a magnificent vision! The Kingdom of Love & Light, 5D. & it's strange: in "BTA" Angel says that it was "the Commedia" that caused her really to be born - This all being the case - that YHWH intervened suddenly to extricate me vertically by the Rope-net pulley to the 5D world- then it is as I realized when I reread "Valis" a week ago: my encounter with Valis was with The Lord God of Abraham, as with Moses at Mt. Sinai (& "DI" is right on). I checked over my notes: my pulley vision came immediately after rereading "Valis" & realizing that Valis is YHWH. This is terribly important because when I collate all this I begin to see (1) That it was YHWH; & (2) how YHWH discerns the Good & pious man & suddenly lifts him up as by a pulley of netted rope along an axis unknown to us normally -as unknown as the 3rd dimension is to flatlanders- into a "higher concentric ring" (as Plotinus spoke of it that is in fact the Paradiso of Dante -a 5D world- in which the elevated soul encounters God himself (so all this makes sense in terms of internal logical structure: God bringing man back to him: the great liberation & return) [It] is the dramatic presentation of the Dialectic, the internal life of God -but put forth in "Valis" as conflict between the irrational and the rational in world itself- that is most striking. Thus it is indubitable that Valis in me (in which The Dialectic was disclosed) is Valis outside [me] (but I perceived only the Logos or bright side & took that one side to be the total entity; however what it overcomes- the irrational- is the other side). folder 53 - 057 folder 53 - 057 F-3 However, I did correctly understand the external or cosmic situation, although until I read Tillich I did not see the inner-outer identity of the dialectic, only that what I experienced inwardly was that which I saw externally. Freedom (expressed or defined by the 5D world in contrast to the 4D world we normally know) is directly proportional to our closeness to God. Here a great qualitative leap is involved: distinct realms each with its own intrinsic nature, & both coaxial (or concentric); there may also be an inferno in which no freedom exists: everything is mechanistic & deterministic, & of course it, too, would be coaxial & concentric. Now, we would see it just as our realm is seen by & from the 5D realm. This may (or may not) pertain to my "human vs the android" division; viz: recently I realized that my original satori (when I was in the 3rd or 4th grade) about the beetle was not knowledge that I could possess rationally; it was revelation & came -had to come- through the grace of God. & those who do not possess it, those whom I term androids - are unfortunate, not evil, because God has not given them this revealed but indubitable knowledge - which, I realized, pertains to the authentic, real inner life & hence actual existence of what I call "other", these androids exist solely in their own isolated idios kosmos; each has knowledge only of himself. Because in point of fact Descartes is correct: all each of us can really know is that he himself exists. God alone can "insert" knowledge of other into one's mind; he to whom this revealed knowledge is given is given what is, I think, the salvific lift per se; he is a chosen one, & this is what I have been, starting with the beetle & carried on from satori to satori, a sequence in which 2-74 is the culmination- of a life long process of receiving indubitable knowledge of the outer world, other, & its true inner nature (I draw on Malebranche, here, very clearly) (i.e. folder 53 - 058 folder 53 - 058 F-4 that we see all things in God"). The situation of the damned -whom I term "android"- is terrible indeed, for if God's nature is agapē (+ the N.T. tells us this), then the lack of empathy (which is agapē) by the "androids" is precisely a withholding of the divine nature: conversely, to experience agape/empathy is to participate in + know the Divine nature, a process moving toward direct experience of God himself as source -sole source- of this agapē which bursts the prison of isolation by + for the person, trapped in himself. So this, then, is the absolute prison that characterizes inferno: not one big prison -BIP- in which we are all collectively kept as in purgatorio, but each person trapped totally + in absolute isolation in himself with no actual "inner" knowledge of anything but himself. This is both pathology (schizophrenia, as with Anne) + damnation + utter thrall. Hence we find that philanthropia enters the western world from Judaism, from the eternal + sublime law of God, the Torah. + (as I have long known) my salvation was due to a voluntary act of philanthropia on my part, vis-à-vis Covenant House. But salvation is possible only due to the grace of God who "inserts" knowledge -indubitable, revealed- of other into the person's mind, whereupon inferno becomes purgatorio; the person is already transferred from the lowest of the 3 realms (hell) to the middle one, + from there, the possibility lies ahead of him -the possibility, I think, not certainty- that he will disclose himself to God as a good + pious person + thus, suddenly, in the twinkling of an eye, he will be lifted to the highest of the three realms in a single stroke (in what I call "justification"). I suddenly realized: this endless "horizontal" tracking is by definition hell, for it is forever. The Blitz -insight due to grace- comes in an instant that occupies no duration of time at all (e.g. the beetle, + 2-74) folder 53 - 059 folder 53 - 059 F-5 What I seem to have arrived at finally is a triune structure based on Dante But also related to the Um-, Mit + Eigenwelt structure, yet different. A) Lowest Realm. Individual isolated. Atomized (this corollates with Plotinus!). Pre-Social in that no real relatedness exists with other life - other living creatures, human and animal both are experienced as objects, as it (reified), not you, hence there is no true Gemeinschaftigheit. Instead there is Einsamkeit. Other is known on a contingent basis, from outside, poorly, indirectly. This Dasein is what I term the android; this is a machine world, driven by pure blind necessity. It is inferno. B) Middle Realm. Empathy/Agape enters. The atomization is abolished as a pure state; there arises real knowledge of other; you replaces it; world is social. This is clearly the Mitwelt. Something qualitative and radical has happened. A genuine entry of other into the self has occurred: knowledge, of world is superior to contingent approximation. Analogy is utilized in which other life is compared in terms of isomorphism to self. The distinction between self and other is only relative, now, not absolute; thus some linked structure exists: Self incorporated into systems that are ultra-personal, identity transcends, individual identity. Flexibility replaces the fixed, brittle categories of (A): Boundary now fluctuates, as self moves out, and other enters. Here, Plotinus is instructive: the pure atomization of the Lower Realm is replaced by degrees of unity (but not absolute unity). This is mitigated self-world dualism. What is most remarkable is that now genuine knowledge of world/other arises, in what must be regarded as a mysterious key partaking of the supra-rational. I stipulate that on a purely rational basis there can be no indubitable knowledge of anything other than self, which of course is Descartes' premise for all modern epistemology. Nonetheless, I say, there now is genuine + in fact necessary knowledge of world, +, in particular, other life experiences from folder 53 - 060 folder 53 - 060 F-6 within. Although this knowledge would seem to arise by reasoning from analogy ("Do unto others as you would have others do unto you") in fact it does not. It cannot. There is no valid basis for analogy; analogy is speculative & dubitable. Nonetheless (I assert) indubitable knowledge of other (experienced from the inner side of other) arises. How? Here (I say) the divine has entered in a fashion clearly comprehended by Nicholas Malebranche. There is an interface between self & world (unsuspected but nonetheless real). It is this interface (which like Kant's transcendent self that organizes sense-data by the ontological categories but itself lies of necessity beyond our perception) that transcribes world into or onto the self, not from outside (as sense data) but from within the self utilizing sense data. Bergson views this as a