. Round (Ambassador) 800. Amb. 1486 (wider seat) 10-11 Apax 695.- (coach) round 3,000 NY Paris RT. -- X 2742 1486 ____ 1256 2 ____ 2512 2742 2 ____ 5484 I believe at last because I understand at last. I believe because I understand: he can rupture world or parts of world. Valis. What I wrote Isa is true. Jehovah is all. Valis was Jehovah replacing world - his creation - with himself. This is not pantheism; this is something else, perhaps pantocreator pantocrator Air France (213)625-7171 1st folder 53 - 090 folder 53 - 090 H-3 Valis was YHWH replacing a part (portions) of his creation (world) with himself. He can compel you to experience any world he wants: [Diagram: Concentric circles with "You" surrounded by "YHWH" and "World"] As I figured out a while ago, world does not come to you direct but through YHWH, & he causes it to be for you whatever he wants it to be - hence "coaxiality." [Diagram:] You -- YHWH -- Material World Last night I experienced Genel along a phylogenic noetic archetype axis, subspecia aeternitatis, as a very specific & precisely defined type hundreds of years in duration & necessarily linked to St. Sophia - Like one of the typical (archetypical) human forms she takes along a phylogenic axis, found esp. in London at the time of Dr. Johnson at the coffee houses: rationality itself (but a more precise subform, that of enlightenment & the prosaic -- 18th century Lockean, as it were. The collective Genel, analog of Jung's archetypes of the unconscious. It is analogic to the vast space I saw in 3-74 - why, then it has to do with infinity (finitum capax infiniti) + "temporal parallaxis" + "the Form axis." But it not only carries over to the phone call with Jeannie - There it became the only world (1715 London) not me in this world perceiving that world. & it's somehow connected with Angel Archer - as 2-3-74 has to "Tears" - same person, time & place - in both instances. (1) "Tears" Acts 2-3-74 (2) "BTA" & Angel Archer London 1715. Angel is that woman who was last night speaking on the phone, & she & her world are real & have folder 53 - 091 H-4 something to do with "God is the Book of the Universe" + Torah, word - as in "The Book of Creation": idea, word, writing of word, thing (signified) all being one & the same for God, in contradistinction to our word & that to which the word refers. Universe - Book - narrative word - Verbal narrative. Luke (Gospel & Acts): Book. World. "Tears..." Angel Archer. Book. World. 1715 London. "BTA." Verbal narrative; Holy wisdom reading this verbal narrative & in & by doing so, causes world to be (the act of creating the universe out of Torah: Hagia Sophia, God's wisdom, reads the Torah aloud, & world is: creation occurs. & this is the AI Voice I hear. Turns Torah (verbal narrative, book) into world. Q: Where does Torah come from, then? God's words? Yes. He thinks them; they appear as writing (Torah); Hagia Sophia reads it aloud -i.e. speaks it- & world is ("& God said, 'let there be light'" e.g.) God - thoughts - word - word-as-writing - reading aloud of word-as-writing by Holy Wisdom (i.e. God says)- & world is. Hence the plasmate (Logos) + "the universe is information." Set / ground. Rest-motion. Collage. Clutch. Linking. Not only is the universe actually information, (1) but it is a book that Holy Wisdom reads aloud, which causes creation, this audible saying. (1) Torah I heard on that phonecall Holy Wisdom reading our world as a narrative in a book; & by her doing so, that world became to be. Whatever she reads -pronounces- is. But she reads only what God has written (thought). I am hesitantly stumbling onto this in "The Book of the Spinners," which Christ (Hagia Sophia) reads. "It is like Torah." Platonist pre-existent ideas as the basis of creation. God creates by the power of his thought (Michelangelo.) folder 53 - 092 folder 53 - 092 H-5 If Hagia Sophia reads the "1715 London upper class" book (Torah) aloud, de facto that is world. ("Coaxial realities" then refers to these different books or info or thoughts or narrations - I heard her voice on the phone; it is also she who sings. This is why -as William Burroughs found- when any written text is cut up + rejoined at random, a narrative results. This is why I had that dream of "my friend Paul" holding up the great galley pages, the text in which it was written, "a writer in Marin County will have many troubles." Now I have shown how Hagia Sophia + Torah both function together in the act of creation (with God as the source). This is very Platonist + would account for the anamnesis + meta-abstraction - but a mystery so vast is alluded to as to be incredible. Angel Archer is Hagia Sophia. Put another way, Angel Archer is the AI voice. This is where I got her from - in me. Our world + our deeds come into existence as St. Sophia reads Torah aloud; that is, her voice -not thoughts- are heard as the penultimate basis of our reality (the ultimate basis is the words, which are God's thoughts). Vis-à-vis the Xerox missive: the control over my acts ("dissociated") was St. Sophia reading aloud + thus determining reality (heimarmene + pronoia combined). It was Hagia Sophia acting, through + in me as she read from the book (Torah) + "BTA" deals with all this: fate, Christ, the Book of the Spinners, etc. The AI voice, then, is St. Sophia; + she reads aloud the narrative of creation, whereupon it is. So in this sense the universe is a vast info retrieval system. St Sophia is the access key; what she reads (decides to read?) is. Jeannie picked up the narrative where Genel left off: it was -both were- St Sophia. The AI voice. folder 53 - 093 folder 53 - 093 H-6 Angel Archer. This is an info retrieval system, in which many narratives are stored together but only activated when the AI voice reads one of them aloud; but in written info form, all of them are latently there. Thus each space-time world contains all the other worlds as info (but unread). Crucial to understanding this are Platonist notions about essence (forms) + accidents (differing instantiations) + esp. my "form axes." All the continua exist as info - coded (written) info, but the AI voice retrieves one continuum by reading (scanning) it, like a phonograph can play any record put onto it. {illustration: "Many encoded-as-info continua, potential worlds" with arrows to "AI voice" with an arrow to "Actualized continuum"} When a given narrative (continuum: place + time) is read, it is as if God has called it to mind the way we do with memories; therefore it is intelligible to call the encoding as written info memories of all potential worlds. I guess that I am saying it is accrueing; it is -the past- all here, + passes over from latent encoded info into world when read by God's intellect, Hagia Sophia ("the narrative" + "neutral voice inside us" that I mention in "Valis". So not just 2 coaxial worlds are here but potentially all (Acts is one; Angel's is London 1715). This is analogous to the way an ontological entity is stored as DNA. Hence 2-3-74 resembled "Ubik" - info + the form axes both. Hagia Sophia is to space-time continuum as phonograph is to LP record. folder 53 - 094 folder 53 - 094 H-7 So perceiving this encoded info is the first function of the retrieval system, which leads one to believe that Valis' mind was its mind; hence I could see that there was information but not what it said. Apparently she can discriminate a given narrative out of the many. An event does not leave a tracing, as an orchestra playing leaves a trace in a groove or on tape; the info precedes world (the event); that is, the info is ontologically prior + primary; the event (world) is derived from it, not the other way around. If this is not understood (info as giving rise to reality, not reality to info) nothing is understood. The info "stage" is eternal, the reality just a playing, i.e. in time + space, epiphenomenal. (Form to instantation.) __ Hagia Sophia (the AI voice) is going to incarnate this time as a species of ape or ape-like new species introduced into the biosphere, to restore balance. Viz: to us, they'll be Christ, + to them us. __ I have it. A while ago I wrote (esp. about Beethoven's music) "music turns space into sound." i.e. it encloses space. Well, here is another reason why our art of music in relationship to mere sound so awes them. We have found a way to them, space is everything, because they see so well: in 4D. Ape thinks; ∴ Christ (Holy Wisdom) thinks. The 2nd limit: apes (as apes). Thus they take a humble position toward man. + yet, mentally, are his tutelary spirit. folder 53 - 095 folder 53 - 095 H-8 Here's a new theory. In 1971 Mellow Jello impaired my vision + my thinking. In 3-74 the blocked circuits came back on. But now I saw what no other man ever saw (2-74 to 2-75). + also my thinking is improving - has been starting with the meta-abstraction. Frankly, I am becoming a bilaterial hemispheric parity genius. The Mellow Jello led to the meta-abstraction by way of occlusion. + the lithium + the sodium pentathol. It was chemical. St Sophia used the world as an interface through which to speak to me last night. __ I reread MHC. With only a slight turn of angle, Tagomi's world becomes our world - all he has to do is gaze at the silver jewelry in sunlight. My world, USA Calif 1974, became Acts by the same means. This weekend, I found myself in London in 1715. What does this mean? The meta-abstraction explains it. What is, then, the "meta-abstraction"? Noesis, but more: what we call "world" is one narrative out of many possible: books picked up + read by the AI voice, the Wisdom of God. It is God in whom we live; God speaks to me as the AI voice, using world as interface. Hence a more radical epistemology than I even suspected is pointed to. "We see all things in God"; There is only great Brahman + I hear it, not see it; hear it as the AI voice. _____ 393 6489 What hearing Jeanie as the AI points to is: the AI voice is the voice of the universe, the Silla, as the Eskimo shaman said. She creates our universe by reading aloud from Torah; in a sense there is no universe, ontologically speaking - only her reading the word aloud, speaking, saying. Thus folder 53 - 096 H-9 she must be Ruah, the Spirit of God. Thus what is called "heimarmene" is the narrative itself, as written, + hense {sic} is ineluctable because the narrative is in fact all that truly exists. In that moment I experienced the universe as it is: the woman reading from the text: reading (it), not just speaking; thus the relation between Torah -what is written + read- Hagia Sophia -she who reads aloud what is written- + universe -the result- is at last clear (viz: why all 3 are necessary). "+ she shall see the sea." Essentially I move more + more into a direct relationship with her. Now at last she uses the world as an interface ("matter is plastic in the face of mind"). World dissolves; only she + I remain. I foresee how it will end; she will ultimately extinguish world, not me;