sanity, as I said in my advocate interview). there is, indeed, much meret in Ursula's perception of me as "mad" (which is to say, I think, intoxicated/Dionysian: addicted to quite abruptly excess + the dream). It is quite possible that surday night/ sobriety annihilated my intoxicated psyche. which had reached its limit of excess hence the "I Ching's" warning of exhaustion, This danger + imminent death (hex #47). + is an intoxicated psyche that has endured + ruled (in me) over decades. + the antidote was, I think Hagia Sophia herself. is, How does this fit in with 2-3-74? 2-3-74 was the apotheosis of the Dionysian saw the page on which it experience) way (hence I was revealed that "Jesus" was a code - word for Zeus-Zagreus, i.e. Dionysus): it was the absolute culmination of - not repudiation of! - my my decades of [Dionysian) madness (excess). drug-induced intoxication became mystical religious intoxication. This is, however, legitimate way (as ruth benedict points out). it is not a "wrong" or spurious way; however at some point (fairly recently) I began to perceive the Apollonian alternative. Before sunday night (11-1-81) my orientation still theoretical (which war Dionysian with only a say is intellectual folder 55 - 117 folder 55 - 117 D-104 understanding of the Apollonian way (no This is incorrect; I had begun to exhibit distinct Apollonian qualities in my life in terms of stability, prudence, foresight, moderation, etc). The strangest thought just came to me. In the completed Bibliography that arrived on Saturday the statement is made that God's nature is split (sundered) into its Apollonian (Emmanuel) + Dionysian (zing Pallas) mirror I opposite halves - which I had never even remotely thought of, but, upon reading this, realized was so. This insight may have caused me to view, first, God in terms of these two bit polarities comprising when unified wholeness - + then, by analogy, my own nature likewise; that is, may well have seen the application to my own I self (the terms are very meaningful to me + have been for decades). For one thing I fear Nietzsche's fate: terminal psychosis after years of brilliance, this terminal psychosis being specifically enthersiasmos by Dionysus (or the psychological archetype there of) himself. ofter I have speculated that this has in fact already happened to me (was this not the original theme of "BTA"?). My anxiety (which surfaced crucially last thursday in Balboa) + which became (to be honest about it) psychotic anxiety sunday night - the worst anxiety I have ever known or even known of - may have been a lucid, valid I + absolute preminition that the fate feared - Nietzsche's fate! - had caught up with me, as with Marlowe's Faust when Faust is dragged down to hell in folder 55 - 118 folder 55 - 118 D-105 punishment for his sins (selling his soul to the devil; for "devil" read "Dionysus"). (After all, I had been viewing myself as Goethe's Faust, + Sandra as gretchen - + "owl" is a study of this emanating out of "BTA" as the next logical step.) Sunday night without warning I perceived myself as only a heart beat away from hell, doom, psychosis, total enthusiasmos by Dionysus because of my running away with/ involvement with Sandra: this was the fate I had chronically feared would eventually overtake me - as in "BTA" the issue of fate the avoidance thereof is a central theme: + for me, fate as nemesis indubitably is Nietzsche's fate - + this is certainly a correct appraisal on my part!! Moreover. was throwing away the counter-fate gains I (i.e. of an Apollonian nature) that I had of lote begun to systematically erect. Thus I feared (1) death; (2) hell; (3) madness - all in terms of my "adventure" with Sandra. This is a big issue + a big perception; + such an issue + perception would trigger off psychotic anxiety! I view it (now) as having been a valid - i.e. correct - perception. This sandra as lure + threat was the find stage in a lifetime of folly. + (as I saw it sunday night) I had only hours, perhaps only minutes, to pull back from the lip of the abyss. Sandra's psychosis, real or imagined, was tangential to my own madness w hich sai its folder 55 - 119 folder 55 - 119 D-106 fulfillment, its perfection, in a further relationship with her (viz: I would not be destroyed by Zelda; I would be Zelda myself. I myself would become internally what I saw externally + was so attracted by. I This accounts for my agitation that first time (a tvesday) when S. + I were together which I expressed to Juan: that so was totally crazy. But, by the next days reversed myself + saw her as okay + myself as "timid + inhibited + ossified, tied up in knot by neurotic hangups" - hence (it follows) mental health lay in my becoming like her; she would "cure" - i.e. assimilate - me to her view + ways + lifestyle. But then came the information from so that Saudra was here thursday at Taom. Clearly mad as a hatter what set in with me, then, was not even enantiodromia but cosmic, oceanic, absolute revelation having to do - not just with the situation + Sandra - but with my own nature + the disaster I faced, imminently faced: the outcome of a lifetime of increasing madness. with all this understood, the nature + magnitude of my anxiety makes sense. The peril was as I saw it. I was not psychotic: I confronted imminent total psychosis; there is a difference. If I acted correctly - rationally + morally, + did it right away there was still a remedy. the work (errors) of a lifetime could be corrected in this precise sense: I a could avoid my ultra-imminent fate (in to folder 55 - 120 folder 55 - 120 D-107 Faustian sense; viz: if in answer to the question, "Do you repent?" I said, "Yes instead of "No" - as Don giovanni responded - I could still save myself. + this was precisely the issue: Did I repent, in the O.T. sense? The choice was mine, but God through Holy Wisdom urged me to repent (these are the true categories that were involved, + it was existential repentence because it required - not just insight - but an act: I had to call Tess + Christopher + say + do certain real, actual, exact things - which I did do. + thus I saved myself.) but I was minutes away from being annihilated utterly (+ finally) by the archetype (of Dionysus) that got metzsche in the end - the fate I had long known was in store for me, too. Oihme. (Golly - as the Don says, in Mozart's opera, when the statue grips his hands!) owl" was going to be my great Faustian (last) effort - but (a couple month ago) had the sudden + total insight that the project would kill me physically. sunday night my parallel insight that my escape (fugue) from the work-project - involvement with Sandra‐ would kill me spiritually, morally + psycho‐ logically. These are heavy insights. My body would survive but my soul + mind would die. the solution (sic) was worse than the malady! in this, Judaism, the Torah + YHWH folder 55 - 121 D-108 are my absolute rock, my absolute salvation + anchor. I am now, at near-total This point, willing to designate 2-3-74 as psychosis": as a psychotic break or breakdown, in which the deposed rational self (psyche or part of me) spoke as the AI voice an hallucination whose prophecies + insights were) have been the sole center of rationality + lucidity in me; that the mention St. Sophia further, "is about to be reborn" etc. + the "the time has come; the work is com‐ plete --" etc. refer not to the world but to the ultimate inbreaking of rationality (or returned rationality, i.e. sanity) in my own mind, the terms "St. Sophia" + "YHWH" self at describing my own rational that point deposed but not quite annihilated. + sunday (11-1-81) she or he or they did return within the context of my schizophrenic panic - anxiety which was sudden insight into - not just my reality situation - but, much more, into my own state of long-sustained psychosis. The savior fore + mention "Valis." ago then, is my rational self long power deposed by the usurpating folder 55 - 122 folder 55 - 122 D-109 of Dionysian intoxication/madness which most likely began in full force in 1970 at the time nancy was leaving + I took the mesculine, + reached its apage in 2-3-74 i c -this is to say, I became decidedly + precisely psychotic in 1970; it dramatically worsened in 2-3-74 with only the AI voice left as an is land of dissociated rationality - but that island returned to power 11-1-81 as suddenly + dramatically as mad ben its overthrow in 1970. What I am saying (lieber gott!) is that the absolute vast rational understanding -perception - of my reality situation + the condition of + peril to my mind that engulfed me sunday night is the AI voice - that part of me which has previously spoken to me as the AI voice - becoming conscious + dominant at last, + hence in a very real, true + correct sense is (as I theorized as early as sunday night itself). St. Sophia in terms, at least, of my mind: as my rational self, my "Holy wisdom": the archetype of sanity: ( in touch with reality, at last. + not ➀ putting me folder 55 - 123 folder 55 - 123 D-110 any longer merely (sic) as an advising voice but, instead, in control; thus it was the "AI voice" that spoke to tessy sunday night; it spoke as me to her, + not in me to me. She assumed, all at once, supremecy, because my peril was imminent + total. Hence of late the word "sagacity" has resonated repeatedly in my mind. I have plumbed the true secret core of authentic Xtianity - i.e. in 2-3-74. Hidden within the passion the crucifixion, is its mirror opposite: ecstasis: joy; i.e. Dionysus, + this is what broke over me in 2-3-74: not just theoretical knowledge (gnosis) but the Xtian ecstatic experience. Hence when I read like I recognized Jesus as a miracle worker, gure, a Magician. He is the God of change pitted against him is YHWH. Who constant (apollo). The old King is this is the bipolarization of yeats: "the woods of arcady are gone + over is their antique joy. N of old they world on dreaming to fed. toy. gray truth is now her painted yet still she turns her restless head" ➀ Dionysus/Christ. Zina Earmanuel. ( YHWH folder 55 - 124 folder 55 - 124 D-14 these are the great historic antagonists ecstasy (Dionysus, Christ): sobriety + true (apollo, YHWH). This bipolarily is explicitly dealt with in "DI" as the Bibliograply noted. 2-3-74 was indeed the true secret Xtian experience (ecstasis). 11-1-81 was Judaism (sobriety + truth). Both are valid (but mutually exclusive) paths. "Tears," then, is a true Xtian Gospel operating on two levels: the ostensible one of Tears - king Pentheus, the passion - + the true secret one of "Felix": happy; i.e. joy: the real kernall of authentic Xtianity / Dionysianism. Hence "Tears" does contain an exoteric + an esoteric double story line (ground + set). + my de-occluded perception in 3-74 was of the secret world of Xtian Joy - I mean the Kingdom of which Christ is the ruler (King Felix) - the hidden, invisible secret Kingdom which with all is coaxially right here. value signs 180 reversed It was all real. Yet from the standpoint of sober Judaism. It is all one rast intoxicated hallucination. + both