55 - 069 1-16 through church, priest, sacrament, creed, doctrine; it was an absolute "trans‐ action" between myself + God, exactly as Luther taught Well, then; Valis + the dialectic in me may well have been Boehme's experience. Valis, then, was God himself both in me + in world; it was, then, an authentic theophany, as I've always claimed + believed. the general takeover of my mind was by the Holy Spirit (e.g. my ability to distinguish set from ground, etc) but for at least that moment when I experienced the dialectic that was God the Father or perhaps even Eckhart's Godhead itself. I see now (in 2-74 to 2-75) so many, many specifically Xtian elements (beginning chronologically with "Tears") that it is now impossible for me to reject or deny to myself that this was indeed Xtian justification + in fact Xtian mystical experience of God as is spoken of by e.g. Boehme + Eckhart. There is really a substantial difference between defining faith as, "I believe Christ suffered + died for me, for my sins" + mo contention that the essence of faith is, "I know my own powerlessness, know that alone I am doomed - I cannot help myself+ that God can + will save me, that I can + in fact must call to him for as I say supra, there is a very aud." folder 55 - 070 folder 55 - 070 1-17 strong element of Judaic piety in my conception of the fundamental essence of the God-to-man situation, but this can be said, too, of the Reformers, that in a real way they went back to the O.T. what enters from the N.T. - but this is also found in later Judaism - is the emphasis on God's love, + there is no utilization here whatsoever of the legalism of the law (Torah); for me it is very simple, Once understood: man on his own is utterly (not relatively) powerless to save himself; God is utterly powerful + can save man, but man must acknowledge both these facts. must truly know them, + hence calls to God for aid, + God responds because he created man in the first place + so de facto his the power to sustain + guaranted man's existence (esse), +, out of the same love that caused him to breathe life into man in the first place now Acts to rescue + save man + insure his ultimate survival, in, really, an ontological sense: man's very being, which, once guaranteed through the "transaction" of justification. Can never be abolished or even threatined again. So My doctrine is both very old (premosaic, in a sense; this is the God of Abraham!) + very new (20th century existentialism of the protestant sort). + in this the Holy Spirit is everything. folder 55 - 071 1-18 So I wrote "Tears" in 1970 at the worst period of my life, discovered in 1974 that it contained Xtian scripture (certainly dictated by the Holy Spirit) + finally now at the end of 1981 at last have solved the "riddle" of what the Kerygma of this scripture proclaims. Eleven years in all, + well worth it indeed (later): I know little about the writing of kierkegaard but in reading over the above pages I sense in all This ("malady... sickness unto death... choice... act... call for aid... man's utter worthlessness... God's absolute power... etc." very much of him, + in a very real sense he was the father of existential thought. + here is a point that pertains very directly to him that is in fact the basic point I deal with in my letter to ISA: dread. Thus I see in my letter + this exegesis a very great deal of him, + thus I think I am indeed on the right track. (Let me add: 2-3-74 converted dread + sorrow into joy; as realized recently, the great secret of true I Xtianity is that - unknown to outsiders it is an ecstatic religion + experience folder 55 - 072 folder 55 - 072 t 6 1-19 I should not reproach myself for the slowness at which my theological system is developing. People have worked for thousands of years on these matters. But I do think I am at last beginning to understand, +, I sense, the letter to ISA, like "Tears" itself, is more the work of the Holy Spirit than of me, for its essential core came from my study of the little section in the book on stained glass windows dealing with pentercost that Isa + nancy sent me; I drew directly from that. + that section made clear that this second helper, though sent from + by the Father, is sent (1) to the disciples, + (2) at the request of Jesus, + (3) will be with them while Jesus is gone in place of him + in a certain real sense (4) Christ himself, just as Christ in turn is God himself. As I say supra, this is why I feel I was with the eleven, + even saw their world, + remembered (Xtian anamnesis). folder 55 - 073 folder 55 - 073 i 2-4 last night at Joan's the God told me: i you are now permitted to be happy (Felix) at last." The God brings joy into the world + overthrows the reign of the old, former King of Tears; it is the procession of the ages from Iron - pentheus + the BIP - to gold: Zagreus-Jesus + the Garden + the animals: the new-born King who "will wipe away every tear." As I realized Xtianity is secretly a religion of ecstasy, + that was my turning-point There is a thematic link between "Tears" (the N.T. + Dionysus stories). Deus Irae" (Xtianity), "Scanner - (two personalities) "Valis" (two personalities, Xtianity). "DI the savior, Judaism) + "BTA" (Xtianity + c two personalities, bill + tim, if not three: Christ also, + the Diony us story). Six novels linked together. The most interesting link is the two personalities link in "Scanner," "Valis" + "BTA." people will see this, but few will see that it all begins with + in "Tears." If you study these six novels as a unity - + this is my third period you discern a fascinating story not really clarified until "BTA" when at the end Christ emerges explicitly (one could even argue that "confessions" is part of this in that Jack isidore + It is at once bill resemble each other - whereupon clear that a fortiori "Androids" enter, via Jor Esidore - which takes us at once to the sacredness of the animals + mercer. This last is important the nature of the truly human stands, then, in this complex 3-volume meta-novel as a mid-point between the android (e.g. rachael Rosen) + the divine mercer, bill at the end of "BTA"). What strikes c forcefully is the very great importance me most that "Androids" has in this 8-volume meta-novel. what if we had not reissued it! It is an folder 55 - 074 folder 55 - 074 E-5 absolutely essential component, perhaps the most important of all, but in itself alone not in any way expressing the full meaning; only when linked up with "BTA" does the meaning become clear (+ vice versa in terms of "BTA"; that is, "BTA" only assumes its full stature + significance when viewed in conjunction with "Androids". the theme of the madman + the Holy fool + the love for + care of animale all at once stands out sharply (when we first encounter bill, he is the 180-mirror opposite of the racheel rosen + the spider scene in "Androids" + linked to it necessarily through J. R. Isidore). Amazing my good God - when angel first sees bill with her cat she thinks, had they not maimed him (bill) he would have been a veterinarian, + Jor. Isidore is sort of a vetinarian! + cf Jack isidore + the chocolate covered ants +, at the end of confessions. restoring the animale that charley home has killed! The theme of animals; this is of course Tagore another link is that 3 of these 8 novels are My 3 "policemen" novels: "Androids," "Tears" + "scanner." perhaps most important of all, if one traces the Holy fool from "confessians) to "Androids" to "BTA" we see him at last, at the very end, reveal his true nature + identity as that of Christ: it is not at all there in "confessions"; it is somewhat there in "Androids" - in which he meets the savior, mercer; but in "BTA" folder 55 - 075 folder 55 - 075 Y-6 the long-awaited revelation at last comes. who + where is the anticipated savior spoken of in "Valis" + as the Holy fool first brought to our allention in "confessians" just as a food, with no religious overtones. In "Androids" the Hely enters, in + as mercer (linked to the animals); + in "BTA" the supreme mystery is revealed: we had him - the savior - with us from the start, as Jack isidore. The link - absolutely necessary between "confessions" + "BTA" is "Androids" + again I say, what if we had suppressed it? Had we done so, the intact story would never have been told. from fool (not) to Holy fool (loving + This is innocent) to Christ himself. a vast theme + very complex, but also very clear: it is quite coherent. Innocence, love + Christ are equated - + posed against all this, as it finds its true expression in "BTA" is the mirror opposite: the androids, +, again, were it not for "Androids" this contrast would be missing - + it must be there, for this is the satanic element, + it must be told. But there is a point I am missing that is substantial + crucial: the axis of fool, Holy fool; Christ con‐ pletes itself not by evolution but by virtue of the fact that the fool, proven Holy, is seized by Christ entering from outside - as perfectly expressed in the folder 55 - 076 2-7 it ichn Donne sonnel that angel thinke i of - significantly! - when she first a "unless you ravish mee."). sees bill Christ entire the Holy fool + takes full possession of him, consuming him utterly, + this is the explanation + the event both that is the 3-part axis. Bell is not Christ; bill I seized on by Christ + taken over by Christ; for a white there are two selves, bills + the extrinsic "intruder," +, at last, only Christ. This clearly relates to Dionysus, but that seems of lesser importance to me, now. To repeat the Holy fool neither is Christ nor becomes Christ; he is invaded by Christ as the Holy Spirit, + this is the miracle, + it is this that is the end state of what we saw in "confessions" with no hint that it would end this Now, the true startly, thing would way! be if one read "confessins, "Androids" "BTA" + then "Valis" for having absorbel the idea of this axis + seizure, what would one now make of what "Valis" narrates? this very seizure that is put forth why, ther sparingly at the end of "BTA"! n the total analysis + presentation of the mechanics of it, as it were, the seizure step by step with all its ramification) appears in "Valis" - so, to put it another way, we now understand what "Valist is all about, then! i folder 55 - 077 folder 55 - 077 Yo + after all, it really was the purpose of but there "BTA" to explain "Valis. between "Valis" is a thematic link + "BTA" I've failed to note: bill is insane, + Horselover Fat is insane; So Fat is another avatar explicity of the fool, Holy Fool, madman, Christ Thus if "Valis" is viewed after one has studied "confessions," "androids" + "BTA"