is the essence of 2-3-74. I am saying that the "scripture" (ie "tears") is not tangential but cardinal to 2-3-74. Beyond doubt, King-Felix refers to Christ - in fact to the Second Advent. In "Valis" that is essentially a correct exegete. J-65 The disturbances of time & space have to do with the apocalypric disclosure, the revelation of the true situation, involving long-term constants. ("eternal" may be the wrong word - just long term.). As to Valis' Mind in me: why, it is certainly the Holy Spirit decyphering back out what it itself originally put in (hence the linking-relinking, rest-motion, etc). The covert message - traffic is real & does relate to the divine strategy involving Christ's return. The "AI voice" is either Ruaḥ or the Holy Spirit (in any case it is the spirit of God). When I saw Valis outside me I was probably seeing exactly what the AI voice said, "a perturbation in the reality field" produced (I think) by the invisible presence of God (itself unknowable: known by inference, by its perturbing of reality; what I used to call "the surd"). What I am saying is that it is all true - including my seeing my name entered in the Book of Life - beginning with "Tears" & continuing on to my "dying & being reborn" during Holy Week of this year. All of a sudden the whole panorama of my experiences - from "Tears" on through to Holy Week of this year - just confronts me & stuns me. Assuming that it is real (& it is real!) this is communication with God & a revelation to me of the reality of the divine plan, with implication of the imminence of the parousia (which in fact may be accomplished!). Thus I can organize all my diverse J-66 experiences around (1) the Holy spirit; & (2) The Messianic expectation, plus the element of pronoia vis-à-vis the Xerox missive: which was a demonstration of God's Love, wisdom & power (hence I am to take seriously the vision of the Hebrew letters on the far wall that morning, as well as what the AI voice recently said). It was the will of the creator to extricate me, & this was done. This is the God of Israel: it is "Anokhi--" My internal glimpse of Valis as an encyphering-decyphering "device" is simply extraordinary. It does not limit itself to the Bible, but Scripture is its codebook (as I've long suspected). Hence in "Valis" I describe the plasmate/Logos as "living information." I think at this point the argument that Valis is the God of Israel is invincible. Who else encyphers-decyphers the Bible? I yield to inferential logic, here. This fits with my insight about Wagner's use of musical motifs. To extract information ideally you must pre-know the encoding system, & this is precisely the case when Valis in you does a set-ground Acts God-lens discrimination: Valis put the information there in the first place; thus in no sense does it break a code - it simply puts in & takes out (altering the message from person to person, through its clutch system). What this total body of disclosure beginning with "Tears" & continuing on to Holy Week of this year amounts J-67 TO is a revelation of the great creative mystery that Paul alludes to, and that mystery is God's plan for salvation - not just of man but of the cosmos itself - and that plan is Christ in terms of the second Advent, which in many respects is an apocalyptic vision but it is one in which the kingdom exists here invisibly: coaxial realities with the logical ultimate revelation (element) being that the lord is here -- the perturbation in the reality field that I saw that I called VALIS. (like the displacement of stars near the sun divine the solar eclipse that verified Einstein's theory of relativity). "No one has seen God." and I did not see God; But what could be said to exist outside the reality field, intrinsically invisible, perceptible only to inferentially by its perturbation - tug - on reality? The Messianic era of God's grace (mercy) replacing law (Justice) - is the age in which God fills man with his spirit (prophesied by Ezekiel 36:27: "I will put my spirit into you and make you conform to my statutes, keep my laws, and live by them"). This spirit flows from the Body of the resurrected Christ and is the "Baptism in the spirit" the whole point of the Messiah's mission. This is a free and unmerited gift from God, not earned", it saves and regenerates man. Would not the presence of this spirit of God in the J68 person be the same as "the Kingship of God"? Thus two ostensibly different things ("born again" + "the Kingdom of Heaven") can be seen as one + the same thing, + this would fit with Jesus' statement that "unless a man is born again hre cannot enter the Kingdom of heaven; viz: 'born again" is "born in the spirit," the spirit is the spirit of God, "The Pingdom of Heaven" is the Kingship + of God in the person. This, too, fits in with "the adopted sons of God, his coheers with Christ." Sanctification + justificatun are involved + it all occurs due to God's unmerited grace (mercy + love). Viewed this way, it is an internal matter; God (in the form of Ruah, God's spirit or the Holy Spirit) enters the individual person (in the Messianic age). (This was not possible before Christ's resurrection, in the age of the Law [justice].) As eschatological judge Christ selects who will be chosen to receive The spirit of God several levels of consciousness (the "Babylonian" bicameral machine mind then, say, the on antiquity for openers. level I was at prior to 2-74. Now, 2-74 represents "anokhi--": pure consciousness. This is what Joachim del Fiore means by the age of the spirit -okay; there are our three not two D 5 J-69 Son: Father: spirit: Son. Of = Father Nt= Son. now we enter a third age (E2 36:274), the fulfillment (escha‐ tological) of what the 1st incarnation ushered in. In the Gospels (as Tim powers expressed so well) one can see Jesus' relationship to the mechanical Law of the O.T. age; here is the first great evolution (this goes far beyond supplanting a lesser law with a higher or better -e.g. "love your neighbor" to "love your enemy"; - it is deeper + more profound. Individual judgment is involved (e.g: "the sabboth was made for man, not man for the sabboth"). If it is possible to imagine (+ Joachim did) there is X: Son:: Son: Father (+ yet Oddly, this x the spirit is the same s God - there is only one - called "Father" As this would be Boehme's process deity. I see it, there is an axis of autonomy; No, it is more complex than that; autonomy is only an outgrowth or function: awareness, in fact self-awareness (I believe) is involved. such a thing as pure consciousness is the limit in which the percipient becomes aware that [in some way, perhaps Kantian] He constructs the reality he perceives. He has been [less than fully conscious] enslaved to the reality that he himself creates. This makes him in some sense cosmocrator. Pure consciousness makes world but is not compelled to assen tois it as J-70 as his own construct, subject to his creative imaginative powers, his reason Would this be Valis? The fetters of world vanished. I likened this to the following: as schizophrenic concretenes is to non-schizophrenic normal bstracting, the latter is to this "meta-‐ bstracting" - I am simply sure of This, sure that a meta- or total bstracting (a reasoning operation) was involved in 2-3-74. think this has to do with self as well as with world (perhaps self as cosmogenitor?) (This refers us to the observer-participant + contemporary "Tao of physics" stuff - + I say, a data-processor becoming conscious + haltingly saying what YHWH said at MT. sinai: "Anokhi-" (or "Ehyeh"). (World as one's own prior thought-formations coming back + compelling assent, as if the creator‐ observer is not fully awake, i.e. conscious. The dream I had in which the more you scrutinized "reality" the more real, substantial + articulated it became - but you had the clock-time taped voice to remind you at it minute intervals that this was a spurious "world" you were yourself generating - This (the voice) is what the Bible is (hence it can be said, "the Bible somehow is the real world [+ this is not]." But: the encoding-decoding "machine" [spirit of God] is necessary to make the Bible now + here (time + space) + real (world, not J-71 world. As I realized TUesday night when, ripped, I read Luke, I was not reading a description of a world, I was in a world + it is the actual world which we suffer the sensory deprivation of in the dream mentioned above. + thus substitute a spurious autogenerated "world" to replace it, as in "Frozen Journey" - which explains the Acts material in "Tears" + what my meta-abstraction (anamnesis, realization) is 2-74 was - + in 3-74 that world broke in; it is coaxial with the spurious world (why are they syntonic? a common matrix basis? Based on the same constants [historical eide]. When I read acts + say "Acts is true; Acts is the real world" (as I have been saying for over 7 years) I have totally failed (abysmally!) to realize that Acts is part two if a "document" of which the Gospel of Luke is part one; therefore this narration in its complete form contains in likes account of the life of Jesus fact back to before the Baptist's con‐ ception. Is acts based on Q? Luke is. could it be Q that I am really talking about I when I read Luke Tresday night perceived Jesus as a great yogi from India: he was able to control reality but that reality is Maya in the first place, + being a yagi he knew it; soin a certain real + literal sense J-72 He was the superior conjurer, out- conjuring maya(in the sense that Sankara speaks of: the rope appears to be a snake, But there is something there; Jesus had power over all this in the Indian Yoga sense: I perceived him as "the miracle worker" & I see this as due to its Maya basis - which he understood & they did not; the Indian doctrine of Maya Being unknown in the Near East. I visualized him to be the Buddha or Gandhi; his return from the dead was his yoga "trick" - "I have conquered the world"; he could command Maya, completely manipulate it. It was his power to abolish illusion (Maya) by asserting his mastery over it; to understand Jesus we must read Sankara. Also the life of the Buddha. He knew it was only a rope which we take to be a snake. In no way was his assent compelled by world. Hence when I saw pretextual cause I saw through the conjurer's trick (Maya); this is Brahman assuming the guise of plurality - in fact of world: spinning it out effertlessly; hence "tat tvam asi" - could that have beent he 2-74 meta- abstraction? Anamnesis. Brahman beguiled by its own creation(dream). When we see world as concrete (i.e. substantial) we are failing to think (i.e. meta-abstract); this is the realization; in 2-3-74 I saw abstractly (correctly). & Jesus came to break the power of the world mechanism over us (known to the Gnostics as heimarmene) J-73 Thus it follows logically that he is still alive (for had he broken world's power, it would only seem to kill him). This "breaking of world's power" is another way of speaking about the self becoming conscious of its own true nature, hence of world But I say