God said, "This is my son in whom I am well pleasea." This, then, -21- is also what is meant by becoming "an adopted son and coheir in Christ of God." I also have some reason to believe that this is a self-perpetuationg matter, in that when the second, adventitious psyche is implanted, it and the innate, original one form some kind of "offspring," the golden flower of Taoist alchemy, that is immortal and escapes upon death to return to someone else later on as an adventitious, resurrected psyche; hence this process, once initiated by/through/in Jesus (the first Christ) continues on, but in stealth. Thus I tend to think that my sense that Thomas is/was an apostolic Christian is correct. That in fact Thomas may have indeed been one of the Twelve. He was, however, a man, a Greek-speaking man of the first century C.E. (I guess he wasn't one of the Twelve because he had no memories of Jesus; but he did have memories of the disciples; he came somewhat after Jesus, like Paul.) So in the "Baptism in the Spirit" the person is not trans¬ formed as such, but transformed by being added to, and that psyche which is added to his has lived and then died and then returned by virtue of the process inaugurated by Jesus; hence the significance of Jesus' resurrection. And why the Holy Spirit could not be poured out from Jesus until after he had been crucified and resur¬ rected; i.e. at Pentecost. This means that either by intent or by accident or by divine inspiration I hit on the truth (finally) in the third novel of the Valis trilogy, BTA, and Russ figured it out based on the novel and on my letter about the novel (I had noted that Christ seemed to be present in/as Bill at the end but did not understand how or why; Russ did; this, then, was the time for the truth to be made known to me because in fact I already possessed the truth but did not know it, at least not accurately, fully or consciously; or if I knew, did not believe). (Thus the Ditneon dream is the culmination of my exegesis, although not of my 2-3-74 experience; it has to do with my understanding it, not experiencing it.) As far as I am aware, the knowledge of this twin psyche achievement is not available anywhere in extant theological or mystical writing, and cannot be inferred from the N.T. although it would collate with the N.T.; it may, then, be the stegenographia we are told of but cannot retrieve. -22- As to this, one can now discriminate between Christ and the Holy Spirit. The person "baptized in the Spirit" becomes Christ (due to the implantation of the second, adventitious psyche of someone who died and was resurrected); but this event may be the work of the Holy Spirit as it was in Jesus' case. This Holy Spirit is certainly the Spirit of God; that is, ruah. So I would say that the creation of a given Ditheon is an act of creation by God, but it is not ex nihilo; it comes about through constituents already existing that get joined together, as Russ points out. Christ, then, is assembled. This explains what "Christ" is, the role of tne Holy Spirit, why Jesus had to be crucified and resurrected — it explains 2-3-74 and all the otherwise confusing constituents, especially finding another psyche, another human mind, one of a person who had lived long ago and died, in my head with me...you will not find any of this written down anywhere in any book, but if you read the Valis trilogy you can figure it out, as Russ did. And this all really was engendered back in 1971 when I wrote my Vancouver speech and distinguished consciously and carefully between machine thinking (the android or reflex machine) and the truly human; that is, I distinguished two ontologically opposite beings who appear ostensibly identical. The progression of my thinking, then, is to distinguish Ditheon to human as human to machine/android. Surely we are dealing with evolution of our species through several qualturn-leap growth stages, each ontologically different from the one beneath and the one above. Animal, machine, human, Ditheon. Three of which are ostensibly antnropos. Machine: Inferno. Human: Purgatorio. Ditheon: Paradiso. My three realms of ascending consciousness and freedom. Machine consciousness to human consciousness to the pure absolute consciousness that I call "Anokhi —". Well, then, I already identified it as God-like, the consciousness of God. The dream confirms this. Machine: past. Human: present. Ditheon: future. Schizophrenic and schizoid totally concrete. Human partial abstraction. Ditheonic absolute abstraction after the fashion of Plato's recovery of the eide. I equate the third one with Schiller, Beethoven and Goethe and the Protestant Aufklarung. 392 Recap: The divine is here as [invisible] structure + it is conscious (purposeful? Evolving? subsuming more + more in orders of hierarchical ascent?). What it subsumes -i.e. the plural things- are not conscious but what structures them is. So this is not pantheism. It is how they fit together that is conscious; they are being joined. This means that [plural] objects are epi‐ phenomenal, + true reality is known only by the perturbation it exerts on them as Then what is truly real a unified field. does not exist; i.e. structure does not exist as objects exist but is only grasped - a form of seeing. This structure may be intelligible rather than sensible (as by a meta-abstraction), which would lead to the conclusion that the basis of -in relation to which objects are reality epiphenomenal- is mental. Hence this basis is grasped by a meta-abstraction that is precise ("not 2 mothers but I mother twice") + related to the "recovery" of Plato's eide which are intelligible, but also -perhaps more closely- to Pythagoras' kosmos. Perhaps I can revive my template concept not structure but hierarchical structure int (hence: "subsume" + "incorporate" "arrangements" of "information"). This is the key missing term: hierarchical. therefore K393 It is not a biological organism but the way reality itself is actually arranged in levels of subsuming complexity by which multiplicity is converted into unities. Hence what I call (correctly) complexity equals levels (ascending) of hierarchy. Unities is another key term: by subsumation a unity is structured out of what has been seen as discrete plural things. I saw how they fitted together (linking + relinking, trying out every combination - this is negentropy) as bateson says, "circularity seen, not ceramic Plate." Here is the source of my transformed perception: all circularities seen as real; all ceramic plates seen as what bateson calls "spin-offs" (what I call "epiphenomenality"). Like the necker cube flip flop. set-ground flip flop (1) Plate as set, circularity as ground (2) [flip flip]: circularity as set Plate as ground. Structure hence order (negative entropy) hence information. If you did a plate-circularily flipflop to (2) you would see sudden negentropy, since the eide are perfect in terms of order the template: total order, hence total negentropy. Structure in contrast to substantial content. Multiplicity is pro‐ portional to disorder hence to entropy K390 (19394) Valis in my mind was Plotinus' Nous which is Philo's Logos. perhaps even the it one But I did experience the intelligible realm of the forms (which, the Eof Ph says, although multiple are yet unified). my proof: seeing the 3X5 Golden rectangle - a Pythagorean form of forms t just remembered: last night hypna‐ gogic total insight. My template is Plato's eide as unified real reality perfect, to which our substantial world is (1) measured, (2) brought into conformity with, (3) falls short of (4) is some‐ what entropic (disordered) whereas the template is absolutely negentropic: totally ordered. This template concept is Plato's metaphysics, + my conception of it points to 2-3-74 as Platonist. A proper word for my "template" would be Logos (in Philo's sense of the term); this is what I saw tugging at reality when I saw Valis: "the perturbation in the reality field" was indeed the Logos ➀ as template aligning up sensible reality, which (as I supra noted) means I understood ("saw") the eide/Logos by which to measure sensible reality against, as the eidos circle is to any + all given (drawn) circles. templal/ sensible reality I Dispanty - B less than A, 8 inytary N + ata "Ploting 395 Der retter 1st Roment. Ich hab ihn gesehen, wie ein bild - keeen gemacht, wie ein spiel Die glocken spell spielen die zauber guite spiel Er war in mir Geboren. as seshrei Christis Gebortstag. Die heilige licht zuruck Kammn Er. Ist dies Nicht 2e wissen genua? Die Himmel erbahler Des Jeden fir der Gebortstag Retters tanzte an sener tag "BTA" -hence the whole trilogy says: Christ born is The newly revealed basis of God: he plays I saw the nativity The nativity. it is the opening of the syniptics + Luther's "Christ here + now" relived. includes the aativity (+ the birth). Not just Jesus on the cross. The King has returned is reliving the life-total life- of Christ a normal (sic) mystic vision? I saw Christ. It was an epiphany, + managed to say so t not a theophany. when I saw Palmer + In "Valis." I saw Satan Eldritch in the sy K396 I have been searching all my life for the bench marks of God [indubitably pointing to him]. I have found The sufi them: Kate, anne + louton. proof: beauty. The light from above illumining the I saw it [world into the] nativity scene all creatures great + smace / dance upon their felt I have seen the infinities of Judaism which is morality, of Xtianity which is love, of the Greeks, which is wisdom have seen God's power as pronoia + I + charis to rescue me by bending the world itself; but beauty is a per‐ more plexing infinity, raising is it a questions than it answers. puzzle too intricate for me. It spans sit across the game all else. As I say, "I have board from Krishna I found in beauty that which I could not myself have made; thus I have I believe, for found the benckmarks. have the evidence that I trust; it is sufficient." There is an infinity of good. Of love. Of wisdom. If power. but each particular beautiful thing is infinitely beautifue, + there is an infinity of them, so beauty, alone, is an infinity of infunities: s 397 just figured out one sentence that t sums up my whole 10-volume meta novel +, what is more, leads to 2-3-74 et al: "I believe that the universe is epi‐ (+ because this has been phenomenal." my premise for 30 years, I was li to look beyond reality -i.e. the universe‐ believe but with no preconceptions.) I that my premise proved true - by saw reason of 2-3-74. But what I that is real - I really don't know what it is, but - it regulates the universe. That is its regulator relationship to the universe.I + whatever that tells us. (E.g. it tells there is purpose + design. + very us likely consciousness.) + any control must be able to "move" system fister than what it controls. just had an extraordinary revelation, of which I am sure. My religious (sacramental) experience began in MiD-1970, not early 1972 -which explains the Acts material in "Tears" conversely, the Acts material in "Tears" indicates beyond doubt that my experience does begin as far back as mid-1970). What happened in 1970 was death. (Due to Nancy's illness + then her leaving, the exact moment would be 4398 The mescalone trip. This appears in the posse dream, the theme of ritual death + the grief + forgiveness - agapē - appropriate to a it. Then there is a long period "in the tomb" - up to the beginning of 1974. + in 2-74 resurrection as a new kind of creature begins.