itself revelation of the same kind as 2-3-74 plus such revelations as the (226 messenger + bill of particulars instance. I sense a meaning in the term "justification" not connected with sin but with incompleteness (perhaps this is Jung's influence on me.) But I believe that the rest of me entered me as an adventitious second psyche, + this is the subject of "BTA" & Russ' letter, how this completion is (or resembles) being Christ being perfect (Hence the adventitious psyche wrote recently that now Hence I is human.) I seem to have a center, but did not before more important, I see this as being ensouled. the work has reached its end, suddenly, by an act of God; the person has been searching for his missing parts (i.e. his soul) throughout all time + everywhere, with the possibility that the person may - on his own - never I consider this search for be complete. one's soul as the modern way of viewing redemption from bondage to sin, enslave ment, or as I speak of it, machine - level consciousness. We are dealing with evolutionary development of the human being through + in history, as if completenes lies not at the end of the life of the ontogon but of the phylogon. I sense this evolution - search for completeness - stretching over thousands of years. Whole epochs of human history are involved. (can this be fitted in with my ontological axis of complexity, change-rate velocity, freedom, abstractness, autonomy, perfection [completion, of structure? The human being is made complete as a coherent structure; he does not evolve to perfection "naturally"; he is abruptly made complete, not as if rising (227 step by step to completion, but, rather, come pletion is conferred on him, as an unmerited gift (he neither earned it by merit or solved it as a problem; there is a suggestion here that this perfection is not something the person himself can, when it comes down to it, do; self-completion is then, only theoretically possible + certainly rare - it must depend on chance + this I a situation that cries out for aid. I equate the law with machine thinking; this also involves heimarmene + astral Determinism. again, this involves whole basic epochs in the development of the human spirit (as + view it, the Aufklarung is relevent in this evolution. What I see in the E B article on protestantism is that the legalism of Judaism reasserted itself in + as the Catholic church - hence machine thinking was again the issue. Machine (android, as I call it) thinking will reassert itself, + it is precisely this that what we call the Holy spirit operates to surmount, to break; in I bipolarize as antitheses machine which case thinking + the Holy Spirit; thus, machine thinking is equated with the soul-ness, "soul," incomplete person - viewed this way, o "completenesis" autonomy + true consciousness ("Anokhie-") are identified + corrolated. The true human is a machine which has become ensouled; a machine is an incomplete human: "soul" although a terrvous concep ot refers to something very real, + can be identified with higher levels of evolution o consciousness (v. Eckhart). (then the meta s K228 abstraction is related to birth of higher consciousness or soul; but it is not achieved it is conferred on the person. In my view There is a floating discorporate super + consciousness that descends on humans, this is "baptism in the spirit": it enters from outside: it is not in the person; it is not intrinsic, innate; so his soul is not in him simply waiting to be released or assembled If this is the case, justification does indeed lie beyond the person's reach, on his own. what t psychiatry isn't going to help him. + seems involved is an implosion, what Teilhard means by involutional energy + complexification There is a mystery, here, as if creation itself is involved - ex nihilo creation. I gues "Ditheon" expresses it all. + very likely the second bilateral hemispheric parity. psyche (right hemisphere) is injected into the brain from outside; thus being "born from above" raises man to a God level. - the human vs the android - these are differences of kind, not degree (i.e. ontological difference). A clockwork universe involving static time - perhaps even non-time, certainly not cumulative growth time - versus the spirit which has to do with the autonomous, completed "Ditheon" entity for whom growth has - i.e. he has arrivel worked out successfully at the "Ditheon" destination (which was known to exist 2000 years ago). Have the others - i.e. androids - become stuck along (229 the way, ossified at incomplete stages, whereupon they just repeat themselves them no longer moves into the time for v. note p. 249 future (this sounds so much like Heidegger!) are all these "androids" to be regarded as evolutionary dead-ends, as whole species are, such as the insects? Viz: the ontogon evolves like the phylogon, +, like the phylogon, can ossify at a level of incompleteness wherelife time dies for it + in it, since Then they have failed, either change ceases. their spirit died or never was born; they never became ensouled. Had I been allowed to ossified - or to stay ossified - angel archer never would have come to be (Sein). is-ness (Sein/einai) would never have occurred; my "android" is Heidegger's inauthentic existence in which there is no concentrated center but only diffusion. (Here Heidegger + Teilhard agree on the notion of center or involution, etc.) now the authentic growing, evolving true human is represented by Beethover + his music each stage of which surmounts the previous stages. Is this progressive surmounting not precisely what makes Beethoven the paradigm of it all (the act klarung, freedom, the authentic human, etc.) He evolves in his work. + isn't this related to learning + the antithesis of the reflex machine, which simply repeats 1230 I have over the decades elaborated an extensive philosophical overview of this (first consciously expressed in my vancouver speech) that article in the E of Ph about "falli back to simpler more durable states" - that I saw it all expressed there terrified me Entropy is a key concept, here. Entropy vs my vision of the MMSK complexifying itself toward completion through reticulation arborizing, via the accretions. That which + term Valis is the antithesis of entropy; define Valis in the Para. Anterior to the novel I as negentropic the issue is life vs death literally. Hence "Baptism in the spirit" is called "born again. "born in the Spirit, "born from above"; + yet the very instrument of this - the Bible which is intrinsically alive (v. my notes on recombinant scripture) is made to ossify so as minds ossify, the minds of Xtians. epitomized my "recombinant scripture" is negentropic + he very life of this entity, its info blood. gott - it would have killed my soul if I'd written the Blade runner novelization! Or, worse, not written "BTA"! Angel Archer is new, ex nihilo creation, literally out of nothing. There is a great spiritual, artistic evolutionary, life - mystery in her coming into being ("smarter than me, more rational, h K231 more educated, etc) - + when tim dies is she becomes a machine + knows she a machine (+ knows what that means. that it is connected with treason on her part; she has betrayed. God. But He is a God restores her, via Edgar barefoot the truly flexible one of them all. Hence the truly wise one. only a machine would suppress a book about the limitations of machine thinking (I speak of "sheep"). the Reformers perception of Catholic legalism - like Paul's perception of the legalism of Judaism - is perception of machine thinking I am willing now to equate Joachim's 3rd age [of the Spirit) with protestantism. "one day nothing new ever again came into his mind" vs Valis trying out every combination (perpetual newness, guaranteed by the dialectic, I guess). "simpler, more durable states." earlier more simple (i.e. less complex) + slower. Devolution i I have just now read the E of Ph article on entropy; its conclusion is that what we call "entropy" is loss of information. "This lack of info is assocrated shannon (1948). "in this theory, info is not concerned with meaning but with the statistical character of a whole range of possible messages 232 + is, in fact, a measure of the freedom choice we have in constructing message shanning investigation had an important bearing on Bultzmann's statistical analog a entropy --" etc. Boltz mann's law means, "that ordered arrangements tend to degenerate into disordered ones. The number of microscopic states that correspond to a given macroscopic state determines the probability of the latter. B. found that the entropy of a system in a given macroscopic state is proportional to the Log of the probability of that state... any closed system tends toward an equilibrium state of maximum probability which is associated with equalization of temperature, pressure, etc." Entropy: the disorganization of a system." ➀ Then the linking + relinking that I saw Valis doing is maximized negentropy. So in seeing Valis I saw negentropy per se, which corrolates with Teilhard's complexification of organization my "machine thinking" is directly propor tional to entropy (in about go ways), + my evolutionary axis directly proportional to negentropy in about so ways, if it isn't negentropy per se, which it well may be - in which case the mind that entered mine that I call Valis is so-to-speak the principle or personification of negentropy of i 233 both in terms of info + in terms of the whole MMSK. What does this tell me about Valis' identity" I am bewildered. It jected me with new life both in terms of energy + organization - well, + also informa I perhaps that most of all. Is not the i meta-abstraction an instance of absolute negentropic upward leap? Is it not suitable (useful) to measure Valis (or, if it is the Holy Spirit, then the Holy Spirit) in is the reason terms of negentropy epitomized? I saw info as the basis of it all why (of universe, the plasmate + Valis, of 2-3-74 in toto) because (I discovered tonight) entropy has to do with a loss of info; negentropy as a statistical function has to do with the freedom to create recombinant messages - so my 3 stages of scripture (Torah, N.T. + now what I call recom binant unique pluralized messages used only once, for one person in one situation a definition of an axis of negentropy in which case the dialectic may per se between be negentropy (expressed as pattern completion or order) + entropy (disorder) since entropy increases with time (all ordered systems move toward disorder is Valis moving backward in time? I had that impression - + speak of it in the tractate; "any living organism delays it decay into thermal equilibriual (death). by its capacity to maintain itself (234 at a fairly high level of orderliness (+ hence fairly low level of entropy). by continually absorbing negative now entropy from its environment." Valis would do this via info, info processing storage + flow. E.g. the Acts material in "Tears" is negentropy per se Here is a "message" that can spontaneously k Ubi regenerate itself ex nihilo. In "Ubik" specifically combats - is the antagonist of - entropy - which is identified with the past. Now, this identification is only true for negentropic systems, most likely biological systems; that is, everything in "Ubik" is treated as life or related to life: augmenting it or diminishing it. + Ubik specifically identifies itself as the Logos completion of a system would seem to entail an increase in organization + in complexity of structure - that is, if you were a half-complete organism + some external entity completed you, would it not organize you to the limit, which is to