("pure consciousness, pure being, pure bliss"!) The self-world dualism is abolished. folder 53 - 070 folder 53 - 070 G-4 If they are deaf & mute, music would have to register [for them] as [phosphene] colors [also experienced as math ratios as with Pythagoras]; that is, music seen. Fixed intervals. Scale. That is, for them [as a non-human species] how would our Pythagorean math-music equation [as basis of reality; ie structure as substantia] appear? For us, math/music. For them, music/color. Thus the trinity math/music/color is a lingua franca by which we could understand them & they us. It cuts across species & universes (ie 4D (ours) & 5D (theirs). "Frau, sing fu[umlaut]r unsere Freunde." Apes. Horace/Dimi. Vast green meadow. Physical ritual greeting gestures. As we can now use phosphenes for the blind (to compensate) they (the 5D species) who are deaf use phosphene color to compensate for their deafness in order to see music - it is all math anyhow: Frequency. Ratio. As they using our phosphenes because we can't "hear" or "see" their language (because we are not isomorphic with them). This is the significance of the phosphene, both functionally & symbolically: it cuts across sense-barriers & deficiencies. They stimulate our phosphenes artificially, by radiation, so we will see in a compensatory fashion what we cannot actually see because of our visual impairment. They, who are deaf, can see in 5D: ie what we - who are blind - can't. folder 53 - 071 G-5 This is why I said, "I am no longer blind." They made me sighted by stimulating my phosphene, so I could see them, i.e. what I called Valis. It is valid sense-perception but compensatory for us, a blind species that depends on hearing. This explains this sequence: Pythagoras, phosphene, biochip, symbiote, mycelia, vine, circulatory system. Thus the set-ground, plasmate, "temporal parallaxis" etc was both real + illusory both. Real in that it pertained to what is there that we normally can't see, but illusory (like a hologram) in that our phospene activity is artificial, technologically-induced compensatory vision for a semi-blind species. The ajna eye that they have permits absolute sight for a species that does not use sound, so oral speech never developed for them as it did for us. They depend on vision solely + entirely. Their problem in communications with us is vast because 1) We hear; they are deaf. 2) They possess absolute sight; we are semi-blind To communicate with us they overcome it by stimulating our (my) phosphene activity so that I can in an artificial compensatory way see them - see what + and as they do When I read the biochip article I now had the crucial fact that for the blind, phosphene can suffice as compensatory function. Meadow. Ape-like sentient other species. Dante. Mathilde. The Holy. "Close Encounters"- music + color, but- here is where in actuality it breaks down: they are deaf. it is both Christ (the religious) + another species - from another world in 5D coaxial with ours. They are spatially folder 53 - 072 folder 53 - 072 G-6 here not from another star system in our universe. Thus they stimulate our brains to see holograms. This is what UFOs are. In my vision (dream) they appeared as ape-like to suggest "2001." & "Frau sing für unsere Freunde" points to "Close Encounters". The Holy: yes it is Christ (i.e. Valis) but yes it is another species dysmorphic to us in another [5D] realm, right here. They intrude onto/into our 4D realm as theophanies & hierophanies. They know of the existence of sound scientifically, but can't hear it & didn't evolve organs to detect it, but they know we did. Their vision is perfect: ours is dim. Here is the dysmorphism experience. Mary solved it. Color as language: where we use sound, they use colors: the common ingredient being fixed incremental ratios i.e. frequencies. Sketch: Math => Sound (Music): Our species & 4D Realm Pythagoras Color (light): Their species & 5D realm, some analog Here is what "Primum Mobile" was supposed to convey: equation between other species ("from the fixed stars" as in "Close Encounters") & God (via Dante to Aristotle;): this goes back to the fish-stelle revelation or rather fish-stelli: i.e. fish star. Christ-ETI. But I need write: it's all in "Valis" - Christ as an ETI from the stars, interspecies symbiosis, etc. They taught me well, but what I saw (3-74) was artificially induced holograms to & for a species/creature (myself) who is from their stand point nearly blind. Their proof to me last Saturday: concepts along axes (e.g. color) that my species does not use. Both our species have the math in folder 53 - 073 folder 53 - 073 G-7 common, but they go math-color; whereas we go math-music. I am not speculating. I am problem-solving,trying to understand. Sat nite was real. I see: they solved the "substantia" problem on a math-color (light frequency ratio) basis + we solved it on a math-music (sound frequency ratio) basis. "Valis" is sufficiently true. What I did was correctly homologize God/religion/theophany with ETIs, with another, sentient species + technology. Although in "Valis" I have no 4D-5D understanding, "Valis" is enough: I can rest, now. I did it - as I realized when I reread it recently. As with "Tears" I did my job. It is another, higher species; it is a "they" - but simultaneously it is God + Christ + religion, as my "Ape" dream revealed. "Valis" is literally not metaphysically true. For them, it is not "the music of the spheres" but "the colors of the spheres." Look: this is real. (1) I have been contacted + given information. (2) I wrote it up, all up, + correctly, in "Valis" 10-4. In 3-74 due to phosphene stimulation I saw them (Christ/Valis) + their world as it intersects our own. The medieval Xtians in touch with God were in touch with them; hence the illuminated mss. Hence Dante's vision of God the trinity as colors. There is too close a resemblance between these disclosures + the music-pitch/color use at the end of "Close Encounters" to be coincidence. It's real. We have linked up - I personally did for 90 seconds last Saturday night. folder 53 - 074 folder 53 - 074 G-8 they are able to hear music by tapping into -patching into- our minds, which is why I said, "Frau, sing für unsere Freunde"; they virtually worship our music, + they yearn from the bottom of their hearts to hear it - as we will, when we know more, for their color language. Math is the common constituent that links our species to theirs, but then it is words, sound, music, -the music of the spheres- for us - for them it is thousands of colors. (Specific numbers on the millimicron scales of the visual spectrum.) Paradiso (in Dante) is their realm: light (more specifically color) + love. But for them our realm is Paradiso: because of sound (more specifically music). Thus the highest level of purgatorio (our realm) is characterized by the woman -Mathilde- singing. The sight of them, as they crossed the meadow toward me, as ape-like clarifies to me that I am dealing with a finite species + not God or angels as we employ the terms. Physically they are corporeal + creaturial{?}, dysmorphic in part, isomorphic in part Dio; it is all true. + I have seen them, +, as in "Close Encounters," they brought back my lost "person" Dimi or Horace. He was with them - in the next world. In der nähe. + they are our friends. I saw those whom I've been in contact with; they came toward me, several of them. Emerged out into the open at last - not Adonis-like but ape-like. But that does not matter; I went outside the building, forgetting all else (a lot was going on, the activity of our world) to greet them with physical ritual gestures, as with two different tribes.. But it was two different species in two quite different worlds. + I now know supreme joy. Freunde-Freude- Beethoven, Schiller, music. Not "sing to" our friends i.e. to communicate, but "sing for" - for their enjoyment: this is our gift. folder 53 - 075 folder 53 - 075 G-9 The phosphenes link our species to theirs. For us, phospenes - stimulated coherently - permit us truly to see, overcoming our partial blindness. For them, who are deaf, they can see sounds - in particular, music. But the communications bridge is established by the fact that color & music (light & sound) are equally based on math. Sketch: Our species: Math [arrow] Music (sound spectrum) Their species: Math [arrow] Color (light spectrum) Triangle: Music (us) [arrow] Math [arrow] Color (them) Music (us) [arrow] [arrow] Color (them) Music is something ultimate pertaining to sound. Color patterns is something ultimate you do with light. Ultimately, each serves as the language of that particular species. They have had to convert to words to communicate with me, ie sound; but now they are beginning to convert me to color - their form of communication. Imagine a math/color analog of our Pythagorean math/music! What a different universe - & I was in it in 3-74 via a compensatory optic function: phosphene activity ("for the visually impaired"); & reciprocally they can "hear" sounds – e.g. music - by tapping our minds via symbiosis. As I realized a couple weeks ago, what we call "music" is audible math patterns: intricate & unique math sequences that the composer initiates & then completes; the aesthetic pleasure has to do with math rendered audible & heard by the right brain. That our common basis is math certainly urges me to the conclusion that all this is inter-species communication! Math is the ideal lingua franca. folder 53 - 076 G-10 Just as I have entered their world of light & color, they can enter our world of sound & music. "Color" signifies coherent color - patterns, just as "music" coherent sound patterns. There is the language aspect & there is the aesthetic aspect. The fact that our two species possess two quite different language-systems (matrices) is one matter, one that can be solved. But as to the aesthetic aspect - on our own we are deprived of the visual ultimate due to our limited vision; conversely, they can on their own hear no music at all (after all, we do see to some degree, but they are totally deaf. They are of great value to us, but, oddly, we are of absolute value to them. Although they do possess the phosphene conversion system by which audio impulses are converted - transduced - into color patterns, for us, phosphenes augment our vision and elevates us from a 4D world to a 5D world, but for them, phosphenes are their sole relationship to music; & this transduction is essentially misleading: it is only conversion from one medium to another - it still is not music. This whole light-color thing has to do with the true Xtians - & with Ikhnaton's Aton (that int'l community of Christ had a sense of this; light & color - the esoteric meaning of the arts; viz: "I am the light of the world" the light-darkness terms of the 4th Gospel, of Zoroastrianism & Mithraism & Manichaeism. Something in sunlight that we can't see. Fiat lux. Hypnagogic AI voice: "she turned into an ape," the ape I saw this morning - one of "our friends" - I've been hearing as the AI voice & seeing as Diana; my tutelary spirit. folder 53 - 077 folder 53 - 077 G-11 Book idea: Sketch: human composer like Beethoven ETI feeding him math ideas (symbiote) What the deaf ETI symbiote feeds to the human as math ideas become musical compositions, & return to the ETI symbiote. The human does not know where his ideas are coming from. The discovery of the symbiote is a great revelation both