or now (?) in the sense that variable change-rates exist simultaneously, depending on how you "track" or "where" you track. Vertical ascent is ontological -the axis is one of ontology, of kind - but there is a quantitative variable + it is that of velocity of change-rate. Both (ontology + velocity of change-rate) are directly proportional to complexity + to abstraction! (surprise. + proportional to organization (cosmos). So entry (?) could occur through a sudden meta-abstraction, + here anamnesis is K172 involved; how? It pertains to the past; i.e. slower change-rate; yet it advances you into faster change-rate: it carries you up + forward into greater complexity. Why do you see the past, then? You must be seeing your present locus as the past. Since these are relative terms; viz: did not see the literal first century AD, Acts, I saw my own world as Acts. That means I saw I my own present locus as the past - because had abstracted forward in relation to my normal world. My "velocity" relationship changed; in relation to me, it moved slower due of course to my speeding up (i.e. it did speeded not slow down; that is absurd). up so it resembled the past + was taken by my brain to so be. Then my "Tibetian Book of the Dead" hellvision -as portrayed in blade runner -which set off this whole line of thought- is due to my velocity exceeding that of my world, whereupon a sort of Doppler effect -shift to the red- occurs, in (or seemingly in) world. Then my hell vision is due to dysynchronization between me + world, wherein I am running fast, + this collates with my runaway neural firing; the faster my synapses fired, the more hell like world became, hence more "past," hence BIP + ancient times. This is what caused Plato to suppose anamnesis of a former life, whereas one is seeing one's own time as the past due to what I call the meta-abstraction - which must represent a radical fast-firing analogic to the ideational abstraction itself; that is, the cognitive act of ultra abstraction has the unanticipated -+ puzzling- effect of t causing the present to look like the past possibly the ancient past, but it is really The same reality that was already there K173 (it is a doppler effect!) Nonetheless (I conjecture) a curious feedback occurs based on the erroneous interpretation of this doppler effect: the present world now is interpreted as memory rather than current perception, + this must set into existence what I call "temporal Parateexis" - why, the 2 brain hemispheres dysynchronized because the meta-‐ bstraction has taken place in only one of the two hemispheres, so that hemisphere sees world as past while the other continues Nonetheless this to see it as normal present. is a genuine parallaxis because the change‐ rate is "coming" at two velocities, one velocity for one hemisphere, another for the other. This, then, is the origin of Ditheons s was right; it is a disphasing between the hemispheres, one still seeing world as normally concrete + made up of plural particulars, the other performing the meta-‐ bstraction that "recovers" the eide Here is how one + the same object can be seen at two spatiotemporal sets; the bimodal human brain can do it while the two chambers are disphased. (To repeat, one hemisphere -the one that performed the meta-‐ bstraction - now sees the present as the past, hence BIP, "Tears," hell, Acts, the machine world. (Hence I said, "I am s a machine.") But what causes the meta-‐ bstraction? (Phis says God causes it. oddly, this may be the right answer; my K174 appeal is to Cartesian rationalism + the notion of innate categories. One brain hemisphere figured out suddenly the one mother two times, not two mothers 11 bstraction + this disphised the two hemispheres, with extraordinary results. arrive at because now incoming signals two rates - + are seen as set-ground by I saw set reason of color frequency! Hence as brighter + more vividly red than ground. Well, I say this dysphasing is a purposeful one, is supposed to occur + is a function of bilateral hemisphereic parity in that it is the recessive (appositional) hemisphere that has performed the meta-‐ bstraction (which explains why it is not worked out versally as sequential ratiocination but simply flashes, in the not blink of an eye). (It is analogic, digital.) This is what our bicameral brain (Ditheon) is intended to do; this is normal, at least in terms of evolution + morphology. My neolagism, "temporal parallaxis," is a breakthrough concept + may be the first human to employ this The total I term, to grasp this concept. brain (Ditheon) now inhabits a dristically more complex world - + is itself a drastically more complex entity. Where This fundamentally differs from schizo‐ phrenia is that in schizophrenia no meta-‐ bstraction has taken place, yet material from the right hemisphere bleeds through via This is the corpus collosum. 175 noise + chaos + yet it resembles -crudely bilateral parity (v. "Scanner"). Well, this is how one brain can exist at two times! The "DI" can of course be regarded as meaning "bicameral"; it is the "theon" that requires the explanation (which is what 2-3-74 + "Valis" is all about). Now: the informational basis of reality can be apprehended, due to the Set-ground discrimination (due to the temporal parallaxis). One hemisphere is seeing set, the other ground; their fields merge. Voila! The eide are seen as well as cognitively understood (they were cognitively understood first). Two psuchoi inhabiting two times, + it is times not "times" because there is no such thing as time is there is only change + change-rate velocity (I appeal to the E of Ph!) + one hemisphere receives a faster change-rate than the other does, which is the correct way of saying, "it has moved forward in time with the result that world appears to have moved -jumped- sharply backward in time": that is, the change is seen in world - the doppler effect. conclusions. It's all making sense. What, then, is Valis? Teilhard's evolution conver‐ gence to/as point omega. "Valis" is right as to the Logos "invading + transubstantiating the universe" - + right, too, is "the universe consists of arrangements that constitute changing information I QE:70. 76 i It is now possible to understand (1) How 2 human psyches located in one + the same brain can be in two different times; + (2) why this produces such extra‐ ordinary cognitive-perceptual results, i.e. not Dianthropus but Ditheon. I have seen my creator. ursula, you - aw, the hell with it. "unresolvable metaphysical problems" - it's a good thing you didn't know Isane newton! He "thought about it indessently," too! + finally had it. + "Scanner" will verify to + for the Ditheons of the future that s did know where the solution lay, because it deals with the 2 brains but operating faultity - + then "Valis" follows; now then suddenly function properly. The first written account by A ditheonic brain! + written as a frankly autobiographical journal. what if I'd settled for the original version of "Valis"? + there's a lot in "Divine Invasion" related to this: the Torah, the Bible as living hologram, the Hermetic transform, etc. abruptly realize: I've been stuck as to I just one point + one point only: how the temporal lag between the two hemispheres could be explained (which is what causes the "temporal parallaxis"). Answer: the "not 2 mothers but one Mother twice" meta-abstraction moves that hemisphere "forward in time" causing world to lag for it -doppler shift because "time simply refers to change, + time rate 177 is actually change rate. + for the brain hemisphere that has performed the meta-‐ bstraction, change impinges on it more complexly, because "time" (change-rate) is accellerating, so if change-rate becomes more complex; the result is a "forward the Li motion in time" the model being disc that as an "it" turns at one speed But the stylus tracks slower the far ther in it travels, etc etc. (My axis of entry being "the plural concrete particulars to abstract eide + ultimate unity" axis, this fooled Plato, as it did me, into thinking that anamnesis + perception of the past had taken place.) The unintelligible -i.e. faulty- concept is time. I am indebted to the E of Ph pointing out that the notion of time travel is unintelligible. Of course this was my initial break‐ through (last october): USA1974) (aysy common essence It is interesting that temporal parallaxis like spatial parallaxis is rather simple to achieve: you need two brains operating in Dysphosing dysphased parity with the resulting from a cognitive operation the but not utilized by one brain Ditheon. the result is other. + step So radical an evolutionary that "anthropos" is the wrong term K178 in a sense I wedded Plato to ornstein + got Christ: Christ within + Christ outside. Ah; there was one other absolutely crucia clue: Eckharti" presentation of the I dea that seeing reality in total abstraction is a higher function of the mind/soul in a hierarchy of functions identified with experience of the Godhead - i.e. Christian mystical experience. So Plato, Eckhart, ornstein tireless must not leave out "the work. Tibetian book of the Dead" + my own study over the years of "the human vs the android." Plato had it backward: you didn't recover the eide due to anamnesis; not due to the meta-abstraction the world will suddenly look like the past recovery of the eide comes first. actually it's instantaneous, being right brain analogic. I isolated the particular cognitive operation, + I figured out that the similitude (semblance) of the past will seem machine-like, like hell. + I would not have known this if I had not analyzed the relations him of the Torah to Xtianity. my God, how complex the solution was! + of K17g course there is point + teil hard; I verified that good man more than I expected to. How the thread of Xtianity runs through this ! + the significance of evolution. time + information! What a Grand ediface," + what now, do I say of 2-74 to 2-75? I say Ditheon, a word perhaps, i never used before. But a concept known: two natures, one person. Oh yes; "BTA" I must include that, too: the Valis trology + so to bed. this explains why the two times (worlds) would fit together syntonically. Thomas uses Greek for the same reason that I revert to German under stress. My normal English language skills are of course located in my left hemisphere; Thomas is a right hemisphere personality + has available to him only special or marginal "semi-mote" language. It is to my credit that I say in "Valis" that reincarnation can't explain it; Thomas is living in "AD 70" Now. He is not a former me. It is the right hemisphere which, on the basis of the meta-abstraction, says "Anokhi¬‐ for the first time. of course Valis didn't think in words but purely knew. The right hemisphere lacks language. This is definitely Jung's mysterium conjunctionus; a hierogamy 780 There were certainly elements of the collective unconscious involved; but it was no longer Jung unconscious, which is the whole point. must yield to Ornstein. Still this was the integration of opposites (the 3-eyed Sibyl one would be (1) a very ancient archetype + (2) expressing superhuman identity + powers - i.e Ditheow itself My God: the meta-abstraction is nothing less than the right heaisphere becoming conscious + self-aware ("anokhii....) yielding, by being yoked to the already conscious left hemisphere, one superconscious push-pull field - Eckhart: 4th + 5th stage. the soul! + Thomas may be female, may of be "angel Archer" the AI voice! Valis externally is reality as a unified field involving the discrete time-frames + binary switching system The Dialectic may be the push-pull way