is the most crucial "fact among facts" the fact of all facts (that indeed are facts). There are no other facts - save that there be this one. It is then, a unique + uniquely important fact, redefining at 320 facts of that particular system (as if retrograde). Upon this fact all real knowledge is based. (In Jungian terms I exercised a latent, rational -i.e. judging - function, in contrast to irrational intuition - my main function - which just/only deals in potentialities. This is what the "meta‐ abstraction" was: latent in my uncon‐ scious, in my right brain or anyhow appositional hemisphere, lay a slumbering judging Jungian function in the function compass which awoke perhaps for the first time + judged one system entertained by my intuitive function out of many: Xtianity o For me the concept "it is true" is a meta‐ function, since I normally deal totally in possibilities. Retroactively, this forces a reappraisal of all my prior writing which was speculative. Christ died for me here + now. For me (as I say) this event in my uncon‐ scious, or latent hemisphere, but absolutely valid. After all, This is a rational function! Up to that point my vast intuitive non-judging function had permitted me to entertain the idea of 321 Xtianity as a sort of aesthetic possi‐ bility, one of very many. + I am still using this intuition in my exegesis, so it (+ much of "Valis") is so-to-speak pre-2-74 pre the "meta abstraction (realization: that Xtianity is true). + the 2-74 realization soon received massive confirmation (3-74 on) since it was absolute faith. Necessary for justification, as Paul says, one must have pistis (of the sort I had genuinely) the Easter miracle - the macro transubstantiation; I did see it; "Valis" tells the truth It is as simple as this: "the magic Flute" is beautiful, + not true "the St. Matthew passion" is beautiful -non‐ + true. On the beauty axis judging aesthetic reaction - they are not so on the judging thinking identical. axis. So "ditheon" does refer to bilateral Hemispheric parity + to an alchemical transmutation in which mundane elements become one divine entity - + this is the of mysterium consonctionis. In the instant the "meta-realization" total structure must have occurred in my mind for the first time (out of multiplicity which was unorganized, hence chaos). I diagrammed diagrammed my this structure when I self as an intelligible unique complex the mind of God in of ideas (322 It is one lovely intricate structure: Pythagoras' kosmos. For my mind basically (primarily) utilizing Jungian intuition, this meta-realization was equal to the recovery of the eide - in importance + quantum leap up in ordering in structuring; it permitted me - for the first time - to structure the contents of my mind + reality in terms of the concept "what is true" not "what is interesting, possible, beautiful, etc. For me this was indeed a vast meta‐ breakthrough. It was not [just] abstracti wa ; it was the application of abstracting -one of many parallel Although "Valis possibilities - to reality. my exegesis wallow is possibilities, + the latent outline of this application of one possibility is there: crypte morphose (it is Christ in all regards). + out of this exercise of my rational, judging thinking faculty comes ansel archer; my thinking faculty - pure reason - is angel Archer (or put another way, angel Archer is my rational, judging thinking faculty latent in my Well, this is my soul?) unconscious - the irrational creator + creation that my I wa describe in "Valis" is I irrational non-judging intuitive faculty the in-breaking of the the in-breaking rational Logos is ot K323 of my rational, judging thinking faculty - expressed as "Thomas" another self, + so it is - buried in my unconscious all my life, indeed as I say in the Platt interview. It was as if had I become rational for the first time in my life. But the opposite ante‐ cedent consciouness wasn't psychotic It was simply irrational non‐ I must normally judging intuition be an intuitive type with feeling my auxiliary function (+ intro‐ ); hence "Thomas" was extra‐ verted verted. My writing was not done by my unconscious but by my conscious intuitive function. The AI voice is of course my buried thinking function. I am no longer bilateral parity ditheon; but I now know my soul angel Archer: I met my unconscious + it is rational; it is angel Archer + is in a certain sense my real self (it is also my anima my anima employs the thinking function - is my thinking function but we did enter syzygy for a time + saw Christ + God. K324 we were for a little whole divine: the chemical wedding, unconscious + its function wedded to my con‐ scious mind + its function: total self + consciousness (for a while). me concept "is" for me - as contrasted to "might possibly be" - carries the force of divine revelation; it compels assent + I perceive its source (as I have said) as God. other people do not experience this at all! for them the compelling of assent is common + natural + conscious, something their own ego doess For me - extrordinarily - my "Faith" was in fact a rational act/realization (utilizing my thinking function), which makes of my assent something quite different from the sort of faith that is pitted against reason (viz: reason is conscious + faith irrational). My meta - abstraction was a locking into truth in the sense of connecting a theoretical system into the real world with the salient - but amazed - realization that it is here + now, not there + then (the "meta‐ abstraction"). Although the meta-abstraction did deal with coaxial reality, primarily it was a locking together of a free floating belief system into the actual, + this took place in my unconscious, hence was not due to labored ratioci (325 specifically speaks of this as divine revelation as a way of knowing (in contrast to labored step-by-step ratio cination). Beyond dispute I perceived the Xtian reality here + now, not as a historical event in antiquity, at another, far-distant time + place - like alexander + his conquests, e.g. I have tried for years to understand how this can be but I now see it as specifically a (the) miraculous action of the Holy Spirit whose job it is to render the vicarious atonement contemporaneous + applicable to me. Thus in one simultaneous mental operation. Christ - the story - was both rendered true + lifted out of history + applied here + now: it is true + it is true now + for me (virtually 3 instan‐ taneous discoveries unified into a single revelation). This is why I keep saying that the mechanism was Platonist but the content Xtian. my irrational intuitive faculty is at my disposal, but the rational judging thinking faculty by its very nature reaches conclusions -judges - on its own - + for me, outside of conscious this put my unconscious in the position of possessing what I call "the fact of facts" - which brought it - her into consciousness (she for the first time could say "anokhi.") + into syzygy with me forming Ditheon. It would seem as I f she whom I call angel archer performe it 326 the trifold "meta-abstraction." Yet in "BTA" she does not believe. Why? Because she utilizes the thinking function, not faith, + in "BTA" she does not have the facts to go on that would compel her assent. However, in 2-74, her assent w in compelled (therefore what she believed in - in me in 2-74 - is true because her assent can only be compelled by + to the the truth; that is the nature of rational judging quality of the thinking faculty). She - as shown in "BTA" - is immune to speculation this assent is the element a reserved for very special occasions. of the indubitable must be there; as with "Its in o equals 2" it must be a matter of "seeing assent by this faculty, then, is a knowing, +, as in 2-3-74, a higher or meta-knowing. one sees that- (etc). Cognition, not perception must be its basis. It is an absolute a priori knowing, not merely contingent, its assent can only be compelled by the comprehension of a necessary truth. Thus the meta abstraction was instantaneous - which resembles the lightning-swift flash of the intuitive faculty - but was not, in that all the facts were already in me but as possibilities among many other possibilities, + were only linked up to the real world in the "steel trap closing" metaphor-sense that I have used: This occurs in a blitz, even though it is the thinking faculty involved. I have see Christ + he is here now, metamorphosed into the real world as sticks + weeds + empty beer cans. s 327 So in becoming aware of angel Archer become aware of the thinking-function I basis of my unconscious. Because my nconscious is rational it is no t if threat to me; in fact it is a source it is the AI voice advise + warning the titelary spirit cangel Archer) The Valis trilogy converts my entire corpus ope into one vast intricate system of apogetics for Xtianity, based on the strategy of the wise horn in its two-person (dialectical] game. This is really a great insight Valis as codebook to my corpus opi It transform (as I say) speculation to assertion (claim to be veridical); critics note this about "Valis" per se but they don't see the conversion effect on all the previous writing - So now the relationship between anged archer + 2-3-74 can be seen: it was she who woke into life - the "meta-abstraction" "Anokhi.." For the first as was angel saying became rational, through her. I time. she "entered" my psyche; this then is the adventitious psyche: angel Archer; she + I together are Ditheon. She is the missing part whose addition (to me] justifies me + makes me whole. She + her rational skepticism correct me + my speculating, my dreaming It is she who can discern which system is true. She is, then, to me the ajna eye of discern ment: she can see what is so. Without her discernment I am blind to the outer world. She does not build systems independent of - unrelated to - the outer world. K328 that the compelling of assent arises in + from a rational faculty is of unparalleled importance, for a slupup here can usher in madness especially since this is absolute, unqualified assent - due to the object of the assent (the reality of Christ + his power to save) it must be absolute to exist at all, at least as I see the situation. Such assent opens up what amounts to another, greater universe with radically different laws + purposes denced the person unable to assent h could the meta-abstraction been that AD 70 (that is the time of Christ is contemporaneous to any [other] time + hence to all times; viz: acts (time + place a with USA 197 i being just I colition one instance (essence of Y; any other time + place can be insected equally. This implies several things. (1) It is (in a certain real sense) always the time + place of Acts. (2) Acts is not a time + place like other times + places; it is unique 3) time cannot be what we think it is c (4) that Acts is always now + always here is an unparalleled realization, for it shows that the N.T. is true in a sense above beyond the historical sense. Acts is then, the real world, + anything else is only seeming can be reduced to Acts. This is verified + by the Acts material in "Tears."