I did not intend to present the union of bill + im as constituting - causing to come into existence - Christ (ditheon). Yet this is indeed what I do present; I saw it (upon rereading it) + so did russ; he more so. Russ saw precisely this. Now, after thinking about am sure this is Teilhard! It all day. I convergence into point omega, in which case H-19 the plasmate -living information - is the noosphere (as I have often thought) + Valis the cosmic Christ that Teilhard This foresaw coming into existence. is then an evolutionary matter. The Ditheon evolves out of our merely human stage of existence; we evolve into Christ (but in a specifically converging way, exactly as is Teilhard theorized This fits in with my great insight that I "rolled back" sensible physical reality - the universe - to its information (ontological] basis, + this is Logos, Christ, the word (uttered by God, from which the universe derives): the meta-abstraction: music seen instead of groove; this concept lacks only Teilhard's evolutionary ingredient. Russ speaks of the scattered disparate "Parts" of Christ coming together to form Christ (the loose parts on their own are not Christ). This is pure Teilhard, + this is what "BTA" is all about. + if this is what "BTA" is all about, this is what happened to me in 2-74 to 2-75. This is Teilhard's negentropic converging energy which is antithetical to radial (?) entropic energy (could this be the dialectic?) think my vision is more profound than his (I just now looked him up in the E of Ph), my "meta-abstraction": music to groove. The word as the info basis of the universe, the converging of world-as-info + Bible-as-world, both based -20 on the same archetypal constants. This is, however, an evolution For something to be judged real, they both must see it. (E.g. the apocalyptic supra-temporal con‐ stants; but even more important, functioning in unison + then blending the image they could discern Valis camouflaged, as if by parallaxis. They could discriminate it (Valis) from what it imitated. These two psyches, working in parallel unison, but separate (the way the 2 eyed do) can by a fusion of the 2 somewhat differing images perceive a kind of depth whose nature unlike anything one psyche alone in is can see; so they must remain "DI" may be time as order to see this. It depth, because each sees a different spatiotemporal set. But depth it is of some new unsuspected kind, permitting This is a i all sorts of feature extraction. clearly an anatomical advance (evolu Honary) like being able to see color I'm sure it has to do with the two brain hemispheres. They may be - deliberately out of phase in terms of spatiotemporality There is also this possibility the term "Ditheon" - it may regarding K-21 refer precisely + specifically to Jesus Christ in that he was/contained two natures, hence was "de" + was also God He may be the paradigmatic Ditheon," the man-God; but I am showing the functional outcome of this "DI" nature. It is achieved with each of us exactly a it was achieved with Jesus: the "DI" nature producing the "theon" is half the human one (Jesus) + half the Holy Spirit the adoptionist theory); thus the "person from the past who is resurrected/returns from beyond the grave" is always Christ / the I Holy Spirit (hence from the time of Acts "Ditheon" is, then, a technical term describing the class of entities that Jesus belonged to, + it is definitely "theon (+ certainly "DI" because it contains two natures). In any case the result is Christ, the only question is whether the psyche from ot the past + the "other side" is human divine. I say, the result is divine but the two components are human: the result is Christ (the class of beings into which Jesus Christ fell; I think the term specifically + precisely refers to a Christ, It is not necessary that the adventitious psyche be devine; the combination (result) that emerges out of this is. After all I anamnesis + recovery of the eide were known to Plato before Jesus + probably in 4-22 derived from Pythagorean wisdom. (Did not Pythagoras believe in reincarnation?) These points were absolutely clear from the dream: intrinsic human psyche plus adventitious human psyche produce Ditheon: not just a dual-God-entity but (I think) Christ (the dream was timed to collate with Russ' letter in which the view is put forth that bill plus tim-come-back [resurrected) equals/is Christ). There is one element about the dream that I've failed to notice: the ushering in of the adventitious psyche is due (this is the implication) to some thing the intrinsic "host" human "takes" i.e. does; that is, he causes it or makes way for it: seeks it brings the event about So although it happens to him he is in a as sense responsible; the crucial decision / act 21 his (in the dream he takes a medicine or dri whatever that may signify). So (at the very least) he enters into this voluntarily + know ingly. At the very least he wishes for it wants it, seeks it, + presumably he knows that the result will be Ditheon, because the be package is so marked. So it can't argued that he is an unwilling victim. I am saying that the full abstraction meta-abstraction) is not possible with out the second psyche (bilateral hemis‐ pheric parity: Ditheon). It simpl 23 cannot be achieved by a sole psyche because one psyche cannot see the same object at two times + two places, as I speak of in the 2 postlards I mailed pat it takes the parallaxis of two "staggered" percept-systems + two cognitive systems compared + contrasting their fields; in fact it takes a superfield compounded out of two differing regular fields. Thus the eide (the archetypal constants) are not just intelligibly understood; they are literally perceived (as what is common to both fields); this goes far beyond Plato, for whom the eide were a con ception, a kind of hypothetical generalization. (universals.) One did not see them any more than one sees atoms + electrons today. The 2 psyches must be dys-phased. Here perhaps "Dys" is "Di" from the Greek Dis, "twice. I've got it precisely: not just twice in the sense of doubled (although for the dys-phasing to occur there must of necessity be two psyches) but specifically they must be dys-phased rather than synchronized. + what this permits (as I say) is a completely abstract perception of reality, involving a freedom from the concrete. (this largely involves a restructuring + in a sense abolition of time + causation.) (To fully appreciate this it must be contrasted to machine thinking where time + causation totally rule, are not mitigated by any abstracting.) (The combined field of consciousness in the Ditheon is truly awesome; it may border on the (it is then, analogous to -or partakes of. absolute) the pure self-consciousness of God-hence "Theon." 1-24 course: it does abolish time as we normally construe + experience time; it renders it into something analogous to spatial depth - literally, due to the temporal parallaxis analogous to binocular depth-perception! This is anatomical. as the eyes are located a two different spatial loci the two psyches are located at two different temporal loci, they are dys-phased in time; the eyes in space, regarding both (space + time) a parallaxis occurs, hence one sees set-ground, the can discriminate Valis + the constants + plasmate. The person now possesses two parallaxis: a spatial one (easite achieved) + a temporal one (very hard to achieve), the latter obliterating the fetters call "causation" (substituting "pretextual ( causes") we that this is a species-evolution is now quite clear; one might even speak of a new hence "theow" instead of "anthropos"!) species ( ➀ This would explain the following A) why I told the cops that night "I am a machine"; by this I meant I was waking up to full consciousness + rising above a i lifelong machine status (actually semi-machine.) B) why I reacted to stimuli before they occurred it all derives from temporal parallaxis stemming from [two] dys-phased psyches It is possible that the degree of dys‐ phasing in time need be slight, just as the spatial parallaxis need only be slight. the fact of temporal dysphasing per se may accomplish the job of convert time into depth K-25 the facts is procepsis. But it may involve "Thus not lay - but pre-experience t was able in 3-74 to extract info from the future). On the other hand, what if I were to say, "the 2 psyches, located in one brain, are viewing world from 2 time-periods 2000 years apart, + it turns out to be the same world? now the "one-+-the-same object seen the world at 2 times + 2 places is itself, but not everything in it: true world turns out to consist of certain long-term archetypes concealed in they were is the flux (as are the eide they are present present 2000 years ago + now, essentially unchanged. Working in dys-phased conjunction the Ditheon can discriminate these constants precisely because it (the Ditheon) does have these two vantage-points (temporal parallaxis). This seems to be memory but is not. Note ("my body is either in 2 times + places or it is nowhere at all as I say in "Valis." âž€ It is two simultaneous presents I processed separately + then folussed into one unified field, available to (the common/joint property of) both psyches. spatial parallaxis permits perception (judgment) of distance. Temporal parallaxis permits perception - literal K-26 perception as if - als ob - depth by which saw the age is determined; thus I text of "Tears" at 4 different depths. Like spatial depth. It was depth perception, but not regarding the spatial distance; it was of age supra-temporal archetypal constants because they are everywhere equally in time - would show no depth; they would be set, just as King - Felix was set to ground. They would seem to This is move toward you, not receeding. precisely how you would distinguish a supratemporal constant: it is literally outside of time, so it is not "on" or "along" this axis. This is indeed an eidos, + real in quite another sense than things in time hence at a given depth, the older, the greater depth. Otherwise hidden from this factor arises perception of information. (The plasmate.) Why? It must exist outside of time + is hidden camouflaged) to the solo psyche. Thus a sort of world - within-world can be discriminated, + its info traffic. It is distributed ubiquitously: without regard to time + place; thus the question "where is it?" is meaningless. (as is would this the question, "when is it?" be Torah, which preceded creation itself hence is timeless? Why, indeed it would be exactly as Torah is described. + G-21 is It is not -repeat not - derived from world, concerning reality, but is tself reality + a supra-temporal hyper reality at that. Hence I say in "Valis that contologically speaking) the universe is "really" information: this is true in terms of levels of ab i straction/ontology. It is clear from this that world (universe / creation derives from Torah: Torah is as Logos is - i.e. the word. God utters the word a from it creation derives. + This word is here as structural blue print or plan of substantial world ditheon can see it (+ see it as + primary). (world is involved in time But Torah/the word is not; it is timeless.) This Ditheon relates both perceptually + cognitively to the word basis of creation rather than to creation This is music to groove believe this word to be Christ + the ontological basis of reality from which creation is derived. This King - Felix was, literally, Christ (which is why I