very seriously. "He has been transplanted" would perhaps mean, "to this time-period from the future." I am going back to what I read Russ' letter realized that day I at my s + 2, collated it with my Ditheon refers ditheon dream + "BTA." the specifically + precisely to Christ. books of the Valis trilogy analyze what 3 Christ is, how achieved - for sure - + also possibly pronounce veridical prophecy of his return. But even if this last is not the case, taking the 3 novels as a unitary whole, it is a profound study of the origin of - the so-to-speak making or creating of - Christ + says, as well, what this is divorcing him from the he is historical Jesus but not entirely. Christ the topic of the trilogy, + by the time is you have finished the 3rd + final volume you have seen Christ + know what he is + know how he comes about. All other are tangential. All issues in the trilogy He is present in this trilogy; he is not ty starting wi as just discussed: he is there the child Sophia. One can say, Christ is the character common to all three novels. He is the subject-matter + he is convincing. but there is more. The Ditheon t dream specifically refers to two 297 inter-related things: (1) my 2-3-74 experience; + (2) to "BTA" particu larly the ending, which is based on My experience Item #1 my experience. ) is labeled Ditheon. + (as I say beyond doubt, Ditheon refers precisely + specifically to Christ the true nature of Christ + how achieved. am to understand that in t then 2-3-74 Christ (ditheon) was brought into existence involving me as one half (of the "DI"). Christ was there; Christ was present. This does not mean that I became Christ, more accurately, participated in the bringing together I of the parts needed for Christ to come into existence. Nor does it mean my but mind was invaded by Christ. the resulting combination was is Christ; I know it, + by + large understand how + why because (I think) I understand what the term "Christ" refers to (as expressed by write about Christ, then Ditheon). I from a knowledge there of. Christ was there, in 3-74: set into motion in 2-74. What else do I need to know? He can be recapitulated in 298 ther way involved in 2-3-74; it was successful: "He has been trans‐ planted + is alive, a as the AI voice said, correctly. Apparently created by a combination of two human psyches (but this begs the question of how you get a second, adven t titious psyche into your brain + where it comes from + who it is, if it is the same adventitious psyche in all cases). I don't know but I know the result - + it is in the Valis trology upon the com‐ pletion of "BTA"! The crucial trans‐ formation from "Valis" to "BTA" by way of "DI" is from saw Christ to is Christ (the person whose mind is invaded by Thomas [tim). Christ did not enter me + I did not become Christ; both parts were human + yet Christ resulted: this is why we speak of an alchemical transformation, the chemical wedding, mysterium conunctionis. This is why spiritual alchemy is all about. the arising of something new due to the combining of lower elements, something new + higher - so for the "theon" to make sense in alchemical terms there had to be a "di" to combine; something had to come in to form a mixture, two elements com bining into one ne 299 to say that Ditheon arises as an alchem ical transformation is (1) to say a great deal about Christ - for Ditheon refers to Christ; Ditheon is a hierogamy - + (2) a lot about the true purpose of alchemy. You can take constituents - ingredients - that are themselves mundane + combine them is such a way that the divine (theons results. This is alchemy used for the true spiritual purpose that jung correctly saw as its genuine + covert goal the Valis trilogy deals specifically + with this bringing together of mundane ("Base") elements so they combine to form Gold ("divine" or "noble"). but only when The 3rd book is read ("BTA") can this be understood; one does not see Christ, one is transmuted into Christ (but one is only one part of the compound; this must absolutely be understood!) So I was not Christ; Thomas (whoever he was + wherever he came from) was not Christ but we together were transformed into Christ in the "chemical wedding" of the Hermetic alchemists (which explains why from the very beginning I thought of the Rosy Cross brotherhood). Here is a major point. In my letter to I speak of the android as lacking a Laura soul (in contrast to the authentic human); I speak of angel archer as my soul. This + may relate to 2-3-74; I ceased to be a "Karmic machine - which is why I felt the fetters dissolve" - + (as one + the same transformation) acquired a soul (expressed (300 in + as angel Archer). can one speak of the authentic human, then, as a machine into which a soul has come - or in which a soul has formed or been created - so that he is now ontologically different (in for example ways that Heidegger expresses)? the qualitative difference between android -reflex machine which is programmed, hence enslaved) - + autonomous free human lies precisely in this birth of a soul, what I call "being ensouled something stupendously important is I pointed to, here. am one of the first human thinkers to posit an ontological bifurcation between two physically identical "species" living blended together morphologi i cally identical but crucially qualitatively I mus But different - radically different. now concede or construe that prior to 2-74 was myself a programmed machine, hence I what I call an android: that is pre-human or sub-human or non-human or not yet a human (the "birth from above" as the Christians call it had not yet occurred). the transformation may well be sudden rather than gradual because it involves - i.e. consists of - the ensouling, received or given of birth to. I identify it with a certain king or degree of pure consciousness involving self-awareness in which + by which the person both creates + destroys himself the destruction involves Schopenhauer's t striving, impersonal will which uses the individual for its own collective 301 purposes, under which circumstances the individual is a phantasm, not merely epiphenomenal; it is a locus of the will, a locus that takes its existence to be a fact; + yet this is deceiving (to him + to others). The will strives to fulfill itself through him, + he is misled by it so that he equates his purposes, needs + goals with) as its; but he is nothing to the will + is soon abolished, if indeed it can be said that he ever existed at all. the ensouled individual - the true human - has somehow triumphed over the will (perhaps through a certain level - or kind - of empathy defined as a giving of life - which paradoxically gives him life in the ontological sense, in that he + the will now part company so that he ceases to be a mere expression of it, maintained by it: + for it. Not all this points as much to Buddhist renounceation (Sp) as it does to Xtianity, but it indicates a covert goal + purpose concealed within Xtian ethics. First a clear distinction is made between the true self + the empirical ego N He becomes self-aware in contra distinction to the will which has control of his empirical ego. A true self forms not predicated on the impersonal will + This its relentless subrational strivings. goes far beyond the cessation of passion + the rational: this is the tranquility of something else, not mere stoicism. Freedom is not the from the tyranny of the will the goal; that is only half the story soul is born out of love (agapÄ“), not Here is where out of disinterest. a r K302 quality of concern: involvement rather than withdrawal. Thus the Bodhasat tra emerges: as the key to it all (as at the conclusion of "BTA") only upon the completion of "BTA" am I able to relate my 2-3-74 experience the Valis trilogy to my grand theme of the android + the human - had I not written "BTA" I wouldn't have been able to perceive + articulate + unify + formulate one overall artistic vision subsuming 2-3-74 + also now distinguish I culminating in it. 3 ontological "rates" or levels: android (machine), which is the past; human (the present); I finally Ditheon, Christ (the future). each keyed into one of the 3 ascending levels of Dante's commedia. Android: human:: human: ditheon (Christ). Thus "Valis" is the first hesitant exploration of the Ditheon, just as in "We can build you" I first clumsily com‐ pared + contrasted the android + the human (I see these also as the 3 persons of the trinity (power, wisdom + love) hence the a successive ages of Joachim del Fiore. This o doctrine, then, has revolutionary political implications regarding authority freedom autonomy, programming, etc. + is related to progressive stages of complexity, negentropy, abstraction, change-rate velocity, + information generation + processing, the whole ediface hinging on the notion of 3 successive kinds of time (or more accurately 3 successive versions of causation or change K303 rate velocity expressed qualitatively): (1) cyclic time; (2) linear time; (3) + acausal or synchronous time (which burst in on me in 2-3-74), in which the future impinges on the past as a perturbation in the reality field causing a nullification of efficient cause + an override by retrograde or teleological cause; that is, the future determines the past, rather than the past the future, as if (als ob) time is flowing bookward. At this point biological evolution as such ceases (+ is fulfilled); future levels of biological organization (expressed as levels of self-awareness) impose themselves on earlier, lower, more primitive levels of biological organization - which is as different from linear time as linear time has been to pre-Xtian cyclic time. Evolution so-to-speak now works backward from the end of creation, rather than forward from the beginning. This is Joachim's age of the spirit, the 3rd or final age. our children now create us, rather than us creating our children, biological evolution runs in reverse, as absolute negentropy pitted against entropy; this is best expressed by continual growth of the rate of net yield (production) of information. more + more info progressively arise 304 info has become capable of self as if generation; info behaves as if alive, generating + regenerating itself on the spot ex nihilo - out of nothing, and all things "become" - are ultimately expressed as - information, the final form of reality toward which the universe tends. Thus the level of organization at any given moment in what we call "time" can be expressed best in terms of the amount of info coming into being - how much + how fast its change-rate. This is the key factor: its change-rate (more so than the mere amount; that is, it does not accrue, it permutates, combining + recon bining. I thus define the info of this 3rd evolutionary period as characterized by recombinant information, applicable for one situation regarding one person at one place + time. It has no absolute or abiding applicability (viz: for the first period [of the law or Torah] there were fixed rules, in the second the not there were general conceptual principles amounting to the spirit of the law, the law as letter; is This 3rd period is to the 2nd as