he is not an object but how objects behave in relation to one another (this is both how objects can be information + what this informaion signifies, i.e. the thing signified which cannot be separated from the information (word + writing of the word) that signifies it, unlike human information "which are signs for a thing" + not the thing itself. With God, where the idea, the word + the writing of the word + the object are also there as one unitary "thing". Therefore Christ is present in a macrocosm-microcosm correspondence: (1) in all reality; (2) as scripture wherever it occurs (I utilize the idea expressed e.g. in Matthew -+ which I believe; Paul often refers to this- that all scripture -that is, the O.T. or Torah itself- secretly is an account of Christ, + that this secret nature of Hebrew scripture 63-2013 D-152 was only revealed at the time of the First Advent. In a certain mysterious way, then, the Torah "encloses" like a shell the knowledge of, the story of, Christ, + therefore is Christ (but God concealed this even from the prophets through which he spoke). Thus there is a secret accord between the two testaments.This is why Jesus had power over the law (Torah), not the law (Torah) over him; it is fundamental to Pauline thought that Jesus Christ is master not instrument of the Torah, + this fits with my perception of Jesus that day I read Luke: he possessed unlimited miraculous powers such that reality itself (physical law: the moral law of the Torah + the physical law of the cosmos form a unity, deemed heimarmene by the Gnostics) was under his jurisdiction: it obeyed him as his servant. He revealed himself, even then (before the Resurrection) as Pantocrator. Having died + been resurrected he vanishes into the very reality of which he is master, camouflaging himself (as Eliade discusses) + lives on in + as that reality in a certain mysterious way, especially (as Mani taught) in the innocent vegetable kingdom but by no means limited to it. (He has a special affinity to it because it suffers without causing suffering; it sacrifices itself to feed the animal + human kingdoms.) All this is reported -albeit crudely- 63-2013 63-2013 D-153 in "Valis". World yields up its story (as Eliade puts it) + its story is the life, death, resurrection + then "sinking" into camouflage within world (where he now lives on) by Jesus Christ: world, then, is simultaneously information about Christ (it tells its story) + is Christ by reason -by way of- internal arrangement, especially that of the lowly, the vegetable kingdom (what I call the "trash stratum", or "debris discarded"; Christ entered world, penetrated it + now is camouflaged as it, dispersed throughout it + becoming steadily stronger). Pere Teilhard did not realize that his Point Omega is something known to + understood by numerous primitive tribes, as Eliade points out (although to my knowledge Eliade does not note the connection between the murdered deity who returns to life + then teaches man + then sinks (as it were) into a camouflaged state within plants + the like - (i.e. reality itself)). It is very clear to me that there is an identity between Jesus patibilis + Hainuwele: "For by feeding on the plants + animals that sprang from her body, men actually feed on the very substance of the Dema-divinity" (i.e. Hainuwele). P 106. This point regarding the Manichaean Jesus patibilis escaped me: here is the Eucharist writ large: all men + even all animals feed on him + thus unknowingly re-enact the Eucharist, not in church but out in the world itself! What now seems to me E - 1 Luke - acts tranduced from word mode to object mode but still information: a universe made of information in terms of the internal mutual amazement of the constituents as a Gestalt, a pastiche, a collage. Now, the cardinal topic of Luke - acts is Jesus Christ. How (if at all) does he appear in this Pasticke / Gestalt? He does appear but not in anthropormorphic form; he is camoflaged in [&?] as the total Pastiche/Gestalt, hence cosmic. As information, this universe as Pastiche/ Gestalt read not in a linear manner But as a Gestalt (form) reveals or is or contains him throughout like a steady modulation fed into it. a wave - form ubiquitous in the Gestalt (now construed as a field). This modulation can best be termed "a perturbation [of the reality field]." He is not it but returbs it. Thus if it intrinsically is information he in relation to it is hyper-information; viz: he uses what already is information as a carrier. & this is precisely what I perceived the "plasmate" doing: riding & cooking our information communications Media: hyper-information using information as a modulated carrier (& I identify the plasmate as Christ's blood). This brings up the E - 2 issue of what I term Groove to Music, the conceptual realization by which there is a leak from the former to the latter involving a meta-abstraction. This fn - Christ as Buda & as blood ("plamate") we see no him (he is "music"); we see only - well, to see midulation of the carrier we must first percieve universe per se as information; only then can we discern it as carrier midulated by a hyper-information (Christ); these two leaks are necessary! 1) World must be perceived as information (in terms of the internal arragement & its constituents). 2) Then a pertubation in this field must be noted that reduces, as it were, the information to carrier; that perturbation is hyper-information fed in & traveling throughout in wave-form. This is why we cannot discern Christ as here. Before we could discriminate hime we would first, as a necessary prerequisite, have to see world as such as information. these points are made in "Valis." 1) Universe is stipulated to by [made of] information. 2) Christ penetrates / invades it & camoflages himself in it / as it. Now, these two statments are made at different parts of "Valis" (1) is stated initially, (2) Later but (2) is predicated on E - 3 (1), although when I had the experience in 3-74 & when I wrote the novel in 178 I did not realize that my ability to discriminate the Corpus Christi was - predicated on (1) as a necessary prerequisite laitial meta-abstraction. Yet it is those in "Valis". 1) The universe is information. 2) The Logos (Christ) has invisibly invaded (penetrated) the universe & is camouflaged in it / as it. Therefore Christ is hyper-information that reduces the information-universe to carrier which he modulates (i.e. perturbs). This brings to mind my "protest art" theory: that rogue information has penetrated a prior "official" information-system (this related to my analysis of gnusticism as a "weak transmitter" - but this should read "weak intefering signal" ; the transmitter may be powerful but very far awat). (I conceived of this as combat between two informationsystems, & 4 the Gnostics are right, the true [transmitted] God. What specifically does this invading rogue information system do? It interrupts what I know as the retributive machinery by bilking it with blocking information - & depriving the machinery of the information it requires & it is to act [retributively, i.e. the Lex talioris ]. This is a sabotage & what the E - 4 Gnostics meant by the term heimarmene: a fusion of physical law & the mosaic law (torah) ( which on 11-1-81 I realized do function in fusion / union as the law - regulating, governing & guiding the cosmos as the will of the creator (in Judaism, torah is said to act in this role, so this view of torah is not limited to or original with the Gnostics). It is the intention of the rogue information specifically to nullify this retribution element of the prin information system which, we have seen, foverns the cosmos as physical lay & mind lay acting in unison as necessity. Is this analysis borne out in the Kerygma of the not. Versys the O.T. (torah)? Absolutely. It is the Lex talionis that Jesus Christ specifically overrules. However, for him effectively to ovverrule it, he must also equally overrule physical law, the other component of necessity & in fact this is exactly what I saw Valis doing; infiltrating causality & supplanting efficient cause with what I call pretextual cause - i.e. the effect only seems to follow from its temrnal antecedent, but in fact the effect is the result - not of necessity - but of intelligent decision exercided on the spot (within the system locally). Lader these circumstances the returbatim would strike directly at causality in such a way that a relentless mechanism functioning at a reflextive level would exhibit choice. This would resemble paranoia & miracle but in fact it is closer to escharological adjudication hence justification; it is that which St. Paul E - 5 conceives to be the - n a - cardinal role of christ as sōtēr (Eutηp). What I am saying is that for christ to act as sōtēr he would have to interrupt - physical lay (causation efficient cause) as mush as he would need to interrupt torah (lex tallions); then [Dr?] My recent conception of the total system (both information systems) is monotheistic, but this requires me to view a dialectic in God - perhaps a bifurcation into justice contra mercy (as I say in "D.I."; the idea is to feed mercy into the circuit."). This would be the third epoch [of the torah] in which mery replaces justice. The universe was created out of 22 Hebrew letters ("Sepher Yetzirah") but there is a missing 23rd letter; when this 23rd letter is added, all the negative prohibitions of the torah vanish; several limitation of justice are replaced by mercy and freedom: this is the 3rd shemittah & it is the messianic age. Christ, then, can be construed - as rogue information system - to be the corrected, completed basis of creation in which 23 Hebrew letters replace the 22 originally employed. He is, then, an added, formerly missing letter, & this addition changes everything (from several limitation & justice to freedom & mercy) I construed this as nullifying E - 6 Specifically the lex talions which has to do with punishment in connection with breaking the "thou shalt nots" - the negative prohibitions in torah. Since - this carries over into physical law (causation, efficient cause), what was a mechanical system ("pitiless," as I call it in "D.I.") would become flexible. Able to deal with exceptions: This would require war of describing xting justification. From out standpoint, these exceptions would present an inscautible non-pattern; that is, they would deem - but not in fact be - arbitrary (since a very high order of intelligent judgement wouldd be exercised; viz: a luque - i.e. reason - would be involved, but its pattern would elude our minds. The 23rd letter is not just added on; the torah returns to its jumbled matrix state & then reforms anew: differently. My god - if you add a 23rd letter you get a broader, larger, more comples, higher, more sophisticated system. While new combinations [of letters] would be generated, new kinds of situations would arise (analogous to my meta-abstraction vis-a-vis of normal abstracting. The plasmate is the hyper-information (the 23 letter system) feeding into the old original, mechanical, limited, fossilized 22 letter system. As the blood of Christ, just as Valis is his cosmic body. Thus I can view the combat between the two information systems in terms of Hebrew monotheism - with this E - 7 proviso: the 3rd epoch - the messianic age - is here: freedom & mercy. This a new - of several new - stages / types of human minds arise having a new, higher, more flexible relationship with reality (I of course think of protestation of Beethoven). new