the dream shows, not only as planned but as I planned. My God - this is precisely the explanation of Valis that the Lamptons give in "Valis"! We are in an irreal, changing maze that we built + then fell -or jumped- into; Valis is outside firing clock-timed signals to us to cause us to remember + become aware of folder 90 - 109 folder 90 - 109 G-54 our true situation. Time + space, which rule the maze, are irreal. + Valis is to some extent identified with Christ, + absolutely with the savior prophecized by the AI voice (i.e. Valis' voice in us). I reread the part of "Valis" where the Lamptons explain about us building the maze + then voluntarily entering it, + how Valis is outside firing info at us - why would I dream this one particular explanation (as/in my dream) out of the plethora given in "Valis"? Because the dream even shows precisely how it is that this maze (world) works to trap us. (An explanation not given in "Valis"): That the harder we scrutinize our world in an attempt to understand it (i.e. figure out the situation) the more "real" (convincing, more accurately) world becomes (seems to be: more detailed + articulated) because our perception of it is what generates it, so this is a self-reinforcing self-augmenting feedback - + spurious time increases with two results: (1) we are stuck here longer, approaching infinity as a limit; + (2) the AI voice's messages since they -it- come from outside, RET, become from our standpoint farther + farther apart (which fits with, "He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed"). Now, this is (1) why the AI voice predicts a savior coming here; + (2) why a savior must come here from outside, since we are trapped in a self-reinforcing loop -a true Chinese finger trap- which means that our "taped instructions recalling to us the truth" mechanism has failed (because of time dislocation here). So I was right during Holy Week re time: time equals thrall (+ space equals freedom); folder 90 - 110 folder 90 - 110 G-55 hence when time turns into space we are freed in direct proportion. But when space turns into time (my God, when we flee from time; another Chinese finger trap!) we are proportionately more trapped. So I have detected two Chinese finger traps: (1) The more you scrutinize / study / analyze / perceive world in order to figure it out, + hence your situation + by implication what you should do (i.e. the solution to the problem / maze) the more "real" world (or "world") becomes - i.e. the more compelling power it has over you (since you yourself are involuntarily + unknowingly creating it by your very act of perceiving it). (2) On the other hand, if you flee world (move away or try to move away from it, evade it, i.e. run) you convert space into time, spurious time, with infinity as a limit; so the longer you are here. What does this leave? Study world + it assumes more detail, articulation + power (over you). Avoid + evade world, + spurious time converts itself out of space, so you are progressively here longer. Prognosis: Ultimately an infinitely compelling (convincing) world existing for an infinitely long time - two axes of infinite thrall! Solution: Anamnesis. This will work only briefly, i.e. temporarily; then world will begin to reassert itself. Transplantation of the savior here into this [lower] realm from outside. Yes. But our spurious time is dilating with infinite extension (dilation) as a limit; i.e. it will take an infinite period for the savior to folder 90 - 111 G-56 get here. (Zeno's frog in the well paradox.) However, the savior possesses infinite wisdom. Can he outwit the twin thrall-infinities of the maze? He would have to anticipate the situation + act before we fell into the maze, + in fact this is precisely what Paul in his letter says in the case; it was God's plan from the beginning (put another way, no salvation planned after the Fall can, due to the two thrall-infinities, work. + I saw during my vision of the dialectic that the wise horn (Christ) did make a small but real initial move before Satan was granted total power. Verdict: Christ will outwit Satan. We shall be saved. His infinite wisdom (God's) will outwit the twin thrall-infinities of Satan, infinite power expressed as world + time. Evidence: 2-3-74, the AI voice, my 10 volume meta novel culminating in "Frozen Journey" + "Valis." They prove that spurious time has failed to dilate to infinity (some real time -RET- passes) + world's power to compel our assent is still finite (I saw through it in 2-3-74). Advice: Trust absolutely in Christ, that he will save us; + not try to flee. Summa evidence: The AI voice [finally] said, "The time you've waited for has come. The work is complete; the final world is here. He has been transplanted + is alive." That means that time cannot now out-dilate the salvific plan; it is too late: The savior has been reintroduced before time dilated to infinity, + folder 90 - 112 folder 90 - 112 G-57 world acquired absolute power to compel assent (at all times + places). Final evidence: My 3-18-81 dream: the Parousia is [already] here. The soteriological plan, by reason of God's infinite a priori wisdom, succeeded. The above resume', ostensibly based on the dream (which in turn derives from "Valis" or else both derive from a common source) combines in fact a number of revelations + satoris - for example my "chains ... web" insight about evasion generating more + more inauthentic enthralling time. But the real source is the AI voice. We, here in the maze, cannot by our own efforts break the maze + get out because the maze "is alive" + changes - it is axiomatically always one jump ahead of it, since the harder we try to figure the maze out, the faster we ourselves build (improve) it. It derives its power from our efforts to understand it. Yet, retreat from it results in our thrall from another axis: spurious time. If we should remember (i.e. experience anamnesis) it will be temporary; we will then reperform the original Fall - + this is infinitely painful because then we will know what we have had + lost (God) (the only mercy being forgetfulness of this, i.e. that amnesia includes forgetfulness of what we once had (God), which is why "Willows" so upset me). As I see it, the only way the twin infinities of the maze could be defeated would be by the introduction of something at the beginning, already here in the maze but camouflaged; nothing can actually enter from outside (once the maze process gets started). Therefore it follows logically that Christ has been here from the start, folder 90 - 113 folder 90 - 113 G-58 introduced in a disguised or camouflaged form: here (i.e. in the maze) + yet somehow not here. As if God has himself made use of a paradox. (This would explain the secrecy theme in the Gospels.) Christ entered in a disguised form, +, I reason, must somehow not really have left [the maze]. The forces of darkness were, therefore, tricked back at the first advent. That's interesting, because in "Valis" the plasmate is identified as Christ / the Logos, + it is explicitly stated that it has slumbered in dormant form from the time of Acts on - so "Valis" says that Christ encoded himself as [living] information that 2000 years later got dug up + read, + this is how it reasserts + replicates itself (after its 2000 years of dormancy). The forces of darkness, not possessing absolute a priori knowledge (such as the wise horn -Christ- has), would be tricked + would presume a second invasion from the upper realm, + this would not work because of time dilation. To repeat, Christ could not re-enter (because of time dilation); he would have to never have left but yet seem to have, + this is precisely what I stipulate in "Valis"! He would have to invade from inside the maze. Then the whole concept of a second in-breaking (as discussed in "Valis" + as explicitly stated in "DI" is a red herring; the real work would have to be from within, as partisan activity - at the center of the BIP. He would have to arise ex nihilo spontaneously. That means that even he himself would have to be occluded to his own purpose + identity. His only clue would be (1) supernatural intervention at crucial times; (2) access to supernatural revelation; but with no antecedents in the person - disinhibited as if out of nowhere. folder 90 - 114 folder 90 - 114 G-59 There would have to be some way there could be a causeless spontaneous ex nihilo coming into being, a true miracle which would absolutely show no history in the person involved. Some kind of pre-synchronization a la occasionalism would be involved, a coming together from pre-synchronized constituents assembled -literally- from elements within the maze. Yes: all the constituents would be -would have to be- in the maze, preprogrammed from the beginning set to fire at a certain time + place: it would simulate intervention from outside, but in fact it would be clock-timed. When I saw the dialectic I saw how this works. Like (als ob) synchronicity. So I am saying, "only something coming into the maze from outside will work." Satan counters: "Nothing can come into the maze (due to dilation of spurious time)." God doesn't counter; God already countered from the start: the intervention from outside is, paradoxically, in the maze, but disassembled until the right moment + so kept hidden. Thus all the time dilation -even an infinite amount- will not suffice. The savior is here, already here, has been here, yet not here; all that was required was confluence (assembly). There is some slight-of-hand, here, by the wise horn, based on its a priori knowledge. Something related to pretextual cause. The material is intrinsic + just signalled when to fire. This is why in 3-74 I would perceive pretextual cause as such. I have been operating in synch + by means of synch, with pretextual folder 90 - 115 folder 90 - 115 G-60 "cause" seeming to produce the "effects" involved, as if (als ob) everything I've done had an actual cause, + in a sense it did, but not the ostensible one. It was fed in at the beginning, synchronized, timed to fire; not caused when it happened but works like one of Leibnitz' monads! Everything intrinsic to it, unfolding (it could have done just as well solus, in a vacuum) + this precisely in what I have become aware of. This is what has fascinated me. Something very unusual is pointed to; I had thought, "this is how reality actually works" - but I may be a special case (I mean, true causality may be normally the case. My situation may be an anomaly. Simulating normal causality. So when I perceive occasionalism -pretextual cause- I may see only that which pertains to me. As I told sgt Kelly, "I am a machine." Then my perception of Valis -of what I called "pretextual causes"- is of stupendous importance, + it is related to engramming / pre-programming. There is terrididdle involved here; someone is being fooled; how widespread is this? Is the whole world run this way? Does this have epistemological significance, or does it just apply to me? What is Valis that I saw? There are only 2 possibilities: 1) Occasionalism. But you can't see occasionalism; if you could, fast shutter cameras would pick it up. Fuck; the whole set-ground. What is this? It goes back to the covert message-traffic riding our media. I give up. There simply is