My analysis: everything we see is a 180° mirror opposite of the truth. The ostensible "king" is not only not the true king, he also has no actual power: despite appearances folder 55 - 020 folder 55 - 020 L-19 his power is illusory. All true power belongs to the "fool" who is the true king (vide "The Bacchae"). This is all some sort of play -- which "Hamlet" very clearly alludes to. We are to guess the riddle: who is the true king? (And hence who really rules, i.e. who has power?). This strikes me as some sort of religious pageant or initiatory rite or ritual into a hidden truth deliberately concealed from the many. Only what are called "the elect" are let in on the true state of affairs. Who, then, qualifies as one of "the elect"? Perhaps one who before (i.e. without) knowing the truth, reveals his own true nature; that is, faced with a moral choice, even though he is deliberately misled as to the actual situation -- that is, who holds power, who does not -- he chooses correctly nonetheless. Once he has so chosen, the masks are dropped and the true state of affairs is revealed to him. Power -- awesome and absolute -- belongs to the "fool"; contrarily, the power of the pretend king is illusory: he only has seemed to possess the power to compel and punish. What the person has in effect done is test this ostensible power to compel and punish, by this correct moral choice. If this analysis is correct, our world is in fact the Zoroastrian sifting bridge folder 55 - 021 L-20 or Ma'at and her feather. It is the dividing of the souls between the saved and the damned; viz.: "the court sat, and the books were opened" -- which is to say, were reality seen clearly -- when and if it is seen as it truly is -- it is the apocalypse (Daniel, Revelation) here and now, but hidden, disguised. Hence, when the masks drop, the apocalyptic world of Daniel/Revelation is suddenly revealed to sight. King. Throne. What does this suggest in Xtian religious terms? Daniel and Revelation: the Ancient of Days, the eschatological judging. And does the Ancient of Days appear in "Tears"? Yes: in the dream. So the solution is: our world is cryptically (stegenographically) an unending apocalypse, specifically the eschatological judging. And this is exactly what I saw (comprehended) in 2-3-74. (What I call the "Acts" world.) Christ, then, is somehow present, for it is he who judges. Did I see him in 3-74? Yes: as Valis. Is he in "Tears"? Yes, as the cypher, which is his living blood, the "plasmate." Did I myself in fact perform a crucial right act, a specifically moral act? I am told yes: my giving to Covenant House for the reasons I did. And what did this result in? The revelation of (1) the actual but hidden situation (i.e. folder 55 - 022 folder 55 - 022 L-21 the masks were dropped) and an awesome display of the power, presence, the pronoia, of God, which saved me. I even saw my name entered in the Book of Life: the Lamb's Book. And my actual literal physical life was long-extended; that is, the power of fate over me was broken, and I was given life instead of death, health instead of illness. I have known since 3-74 that the truth about 3-74 lay in "Tears"; I think that at last I have figured it out. There is a secret and invisible kingdom here, 180° opposite to the ostensible world (what I call "coaxial realities working off a common essence") and it holds the true power. Those who are judged to be Christ's sheep are transferred there, as I was (what I call the PTG vs. the BIP). The cypher in Psalm 46 is part of the covert info traffic of this "other" coaxial kingdom coexisting with the ostensible one. As I say, it is a court. And it judges. The white-haired old king on horseback in the dream in "Tears" is indubitably the eschatological judge. And he holds the keys to life and to death. Restudied, the 2-74 meta-abstraction was not only an ultra cognitive act that led to a perception of the actual situation (in 3-74) but a full and utter perception of the two coaxial worlds right then and there -- in one sudden total leap. folder 55 - 023 folder 55 - 023 L-22 I saw that two 180° opposite worlds could coexist in the same space-time but that in fact they did -- and more. I perceived the nature of the secret ones, opposite to the ostensible one. With all the value-signs reversed. This is the "realized eschatology["] of John, I guess. Well, there is no getting around it; Christ has returned; the Parousia is here. And this is the topic -- the common element -- of all 3 books of the Valis trilogy. He is here; he rules; he judges -- and we don't see it because (as I say) there are the two (coaxial) worlds. And although he judges in this world, he rules visibly only in the other; here, in this one, we cannot distinguish him as I did; I saw him camouflaged. And transubstantiating the universe invisibly into himself. And -- I said so, in Valis"? Hence the statements by the AI voice, esp. the mention of St. Sophia. It all fits together, now: and it is the apocalypse. Oh Dio -- I just put together several extraordinary theological ideas. On 11-1 when I had that psychotic anxiety and had to have Tess and Christopher come over -- I realized then that hell consisted of a state of absolute self-awareness of what you had done -- forever; that is, you accused yourself and found yourself guilty -- and then had to live with and as that guilty folder 55 - 024 folder 55 - 024 self forever. Last night I dreamed about Harlan Ellison and realized that about him: he'd have to exist throughout all eternity with and as Harlan Ellison. But now, suddenly, the significance of justification occurs to me; in the light of the above it assumes the absolute quality that Paul and the Reformers assigned to it. Justification is, as it were, the sole, the real, solution to -- the saving you from -- hell, precisely as Paul and the Reformers taught. Since hell as a state is absolute, and justification is absolute. Well, this idea is not new or original but, rather, my first understanding of sin, hell, salvation, grace and justification! As orthodoxy regards all these. Justification saves the person who otherwise is doomed; he does not save himself (e.g. by good works): the power to save lies in God. Thus, if indeed it is the case that in 2-3-74 I was justified, then though my own conscience accuse me, I am not merely called justified but am, through God (God's grace) saved in fact -- I mean, justified in fact; I am changed through Christ. Jesus Christ, then, is paradigmatic of the saved/justified person, who was often called by the Reformers "a Christ" and I think correctly: it is almost a technical term, not just a compliment. So much more than pronoia and astral determinism was involved in 2-3-74; they were, but far beyond that lay justification stemming from the same source: charis: God's saving grace. If we are indeed here in this world, as I suspect, to be fashioned and shaped, to folder 55 - 025 folder 55 - 025 L-24 become (our einai established forever) then justification is the finishing of this, the sudden perfecting, and is the logical outcome of what we are here for. God has judged, closed the books; the person has been made by God acceptable, in the twinkling of an eye. Now my statement that "PKD now (12-81) is very much what Thomas was in 3-74["] suddenly tells me that it is all okay: Thomas was my justified, perfected self, and thus I evolve (thank God!) toward becoming him more and more: he was the future. I do not believe that, once God has justified you, you can fall from that state, for it would mean God had erred. Since you are justified by God and not by your own good works, it follows that you can neither acquire nor lose that state by what you do. God has pronounced you justified and the books are closed. To think that justification by God through grace can be temporary or provisional is profoundly to misunderstand the absolute nature of justification. It is, then, in a sense to reject it and to reject, then, God. It was not acquired by merit; it cannot be lost by lack of merit. It is divine and total and everlasting; it is eschatological judgment and that is, by definition, the last judgment, as Paul calls it, "the last trumpet." And I did see the world as the apocalypse, which serves to verify this contention. Time for me fulfilled itself in the form of eschatological judgment; I saw my name entered in the Lamb's Book of Life. Those entries are eternal. folder 55 - 026 L-25 I guess this is why I saw world as the apocalypse: because I was under eschatological judgment. The two go together, are indeed one: judgment (justification) and the end times. I never realized this before. I think my realization, here, that the justification -- being the eschatological judgment -- and my seeing the world as the apocalypse are two halves of a single whole -- this is the utter comprehension of 2-3-74: the end times. Hence the Parousia: Christ as eschatological judge, as time, for me, speeded up to infinity and then ran out, my name entered in the Lamb's Book of Life, everything: realized eschatology, as in the Fourth Gospel. To speak, then, of justification without the apocalypse, or the apocalypse without the eschatological judgment (justification) and Christ as the judge -- all parts must be understood. Yes, it is absolute, final judgment and cannot be reversed, added to or taken away from. Hence the crucial statement by the AI voice, "you have been adopted" plus the mention of my giving to Covenant House. It all adds up and it all makes sense and it all is based on charis: God's grace. I know what I saw and, more importantly, why (the "why" is the justification, and this in turn is linked to pronoia). Then when the bedroom lit up with the pale white light everywhere -- Death came for me, but Christ in the form of Pinky sacrificed himself in my place, and I was spared. This is why I saw Pinky as the crucified Christ. folder 55 - 027 folder 55 - 027 L-26 He was the paschal lamb offered, to avert the angel of Death: Passover re-enacted, to save my physical life. So this, too, in addition to my spiritual salvation was involved. “The good shepherd lays down his life for his sheep.” I just had a revelation (4:00 a.m.). The old usurper King [a reni] has cast a spell upn the land that serves to hide from the people the real (true) situation: that he is not the rightful king; that they are in a prison folder 55 - 028 folder 55 - 028 L-27 ideally, the young stranger (sic! "The Bacchae") will destroy + depose the old pretender (usurper), but on the other hand he may not may himself be murdered. Or they may both die. what is important is: a vast deception is pointed to by the arrival in the Kingdom (from a point outside) by the your man, + everything else is subor dinate to this fact; his arrival is indication of this fraud, this spurious reality, this spell. Thus his very presence is indicative of a vast mystery + deception that be knows of + that the