for you done for you, but this is not limited to Xtianity. To repeat: this belief would not be normal faith; it would be a form of ultra realization of anamnesis: in short, the meta t I it 241 it would amount to the lightning swift in-breaking of a comprehension cognitively, based on perception, that the time of Acts (or the Gospels) is indeed now + is indeed here - literally now + literally here. This is called "Pistis" faith but we do not understand the cognitive basis of this; it amounts to awareness + knowledge, not assent to doctrine. Heidegger shows that this fall from being Logos (at the time of Parmenides) to having Logos (at the time of aristotle) was disasterous + the true Fall; noein + einai were take it then that my sundered. I meta-abstraction reversed this split in me + "brought the lost Gods mr. back," as Heidegger puts it. Plato, meet Mo. Heidegger. Plato was the last philosopher before the Fall Hence Xtian Platonism is the key to my 2-3-74 experience, in which the Fall was reversed; + the key is the power + activity of Logos, which is absolute reason (or noein) centered as your einai + world's as well. have two reasons for believing I that Plato's Form theory is true. the 2-74 meta-abstraction I c (7) My glimpse of the MMSK. But 242 interestingly there is a 3rd + perhaps even more compelling reason; in any case it should be considered. in "Ubik" I figured out that (1) II the past is somehow really Plato's Form here now, but latent, theory would explain it; or, put another way, (2) If Plato's Form theory is true, the past is really here in some latent sense. Thus I had the pieces swimming around in my mind years before 2-74, all that was necessary was (as I very recently realized) to see that my theorizing applied to actual reality; i.e. it was veridical, not just hypothetical, + if it applied, of all necessary ramifications it applied - + I had worked the main ones out in writing "Ubik." the meta-abstraction, then, was the lightning-swift realization that body of metaphysics this vast in my mind had floating around just now (2-74) been proved true; which is crucial, as anselm; onto‐ logical proof of God shows: it is but it can't be good theory a t to reality. Thus in t shown to apply defined as a sense "reality" is K243 which system of a number of compet possible, theoretical systems is the right one, with "right one" carrying as a concept such weight as to be absolute, not relative is for once this unique system distinguished it exists in a way that the others do not, + upon this distinction all knowledge + all life depend; we are constructed so as to see the utter + absolute t distinition between "does not apply the brain locks I + "Does apply onto this differentiation with boundless avidity, for upon this depends its physical survival in a world that plans ultimately I am saying, then, to annihilate it that the meta-abstraction was primarily a recognition that the Platonism of "Ubik" was true; the Forms exist + the past is latently here in the present (the latter pointing to the former) + only secondarily that Xtianity was true. It was my own theoretical system expressed in "Ubik" that was verified, +, as I have discerned re the meta K244 abstraction that had to do with (1) the latent survival of the past here in the present (2) by reason of Plato's Form theory amended by but my Form-axis concept. logically following came the equally valid realization that Xtianity was true, because the past involved was specifically apostolic Xtian - but the not the time of Christ time following Christ, of the hidden, illegal, infant church. Thus entered the dream time, but, as I not just reperformance of say t I a sacrament was involved but the essential absolute conviction which stemored from my earlier - theorizing in my 10 volume meta‐ novel, with emphasis on "Ubik i but did not "Ubik" really sum up all my epistemological theorizing, of decades? + suddenly saw it to be true. It applied. I my brain locked onto it, + soon + (a month later) found it verified. This a metaphysics no one but me holds, is these days, with some aspects being genuinely original. Thus there is no sharp break between my 10 volume meta novels epistemology + 2-3-74; the latter K245 permitted me to verify + apply it, in particular the Platonism of "Ubik." all the but underlying "Ubik" + other works of my opus there must be a core-system only imperfectly instantiated in the writing, only imperfectly articulated - something to do with plural worlds, something to do with the mind both creating then after a lay perceiving the very + world it has created. (+ not relog‐ nizing world as its own unique product.) Whatever core system it that I hold, 2-74 verified it, is + the very feedback loop between creating + perceiving that I posit was set in motion ("world as prior thought-formations, "Tibetian Book of the dead," etc). I proved my epistemology right - + yet still cannot really verbalize it, even after totally verifying it. But it does (it would seem) have to do with the eide, + the phenomenal world being only semi-real + derived. my glimpse of true reality in 3-74 more me a lot, but it was told puzzling than explanatory. There is a macromind + we are in it, + its thoughts take physical Form K241 I just dont know, but: it thinks + it is alive. + it has the power to compel our assent (to what we take to be reality) a la the Cartesians. The last word may have been sase by Malebranche modified now by quantum mechanics Brahmanism. Each of us is in a + single field with all reality - + we are not the prime mover (mind) of that the task is to approach that field. primary mind + discourse - share thoughts with it - + this (I feel) is exactly mein what I have done - I Valis, its relation to us + to world is exactly as depicted in "Maze of death" âž€ + this leads to "Frozen Journey" which is based in Lem's analysis of "Ubik"!! âž€ The ship's computer. My current feeling is that there exists here in our simulated world a constituent "from outside" in Lem's sense, "uncanno one-way intrusion" like Runciter's helpful messages; + it is the Bible. His message, reveal to theire the truth, +, I think, This is what the Bible does: as I realized the night I read like. The AI voice likewise. As spirit of the Bible, K247 which wrote the Acts material into "Tears"! the AI voice is from outside, just as "perturbation in the reality field" is from outside. There is an outside + - it exists in our world as info as a book, but more primarily info the ultimate significance that is alives of my "Ubik" the retical system locking into reality is the paragraph at the start of the last chapter in "Ubik," which as fitting noted is based on JN1. Actually it is also based on YHWH's theophany at Mt Sinai (I am). the two are blended into one, but clearly the spirit (God) of the Bible is what Ubik is, + when I wrote it I knew (1) the name that no one knows") it that is, it is the God whose name is never spoken + that is YHWH will add one final note (6:30 am). I according to my epistemology, world is somewhat psychomorphic; it adapts + adjusts to your conception of what would be real (i.e. what would most likely compel your individual assent). Thus the macro‐ mind is not really like Ubik; it take) This form because this is my conceptual system. This is more likely than that in "Ubik" I figured out the true nature of (248 absolute reality (how did I do so?) 2-74 caused me to flash on the veridical applicability of much of my system - my acosmism. The plural individual self-generating worlds - + so I induced a very unusual dysfunction or else the macro-mind sought to aid me, or think I realized something both rother startling + primary about the + time in my meta-abstraction past nonetheless; Valis is an accommoda of + to my unique preconceptions to x extent. I make Valis as much as I perceive it - according to my own epistemology, + also - according to that very same epistemology Valis is as real as things get. So unconsciously may have taken advantage of my "create + their perceive" system, once I knew for a fact that it was true, I partici pated in the generation of a Ubik like entity to rescue me. But its rescued of me was real as real as world. But in my system that is not very real + i may then. be manipu lating my own reality field perturbing it 9249 myself. The AI voice then, may be the only thing from outside - it + the Bible. But Valis may be my creation or at least a modification of "true reality to conform to what I would most want + most believe; after all, I am in a reward part of my cycle. bout there is another possibility + it is pointed to by "Ubik": it is that I (+ perhaps all humans) possess an innate knowledge of God - in the sense of Cartesian rationalism: innate latent categories - but this remains only theoretical - that is it does not link up to the real world - until + unless the proper stimulus occurs. My innate idea of God is (as is found in "Ubik") Platonist + is the meta-abstraction, conceived but never verified, so it remains unapplied except in the fictional aren of my writing note. "They no longer move into the future. - the androids, the ossified dead ends they are not actually in linear time but in the pre-incarnation dead, unmoving, cyclic machine time (since time is not real, only change + change-rate velocity is real; then do not change; they have no change-rate velocity; so for them time has stopped). Beethoven, in + by his evolving music, each stage of which surmounts all the previous stages, is a developing biological 250 organism + is in true cumulative time, the time in + by which the MMSK works (as I saw). There are not just changes + change-rate but specifically cumulative change, evolutionary change, t a very special kind of change, which mus by necessity yield a very special kind of time. Now, the other side of saying this is cumulative change + cumulative time (by which the MMSK works) is to say that in it at any given stage all its previous stages are retained as in my Platonic Form axis, because any given stage represents a furthering of the sum totality of all the previous stages + develops (evolves) logically out of them (rather than merely being new different arbitrary). All the previous stages give birth to the present - new-stage in an organic sense; this is an inexorable growth-process that makes of all the stages an unfolding unity driven from withing as if everything - all stages - were always already there from the start in a potential sense (for example, if you absolutely under. stood the logic you could theoretically predict at any given stage - or moment what the next stage would consist of because what will be lies in + emerges inexorably from the what is + what has been). So inner logical necessity drives this organism forward in time, through its growth stages, its evolution, Thus for K250 it time is a particular