but rise back.) It seems to me that anamnesis (actually experienced, with perceptual awareness of the Real Presence, etc.) must be the last stage or nearly so in a long chain which is ultrapersonal. It must mean --not that I am unusual-- but that the Parousia have indeed begun. Anamnesis such as mine must be the pay-off stage. What follows now is immediately tied to it (see "Message," the adversities which shape, the fruits of the harvest shaped, etc.). ("Message" suggests that God selects those who have proved fit, who have survived a lot. I have felt I underwent a lot, like Prince Tamino in "The Magic Flute," and that if I survived (chose well) then finally (vide my dream in Vancouver) the darkness would lift and I would understand...but this would only come at the end; when it was all over. I also believed that the Dark-Haired Girl would show up, at the end; either her or death. The Messenger. What I experienced was not so much an acausal timelessness, but cause operating along "spacial" lines, that is, simultaneous causes, rather than moving along before-after temporal lines. It is as if I saw causes, mutually interacting, manifest (the jungle gym model of the universe). All which produced effects (i.e. all causes) were present and perceptible. All reality lay in the present, the Augenblick. There was still cause; this wasn't acausality, like synchronicity. It was almost a pushrod system, except that much was done through signalling. It was an intricate series of mutually adjusting elements producing together a harmony. It was all mutual and reciprocal. This vision of all causes that are real being actually present is quite different from the idea that causes lie in the past (prior to effect). My universe was like a complicated engine. Where are the pressures coming from within an engine? From the past? No, from other parts of the engine. I guess I am saying, I saw cause and effect as real, but all operating in the present, in the [?] [M]indkowski block universe, perhaps. Time has nothing to do with it (time rendered maybe into space, as befits the [K]indoswski block universe). What I saw had more to do with stimulation and pressure, but still the term "cause" is a proper one to describe that which signalled or pressed. There was still action on. That which acted; that which was acted on, giver (doner) and receiver. Time might be viewed as nothing more than a lag, with no special or important significance (as, when I mail you a check and it takes 5 days for the letter to get to you, and more days for the check to clear, etc. That's time, a bunch of lags, almost weaknesses, to be overcome. I nuisance, at most? Real but like friction or heat-loss: limitation and problem, not reality. The Hopi nontime view of the manifest and the manifesting -- my onion ring universe, maybe. Hypnogogic thoughts: 3 74: "Realized I was God, ala "Faith of Our Fathers." No, advanced up out of the game for a moment." Fully awake; this refers to the Zoroastrian two-person game I saw, makes sense; the Xerox letter, my response, this is what is referred to. I had been within the game, taking the game (and game-playing) as reality. The level I rose up out of, the game, equals the whole Xerox business, which I've never seen before; also, possession, by the Holy Spirit, equals rising up out of the game (for an interval). That was a clear victory over the infusing particles of darkness. (Which are in me, as well as in everything else. Triumph was internal as well as ex[e]stential.) It is not "possession," then, but waking from the game and the playing of the game; person immeshed entirely in role of player, with no awareness of any other reality or identity. The arrival of the Xerox made me aware that the game existed, made me conscious of the game, that "reality" was/is a game, between vast forces mostly obscured. I saw the world qua game, and was then liberated from seeing it any other way (i.e. I saw it correctly, for what it actually is). I understood the mechanism of what I saw and was involved in, the transcendent aspect (sub specia aeternitatis). To see is to be released, although one must still act (i.e. make ones move, although now consciously making a move in a game, to defeat an invisible counterplayer) I distinguished the paradigm; it wasn't so much that God came to me but that the blinders ceased to blind. Probably at no other time had I ever been so solidly locked into the game and move against; seeing it coming, I began to disinhibit (the phosphene activity) to prepare only because I could properly discern it as such, and make use of it. It attempted to camo[l]flage itself, but failed to do so; it didn't blend. Thus I became aware of it as piece in pattern, hence of whole pattern, since it could now really be an isolated thing; it pointed to an entire network of which it was representative (an accurate a sampling, although involuntarily so). Thus by revealing itself, evil destroyed itself (it had too much "bulk" to remain camoflaged any longer). Thus we can see the purpose served by the stage, in the Parousia, when evil is no longer restrained but can advance at will; it thereby exposes itself to the light, and those who are against it can discern it, finally. This so stengthens them that its defeat is forthwith assured. (It is identified with the Lie and shuns the light of day.) This really is a prime discovery, because it vitally assists me in understanding "Why me?" It has to do with my commitment to and involvement with The Game. This was not withdrawn, contemplative or mediative state, which produced this, but myself as homo ludens -- and awareness of myself as homo ludens. Zoroaster was right; we are most in deadly earnest. To be aware of it, to raise above it, is to see how serious it is. I, when aware, was even more --in fact totally-- involved[.] I saw/see the world as battleground, and myself as soldier devoted to truth, justice, freedom, joy. . . . The Rome which I saw in 3 74 was like the world of FLOW MY TEARS. But that is like GULOG. Did I see Gulog, then, in 3 74? The "Rome" tyranny is soviet and it is here? (How could what I saw be all there things? Roma circa 45 AD, Gulog, TEARS? Somehow they are the same -- in essence, in ontology, not accidentals. Was what I saw not a domestic tyranny, or rather, our domestic tyranny --I mean the Nixon regime-- was it in fact soviet? After all, the immediate threat to me was Soviet...I mean, the immediate threat was Nixon CIA anti-soviet[,] I mean both. I mean I saw them as the same. Another case of "either A or not-A" transcended, a sort of evil version of the "Secret Partnership," in which that which is absolutely opposed here is together as partners in the next level up, and you see the latter suddenly instead of the former. Glak. That certainly makes TEARS a remarkable book: it present a true picture of the essence of the US, a police state, but the paradigm is obviously not anti-soviet but soviet. What are we to make of this? US imperialism and soviet leftest tyranny are twin branches from the same tree, and that tree's name is Imperial Rome. Tweedledum and Tweedledee. (The archetypal from is identical for both.) (Thus in my dream I see Agent Payne as soviet KGB cop.) You have to strip away all the accretions, get it back to Roma c 45 AD to see the ontological identity. Wow, what a realization! No wonder I kicked ass re both groups. No wonder I feel the same way toward both soviet and US fuzz. Well, this always was at work in producing my worldview in 3 74, the fact that TEARS had just been released. I waited for the stealthy enemy to surface; he did: as the US Army (the 232 copies of TEARS they bought) and the Xerox KGB letter. I had to pass retrograde layer after layer to receive an outright vision of this, that I could then understand (i.e. understand what I had written & its meaning). The real meaning: Imperial Rome is back -- back here, back in the USSR. The true enemy is this, and our friend is the same Friend: the Christian underground, which is why I sent that $5. This is the what that I saw; the Who [W]hich showed it to me is God Himself (the Logos) (the Savior). But there was for sure a second vision one year later: positive: "Santa Sophia will be reborn; she was nor acceptable before." And the beautiful Levantime scene of palm trees and open places, and Springtime (ending with the dythramb and Rightful King returning). ... I have the feeling that Dionysos is the patron god of all small creatures who’ve fallen into the snare (of THE BACCHAE). (Of my dream of being in the cage, hissing, the flying snakes darting at me who am trapped.) But wheras Jesus might rescue (somehow) the drapped animal/person, Dionysos would like to lure in to its destruction the layer-of-this-snare (and be victorious over him; of. THE BACCHAE). (“what is joy? To [nolo] the hand of victory over the enemy,” etc.) In one of the books I’ve been reading, about mediums... someone askes the spirits if they are real or just in her head; they answer, “Both.” Again, this transcends the “A or not-A.” Dichotomizing. Here with Dionysos, it would go, “Is it fully Dionysos who showed up, or only my idea of him?” and the answer would be, “Both.” The Neoplatonist (yes? no?) theory that the gods were what is it? [?] or something? Send by the Immanent Mind to assist men? E.G. Apollo, Dionysos, intermediaries or guides of the Total God. ... I had a difficult & complex intellectual model insight last night. Back to my “loaded” insight: there stands Christ; there stand a very large number of persons rapidly sketching him. We are the sketches. We can’t see the model, Christ, “in whose style we are all drawn.” It came into my head last night that every now and then one of us —the sketches— reaches the so-to-speak Christ point, something like a liquid being heated reaching flashpoint. Then I remembered what Angus Taylor points out about my story “Pay of the Printer” in which there are 3 elements: (one) the [?] [?] [?] glass. (two) the fucked-up sketches of it which the printer must make. (three) the still clumbsy but on-the-right-path [?] cups which people are building using the [?] [?] [?] — which is concealed from their sight, wrapped up and put away; otherwise, they’d merely sketch or print it: capture the mere appearance [?] mere copy. This way, knowing that the Steuben cup exists, [?] must merely go by recall of it, and the result is that “A million paths,” so to speak, open as they seek different ways by which to capture the only glimpsed goal (or Platonic ideal). Well, I hazard this different thought: we are merely like (three) than (two). Thus we take quite different forms... proof we’re not merely copied. Then I remembered the Gnostic story of the creator angels copying man, but being unable to make their copies good enough; the copies wouldn’t come to life, and out of mercy God brought them to life. What we seem to have going is a system to promote the diversification of the ontology of Christ into as many Varient forms as can be produced (the “open market,” so to speak). The advantages are mainly this, that virtually anything, anyone or any object, can be built (three-system supre) until