make swift judgment the moment he resumed Kingship. If anyone objects to God's desire to have as many people as possible fir for acceptance when judgement came -- that is an odd objection, and makes the judgment a sort of end in itself, which it is not. It is as if one were to construe the purpose of school to be to give exams and flunk people. The purpose of school is to teach, and to teach in order to prepare the exam merely determines whom the teaching benefited and how much. Viewed this way, Divine Judgment was a searching out, a scanning of each person, to determine who had learned anything, rather than who had done bad. What was wrong in my case was that I still had a lot to learn; thereupon I took a vast high-speed training course, in which I learned what I never up to then learned: that God is filled with joy and love, that He has infinite patience, and that He desires me to come to Him in fit shape. There are no other criteria, such as being a "Good" person. God is above that, since His love is a refining love, in the light of which one is transformed; it is impossible to feel God's love and to desire to harm a living thing. I am less in doubt that this was the Parousia (I am not in doubt about that at all; it is exactly what Jesus and Paul anticipated, if not John) than I am in doubt --in perplexity-- as to whether it was solely in my own world, my idios kosmos, that it took place. Does the koinos kosmos remain the same? I don't think, really, that is has. But no one else that I know of (sic) saw what I saw, which by general standards at the very least limits it to a subjective experience, a personal one, for me alone. I think that seeing the signals around me firing, the living organism, may have been what Malachi meant by "The Lord of Hosts shall suddenly some to his temple," etc.; suddenly He was within everything, and visible, at least to me. "At least to me." I saw His presence. Perhaps I err when I assume that He had always been there, but not visible to me; that my eyes were suddenly opened to what had always been. Maybe he Had been gone, came back; my eyes were opened and He came back and there fore I saw Him. If my eyes had been opened a month earlier I wouldn't have seen Him because He hadn't arrived then, as yet. Let us consider the miracle involved. When God enters time, when he pierces our world, he pierces the veil and rends it -- where go the usual categories of personal-subjective, then-now etc? Did He come for all men or just me? Will what happened to me in March 1974 still later on happen for others, or did it happen once for everyone? This is the same question about Christ's death on the cross; does he really die again and again for each man, so-to-speak sequentially, or simultaneously, which is to say, once? I think both are true; the usual categories don't apply. I am a child trying to understand adult concepts. As in FROLIX 8 -- the change rushes across the world, the way I saw the black band rush across the sky on Good Friday: the band that joined the old universe with the new...and in that instant as I and Laura watched, I understood that we were on film, on a loop. This 3 - hour strip rushing at so high a speed -- it tied the two ends together. And started the sequence anew. Thus, back in 1962, my first mystic (sic) understanding of Easter, and of the Death on Christ, the dead god -- in the bonds of dear "Christ lag in Todesbanded," etc. I saw it then. What I saw then was real and I knew it then to be real; what I experienced in 1974, which was maybe 12 year later -- at the same time of year...it was real, too. We can maybe resolve this when we ask, Then you play your LP of Beethoven's 7th symphony, is it a different performance each time? Does von Karajan repeat it? One hears it again and again, but it is the same: like the archetype, printing out: the die stamping. What we hear is the "print." The great miracle is that it is always new, and always it is the same, once more: unchanged. Suppose I play my LP of the 7th symphony until I know it by heart, and then I give it to you and you play it. You have never heard it before; to you it is entirely new, no more and no less new in relationship to my knowing it -- I mean, however many times I have played it is new independent of me, and herein lies the miracle. However many times Christ has died for man; however many people have had my experience; it was anew for me as if no one had ever had it before; in my world, it was unique, it had never happened before, and so Christ died for me solely. He is infinitely new, infinitely divisible, infinitely everywhere -- I guess he is Ubik. Each new child enjoys his sandbox as if sandboxes were first new and had never pleased and been experienced by childhood before. Thus a great truth is here: I can assimilate the phenomenon rose without in any way assimilating the rose qua rose; this leaves the rose fresh for you to assimilate in the same way, phenomenologically, leaving its true essence pristine and unchanged. I take nothing from it, since I do not assimilate it qua rosa; do you see? I just assimilate an image; thus we can see the necessity of our "reality" being made up of mere images -- it is to keep the essence of each thing from being used up. All the images in the world (food eaten, wine drunk, etc) do not consume in any way or to any degree the archetypal categories which are real. And so each new life is free to encounter and experience the images fresh, a new, as if no one ever did before. And, too, the universe is not consumed. It is exactly as if we had done one U.S. silver dollar rather than the possibility of stamping out an infinite number -- all those are merely "images" of the original dollar, but if instead of printing from dies made from the archetypal original -- suppose instead of printed editions of my books, the MSS were sold? Instead of the possibility of as many people -- well, you see what I mean; for purpose of (one) maintaining the renewal of the universe and (two) giving each person an equally fresh, untouched experience, the cave or image or film system must be employed; I guess somewhere is The rose and The every single thing, which the prints which we take to be reality come from -- God help us if they get consumed! If, as we seek, ontology should be experienced (assimilated, consumed) rather than print-out. If my world is one film then I am on film and hence immortal, like "Citizen Kane." The film can be stored and later rerun, and even other prints --and stills-- can be made. I do not joke, here. Viewed in this very simple way, God is the living force of rebirth and renewal; our world --and each of us-- have been decaying into entropic dimness, and what God does is reestablished equilibrium: everything can, through Him, be restored -- back to that concept: the Restoration of All Things: the Day on which that occurs is God's return. This is Ubik, and for the universe to survive this force, God, must exist and be capable of doing what Run[ci]ter, Ella and Ubik do. Otherwise it would continue to run down like a watch and finally end; and our days would be progressively more dismal. In my case, this process was reversed -- and what had once existed (like the Greek concepts) were Restored -- by divine intervention. If a simple, workable, theoretical model were wanted by which all could be restored, then this might serve: (one) Reality in concentric rings of greater being (completeness), which the person initially encounters in terms of a ring less real than one he later encounters (best on all, final[l] encounters). Thus, the final ring encountered is the most real and gathers up --accumulates-- all that he ever encountered before. (two) There would be a "writing backward" system by which the person would be presented, for engramming-on purposes, lesser fragments of forms the larger fragments of which he will encounter later -- that is, later for him. Thus, his encounter-linew would be arranged backward to the direction he himself experiences it, the way a mystery novel is written. What he had had, and possibly lost, which would make the term "restoration" meaningful to him, would so to speak be deliberate clues presented ahead of time (early in his life) with the full knowledge that these were the certain experiential items he would later on come onto. The interesting part of this is that he could be easily almost effortlessly, engrammed in a random fashion, yet have the sense of total meaning. Here is an synthetic example: let us say that at the end of his life-line he winds up in the Lusitania Hotel which is the shape of a boat and has cherrywood furnishings including broom plants (Acacia) as the floral items. Intrinsically neural in value (these are virtually a pattern-less collection of elements) they would, for him, acquire meaning --Bedeutung-- if one were to place early in his life small replicas of these constituents: one would see to it that as a child he grew up for a few months --long enough to create engramming-- in a yard with flowering Acacia, which is really a weed, and that he watched a film on the sinking of the Lusitania on his family's TV set...and so forth, seeing to it that these was a vast wasteland of these items, so to speak, until the glide pattern past his life. Finally he would begin to encounter these dear long long engrammed-on bric-a-brac, and have a deep sense of cosmic completeness. Thus any life, theoretically, could be given a subjective sense of completeness and meaning and purpose and wholeness just by seeing to it that retrograde "clues" of what was in the natural course of events to happen along were stuck here and there at very early strategic points. The economny of these would be beautiful, since one would simply work backward from the "solution," i.e. the end as pure random given. "I am getting all back what I lost," the person would sigh gratefully, and see a Divine Plan, a Godish Hand in all this. Of further interest: he would be right. There is really no way this simple, economic system of enbewing an ordinary life with completeness could be accomplished without the agency of (a) deliberate design and (b) the ability to accomplish it by retrograde motion in time. What is to me of supreme interest is that the person involved --the subject-- would be able to detect the subtle but to him indubitably real hand of the Creator in the final section of his life -- although no one else could, and any one else could argue himself black in the face that no pattern was evident. The subject, all his life, would have carried these key engrammed-on external gestalts, slumbering always in his psyche; he would know, when he began to re-encounter them, what it signified (not that the end was near, but that the whole process was subsumed by intention, design, and a plan or