It is hard to imagine the Logos out of balance. Also, when conditions on our world were out of balance, it was the Logos which brought what we experienced as relief, but which, on a supraterrestrial scale, was probably a restitution of harmonie. Also, there is my "Rhipidon" fan dream of the left-right-with the center as God's balanced perfection in any situation (and the material in "Decoded" about Satan as the unreal to left and to right. I was reading about the analogy of the kosmoi to animals (each to an animal), which in its latter stages run down or got old, like an animal, and formed cycles, and suddenly it came to me how like the Hindu idea this is, the ideas of cycles, and it seemed to me for sure that this is what has happened, rather than a mere pushing-forward too much of one of the opposites (to create, in Anaxamander's sense, injustice) but the true end of a running-down, wearing-out cycle. What happens then is perhaps a revitalization of the high-entropic kosmos (what must be realized is that the kosmos is smaller than the universe, or anyhow that the Unbounded lies outside it and imparts laws to it). The Second Advent or God's Intervention, the prophecy, is more accurately the running down or wearing out of our kosmos, and the revitalization. Here is the biological model, rather than the mechanical model (vide Hussey). The egg: reborn, et al. Biological models. Orphic. What repels me about Marxism is its mechanistic quality. I get the impression that some of the very early Greeks believed that when the kosmos had run down sufficiently, the Unbounded (i.e. the deity) had of necessity to revitalize it, or whatever he did; we are all governed by law of some kind; it wasn't by whim. (Ananke? Moira?) (Ananke, I guess.) Is this view not sort of Babylonian? "Can be counted on, is I guess all we can know for sure, especially if He has promised. What is really just important, though, it so realize that beyond our kosmos (which we keep calling "the universe") lies the Unbounded, which "governs" the universe, and so is the natural source of physical law. (Hussey) "More-over, the lawlike behavior occurs 'by necessity,' which implies a power imposing the necessity, and 'according to the assessment of Time.'" It's all there. My idea the other night was: suppose the universe were entirely emptied of all matter, in every form. So it was just empty space. Nothing, then, would exist. Right? Wrong. All the laws, which now govern matter, which govern energy as well, would obtain, although we couldn't discern them. It seems to me that if we don't assume as Unbounded (as so represented by the pressure of these necessities on matter and energy) we are just describing, we are saying, "Things do what they do because they do it." A tautology. An observation of regularity, not an analysis of why. You could approach it another way if desired: either the universe does not run down (but the laws of thermodynamic show that it does), or it ends; or it periodically is renewed. To say that it renews itself poses certain problems; I find it easier to imagine it renewed from without, although that poses certain problems too. But if the universe is everything, then it begins to run down (like a clock, like an animal) and then suddenly it revitalizes itself (as I experienced). I am equating the Second Advent & God breaking his silence with this turn of the cycle, this springtime, this revitalization. I think this is what has happened. A revitalizing is going on, and it certainly comes here from elsewhere. Where that "elsewhere" is, I don't know, but I've experienced a real, alive, thinking force. One of the best points in Hussey's book is where he says that one of the ancient Greeks (Anaxamander, maybe) assigns to the deity this primary fu[n]ction or activity or attribute or quality of definition: we would experience the return of God, this revitalization, as exactly what the word implies: a renewal of life. I note that Parmenides' Form I is equated, by him, with light: This is exciting, since as I understand Parmenides, he saw Form II as a mere mirror reflection, and urged a monism on us (the fiery or dry soul) which made us relate only to Form I, or to light. The Orphic egg. If the universe is born from something for which the eff is a paradigm, then maybe, as the individual is, then both are reborn from something like an egg -- a light egg. Maybe this was the exoteric teachings of the Orphic: rebirth. Rejuvination (eternal life). It occurs to me that "Elijah" and the "Old King" of the dream are the same figure, are both the Father. Firebright, Christ, and the dancing would new King of springtime, who I identify with Zagreus, would be Firebright: "Santa Sophia," He who is born. First came the Father, and then, through me, birth of Firebright took place, and this is the beardless youth whom I now see: the Son. Where is it perfectly clear that it was the Father who as a plasmic life-form filled me up, it is equally clear now that the Son, who is dancing, is another form of God entire: the offspring, who will live here. In my dreams last night: Nick was jolted to discover that I had discerned patterns "which had died with Herb" and left no trace; there had been a total disjunction and yet I had them. "Herb" would be the Employer, Mr. Runciter (a figure of God the Father). This whole movement through the cycles is expressed by the movement of Father to Son, from Wise Age to Wise Youth. Last year (March, April 1974) I was so aware of, and filled up with Justice and the pursuit of Truth, the grim Fatherly pursuits...this year I am so aware of springtime and the figure of the youth, dancing. It sounds like Firebright is alive and growing; I hadn't realized: the Son. He is not after grim Justice, not like the Old Testament God; he is permissive, I guess. Maybe what happens to those Christians like Calvin is that the Holy Spirit fills them with the aspects of the Father, but birth never takes place, so they never pass on into the Youth Stage. I keep wondering if Firebright is okay...actually a millon times I've envisioned him. He's still a youth, but look at his rate of growth: He is ready to assume kingship. He must be 17 or so, or was, back at Passover. What a rate of growth! But I'm not sure, any more, that Firebright (the Young Spring King) is in me in any way, or merely --i.e. only-- in me; I think He moved from Point A or World A, which was not tangent to our world, into our world via me, which was Point B. I was an entry point or nexu[s]. But I am still in touch with him. He is, however, now in this world. I guess again (after a time dysjunction). (I.E. There was a period when he wasn't.) The transmission of the Light Creatures was somehow inturrupted (by accident, be martyrdom, design, etc.) around 100 AD, or maybe even earlier (Jesus being the last one), so that a two thousand year breach had to be leaped to restored the Light Creatures to our world once more. This is what the New Testament is talking about, and Orphism. They are in need of us to transmit themselves, and all of us who "contained" any of them were (by the Romans!!) destroyed...hence my fear, my dreadul urgency and secrecy esp re Chrissy. Nobody else was left who knew how to receive (and harbor & shelter & incubate, whatever) a Light Creature. Eyes of newborn babies: mercury drop. Also, dream of grape-colored cube: yogert, fruit, eternal. We must remember: old age is a disease; we are sick, not self-renewing, like yogert (it's a symbol, in dream, of renewal). The bichloride: to restore (i.e. project) new sight. However psychological, though, this is still what Christ taught us; it is still the arrival of God's Kingship (within). My sense that Firebright has done on only means that He, a half Light, Half Human creature, is now strong enough to leave the "womb," which is good. Any immortality I have will be through the fact that He is immortal; like all children, he must leave, Son of a Mortal Mother (myself) and Deity (God as Father). Tessa points out it's a corporate body, like yogurt (in the dream, the renewing fish that's sliced forever). Christ as pure Light Being is the Head; we all form the body; we are immortal with Him. It would be dreadful to be immortal alone, separate. There is no doubt that, what with my right hemisphere experiments, I was trying to achieve something -- and perhaps did. Recieved something; receiving was part of what I was into, the idea that we could, if we listened in a new way (or a forgotten way). Where did the "tight beam" come from? Certainly my dreams suggest the past; anyhow it is all what should be identified as retrieved knowledge. But it may have been triggered (the disinhibiting) by an ET signal. This presumes a link between earth and, ahem, heaven. I think there is. Two other points: (one) On the aspects designated as those which the "Christ transformation" confers according to the "Decoded N T," all that can be verified now (e.g. higher intelligence, better health, prosperity, etc. whatever) I've obtained; now, there is no intrinsic relationship which link these various "gifts." No one would draw up such a list a priori, since they appear unrelated. They are leaps forward in various areas. Others listed by the "Decoded N T" such as immorality I can't check on, of course, but I will infer that this too was acquired, if the others were. (two) My left eye suddenly resolving better than my right: this may refer to feature extractors in the cerebral cortex, and be brain improvements, allied with the sense of "having been blind but no longer being so." Again, this is linked with the prophecies given in the N T to those who receive the Spirit (i.e. become Christ). Vide my dream of last night: a theraphist named Mary is washed --healing-- my ankles and feet. At first I thought nothing of this dream, but on later refle[x]ion, it certain[ly] seems to me religious in nature; not only am I having "weak legs," as Red Foxx puts it, but recall Mary Magdelane vis-a-vis the desciples. Maybe this dream (following by one in which I escape from prison, am not followed and am free to run and run) are reassurances that my improved state is permanent. I just had a thought: when the words came to me, "Santa Sophia is going to be reborn; she was not acceptable before," I interpreted this 'Santa Sophia' to refer to the Christos, making use of the concept in John of Christ being the Logos. But in fact, uninterpreted, what I heard simply states that the "Wisdom of God," which is the Firstborn Son of God, or the Logos, or the Word, will be reborn -- not the Christ, although that may be true; it's an additional interpretation, however, and may have misled me. It is the Logos which is back for sure, according to those words that I heard, and the emphasis should be on that. What is more striking would be Logos...born which seems now to have referred me back to "Logos spermatika," the fertilizing or creating Logos, and to the entire doctrine of the "Dec N T" and Philo's ideas, without necessarily involving the Messiah (another concept entirely; the Persians had the Logo spermatikos, for example). I certainly should consider this view first. I assumed that Santa Sophia reborn meant Christ