Dear Claudia, Here are some more notes......are you getting tired of all this? I do think (see the 10 pages supra) that something is at hand -- something good for us which'll help us. Jesus spoke of a coming "Kingship of God" which, He said, "Is among you/ around you/ within you." It could arrive any time. When it arrives, many men, most men, won't know. Since God created this world in the first place, the angle of error may be slight, and the percentage which He must remove and change may be relative, small. Is all this world, every thing and creature and idea and object in it, objectionable to God and a produce of the Adversary? Obviously not. Suppose there were a subtle seizing of power, behind the scenes as it were, by the Rightful King. He would retain the present order by and large, disturb as little of it as possible, act in an economical way to take control. We might only sense that some oppressive power had departed; some burden and fear had lifted. That this has happened I am positive. That so little has changed shows how slight the angle of error, the element which had to be "burned off like chaff." Death still exists; Jesus and Paul always said that this body would have to live out its natural cycle and die away, for the other body to replace it, which comes later. The main thing is, This world is under control, now, and two main spirits reign: Truth and Justice, although they are of necessity unfolding in time (i.e. it takes time, because sequence is necessary). This world does not operate on its own, independently, and having fallen into the hands of tyrants and liars. Truth and justice lie at the heart, and work out judiciously, where needed; they now, in a distinct and real sense, although subtle, prevail, and nothing can ever change this; any set back, or any retention of the lie, is only apparent. We must not go on what is apparent; that was never a good index. But, in another way of viewing this, we can say that at last that which is apparent, which appeard to be, in actuality is. This was not true before. There are no further real secrets, and no further fake facade cardboard Thought-control hypnotis pseudo-reality managed and manipulated, no invisible empire of police and criminals and dangerous covert power. What meets the eye can be trusted, except that still hidden to most people is the heart, not of darkness, but of light; it is the pulse at the core of things, whereas not so long ago at the core of things rotten darkness stank and conived. We have a concentric-ring society, and the innermost ring has been burned off by the fire, has now been replaced by light, by God, and this is parallelled by a discernment outside, by those on the rim, that the Lord of Hosts has in fact suddenly come to his temple, announced by the messenger of the covenant whom we delight in...as Malachi put it. There was a swift arrival (mainly by Elijah), a swift victory over the darkness, a tossing down of the tyranny, and then the enormous judging and destroying power was withdrawn and replaced by an assisting and healing power. Advocacy for the weak and oppressed is no longer necessary, now that God rules. Healing (as if after a battle which was won) has been in order, and so done. Finally, the freeing of the many prisoners, the giving them their first glimpse of the pasture which is their reward. It is as if humane people came across a place where animals were imprisoned under cruel conditions: overworked, starved, animals which were ill and unattended, and, finally, put to death in vicious ways without release or reward, with no recompense. At once, these humane visitors seize the owner of this cruel factory and depose him; then they see to it that the sick animals are given medical attention, food, sanitation -- all their just needs looked after...but most of all, these animals, ill-treated all their lives, are to be made to understand that finally they will go out into this great lush pasture forever, and never never at any time --this is a promise-- returned to the dark servitude which they had suffered under. The original owner of this slave prison, this factory, was deprived of everything he'd built up, his profits, and dealt a stunning blow which nearly destroyed him; most of all, judgment by the intervening humane people was swift, and in favor of the imprisoned, powerless animals, and entirely on their side against their obscure oppressor. Judgment, assistance in a short swift battle, medical help, food, a variety for them to see, now, as soon as possible, so they would know...especially since some would be too ill, too far-gone to be brought back. They deserved to see now, and not have to wait. "Look what lies in store for you," the humane intercessors would be showing them, when they knocked away the always before so evidently impenitrable wall of the prison. "Look beyond," and there would lie vast fields, grass, and the hillsides. Springtime, beyond the broken-open prison wall. First the animals would see the prison which surrounded them which they had mistaken for reality; it was not: reality lay beyond, and the prison would be knocked down entirely eventually, although that would take time. To free so many trapped and ill-used animals would take a while. But the cruel tyrant boss who had rules -- being deposed, he could not keep the prison going, as his father before him had. Although it had existed thousands of years it was decisively gone, now, even though many animals, so enured to their life, so sure that it was the only life, or rather only existence, would not see or understand at first. Or, more accurately, at one time the plant or organization had been well-run and regulated, in a fair and human way, and then the true owner and ruler had assigned stewardship in his absence, and had gone on a journey, with promise that while he was gone it would be run properly. The time of his return was uncertain. Those left to run it were like kids a whole bunch of kids left by their parents to tend themselves, or perhaps kids to be taken care of by a hired attendant. I think the first model is most accurate. Suddenly the parents return. It is like LORD OF THE FLIES. Horrified, they find that some kids, the shrewder, stronger ones, have enslaved the others; the whole house is a shambles, with fighting and breaking going on, a descent into barbarism...the parents line up all the kids and judged each according to what that child was doing at the moment the parents returned. Elijah, coming immediately before God, played a multiple role: he refined those whom God wished to save rather than destroy -- i.e. he got them into a fit condition so they would pass muster. I guess it's a form of tipping off those kids you wanted tipped off that you're about to reappear and check out everyone. You send a messenger in advance who carries with him a friends list. The messenger, Elijah, shapes up and squares up each person on the list; this involves making him pious, and directing him to engage in good works; he is good of attitude and good of action. Let's say there is a five to six month period in which the persons are reshaped and refined and reworked. They are born anew, in God, and it's a hard row to hoe. They are acquainted with the true nature of reality, and the true situation confronting them. They become conscious of their forgotten origin and task (anamnesis). Setting to work, they aid in the Great War against the Lie, offering themselves as sacrifices. They sustain mortal injuries in that fight, but accept it, confident in their tasks and their God. While lying bound up, as if in the "Todes Banden," the bonds of death, they see the surprising, sudden awful glare of the Day of Judgment; at this point, Elijah has seen to it that they are in proper shape to escape the Wrath and to please God. Even so, the loving sacrifice, their Savior, is present to absorb both the blow (Pinky the guru) and the sin, the toxin, the guilt (Ralph, as lamb). The person is lovingly accepted by God and goes to join him, although he continues on here, since the Kingship (Kingdom) is now here, rather than "beyond," or "in heaven." Thus, this experience comes without him having actually physically to die. All this, including the restoration which is his reward, the green grass, the pasture, is here. The whole experience seems to take about one full cycle of the earth: one year, beginning at the vernal equinox. Thus it is identified with the departing of winter and the reappearance of the lost spring. This whole last year contained a lot of pain and shock and loss for me (I was hospitalized twice, my son once, I lost two cats in very sad ways, and had to get rid of my little dog, and was burned on my first screen play), but it was the best year of my life, because somehow within the illness and loss and pain I gained an inner reality to match the external reality. There is no point in merely establishing an external new real kingdom or kingsom. God must reign in the human heart and body as well. It is the ultimate growth: to turn into a portion of God ("that I might live in Him / Invisible and dim") and continue on, knowing that He is both inside and outside. I can say that although I have not seen God, I saw signs of Him, indubitable signs. And knew Him to be growing within me, as the new life Firebright, from the Sun...the Aton, I guess, which Iknaton spoke of, that good tender trembling frail brave man. The criticism that Elijah's coming first and shaping certain folk up so they'd be acceptable was somehow cheating -- this misses the point of it all. God's desire is to save, not to co[n]d[em]n; he wished that as many as possible could be ready for acceptance. The object was not to judge; the object was to save. Thus, before he judged he prompted, so to speak, everyone who needed it or would benefit from it. I certainly wouldn't have passed muster without prior help. The exam per se was not the main purpose of God's coming; He intervened, entered time, and it was necessary to make swift judgment the moment he resumed Kingship. If anyone objects to God's desire to have as many people as possible fir for acceptance when judgement came -- that is an odd objection, and makes the judgment a sort of end in itself, which it is not. It is as if one were to construe the purpose of school to be to give exams and flunk people. The purpose of school is to teach, and to teach in order to prepare the exam merely determines whom the teaching benefited and how much. Viewed this way, Divine Judgment was a searching out, a scanning of each person, to determine who had learned anything, rather than who had done bad. What was wrong in my case was that I still had a lot to learn; thereupon I took a vast high-speed training course, in which I learned what I never up to then learned: that God is filled with joy and love, that He has infinite patience, and that He desires me to come to Him in fit shape. There are no other criteria, such as being a "Good" person. God is above that, since His love is a refining love, in