did see it. I did see it. I saw it; the world as "this is my body and this is my blood. I am here." No wonder my tiny mind has juddered under the weight of trying to understand. This is the holy of holies, the miracle of miracles. I would like to add that my description (and memory) of what Pinky did in trying to heal me (lying on m[e] transversally) I now learn Elijah did to help restore the widow's sonx. I guess the votive candle and the little saint helped. God consecrated reality right & left around me: miracle of miracles. I understand. Credo. I have had in this one very small clue, but absolute: the sound of the bells, the Osterglochen. Christ arisen! The bells of Easter. This delineates it beyond....the sound of the healing bells which mean transformation (as in "Parsifal"). The wound closed. But only One, Christ, ever spoke through the Osterglochen. (And it was at that time of the year, too.) So it was a vision. I must never forget the bells. (I wrote of God manifesting himself in transsubstantiation; but of course it is Christ. This now causes me naturally to wonder, No [one] ever reported seeing the miracle even in the objects of the Mass. How come I saw this (not how come it happened), but why extended, as I saw it? Also, it advances it down the time manifold, out of the distant past, into the Medieval Period anyhow...I should really go back over everything I've written over the whole 14 months and put the correct word "Christ" wherever I speak of having experienced God (especially immanent God; it is immanent or the actually present Christ). Beebread. We are fed in each's individual cell, but must emergy to join cooperative. . . . 3 74: Instead of a past and present I had two different presents. At the same time. Not in sequence (except in terms of ontology; the Roman was more real, had more Being). Certainly it was like a movie overlap, a double exposure. If they are treated as spacial realities, then my percept system monitored conflicting information in the form of, "This is location A. This is location B," defining them as mutually exclusive. In audio terms, two signals (like picking up two stations at once). Is this a spacio-temporal fusion? A demonstration that such a thing is possible, and reminding me of the analogy between the movie film, UBIK, and our world, which JP brought up: "The Cave" updated is cinerama. Ah! I can now separate it on a new, better basis: into two entirely different parts. (one) The miracle of transsubstantiation took place, around me, in my environment, consecrating or sanctifying as if they were the articles of Communion the objects, the trash of the alley, etc. This is the greater miracle, and contemplating it one can eventually extract all the information about God, himself, the world, eternity, he needs; so it is the ultimate miracle (revelation or vision). But (two) Also, not only did this occur, but I saw it. It could have occured and I didn't see it. Other people with me saw nothing. This latter, (two) might be said to be a mystical temporary state. Also maybe the influx, the miracle, was limited in its duration; God had not been there before, he came, he was present, he departed. I think there was an inner event (transformation in me), which was unique -- I never had been able to see before, but I believe it is likely that the outer event, the more important of the two miracles, the transsubstantiation itself, frequently occurs and we don't see it. This distiction makes it possible for me to account for what I felt was something "always there" and something "never seen before." (By me.) I might guess that it's possible, even likely, that this miracle takes place frequently, but is not seen; placing the category of uniqueness on my perception, and ubiquity (sic!) on the outer miracle, perhaps distributes the frequency of what coincided as an inner event as well as an outer event; we could say, I obtained a percept system (for a time) and at the same time that it, the 3rd eye if you will, was on, something of vast significance swam into the receptor sights of that 3rd eye percept system (that day walking home from TJs especially). One might say, I happened to turn my head, or train my camera on something of the utmost im[p]ortance, and so obtained a good impression, an excellent impression, even though the time perios in which this unimpaited percept system operated was quite brief (3 days maybe). One could further reason: the fact that although the period was so brief this great miracle did happen to "swim by," so to speak, to be recorded (perceived) is another equally valid index of its ubiquity; I must infer from my brief sample, and am doing so: He probably manifests himself in this infusion miracle way countless times and places. I infer --I am certain00 that my "random sample" is representative. I saw a lot of other lesser miracles, too. I saw many things. There had to have been an inner change in me, for me to see it; after all, neither Tessa nor Linda saw it. (And it had to happen for me to see it, too, supra.) So I was changed; it isn't as if [to] say the threshold of God's presence on its own, qua the Other, increased or happened, and I remained the same (unless I was always "not blind."). I believe that the change began in me, and enabled me to see what I then saw happening outside; first, I was taken by the Holy Spirit, and shown. The factor or act or reality of "possesstion" is the factor, act, moment or event of transformation in me, after which (during which, too) I could hear language and decypher it...e.g. the bells. Gosh, what if Christ transubstantiated the whole world? Or entered into union with everyone? Or both? This will fulfill: "The Kingdom of God is within you/among you, but you can't exactly see it; it has arrived within you/among you mysteriously..." There is already made clear as Church dogma a direct connection between the Kingdom (one being able to enter it, and also perhaps its arrival) and transubstantiation, if one were to think about it (the mustard seed). (The leaven in the bread.) To each of us, "inner-outer" may seem real distinctions, but to God it's all monism. My experience at the time (3 74) seemed to be of the Logos, and this would indicate that John's view of Jesus was right, that Jesus was an incarnation of the Logos (the first born son of God). Hence, back where I have throughout --the year-- written Logos, Christ being the same. But I think before I experienced Him a fierce "refining" spirit which was Elijah passes through me and prepared me; it was the agency which made the change, brought me through rapid growth stages to the point where I could see. This roots me to the Old Testament and the Jehovah experience, and also connected me with the Essenes ("The Sons of Elijah," etc.) But then too the fierce judging spirit could be Christ of the Second Advent, where He will/has come as judge, not as a lamb to slaughter. (When I sat down on the judgment seat, etc.) Christus Judicator. This shows the anticipated side of Christ we'll encounter at the Parousia, which once more raises the q: did the Parousia come back around [3] 74, and hardly anybody noticed? Elijah arrived, there was judgment, the battle; the battle won by God, Satan thrown down, and now the Kingdom is established. If so, how come nobody noticed but me? That's solipsistic. (one) Maybe other people do know; e.g. The Int. Community of Christ says so. Or (two) maybe not only the Kingdom came to me individually (I hate to say subjectively) but the entire procession of events labeled "Parousia," which means a variety of events. If the Kingdom "isn't here, isn't there," then maybe none of the events are visible to all; i.e. none of the events inc. judgment are "here or there." (I.e. can't be externally empirically seen; the accidents remain the same, but the essence is changed -- trans[s]ubstantiation of the whole reality and us in it. (three) There is also the doctrine advanced by e.g. the Megiddo Mission people, that at this time very quietly a nucleus of God's soldiers, the human elect, is being chosen and formed within the total human population; individuals are being singled out directly by God. I would guess that were this so --I say were it-- a person so chosen would experience the Parousia for himself taking place so to speak in advance -- ahead of time; he would be purified, refined; he would be judged, healed, experience communion with God, etc. I have even experienced the world entirely turned over to evil; the contamination into pure evilof the multiplex radio signals, eg., to advance wholly and hold sway -- that for me too place, and then zap. But I was totally at his mercy for a time; the Restraining power had been temporarily withdrawn. That was as supernatural as anything -- evil. But it signalled the ushering-in of supernatural transcendent help. This would center around the dreadful dream of death understand the Astrodome (Rome), the flying demons in the sky. The cage. Hissing and trapped. This would mark the furthest evil pushed (again speaking individualistically). But that is one sequence of the anticipated Parousia; and in my case it was followed by exactly what it is supposed to be followed by. (I am a pre-cog anyhow; certainly I show prophetic ability by now. So I experienced then what others will experience two, five years from now? Longer? Like, say Communism will win the world and hold sway...the macro, like me as micro and the letters/radio signals. I keep forgetting the dream of the king on horseback in TEARS; all the Pauline material in TEARS, which was published just as this hit me, these sequences of Parousia experiences! I forever think of my "toiling in the vinyard of the Lord" as starting with my letters of 3 & 4 74; but TEARS! What about TEARS? Was that not that I most of all did, and somehow knew it all the time? As important as the letters may have been (or may not), the book certainly was/is. I saw the religious encoding and read it, myself: the Logos term "Felix," the entire ending -- everything, that paragraph illuminated (to me, as I told Sergeant Kelly). I has released the Word, shagged past the brutal oppressors and word-denyers. And if indeed it is The Good News shagged on by, in a least-expected place, it is specifically that in fact the Parousia are beginning: this is Christus Judicator. If the Brit 3 article is correct, though, this is the only way the Kingdom is going to come, the only way any of the events of the Parousia are going to come; that means my experience is not anticipatory, since there is in truth no emperical change going to be visible, which can be subjected to test (it can't be shown to be here or not to be here, is the point the Brit 3 article makes; it is elusive). It is a sort of secret kingdom in which one can live without appearing to live there, although one himself, he would know. And if this Brit 3 view is true, then this has always been the case, and the Kingship may have begun arriving for persons on an individual basis at the time X in the past -- time X being any moment after the Crucifixion. We are waiting for something which does not exist in time as we understand existing in time; it