fact Protestantism really makes no sense unless there is an abiding informing inner spirit of some kind.) Scouts: uniformed soldiers who don't carry weapons or injure anyhow -- and who are absolutely moral. A graphic emblem for soldiers of Christ, which I didn't flash on re the James-James dream; also identified with children; i.e. the newborn man and also The First Begotten Son. And Rommel was part of the von Stauffenberg Bomb Plot against Hitler. . . . St. Sophia -- Sophianism: my Vancouver speech (the third stage in human civilization ahead (first Earth Mother; then masculine Solar Deities; next, as in a pieta, the mother holding the son, them ruling together). A feminine universe which hold us in her arms -- Saint Sophia. The world spirit of wisdom (perhaps ma'at as well?). This is who has been speaking to me (Sadasa Ulna, etc). She is the fourth member of the quarternity (formerly trinity). Present at creation -- maybe is the Logos? Mediatress between God & man. Embraces the Son (who is also the Holy Spirit). I predicted her appearance, her amination of the universe, in my Vancouver speech. Immanent in the universe now. A living universe that's feminine. Co-ruler with God (like Mr. & Mrs. Iknaton.) Also: the New Eve, waiting to be born (or being born now). The Bride of Christ, His equal (not like Mary his mother). . . . The EB macro article on Christian mysticism says that it differs from all other mysticism in that the person seeks to do the will of the father, not just unify with him, know him, etc. I felt this re the Xerox letter: possession by the Spirit for an actual acted-out job or purpose, God using history, etc. . . . I want to repeat this: the information to me, which seeming to be the wrap-up, "Santa Sophia" etc., is the essence of the "Good News" of Christianity; it is all contained therein: we have a rightful King, he was "despised and rejected" before (and Crucified), but now he is coming back (i.e. born again on Earth), and it can be assume will rule (i.e. this time it will work out differently); this is nothing more or less than the Second Advent. It sums it all up for us. (This can't really refer to God's Wisdom being born in me again, because it was not ever there before, and certainly it would have been acceptable to me; this refers to human history.) I note that "not acceptable" is the whatever (opposite) of "rejected." Also, "Sophia" stresses which aspect of the Trinity will be stressed: Wisdom rather than power of love, which should I think be appropriate to a judge. In this connection I recall the sibyl (a woman) viewing the activities of evil men and certainly she is judging them as well as observing them; she is going to see that they are punished: she has witnessed their deeds. For her to witness is for her to deal our justice. In this role, again, she, the sibyl, is much like the Egyptian ma'at (recall! One dream of the sibyl showed her in Egyptian form! On the "boxing glove" extension, a little smiling head that peered down the front of the girl's blouse; a very important dream, tying the Sibyl indeed in with ma'at. Egypt to Crete to Greece to Rome.). (This tiny head extended -- how strange it was. Snake-like. And the snake is a wisdom symbol, also known to Delphi. I think now that these sibyl dreams indicate that the Day of Judgment has come or did come back around 3 74; I was seeing judgement by the judge, represented as female for several reasons (e.g. ma'at and Santa Sophia). What I got was a sign from the "Gods" that they had seen ("Surely heaven took note," etc.). Judgment was then executed. We have seen the results (the tyranny fell; the imperial empire has begun to fall). . . . Hermes Trismegistos (Thrice Great Thoth). "Thoth was the repository of all wisdom." The Hermetic writings: revealed (from Thoth). Part of the pre-Christiam mystery religions; their texts. These Hermetic-Thoth texts were used by the alchemists of the Renaissance. The concept of the Trinity may have come our of these Hermatic texts. Here is a direct link from Thoth into Egyptian Christianity! (Perhaps Thoth inspired the New Testament.) Thoth is the earliest form that the God of Wisdom appears in; is "Santa Sophia" the same as Thoth? Thoth is the husband of Ma'at, also scribe of the gods; also healed Horus -- a healer. Also: a magician! All the thousands of written pages I saw suggest Thoth or a permutation thereof. As scribe of the gods, writing is Thoth's natural mode of expression. In this case "She was not acceptable before" suggests that the world suppressed & rejected the inspired writings of Thoth, not that it killed someone in human form. I think, though, it most specifically refers to Christ because of the words "born again." The advantage which Christianity had over the other mystery religions was the presence on Earth of Jesus Himself; instead of just revealed writing they had Him in person to talk to them. And then later after his death he returned in the form of the Holy Spirit and revealed the New Testament for them to transcribe. Maybe He took up where Thoth left off. Carrying the continuity forward, as man evolved. All of them expressing the wisdom of God. . . . In 3 74, did I see this universe differently -- or did I see another (supernatural, e.g.) universe? What I saw (as the springtime world) in the New Creation of God; the King (dancing) is the Rightful King of that world; i.e. Christ. When you are brought into the Kingdom of God, by Christ, as I was in 3 74, then you can see it visually. The proof (to me anyhow) that this is indeed what I saw in 2 75 Is its intimate connection with Santa Sophia, represented as the post office building, and the words I heard about it being born again (her/him). All this is to say that the invisible (as yet) New Creation (Earth) is filtering down around us and becoming visible to us as we are brought into it. We are dead, born dead; and the voice we hear, as in UBIK, is the voice of the Savior, rousing us to (spiritual) life. As the Bible say, "The dead shall hear his voice." (The reason I don't feel I'm being judged any more, that the "tally" is in, is that as the Bible says (St. Paul), I "am dead to sin," now. Col 2:10: "For in Him ye are complete." . . . Christ told them that He had to die before the Second Comforter could come to them; perhaps, almost certainly, this is because it was his own spirit he was speaking of. This too is why he told them they'd be better off, not worse off, when he died/left, because then, really, he meant, he could return to them in spirit form (as he did at Pentercost) and enter them, through the third eye and make them both immortal and also part of his corporate body. He undoubtedly had, in his esoteric instructions, told them how to prepare to receive him back into themselves. . .this is what was lost later, when the Romans killed them, although by that time probably thousands had received him back into them in the ever widening circles. But you had to know how to recieve his spirit back in through the third eye, and that knowledge, so carefully guarded, so bad people wouldn't learn to do it -- that knowledge was lost. (In my opinion this is what happened with me in 3 74; I received his spirit through my third eye or pineal gland, and learned all this. To repeat: the Paraclete then is the spirit of life of the Last Adam or Christ, returning after his resurrection. While you are dead the Kingdom remains invisible to you. I think in 2 75 I began to see it. It is a spiritual kingdom, and in the process of becoming actual (physical, literal, visible). We are the dead, as in UBIK, who must be roused by the sound of His voice. But not roused to physical life but spiritual life (as the grain of what is not raised as it was sown). (But raised in a new, spiritual, better body.) This is why when I saw the King He was dancing among the furrows -- which is where the wheat lies sleeping (in death); he made a sound to them in some way; a form of music. He, the spring king, was calling the sleeping wheat up into life, from where they were buried in the furrows; this is what spring, and his voice, mean. Thus it is said of Dionysos that he "is a god of vegetation" and the mystery of Elysuis is a grain of wheat planted in the furrow is reborn, and the grave equals the furrow -- the dead human, buried, is reborn. This is what I saw in 2 75 without (as usual) understanding it. As He calls to the wheat, who are dead in their furrows, he calls to us who are dead (in our graves), exactly as I depicted in UBIK (Runciter's voice, their friend who died but who, for them, has returned to help them). As the corn(spring) king called the wheat to new (physical) life each spring, so Christ calls us to new (spiritual) life, out of the grave furrow) we are sleeping in. We must listen for the sound of his voice, which means the New Birth for us, just as each grain of wheat bursts into new life, a new kind of life different from before (before it was solitary), at the sound of his voice (spring). Light, entering the pineal gland in spring, has something to do with this, he is a god of light, turning us into light creatures. Regarding this, it is said that his voice wakes us to new (spiritual) life and calls us into His Kingdom, which is called the Kingdom of God, where He (Christ) rules. Thus the chromatic phosphene graphics which I saw in 3 74 are the light breaking through to me, just as it does to the wheat in spring (and this was the vernal equinox!); then I heard the sound of His voice, and entered a new world (the Kingdom). I felt, for the first time restored. I saw him correctly (I now know) in every detail: as the deposed --rightful, the rejected, exiled-- king (who would come back in power). Thus, the deposing of Nixon takes on an archetypal quality, in that he was the ursurper king ruling in the rightful king's place, like King Pentheus (and Claudius in "Hamlet".) His overthrow is an archetypal, not incidental, victory for the rightful king, the ursurper being the "Prince of this World," the Herod figure. Just like King Pentheus he sought to imprison in innocent, but instead imprisoned the figure of the Rightful King in some form, and was deposed. Thus in 3 74 I saw the iron prison the ursurper had built around us and recognized it as Rome; also in 2 75 after he had been deposed I saw springtime seep in, replacing it, which indicates to me that now the Rightful King can come toward us & speak to us more clearly, unhindered. And sure enough, subsequent to my seeing that springtime world (2 75) the imperial empire, its provinces, have slipped away without a fight. I.e.: THE WAR ENDED. There is no way, in considering these images, to fail how they pertain to Christ and the salvation story. I don't think Dionysos or any of the others is described as a king -- only Christ; and anyhow the king image relates it to the