Yahweh pitted against the state, to destroy it & its slavery; also it describes him, incredibly, as "the dancing god," and, "the god of the young"! The parting of the waters of the Sea of Reeds (called Red Sea by mistaken now) is also a nature-god event...I'm convinced; qed. Dionysos, again. Yahweh had delivered the Hebrews, so he had a claim on them, for them to do his will; this was a fealty oath of obedience between a superior (lord) and vassal. A contractual relationship, not slavery. What God gives, then, is love and care; he asks back subordination to fulfilling His will (which is reasonable indeed!). "He was concerned to protect the powerless Hebrews." This His rules enjoins --requires-- us to protect the weak & helpless. "And guarantee justice for them." This is the Covenant. (Plus else.) "To regulate the civil rights of the community." Rule by law -- what we here now need most desperately! This is the essence of worship of Yahweh. I just can't get over this that I saw (the TV "Moses" program episode dealing with the plagues and then their leaving Egypt): (one) The situation obtaining was one of slavery. (two) Yahweh, from nature-outside the state, pitted himself against the state in their behalf, to free them. (three) The angel of death came as a plague, and I saw on the screen the moment of terrible silence at night, before it arrived, and then the dog howled, and we saw the dog running. (four) I finally understood about the lamb & the blood of the lamb. (five) I finally learned that the Passover Feast celebrates the Exodus; i.e. the Hebrews getting away from Egypt & slavery. (six) This is not to forget that it is a vernal equinox festival as well; thus springtime equals deliverance from slavery, which we get updated in Xtianity as Redemption. I could list more or what I saw & read tonight that conforms to my 3 74 and 2 75 experiences. The killed lamb, the angel of death, the fight between the outside nature God and the enslaving state, with that God penetrating the state, raising the seige, breaching the iron wall, etc. The social contract relationship between the Hittites and their vassals was the model in Moses' mind for that between Yahweh and man; and seems to resemble modern social contract models of a just society. God takes care of us and gives us love, and we pass this on to the weak, powerless & helpless to form justice, and also what that justice should consist of: the strong protecting the weak, through love for them, and helping them, and getting back loyalty and obedience. That is the natural workable relationship between strong and weak, greater and lesser, a mutual pact. Now the concept "serving God" isn't vague. It is, herewith, spelled out so I can understand it. God delivered the Hebrews (their situation was desperate), but he asked certain things back. My visions told me that God expects certain things from us: to protect animals and the ecosphere in general. He is/was pitted against the unjust society we were falling into, of master (strong) and victim (weak). As always, God (Yahweh) was on the side of the oppressed; again, he delivered us, but asks certain things back (rightfully so); we must strive for social justice, and also we must go back to true monotheism. I have a new theory. The "Vinland Smith" material in my visions doesn't imply a coming here, but that He is enjoining us to the realization that we must leave Earth, as the Hebrews left Egypt; a new Exodus is required of us: migration from Earth to other star systems. It is an analog of the Hebrew Exodus. I know in view of my 3 74 encounter/experience what this "nature god" business means...I saw Him in the trash (specifically the dead bird), and heard Him in the bells (chimes), e.g. in nature, speaking through nature; and "nature" means here less than creation itself, the whole, in its totality: the birds and the bees, the rocks and trees; this is my father's world. Not society, this part. Yet -- He enters society, from this world of nature (Creation), and breaks it down into man related to Him, not to the state. He is not dead-center, at the core of the state; He is outside, coming in. The state is the last bastion against Him, where He is found least. The last to fall; it had not fallen yet, but fell a lot in 74 & 75. Our God speaks to us with us as natural men speaking a natural (non-artificial) language. (This includes lots of graphics, pictures, which are universal; His language, in the wind, in animal signs -- it is always universal. Probably the myth of the Garden represents this natural Creation & our ability to understand it speaking to us, and to speak back: dialog with God. This is precisely what we have lost. I regained it, miraculously, suddenly, in 3 74. Outdoors (outside) God was everywhere; but indoors I think I only saw Him as the small Logos red & gold thread here and there AMONG PRINTED WORDS! What a leap: from the natural world (alley) to the printed page, and nothing inbetween! (God the Creator to God-Logos.) I think the birth of the Logos into our world (celebrated by us as the birth of Jesus Christ) was a new leap, never seen before that, in which He penetrated into society (the state, enemy territory to Him) and has remained ever since, in this non-creator form. He sent His Son in here! As with Moses, the Voice I heard came to me on desert winds (as Pharoah complained; the wind, the "atmosphere" at Cameo Lm. From the desert to the east.) & that same wind blowing up the alley, stirring the trash (v. my "Aolian harp" dream.) To learn that Passover celebrates the Exodus --i.e. the Hebrews' release from slavery-- is all I need to know to cinch my experience up. Escape (redemption) from slavery at the vernal equinox: the wind from the desert rustling the trash in the alley, and causing the chimes (bells) to ring: God speaking to me & freeing me. (Repeated later in history as Christ lag in Todesbanden, and then was released; the Paschal lamb.) I had a distinct impression of it being a Jewish or more precisely Hebrew experience with Deity from the start (witness my attempts to tie it, perhaps correctly, to Elijah's epiphany) Certainly I did not know Passover signified (celebrated, as in the corn festival) this: death to life, slavery to freedom; that redemption meant deliverand from earthly slavery first of all (historically). Then later, I guess, the chains & thrall signified death itself. I almost collapsed in watched the "Moses" episode 3 on TV when the angel of death came, and it spared the Hebrews' firstborn and accepted (slew, seized on) the lamb (the blood smeared on each Hebrew door for protection); in my case the angel of death came --the room lit up the same way and in my inner world I saw and heard dogs lift their heads and whimper-- and seized Pinky, our "pink sheep," instead. The blow fell on him as surrogate, which, the "Moses" TV flick showed, was exactly what the lamb was: a surrogate offering in place of the human being (child). But a lamb qua lamb hardly can be said to sacrifice himself voluntarily placing Himself on the cross as a sacrifice to save man, because of his love for man. Thus we have a lamb-god, sentient, knowing what it is doing, which is more accpetable morally to us, that the sacrificed victim does it voluntarily, with knowledge and purpose; that he should actually be our God! We have evolved a long way to reach this point, that God Himself is the innocent being sacrificed; he offers himself for us. There is no sin without and act creating a victim, the ultimate being murder. If a creature (man or animal) is murdered, then two bad things occur: the victim suffers and dies unjustly; the murderer is destroyed spiritually (in terms of his ontology, his soul). Thus two bad events are perpetuated daily, infinitely. God solves this by this mechanism: He replaces the victim, so that it is He, our God, voluntarily offering himself as the sacrifice; thus the victim is helped by having been infused with an influx of God's spirit, and so rewarded for being a victim, a receiver of sin, by this coming of God to him (as in my case in 3 74); this then saves the murderer from the stain of his crime/sin, since he slew only (sic) God who was there voluntarily to receive the blow for the sake of them both; thus the horrid equation is abolished as it occurs. This is how I see it; it's for the sake of both victim and cruel sinner. It is the only real solution, so long as these bad events take place (and they do). Otherwise, all, everyone, would be lost, victor and victim; nothing would be saved, and it would be overwhelmingly unjust. When on understands this, one knows that whenever he chops off the neck of anyone, it is God whom he kills, and is this not the ultimate deterrent? Thus as I saw in 3 74, our God often takes the form of animals, and we learn from the faces of these animals; that it is our God whom we kill when we kill (them)!! All we need add to this insight is to realize that we are animals ourselves; to Him there is no distinction, since it is the world (of life) which He loves. Since death is always unjust, then it follows that it must be that only God dies, each time a creature dies; it is always He lying there in the shrubs gasping and glassy eyed His mouth frozen half-open and dumb. Pinky, Ralph -- always, always, always; He is there to receive the blow...the dying creature (especially the wise dumb animal types) probably experience it as a natural flowing or moving toward God as their physical shells decline and perish; so that rather than experiencing God coming into them, or becoming God, they sense themselves approaching God and God's realm (Kingdom). They go. But were we to see unblinded, we would see Him appear. Here. I think the message is: Whenever you kill (or injure, by extension) you kill something blameless. I even used the term "destroying angel," which is used in Hebrews about that episode before the Exodus at which time Passover was established! Exodus 12:13: Jehova: "And the blood must serve as your sign upon the houses where you are; and I must see the blood and pass over you, and the plague will not come on you as a ruination, when I strike at the land of Egypt," i.e. when he came as the destroying angel, the angel of death, and slew the first born; and so began Passover; and thus I experienced it that night in the bedroom, that Sunday (sic!) night, when the pale white light which cast no shadow, where there was no plce to hide, came on, and I knew then that the angel of death had come; and I prayed my head off frantically for hours in terror; and that night in sleep I dreamed of a gun being fired and a deer-like animal wounded in a ditch, a woman; and a few days later Pinky (the little pink sheep) died of cancer. The angel passed over (me, us except that he took Pinky, the lamb-sacrifice). 14: "And this day must serve as a memorial for you, and you must celebrate it as a festival to Jahweh throughout your generations." Later we are to say when someone asks the meaning of the festival of Passover: "It is the sacrifice of the passover to Jahweh,