once more, an event in micro, in space-time. The mortal human only anticipates, as a lower life form, the Form to come. This is all a 4 billion year evolutionary process on Earth. God is the outcome, the backward teleological purpose of it all. In my James-James dream, Kathy represents the last step it can go causually; for the next step to occur (from man the mortal to God the immortal) someone adventitious (the scouts) must come here, from non-Earth, outside, etc. They relieve the tension (pressure) on the incumbent form, the human being, by a transmutation of him, rather than a "higher species" born from a physical womb. It will somehow resemble a healing or therapeutic act, an integration or curing (from madness to sanity, sickness to pure health), of the organism, man, qua man. Lead into gold, in the mystical Alchemical terms. One clearcut indication that this is indeed the next step up is its informational homeostasis: it is self-informing, as no creature ever was before. Thus it/he can't be cut off from knowing, as were our ancestors. To be self-informing it must transcend its own experience (which means its own life); this is an index of immortality right there. Self-creating, self-informing -- self-renewing -- this is indeed God. This might explain a major mystery of natural evolution (selection): how can an organism give birth to something greater than itself? There is a recapitulation, in the developing forms on our planet, toward a pre-existent ultimate form; it is moving backward to re-establish, as if working in the opposite direction from linear time. (Evolution is negentropic.) The lesser or low[e]r can only give birth to the greater or higher if the higher is already there -- in dormant form, somehow, within as a secret entelechy. Evolution, viewed this way, is a return. We are witnessing a process backward. (Our view is somehow reversed.) . . . Suppose in TO SCARE THE DEAD he meets someone else to whom this has happened (i.e. the resurrected Essene saint)? In fact...a growing although still small community of them (again)? I could approach the novel from a multiple character viewpoint: one is a college teacher, another in the record business, etc. A taxi driver...what might be of plot value is that when the "possession" first happens, the character & the reader assumes it is a ghost or an ancestor (the latter reincarnation), and we run with this view -- but viola! A second character, unrelated to the first, experiences the identical entity taking him over, too; also, we see that second person's "possessioned" activity dovetailing with the inscrutable (to himself) actions of the first. Big idea: we have the phone number of person 2 come to person 1 in a dream; after fighting it for days he finally calls! . . . Supra para one. Perhaps we are rushing toward the recreation of God the Prime Mover who will then again create the universe. The systole and diastole of the universe. But in any case I say the God who was born in my soul was/is not the suffering servant, the martyred god, the dying god, but the living god, dangerous to his Adversary rather than its victim. This is indicitave of what is to come in terms of the form, nature, person of God. It is a hot, vitalistic, angry God, ready to do battle ("Jehova of armies," perhaps). Subjectively I sensed: the time to do battle has arrived. Not to run, to be destroyed, but to fight and achieve victory of a final sort. . . . Christianity was a Greek mystery religion. All Greek mystery religions derived from the worship of Dionysos. The central event in the worship of Dionysos was being possessed by the God. The central theme in Christianity is the reaching or entering "The Kingdom of God." Is the "Kingdom of God" their name for being possessed by God, or their God, whatever? Achieved at the feast of agape, during communion? The God who died reborn -- in each person? Of importance: to learn whether Christ or God is meant here; i.e. which possesses you, if this be so? Which of the two of them? Did Christ claim to be a God? It seems evident to me that Jesus or Christ did so claim; i.e. he was a lunar god who died and came back; men don't do that. Tammuz, Adonis, Osiris, et al. This is the god, who was slain and returned; or more precisely, the son of god, as Zagreus was to Zeus. Yet, no early Christians talked --or talked publically-- about having reached/entered/achieved the Kingdom of God. Was this to fool the Romans and all outsiders? Was it their secret doctrine that they were in fact achieving this union with God, at the agape? It looks to me like Meister Eckhardt experienced their secret 1000 years later, after it had been squelched. The possibility of entering the Kingdom is here now. In fact, since Meister Eckehart beyond all doubt was absolutely ignorant of Greek mystery cults, ignorant of Greek itself, then his description of what and where the Kingdom of God is, constituting as it does an exact description of the Dionysian kind of god-possession, ratifies as a detached observer's analysis that indeed this is what the early Christians sought for and were covertly discussing; that in fact this is what Christianity, like the prior mystery religions, is all about. Meister Eckehart rediscovered what was lost, and at the same time tells us explicitly what was lost, without him probably having realized that there had been a deliberate suppression of this knowledge, and the experience as well. I've again read the EB article on Mystery Religions; those religions, esp. the Orphics, stressed anamnesis (Plato did, too, and those following him, as did Pythagorias). I ask this, as perhaps the most important question: what is the connection between being possessed by the Deity (which I aver is the same as finding the Kingdom of God), and recollection of ones former but forgotten divinity, as in Orphism and neoplatonism? Is it a becoming for the first time, or a return? Is it new or old? Receiving or restoration? This is important because if it is a restoration then we are or anyhow were divine in nature, and lost it or forgot it, and can retrieve or remember it, get it back. Of course, I again wonder, How, if we are divine, did we come to forget that? This is, of course, the concept of the Fall, this fact, if it is a fact; we fell and forgot, having descended into nonbeing which is the same as forgetfulness. Here now I am back to my early conjectures and ponderings, and there seems no end to this, no solution. I know that I experienced anamnesis, which suggests the recollection (neoplatonist) view. As set over against the Christian view...although for us now, 2000 years later, it would now carry the aspect of restored memory -- of events 2000 years ago; i.e. the Savior, Jesus Christ. This is what confuses me. I remember a Savior who told us it was a new experience. I remember his new message -- observe the paradox. "In a crypt 2000 years old I have discovered new news!" . . . Egyptian statement: "three gods. As Amon he is hidden for mankind; as Re he is visible in the sun; as Ptath his body is the world," the last meaning he is immanent, as Ptath, here. But it's all One. The hidden god: Deus Absconditus. Hmmmm. "He hides himself for them," i.e. mankind. Absconditus specifically means carefully concealed or hidden or secret, not just happenstance so. For us he is hidden? For our benefit? I read this as: as Re he is transcendent. As Ptath he is immanent. As Amon -- "the workman is concealed in the workshop." . . . "Tumbled stones," natural laws the same for all living things; would tend to wear them down into similarity. Living things must thrust up against the ubiquitious shaping force to attain diversity. . . . Magician/Merlin/James-James/Wise Old Man/God/alchemist. I am sure that Jung lists the magician as a permutation of the Wise Old Man. But anyhow, the astrologer-alchemist Erasmus who was laughing at me -- that was a version of God, I think; one of His thousand faces (as filtered through the soul, or the symbolizing process of the unconscious). I note that Jung says that the AMORC rose represents Dionysos. Since it is placed on the cross, where the Savior was, I assume that if Jung is correct then the rose placed dead-center on the cross is a symbol telling us that our Savior is Dionysos, or, conversely, that Dionysos died on the cross for us, in which case he is our Savior, both of which come out the same extraordinary thing. Also, I had begun to have dreams/visions suggesting Dionysos or at least Zagreus was in fact Jesus, was in fact our dying and then reborn God whom we worship; this is another basic secret disclosed to me. Then, too, the EB speaks of Dionysos as the "god of fruitfulness," which is "felix" once more, and related to Genesis: "Go forth and be fruitful." He is a harvest or grain god. The furrow is the grave; also it is the sexual act -- the phallus is buried in the ditch, and then later there is a harvest. A mystery is revealed here, enacted at Eleuysius. But the experience of the god --being possess-- that is the communion experience, the central matter, as shown in the BACCHAE. The world has never been ready for the god of fruitfulness, which seems twisted. Is life such a frightening thing? In Rollo May's terms, he is Eros versus Thanatos. Who is for thanatos and not for eros? Many people -- the state, to name one. The state crushes life. (Vide the BACCHAE, in which King Pentheus, sorrow, wishes to destroy the stranger, who brings life. It is an archetypal story, with life always winning eventually, having a wild and unpredictable power. The state always goes on formula. It builds prisons and winds up in them, victim of its own slogans. As in EYE IN THE SKY, the slogans fall on those who use (which is misuse) them. The key quality of our god is spontaneity. You can never tell what he is going to say or do next, or even where he will next appear, or most extraordinary of all, what he will look like. Perhaps the next person you meet will be him. . . . The Meister Eckehart says is absolutely crucial to me, to the highest extent, because: (1) from the beginning I have felt that my 3 74 experience was possession of me by god; (2) that Christianity was involved; (3) which means that Christianity secretly has had to do, always, with being possessed by god, like other mystery religions (which is what Ted Sturgeon says in his novel about Venus). It is all tied together by what Meister Eckehart says about God being born is your soul which is the actual Kingdom of God. Everything else is secondary to this, and probably subsidiary, such as the anamnesis, etc. Eckehart confirms this. . . . The Eb's article on "Monotheism" says: "Monotheism presumes two entities: God and the universe. But God's relationship to the universe is not merely that of prime mover. He still approaches it, and the manifestations of his continual activity toward it are expressed in history," I am paraphrasing; I guess it means in historical events and certain trends or directions which the flow of history takes. It doesn't have to be all history, but (1) He does manifest himself to us still and (2) we find that in what we call "history" and (3) certain historical events can be said to be manifestations of God or from God. This does not mean that we can discern which events are