recall that I knew they were anticipating him returning, which is to say, Santa Sophia. This was what all their activity was in preparation for. This was their hope and their expectation: the Second Advent. So this is all of a piece. But, I believe, the voice I heard was not a voice from them but rather to them (to us?). This is the news I have; this is the news they had. We are linked together, and with us our two time-space periods. Li[n]ked by that anticipation (and that voice). Whoever it speaks to, and delivers that message, is somehow made one with them, outside time and space and all distances. This Christian underground much itself lie outside of time, like that which it awaits. . . . Re; TO SCARE THE DEAD. A character based on Jim Pike (with quite another name). Based on firsthand knowledge I had of his private life, e.g. with Maren in the Tenderloin, and the kind of man he was. This could be a major, if not the major character; but it would not be he who would have the Experience; that would be had by another, perhaps after this fine bishop person dies (is killed?). Thus, in addition to the whole Essene awakening in the mind theme, we have the theme of the great bishop concerned with civil rights who mysteriously dies suddenly. What occurs to me right off is that the viewpoint character (Nicholas Brady) knows the bishop in the capacity of spying on him for the authorities (due to the bishop's civil rights stands and associations). Later, after the bishop dies, Brady had The Experience, and it seems (or has) something to do with the late bishop. Maybe there is in it information as to foul play "murder most foul!") about the bishop's ostensively accidental death. Despite the fact that he is a government part time agent, the v-p character would be disturbed; this goes too far. Also, we can have it that the bishop's son "came back to him in seances," and there was some talk about maybe the bishop coming back; this is much like the ghost of Hamlet's murdered father, of course. But anyhow it turns [i]t there is no connection with the dead bishop, although that seemed to be a possibility. Still, this is what it seems to be: saint possession; i.e. psychic possession by a dead saint. However, it turns [i]t that Brady had expereinced that which the bishop had all his life wanted to achieve and failed to. Brady is in contact with the Holy Spirit. (Now, we have to give a reason. The only one that would work would be, the bishop was murdered; the republic is in danger. You can't murder a bishop without God getting angry and telling people; you can't keep it hushed up.) (Psalm 116: "The death of his servant is precious to the Lord God.") (The final denouncement is this: the bishop, messing around with the Qumran scrolls, had planned to receive into the right hemisphere of his brain the mind of a specific Essene of 2000 years ago; this is why the bishop was hanging around the Qumran Wadi. However, his death aborted this plan. So the ancient Essene personage came to life in someone close to the bishop instead. The value of this resurrection to the bishop and to the modern world would be that the lost, secret archane truths about Jesus would be restored. Vide the ICC. I can go into the business about the Qumran men being possessed by Elijah, etc. I think the "Hamlet's father crying murder most foul" should turn out to be another false lead, since it isn't the bishop back at all. This goes with that false occult idea, namely that it is the bishop's ghost from the "other side," telling him how he was done in. The truth turns out to be much more exciting (in my opinion), but we can get a lot of mileage out of this. To shore up the plot: Brady inherits (why?) a lot of the Bishop's correspondence...oh sure, in his capacity for the government; he is power over it doing intelligence work (even though the bishop is dead, there may be something useful about the activity of others). Brady has told the widow that he wants the notes "to type them up" or some similar pretext. (This sounds like THE STRANGE CASE OF CHARLES DEXTER WARD, in a way. Anyhow, explanation is more djinn and bottle-like.) More suspense could be obtained, maybe, if Brady, by the time The Experience comes, has severed all connections with the bishop's circle; he's now operating the recording firm, as depicted. The bishop is a part of his life he's put entirely behind him. I still want to retain the gold fish-necklace which disinhibits him. But now when he sees the girl who is wearing it, actual memories from this life are stirred up...where has he seen such before? (It had to do with the bishop.) . . . Christian anamnesis: "Drink this in rememberance of me." And it is said somewhere: "The Holy Spirit, when it comes to you, will cause you to have remembrance of me." (I.e. Jesus.) Therefore: the Holy Spirit coming to someone would cause him to experience the Christian form of what Plato called anamnesis, specifically remembrance of Jesus. One could therefore reasonably say that one of the gifts of the spirit would be anamnesis, although I don't see this stressed. Now, the "do this" is the taking of communion, based on the Last Supper; so this "remembrance" turns into communion and transubstantiation. Thus it could be reasonably said that the Holy Spirit in coming to a person would cause him to experience --and actually see-- the miracle which takes place at the remembrance or communion: the transubstantiation along with the remembrance; which is to say, Christ is actually present, the Real Presence. Not just remembered. He is actually there -- in ordinary communion, unseen; when anamnesis via the Holy Spirit comes, then seen! The miracle includes: He (the person) remembers what exists (also equally) now. It is past (2000 years ago) and present mysteriously combined. He would inexplicably experience the distant past (Rome 2000 years ago, and Greek words) as well as inexplicably experience the Real Presence of Christ-God now, around him in his present day environment; a mysterious fusion of worlds would obviously take place for him. John 14:16, 17, 26 says: " He (the Holy Spirit) shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you." So more than a memory of Jesus the man but a memory of his teachings. The Megiddo mission says, "The Holy Spirit should bring all of Jesus' teachings to the Apostles' remembrance; but of the 'Spirit of truth' Jesus promised, it 'will show you things to come.'" The Mission people claim the Holy Spirit left around 100 AD and won't return until the Parousia. By a sy[s]ygism, then, since it was the Holy Spirit who came to me, the Parousia are here now. Well, then, "Saint Sophia will be reborn," etc., that would be by the Spirit of truth if indeed as the Mission says they are different; but I think they are He: the Paracletos, one Spirit. I have really known from virtually the start that it was the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, who came to me (vide my letter of May 74 to Peter Fitting); but by deliberately suspending judgment in terms of identifying or naming it finally, I have had the chance to do over one full year's intellectual investigation on the whole topic, immersing myself in everything I could read remotely pertaining. Now the Spirit has withdrawn -- but what a wonderful 14 months! More than the rest of all my life! Gold shining and infused into the cardboard of the gutter! What must be faced is that, as ISS says, Rome won; we lost -- hence, "She was not acceptable before." Maybe salvation --the Word-- must be entirely voluntarily accepted, and men rejected it. God does not force it on us; men found it unacceptable, to them. Maybe Rome won by default; men chose Rome over the Word, rather then Rome suppressing "Not acceptable" sounds like "not acceptable to the world" or "not acceptable to those to whom it was offered"; i.e. she, Saint Sophia, the Wisdom of God, was rejected, and so departed from the world; i.e. died. So this second, collateral sentence is very meaningful; we learn why the Logos or Wisdom of God left the world, which has been very puzzling. If we read Holy Spirit, then the Mission is correct; the Holy Spirit left, perhaps fairly early, but we --I mean I-- know why, because men did not accept it in the sense that they did not find it to their liking. Thus the Mission is correct, unless "Saint Sophia" refers strictly to Christ alone. Perhaps it does. Christ is said by John to be the Logos. Anyhow, Rome won; we lost. But another try is going to be made. Or is now being made. I am left with hope, and with faith. Now, if I can only get my love together I'll have it right, finally (vide Luke, pps 1121 -- 1127). The above problem could be resolved this way: the Holy Spirit came to remind men of, and teach them about, the wisdom of Christ; i.e. as a follow up of His mission. But He and His wisdom were not acceptable and were rejected, despite the Holy Spirit which did not force it on me but left them free to choose. They chose to reject it, and finally either the Holy Spirit departed, or anyhow slid out of s[l]ight and worked (as the Roman Church says) in secret only. When Christ told the desciples of the Helper to come, He meant a Healper to help them spread the good news. The defeat then of the Holy Spirit was a continuation of the defeat He suffered. And for the same reason; the doctrines, through the desciples, failed as they had when He was alive speaking [to] them. . . . It is evident that the Holy Spirit could induce remembrance where formal knowledge, buy the person, was absent; i.e. to perform the mass one has formal knowledge. But suppose no mass is performed and no formal knowledge (memory of as handed down in traditional ways) remains? The el[l]ipsis can be abolished by the Holy Spirit, who informs inwardly of what has been totally and truly forgotten; the break is healed. Remembrance out of nothing, so to speak; it teaches what is not known. Does, sui generis, the work --efficacy-- of the mass; this could be for other cultures who never knew of or heard of Christ (which explains my original obsession with the realization, my recognition of its overwhelming importance, that a priori I had discovered the forms of a religion, Christianity, which seemed impossible. "As if a native of South America had begun carving crucifixes," I kept saying, "and talking about Galgotha." Without having any way of ever having heard of Galgotha, etc. What a miracle -- how extraordinary, opening up a totally new view of the universe, that these forms and this knowledge could arise a priori in a human mind as a category of thought. Thus I have arrived at the same results, by the direct proof (it evidently was/is the Holy Spirit) and indirectly: what one would experience if the Holy Spirit descended and filled one, and I get identical results; also, I have now excluded everything else I can think of or have heard of. They key is in John, where he quotes Jesus saying that the Holy Spirit (the Comforter) will bring remembrance -- which for us means of a time 2000 years ago, in a province of Rome. Our world, an ice world of winter (like half-life in UBIK).