be aspect of sin and guilt which I can't discern. Well, this is as diffuse as anything I have ever thought...but I know what I think, here, for the first time; that is, I have always thought it to have been one of the Persons of God who took possession of me and dealt with the situation and thus extricated me, but I never consciously thought until now that Christ is said to so place Himself in our stead in lethal situations that threaten us. Ah; the word is sacrifice. "No greater love hath a man than that he give up his life for his friend," Christ said, speaking of the ultimate in agape. In role taking, so to speak (to cheapen it somewhat). This would be consistent with the most authoritative view of Christ's role as a sacrifice to redeem man, dying in his stead. For instance, I had the strong feeling that when Ralf died, it wasn't Ralf, but that the Savior had replaced Ralf and it was the Savior (the lamb) we saw die, there. Christ took the mortal blow delivered at Ralf; I believe I conjectured about Pinky as well; was it not the Savior we saw perish in Pinky's behalf? Then what about that which possessed me, but rather than dying for me, extricated me since such was possible? In that case, the gnosis or sophia aspect would predominate; I can see all three: love predominating in Him doing it; wisdom then predominating (the logos or Christ) in determining what to do; and then power finally, in acting (God Himself). . . . About the only useful test of a vision ever established is, How does it conform (essentially to other visions by other people)? Now having read the "Apostasy" Mission book I now know to the exact extent possible how well my Rome vision conforms to the eschatological view of non-establishment Christianity; it is exact in every detail, and so fits a lesser but real view of other people. (It is not the majority view.) I guess there are few questions left for me to ask. This is the view of the "Kingdom on Earth," not heaven, people, who look forward to the Parousia, as I've been doing. Since I am even more certain now as to the authenticity and authentic source of my vision (which also includes the vision of spring following Rome) then I conclude that the "Parousia people," not the establishment people, are correct, and that as the Mission says, the veil is being removed from the Book now, so that we can readily grasp, via the power of the Spirit, the "fantasy" of Daniel and of Revelation. We have suffered 1500 years of tyranny; but if God is with us, who can stand against us? Die Himmel erzahlen...the glory of God. Like the year of the signing of the Magna Carta, 1974 was a date in the history of man's return to truth, justice and freedom. I did not understand that the throwing down of the remains of Rome is our prime task, inseparable from being an authentic (fish) Christian; this is our task, here, aided by the Spirit, as I saw. It is not a side- issue. But it can't be done by men. Also, men can't rule when/if it gets done. But the job is to be done: balking, refusing to have anything to do with, any transactions with, Rome. As long as the wheat and the tares are mingled, He can't save the wheat and burn the tares. We must grow to the end, and finally separate distinctly; to so this we must turn away from the tyranny, the world state still holding power, but in an indistinct shadowy sense ("It was, it is not, but yet it is," as the Bible says). It the Mission's Apostasy book is right ("Was, is not and yet is") then my vision of Rome in 3 74 was not a vision of a past time, and not a time dysfunction, but a vision of the essential reality around me: the true nature --normally obscured by the dokos-- of the present. This is quite different from an anamnesis of 2000 years ago, and on this point hands virtually everything; what I experienced was discernment, not anamnesis. Second, that would make the next vision, of 2 75, of spring, perhaps also a discernment. This has then nothing to do with time, or anyhow linear time, but penetration into onion-like layers of greater & greater ontological reality. This, and perhaps this alone, would explain how it could also be the discerned present US world of FLOW MY TEARS; that is surely now a time event, but one of depth into. The past, then, is with us, and yet is not (not visibly). But I will make a daring leap and say that what it showed me is that in the ultimate sense, in terms of an inexpressible kind of time (perhaps a Platonic form time, as in the way the trigrams progress, etc.) it is now really only 100 to 250 AD Rome, despite all accretional appearances; I can't explain how that can be, but it is so; a sort of very real, even ultimately real, time somehow ceased -- about the time the Mission theorizes (and the ICC likewise) that the last genuine Christians were killed and their doctrines lost or destroyed. We have bridged the gap between us and them, to reunite in continuity, so that everything is recalled, nothing is in fact lost (the ends joined, a section deleted as if it had never been: the 1500 dry spell). This is a formidable miracle, but sensible, in terms of eschatology. It is eschatologically essential. Perhaps --perhaps!-- it was a deception, by the obscure antagonist power of Rome itself, to become camouflaged and hidden from gaze; and God allows us to penetrate this disguise and see it here amongst us as always! It has taken refuge in deceit -- in the Lie. Thus, we had not merely failed to see; it was deliberately hidden by itself from us to see, the, would be to be fiercely angry in surprise. To see this would be to enter that Fish-Christian underground almost automatically. Perhaps the purpose of snipping out the 1500 years of apostasy and linking the now with the authentic fish christian period would be that the continuity of christian knowledge --which had been lost-- would be re-established, retrieved, alive again, available to us (e.g. to me, as it became, even in the original Greek). It would like living water flow from the now tangent far-past to here, being suddenly juxstaposed. Too, this could be viewed as, The results desired are the results achieved; in my case, I came to be directly linked with the Word, which flowed into me from the past amplified and explained from above. So one line of thought leads by rigid & inexorable logic to: anamnesis of circa 100/200 AD Rome (which would explain the Attic Greek words and other antique knowledge flowing to me); and another line of rigid & inexorable logic, based mostly on the apostasy book and on TEARS asserts that the Rome I saw exists now; so we have the following: It is true that I saw into the far past. It is true that I saw deep into the inner reality of the present. (I am speaking about seeing one thing only.) This leads to: The far past and the inner reality of the present are, in some unfathomable way, identical. How, why this could be, I don't know, but true it must be. Could we see into the core of our world, we would see Rome circa 100/200 AD. ("It was it, is not and yet it is.") However, consider Angus Taylor writing about "Faith of Our Fathers": "Yet despite the supposed defeat of the secular forces of evil, the security of the human world is undermined by metaphysical evil...thus it is suggested that the forces in the world that have supposedly been defeated...have in fact triumphed, though their triumph reminas invisible to most." In this a quasi or supposed hallucinogenic view served to reveal the truth. This would explain the "Is but is not" as follows: the tangible secular evil was defeated, but in metaphysical form it remains in power; invisible because metaphysical, real because still there, and what we took to be the adversary was only its tangible physical embodiment on earth -- the Roman Empire. Now we have the invisible metaphysical counterpart, which is worse, with us. Two Romes, then, must be distinguished: the "secular forces of evil" vs their invisible triumph here. . . Capt Cook's ship, which I couldn't see until it fired on me (the Xerox letter). A world empire. . . . Now I know the meaning of my dream of the old encyclopedias, as Kleo's family's house. In them there had been the speeches of General Sherman in which he set forth the (new) Roman totalitarianism. In my dream it was said that "Andrew Jackson," dated 1837, hadn't ever actually dies, was in fact still alive. This meant still alive are the ideas of Sherman; and those ideas are a radical, vicious romanism-centralism. It was then, in 1863 or so, that the rebirth of Rome took place; here, then carried to Germany. This was the same Washington government and same army generals who exterminated the Indians. This can now be seen to dovetail with my dreams of the sibyl and other Roman constructs. There dreams, and my experience, let me in on the (mystical, metaphysical) Secret (about the world; as said regarding Gibbon: "Rome never really did fall. To think it fell is an error."). The Secret: we are in a Roman prison. And help is on the way. This is the meaning behind the idea of the Kingdom of Heaven --the return of the rightful King-- to suddenly come. First, you must understand our desperate situation. Before the next world can be understood, this one had to be understood. The veil is right here. It does not just cut us off from the supernatural (sic) world of God, but from the awful ugly reality around us right here, and how people serve this slave state. I guess could they see it they would not serve it. It must be known to insiders, though. To the ruling circles. . . . The Mission gives approx March 20th as first day of the year: the day of the Savior's birth (based on the vernal equinox). [0] Jesus emphasized to the descriples that it would be to their advantage when he was crucified, because then "a second Comforter" (or Paraclete) would come who, it is implied, could be of more aid to them. What is obvious, so obvious that one overlooks it, is that the Logos qua Jesus was bound by the limitations and laws binding all men, and could not do anything "cosmic," either for his friends or for himself. It is equally obvious that the "Second Comforter" is another form of himself, but, being released by the above laws and limitations, could render aid on an unlimited basis, in ways that are transcendent and supernatural, and not the mere "magician's tricks" which Jesus was required to do, merely to show his divinity. What I see now, from reading "The Wisdom of Solomon" is simply that St. Sophia entered human form and during this time lost the various capacities (or some of them) which she had possessed as a world-builder and maintainer; it was essential that His/Her time incarnate be brief, which is exactly what Jesus says to his descriples, comparing his pain to that of childbirth. So there was Santa Sophia ranging the world, then limited to the human form, then released after the crucifixion -- to become what? There is mention in "The Wisdom of Solomon" of St. Sophia coming to good and holy men and inspiring them such as to make