school physics' class; not one other anywhere, in any reference book. How could it remain unknown? This implies God uses it sparingly; it is virtually nonexistent, or anyhow non-reported. The only thing I can think of offhand is this: 3 different sources indicate that this daimon, under another name, ceased to be present in men's lives around 100 AD: Gibbon says that the Christians lost the actual power; the International Community of Christ agreed; the witnesses say so, too, or maybe it's the Megiddo Mission people; anyhow, since this may well be the Christ-consciousness or Holy Spirit thing, then perhaps the human being at this end must do something, and has forgotten how to do it or even that it can be done (vide the Int. Community of Christ). God waits for us to do an initiating act. Or, the Holy Spirit (the power) was withdrawn, and the dry period of nearly 2000 has taken place, without contact between man and God. If this is [?] perhaps the Spirit has returned, which is what I did feel, especially I felt that Elijah had come. Either way, it has been gone for 2000 years, either because God withdrew the Holy Spirit or because for one reason or another man lost the method and the notion. And then all that came were daemons rather than daimons -- evil spirits only, not from God. Yet this still seems strange to me; if God through a demiurge can do this, why doesn't he do it a lot? Look: if I assume that what happened to me in 3 74 was due to something I did, which others don't ever do, then heaven's sake, I stumbled onto something of such vast value -- it is what the Int. Community of Christ had decyphered over 17 years, and maybe they don't know exactly how. This sort of makes me [?] a Van Voyt character: possesing the most utterly priceless wisdom/formula-for-immortality on the planet, which I find hard to believe; this is megalomania, for sure. But if God did it all, then why me, and why just me? Why not others, many others? Either way I am into what is for me an insoluable puzzle; we either have an unconvincingly incredibly human (me), or we have a God whom we cannot understand; he can help but doesn't and yet he helped me -- me of all people in the world! Either theory is absurd. Neither can explain it. But what happened did happen, and RM had to go back to 400 BC Athens to find an example of the daimon at all, let alone the sanctification and new birth which 3 74 ushered in for me. There is one more possibility...perhaps for instance the records of the 17th century Reformers contain accounts, but these are dismissed, even suppressed, by a totally secular age, now. As Ursula dismissed my account. There transfigurations happen but are denied by the world! One can go, then, to Dr. Bucke's book COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS; as I recall he was able to find 6 instances for sure in history, entire world history, of experiences like mine; maybe 20 possibles. That includes the Reformers and the Greeks. That still aren't many. However, Dr. Bucke does advance one theory which might account for this, one which would be in accord with Jesus' cryptic parables about the mustard seed, the leaven in the break, etc.; Dr. Bucke says the thinks this is an evolutionary advance, the next step up. In the past certain precursors of the New Man appeared (e.g. Socrates, Jesus). Dr Bucke thought the frequency would increase soon. This ties in with Bergson's elan vital, too, and with Eros as the push of like fo[r]ward in evolution. This is how God works. This is how God has always worked, from the day creation began: prog[r]essively, successively, continuously. "Day" and "day." Dr. Bucke's wise theory would account for the rarity of cosmic consciousness in the past, and would untie the knot of the dichotomy expresses above. I am, ahem, like a Van Vogt character after all; like a Slan. (The next step up.) God works through evolution, not to circumvent it. This, too, would explain my strong intuition that what happened in 3 74 didn't consist of one desperate event and supernatural solution, but the inevitable outcome of an entire lifetime. All my life I had been moving toward this metamorphosis; the dormant possibility of it lay slumbering in me from birth; of my dreams of childhood, where I arrive on a raft avoiding Scotland Yard, climb to the top and then turn out to be a cookoo egg. This would explain why now I feel that unless I went through everything I went through I couldn't have gotten there; my metasystem wouldn't have fired. It was programmed to fire after the proper sequence. (of events? of learning? of experience? of trial and failure????? aha!) had passed, and all the changes, or steps or stages, necessary had taken place in me. Makes much, much sense. Got my right hemisphere to fire. Instinctively knew how to do it: the ortho-molecular vitamins, the manta, etc. Did like the bird in building a nest. Made myself a nest and then lay down to wait, expecting. And it came. The golden fish necklace told me it was time; I began my work, like the worm constructing its coccoon. In order to die, in its original primal lower form, to be remade into a better newer creating! To fly up from the "sea" into the sky! I imagine these jumps forward, back to the Cambrian Period, are associated with pain and stress and a great deal of uncertainty and fear. The creature toils alone, under duress, staggers or ventures out into the unknown, to his species anyhow...he much exhause all the possibilities which they still rely on for better or worse; he must try, be urged on by the life force, the elan vital, to break new ground. He suffers, maybe fails. Exhausted, oppressed, but finally the night ends --maybe-- in gasping victory. The bright light floods over him from above, signal he's succeeded: The Jewish-Christian myth which says that we once had these faculties and lost them --devolved-- might be true, and it certainly would explain my anamnesis, as well as the vice Plato and Empedocles held. However, it is also possible that this myth was instilled in us (never mind how) in order to push us toward this as a goal in the future, whether indeed we had such faculties or not; this might be the only way such an ideal state could be expressed for those earlier cultures. "The Fall" is a sort of ancient way of talking about the next evolutionary stage in terms that make sense to people who have no concept of evolution. What I should do, forthwith, is examine my experience and then very carefully the changes it produced in me, in order to fathom what abilities/improvements it would perhaps give us as a species, if we evolve into it as a permanent condition. (one) Perceptual acuity. Expressed in terms of the Spirit of Truth, the change makes it possible to not be deceived; one cannot be lied to; one sees into the ontological nature of things, and the falsity of words ceases to operate on him. ("An inability to be shucked," as I predicted the new kids would be.) I can theorize that this is accomplished by a sort of relief map achieved by the superimpsition of data processing by both hemispheres; data are compared and in some fashion the real or true or authentic is distinguished perceptually; maybe what agrees --that is, when both hemispheres agree, reach the same conclusion-- then the colors I saw are experienced. It literally looks different, even in print. Like 3-D compared to flat. This is almost an advance in the use of color for a fundamental perceptual purpose, not present employed. If Logos is defined as "the meaningful structure of reality," then this new or enhanced faculty of perception, this new ability to come to an absolutely accurate perception of what is so and what fails to be so, brings one closer to the logos, which is why I was convinced the logos was involved; it was, that is, I saw it. I was instantly rewarded by Nature for my achievement. Certainly each time any creature ventured a jump up in the evolutionary ladder he was so rewarded; otherwise why would he ever try again? Instinct would reward him, so as to make it all worthwhile; motivation would be needed, to compensate for the pain and effort and fear. It is absolutely impossible to believe that it could be any other way; if it were, it would fail. On a purely pleasure-pain scale, this may be the more glorious pleasure imaginable for a living creature: to advance a tiny notch up. Thereafter he is motivated to keep trying and trying; what if he felt nothing, or even felt bad when he'd achieved it? How impossible. My dreams in which I'm above looking down God-like at worthy animals -- they suggest the above --evolutionary view-- may be correct. I.e.; God is assisting an animal, an animal species (to grow). And my inner vision of the tall savior with the staff moving among the sheep (and cows, etc.) under the pale light, the steady white light. I knew that the sheep were ourselves: humans. I now understand a mystery of evolution: a creature does not grow an eye; he is provided with an eye, but he must struggle to use it, to get it to begin to work. For him to struggle and achieve this, he must be under enormous stress to need its use; so I must have needed the new faculty or organ, needed what it could do in order to extricate myself; I got it to come on, and it did extricate me. But if this was a true metamorphosis, then I probably did not/have not just dropped back to what I was; a change set in, perhaps permanent (the butterfly doesn't turn back into the worm). Anyhow, it worked well enough & long enough to solve the problem(s) facing it, and if it receded, it did so after the acute need had been solved by it. ...This is all very well, but what of the faint far-off voice, as if at the far other end of a pipe, or at the end of a long tube, at the top of the well, speaking distantly but distinctly, coaching me, informing me, in hypnogogic and hypnopompic states, in dreams, in deep night fatigue while awake, and sometimes in Attic Greek? How does this patient, informing voice fit in? Explain that, Phil. Is someone of much higher intelligence, of another species, looking down at us from a distance above, like research scientists looking down at creatures in an artificial maze? It still does not compute; I still don't have it. There is no reason why in leaping up the ladder of evolution one should find himself hearing his thoughts in Attic[k] Greek, or hearing thoughts not his own in any language. There is still this dialog with the Holy Other, and still the mystery, Why Attic Greek? This points so to the past, to the time of Socrates. To his daimon -- there, I said it; my daimon, maybe all of them, are his, specifically his, a Greek-speaking (originally) one. Attic Greece is somehow the core, the matrix, for all this -- WHY? "Christianity is a Greek religion" (Int Community of Christ) "The guardian daimon is a Greek idea" (Rollo May) "The highest point of civilization was Attic Greece" (fact) The first person known to have experienced anamnesis was Empedocles, who was a Greek circa 400 BC. The Greeks had the Oracle at Delphi, and looked ahead thousands of years into time. Our philosophy comes from Greece, our basic ideas. ..Adds up to nothing.. Aha: Erasmus, my