He would return as a light creature and re-enter them (as the Holy Spirit); this would be a true return by Him, the King -- King in the sense that he would rule (over them all, as their rightful king). This collective rule of them by him and through him, linking them all together, would be the mysterious Kingdom of God. . . I 100 AD or so the Holy Spirit didn't leave; men fell away; it is still here, but men can't see it; hence, blasphemy against the Holy Spirit is not to have faith that it, as promised by Christ, is here with us working invisible to our blinded eyes; this is the one unforgivable blasphemy because the work of God is being done by the Holy Spirit, and it requires and rewards our faith in its secrets Presence. We really cannot see any members of the Trinity now, including God or Christ. It is such groups as the Witnesses and the Mission who have fallen into apostacy (sp), to deny the Spirit, to believe that God would send the Comforter and then withdraw it from us. I had heard about the promise of the Comforter (the Paracletos) and believed it; I always expected it to save me when there was no hope for me. Thus I was able to prepare myself to receive it. It came to the door as I always believed. When I read the religious literature I see that few people have faith that the Paraclete will come to rescue them, let alone that is exists. The Mission people are making a dreadful mistake, not believing in things unseen. How can they believe that God has abandoned man when He promised not to? I deduce that although the addicents (emperical surface of reality) show no progress, that in actuality, at the ontological level, the Holy Spirit constantly moves things forward in improvements which we cannot see, neither the Spirit nor what it achieves; therefore, below the surface lies constant progression toward perfection and completion, and this goes on right now, invisible to our eyes. The Parousia therefore are the culmination when all is prepared; God breaks through when the world has been made ready for him (which puts a new or different light on it). This is much like Parmenides saying one needs a "fiery soul" only in order to see Form one only. I did not really understand this truly until I read the wrong doctrine, by the Mission, that the Holy Spirit is not here. They go entirely on the surface, according to what seems so, to their eyes; but they should know better: going this way, God doesn't seem to exist at all. This is the essence of faith, not to see but to know anyhow. . . . The third or intellectual soul, described by Aristotle, one of three, the one which is immortal: engaged in contempation, of knowledge (philosophy) of god, of geometric forms...combined with Plato's notion that you can go to the slave boy and show him some therems of Pythagorias and he will remember; anamnesis -- what he will remember is these forms of contemplation; his third or intellectual soul will come on, with memory. To start this, something must remind him (such as a golden fish necklace and certain words spoken?). Is it possible that the Light Being by entering the third eye stimulates this third soul into coming to life, and thereby conveys immortality? Thus there is something inside (this third intellectual soul) and something outside (the Light Being or Holy Spirit), but it is inaugered from without. The fascinating thing about this view of what happened with me in 3 74 is it combined the Platonistic concept of anamnesis (the inner part) with Christianity, or anyhow the Holy Spirit (the external inciting living entity); certainly my experience involves intellectual matters more along Greek (Platonistic) lines than traditional Christian. The existence of the Spirit (an adventitious entity highly sentient) is indicated by the colloquy, such as that about St. Sophia. But also in 3 74 I served some great useful purpose for which I had been designed, did it and then passed on, really, to a postlude, my work achieved -- a success, without knowing precisely what it was I did; yet everything before that led up to it, and everything after is a falling away. The right moment, the exact spot and time: an endeavor not for me. And now what? A gradual crumbling away, but with a memory of having been successful, for that one thing to which all was aimed. At that instant it was all on the line; for me, my own immortal portion, my soul. Like a mechanism designed to do one job, perhaps one time -- and did it. I believe something really evil was loose in the world, and we stood up to it here and there and defeated it. I have no idea who or what it was, no clear conception of it or what it wanted. Or why me. Perhaps what I did was shake off a lifetime of contamination and conditioning and preprogramming to this world. That in effect I confuted or renounced it and my allegiance to the forces in it and hence to it. What isn't clear is whether I shook of[f] something primarily in the past which had held me, or else something building ahead, to come. It is, as the Protestant reformers knew, primarily a fight against the great tyrannical system or systems of the past, for the purpose of freeing men's minds, for the future of life. What Art Spiegelman said about SFS shows how right I was, and how right I am still to abominate distrust and fear those people. It occurs to me to connect my experience with that of the Protestant Reformers which broke the monopoly on truth which the Catholic Church had. Their stance vis-a-vis the Church was almost identical to mine vis-a-vis the Marxists. Perhaps the reappearance of this spirit, working for the freedom to know and to think, signals the beginning of another major historical age like that of the Reformation; perhaps it come forth when there is a historical necessity. So we may be seeing the beginning of the breaking down of the bullshit establishments here and in the USSR -- like I said in my Vancouver speech and especially as I saw or discerned in 3 74, the arising of a new ability to tell when you are being snowed; and since big governments etc reign by bullshit, perhaps this is a grand new era for mankind, of which I was/am a part. Endowed with the sudden, new capacity to see through lies -- so equipped by the Spirit himself. And at the same time placing an extraordinary value on truth in oneself; never to lie and never to let anyone lie to you; a new value system with this first. If the Protestant could be said to be a new historical type emerging from an older authoritarian one, then perhaps a[n] equally important new one is emerging now -- not just inner directed (Protestants were that) but -- what I was in 3 and 4 74; there is no name, yet. Not inner-, not outer-, but truly new. My subjective experiences and feelings, in abruptly lifting up to this new type, must be parallel to those of the first Protestants, in form and quality, as their new concepts, that of inner truth rather than handed-down-from-the-top truth flooded over them and they became a new kind of men. The Protestants refused to be told what to do or think. The new modern type (v. Vancouver speech) cannot be lied to. . . One's mind is supposed to produce (create) new ideas, not ideas (values, information, concepts, words, cultural artifacts) known to others in the distant past. This enormously expands the automy of the individual; he can spontaneously generate that which was supposed to be entirely in the hands of the limited socio-economic, historic process in which he was born, dependent on his culture for all this, on them to educate him. In a sense, now, he can fashion his own value system, or anyhow obtain it, select it, acquire it in a direct relationship to it, THE SAME WAY THE PROTESTANT REFORMER HAD A DIRECT RELATIONSHIP TO MORAL TRUTH. He now has that to perceptual truths, facts. He has risen above the control of historic determinism; this is a giant new step in the process of human individuation and freedom. All the Protestant had inately (sp) was his conscience. Innately, I mean. Conscience -- individual and inner, and his own, not derived. But now! Whole categories of human thought innate, inner and individual, in the same way -- conscience elaborated or added to -- multiplex systems instead of the single system of conscience, which told us only what was right, not what was so. To the Catholic, it must have seemed as impossible that a person could have an actual again bite of inwit as it would seem to the Protestant that a person could know Attic Greek innately "Conscience is a social deposit." And surely, "Knowledge of the culture and value-system of Greek times circa 400 BC is a social deposit, learned from outside entirely." The Catholic could say, "How does this inner knowledge of right-and-wrong come into being?" and would get no answer; this isn't known. Likewise, "How does a knowledge of the Logos, of Neoplatonism, of the Eliatic Schools, come into being?" received no answer, but so it is. It is just as obvious that conscience is a social deposit as that Attic Greek is a social deposit. It is a mystery. Perhaps it come directly from God (which the Reformers said of conscience). Now one such as I can say that of all values; not just right-and-wrong, but also, truth-versus-false, important-versus-mickeymouse. And, too, like conscience which is a quiet inner voice saying, "Such and such is wrong," this quiet inner voice speaks in Attic Greek and also gives vital information (e.g. about St. Sophia, etc.). (It's a whole audio-video school or tutorial system -- yes, tutorial; tutor to pupil, as with Aristotle and Philip). . . . It seems to be inside things (inc. men): as the sap to the branch. The long above discussion regarding historical forces shows the connection between the Holy Spirit and conscience, the latter being a small form of the former in my opinion. Since Rollo May shows that Socrates' daimon is conscience when thought of as more than mere social deposit, then that must be the same, too. Regarding conscience, we are talking about a holy force, divine in origin and absolutely binding, which does not arise from social conditioning but springs spontaneously; it is God teaching us and informing us. If conscience can be regarded as a historical, social force (esp. connected with the Reformers and toleration and freedom) then my 3 74 experience consisted of conscience changing over to the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit advancing out into the realm of social action, in which the right of conscience was rightfully supposed to be; for the Holy Spirit to do that is to throw into the balance of social action against despotic society (identified with "the prince of this world") an ultimate force; conscience is shown then as a forerunner of a force more powerful because as well as moral knowledge it also carries knowledge of what is true (and what is mere lie). Conscience alone might dictate that I act (refuse to kill Vie[t]namese) but in no way does/did it provide me with any assistance of any sort. Not so with its more complete form, the Holy Spirit. The relationship between them reminds me of that between the First Advent (the lamb who is sacrificed) and the Second: the Powerful Judge who overthrows what is evil. The two instances of Holy Spirit as conscience in my own case