space. I wonder if it is a self-system, an ego, at all. It is not another self, even a better one; it is absolute it all that it knows, does and especially in all that it is (its ontology is perfected). I don't really see it in process, in becoming, and more than I see it making mistakes and learning thereby. It has no infancy and no senility. Also, it is ma'at, I just realized. The absolute judge; I am sure of it; I can tell; mostly by its voice. What it does most of all is weigh. Law (proportion), truth and justice. Joseph Campbell identifies ma'a[t] with dharma and tao, also the will of heaven. It ma'at can speak --be personified and "alive"-- then we have advanced out of the Chinese idea of tao and into something like the Christian concept of God. . . In 3 74; the abolishment of time for me shows that mythic identification (with the god or goddess) did take place; of Joseph Campbell p 54 (?). For me, back to the Last Supper (which identifies the "god" as the Holy Spirit, but also the Will of Heaven when it speaks). "It is a bold attribution, this of one immortal substance to a sequence of mortal men; but in those days the madness could be overlooked simply by dressing up and regarding not the man but the costume, as we do in a play; while the incumbent himself no longer acted of his own free will but according to his part, 'So that the scrupture might be fulfilled.' For as Thoman Mann once very well explained in a discussion of the phenomenon of 'lived myth', 'The Ego of antiquity and its consciousness of itself was different from our own, less exclusive, less sharply defined. It was, as it were, open behind; it received much from the past and by repeating it gave it presentness again.' And for such an imprecisely differentiated sense of ego, 'imitation' meant far more than we mean by the word today. I was a mythical identification...Life, or at any rate significant life, was the reconstruction of the myth in flesh and blood; it referred to and appealed to the myth; only through it, through reference to the past. Could it approve itself as genuine and significant.' And as a consequence of this solemn play of life as myth, life as quotation, time was abrogated and life became a festival, a mask: the scenic reproduction with priestly men as actors of the prototypes of the gods -- as for instance, the life and suffering of the dead and resurrected Osiris." (Joseph Campbell.) I'm sure he selects Osiris because of the resemblance to our Passion of Christ (well, maybe he doesn't). Anyhow it is the same god really, the same myth, outside of time, and under either name capable of "abrogating time," as JC puts it. We really have all this in our mass, in which the priest, at a certain point, becomes Christ. And it is the "same" mass celebrated over and over, not a different one each time. JC of course knows this. This particular "myth", that of the death of Christ, is the only one we have, the only one which survived of all the mystery religions and other cults and religions of the antique world. We're allowed to celebrate that, but that is it. Still, it's all there. Dionysos, Zagreus, Osiris, Adonis. ("JC" is in this case Joseph Campbell, not Jesus Christ; supra.) At a certain point Christ is actually present, in the wafer & wine and also He becomes the priest, and we are once more there again; we have found our way back, a concept contained in the religion itself; viz: the dead god who returns to life. The cyclic repetition which takes place in the mass governs also the concept of why the mass is spoke and what it is about. Our god died, and was buried (gone), but then He returned. So saying, the priest therewith becomes Christ, proving the authenticity, the rightness, of the whole religion and the whole service. Proof of this worship happens each time the mass is celebrated (do I make my point? It is the basis of our religion, that after an interval our God Christ returned from the dead; i.e. came back; therefore logically it is no wonder that the "comes back" during the performance of the mass and is again present. The mass is a microcosm of the macrocosm, of the world in which this took place. The worshippers are treated to a holy miracle, of the most ultimate importance: they get to see Him return (or anyhow experience it). Once thus experienced, it cannot be doubted in the macrocosm as well -- where someday in the future He will return likewise. It is as if each time the mass (or Last Supper, "in remembrance of Me") was secretly celebrated by the early Christians, they got to unfold their miracle, about Jesus, for their own eyes alone, invisible to the (Roman-secular) world. "Thou didst not see what I saw, Robin," as Oberon puts it. I can imagine the impact in the early days of the "Fish" Christians when they gathered in stealth to perform the feast of agape. New people who had never actually known Jesus could be brought in one by one, and this shown to them. Suddenly He would be there, only not as a mortal but in His transformed state (as I experienced Him). He would be all through them, the celebrants. "Time would be abrogated," as Campbell says. This abrogation of time might not be so startling at first, during the actual Roman era; but later on, as in my situation...suddenly "back" in Rome "again." We are always back there, just as before; nothing has changed. And the Return of the King is always eagerly anticipated as imminent; there is much excitement and fear and activity. Now to continue with Campbell: "...of the dead and resurrected Osiris. The pharaoh on the Narmer palette, therefore, though executing a historical act in time, at a certain date, and in space. In the land of Egypt, is depicted not as a merely successful warrior king, but as the manifestation in history of an eternal form. This form is to be known as the 'truth' or 'right order' (ma'at), and it supports the king while being realized in his deed. Truth, ma'at, right order, is the principle mythologically personified as the cow-goddess Hathor. She is an eternally present, world-supporting principle: at once the frame of the world and a maternal force operating within it, bringing forth the realized god while at the same time fructified in her productivity by his act." Thus the complex bilateral interchange between ma'at and the world order (kosmos) which she maintains; this fine passage explains what the Greeks struggled with regarding God or Immanent Mind as being either noos or psyche. Ma'at sees to it that inthe interests of justice, truth and balance (harmonie) an act takes place, but at the same time the act which she has brought about enhances her, strengthens her. Thus it is done by her, for her. (She makes it; it "makes" her.) (This as opposed to some notion that she gives to cause the act and weakens of vitiates or loses thereby, that her elan vital passes somehow out of her, away from her, and into a material system, etc.) Ma'at is eternally created, made immortal, by her own acts which she causes to take place in time & space. The space-time universe, then, is an interface which ma'at makes use of to generate herself perpetually; she is made more real or substantial (powerful and authoritative) by what she does here. Thus, the results of any given act which she lends assistance to the performance of -- those results of necessity pass back to ma'at to augment her. The assistance or cause (help) for the act lies beyond the visible space-time world, and so do the accruals, the real consequences, since they pass back to the reality of Being from which they, as cause of the act, streamed originally. That makes, in a sense, our world a stage on which is enacted certain ritual acts, almost like the events depicted in our mass; we set up the alter and perform the mass in our space-time world, but already our space-time world is an alter for ma'at (etc) and events here are enactments already -- sanctified, some of them anyhow, consecrated by the gods, as holy. Our world, or parts of it, can become like the wafer and wine, then: transubstantiated by ma'at any time she instigates such a holy act (in a limited area, maybe). This illustrates maybe what the Catholics say, that God (as Jesus) did not step down into this world and became a man but rather somehow drew man up to Him (to His world or realm). It may be that because of my "transubstantiated" state in 3 74, everything I did possessed or seemed to possess the quality of ritual, of solemn enactment or even re-enactment. Everything was transfigured into archetypal modes. However, I still have the feeling that I had been waiting for that letter, a long time, perhaps virtually all of my life. The predestination was already there -- lying in my room, waiting, waiting, fearing. What I did with it was a repudiation of it. But what specifically did I repudiate? Materialism? The secular world? The Evil One? Temptation? Sin? And wasn't there something already in me allied to the letter which I threw off at the same time, with it? I changed myself. I repudiated my value system, which was life-long. The letter was a focus for that, an external embodiment that I could do something dramatic -- ritualized and enacted-- with. The real threat to me was internal, which is what I later told Mr. Kelly. The arrival of the letter only revealed to me dramatically this internal hold on me, this made-into-a-machine, or reification (not being free or alive). It, the letter arriving, told me something about myself. Which did not become true at the moment but which had always been true; I and the letter were one; whatever it was, I had been and still was, without knowing it or recognizing it (it was concealed from me). That was why it was so hard for me to deal with the letter. It related to something central to me, and linked, or tried to link, up with it. I had to impede what I conceived to be the letter reaching its internal destination. Of course, going back to the Catholic mass in which at a certain point the priest is no longer the priest, no longer a man, but the God himself, Christ -- then during the interval I was possessed or whatever it was, likewise I was no longer myself, but as I've said (supra) transubstantiation; in which case, it was not I who did what was done, not the man any longer; I was done through. What I did (the mythic or ritualistic significance) may never be known to me; for one thing, if the whole matter was a sort of "service," I can't see that outlines at all, so as to distinguish the total nature either, as well as the specific (i.e. by specific: the arrival at last of The Letter, and the repudiation of it). This is not a ritual familiar to me (as say the eucharists is). . . . Back to Osiris: if, during the rise and mass, it could be shown to the celebrants that the dead god had indeed come back --that is, he manifested himself to them during the ritual-- then there was a basis for the celebrants regarding themselves as candidates for a return (resurrection) after their death. This would be true of Christianity, Christ being the exemplar (death & then resurrection), repeated within the experential