could this physician be (Asklepios was an avatar of Him). . . . I remember: one of the most vivid and hard to understand parts of my 3 74 experience had to do with my craving a certain kind of damp in the air, a fog or moisture, a dew, or a light rain. . .I used to go out onto the patio at night and sit looking up at the stars. It was as if I yearned for a high, wet climate from somewhere else that I had been familiar with. This is something I never had any real theory for, this experience with moisture; I used to take cold showers, letting the cold water go over my face and head, all over me, something I'd never done before (I always had liked warm showers); it was cold water specifically that I craved. Now I read about malqosh, the "latter rain" mentioned in the Bible a number of times. "The rain before the harvest," is also is called. This is the time, the fall of this rain, "when the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped." The Mission says that this rain is Holy Spirit power and not actual rain, that it brings being "born again" which means "the Spirit birth from above." It is connected intimately with the reappearance of the Holy Spirit in the world, and forms (according to the Mission people) part of the Parousia. The earlier rain "former rain," which fell on the Apostles at Pentercost, meant in Hebrew "the teacher of righteousness," and the Mission says about the malqosh, the latter rain: "God is the great teacher, and He sent this knowledge by Holy Spirit Power." They say, too: "It is the rain to begin falling just before the harvest. Christ cannot reap the spiritual harvest of the earth --separating the wheat from the tares and gathering the golden sheaves unto life eternal-- until first His servants" etc.; wait: "This rain will come at the end of the age before Christ returns." There, that is it. The Prophet Elijah brings about the restoration of the Holy Spirit by his return, which means that Elijah will first come, then the malqosh and with it the Holy Spirit and its power, which evidently brings us God as Teacher, similar to the earlier teacher or rightousness; all this to make men changed and acceptable to God (wheat not tares). I wonder if back in 3 & 4 74 I perhaps sensed the presence of this malqosh, this gentle, steady, mist-like rain penetrating everything like a constant dew. It began the process which in 2 75 I saw as Spring: the new vine. . . . The Mission people say that the tree of life (in the Garden of E.) is a tree of wisdom -- wisdom from God, certainly. It is this wisdom which is "truth" which gives fruit robust spiritual life and finally eternal life. What is this if not the Hebrew for St. Sophia? . . . It is strange. . .I just realized that TEARS is what's called an apocalyptic novel. And in the narrative the dream of the king enters just where the king enters in "Revelation," the apocalyptic book of the Bible. A Platonic archetype is printing out on us down here, evidently; another conformation of the Platonistic view of reality. These are edola -- form-impressions here on us from above (obviously); then these are the anticipated portents & signs just before the Parousia; certainly they would not occur unless the Parousia were virtually here! The news-scoop on NBC TV about the vast police dossier network (computer linkage) shows that my apocalyptic view is essentially correct. But I now see this, too: the dream in TEARS is a description. Whereas 3 74 is not a description but an event. It is not a sign, then, but the thing alluded to (by such signs as the dream, which I had myself before finishing TEARS, 1970). However, the sign (same one) repeats itself in the "St. Sophia" message -- still a sign/portent of what's to come. But I think the events which come before that have come, or begun to come. The Mission booklet "The Kingdom of God" lists 3 or 4, and I count them all has having taken place, anyhow in my subjective life and experience, in the proper order: Elijah; the Holy Spirit; angelic messenger (telling about St. Sophia); Resurrection of early Christian, the essene; next is supposed to come the Rightful King and Judge returned, which the messages deal with: the Second Advent itself. . . . Eureka, I get it finally. My obtaining all this a priori over the 14 months, plus the religious material placed through me in TEARS shows -- what? Answer: It shows that Christianity is indeed a revealed religion (and its Book the Bible was dictated by God via the Holy Spirit, etc., as claimed). Christianity has always claimed to be a revealed religion, esp. its Book; I know that this claim is correct. What I call "a priori" is merely (sic) that it was revealed to me directly; so I can assume that the books of the Bible were indeed revealed (dictated by God) to the various authors. This is important because no one really believes this about Christianity, nor its Book. It is Elijah's gift from God to acquaint us with this fact, of this truth, in time (i.e. before the stark pale light of judgement comes on, as I was also allowed to foresee); this permits us to choose in the basis of absolutely correct knowledge; if we decline it (faith in Christ) while knowing this, we have no one to blame but ourselves; it would be a deliberate refusal, not due to mere ignorance. This is the well-document moment of last chance before the judgement hits. It is an act of graciousness and mercy on God's part. . .to bring as many people to safety (salvation) as possible. The tree of wisdom, which heals physically and spiritually. . .which is the tree of (eternal) life. "As you have not come to Me I come to thee." (In dream) (Seen on page of the Bible, Christ's words.) It is a totally crucial matter as to whether as the Megiddo Mission people say the Holy Spirit has been gone for 1400 years or whether as I think, as Christ promised, it has always been with us; the reason of couse (supra supra) is that if the Mission is right, then the fact that the Holy Spirit has been writing through me and poured itself into me in 3 74 indicates for certainty that the Parousia is/are here at last; but if the Holy Spirit has always been with us, then its activity in my life, inspiring (revealing) material into such writing as TEARS tells us that He Lives but nothing about the Parousia. One valuable point the Mission people make is that the Holy Spirit wrote the New Testament; they say it stuck around and got that accomplished; that was its mission entirely, and then it departed. Now, I construe TEARS as a weak latter-day rendering of material from "Revelation" and "Acts," showing the activity of the Holy Spirit. The Mission's presentation that the Spirit did this before strengthens my convictions about TEARS. I have seen in my own writing dramatically how the Spirit can infuse & inspire writing, making its revelation known through human beings, its good news of the impending Return of the Rightful King. My problem is to attempt to prove one way or another whether the Holy Spirit has been here during the entire 2000 year interval, or whether it left and has new returned; how can I possibly achieve proof of that? Can I go to writing here and there during this period and locate examples of the Spirit revealing & infusing in the works of others as it did in TEARS? Impossible; first I would have to establish how much the human amanuensis had in his personal mind; after all, someone else analyzing TEARS would have no way to discern if the Biblical material had been consciously injected by me on the basis of my own knowledge of the Text. The only reason I was able to discern this in my own book was because of the 3 74 experience, in which this was made manifest to me, at a time (three or four days only) in which I could trace the activity of the Logos (Holy Spirit) wherever it was at work, in my writing or in anybody's writing, or even among the debris of the gutter. Had I not had that 3 74 "removing of the millstones from my eyes" I still wouldn't know; prior to 3 74 I wondered but couldn't figure it out. Thus I can see from this that I person could be inspired (in dreams and in the "spirit writing" sense) and go to his grave ignorant of it -- unless the Logos as in my case decided to reveal it to him, i.e. to lift the veil for him a bit. I didn't perceive this inspiration, this revelation, in TEARS because it happened, but because of the later, 3 74 experience. This is a point I should never lose sight of. Thus the testimony of the generations is of no value at least in the sense that the lack of testimony is significant, indicating they were not inspired. They would not necessary know. And if they later knew, as I did, they might keep their mouths shut. I say, the Spirit acts on us and we're not aware; this isn't limited to writers; this infuses the world, and the men in it, constantly (as revealed to me in 3 74 but not before or after). We simply are blind and cannot discern the Spirit nor its activities. What does this add up to? I can't prove a negative, that the Spirit hasn't been here continually. Also, I can't prove it has been either. I can't even prove it's here now, after my blindness returned, which it did, vast as before. Maybe (theoretically) the Spirit went away as soon as I stopped seeing it. This is nonsense; it didn't appear in 3 74 and then leave; I just was made able to discern it. One point. The inspiration in TEARS comes several years before my Elijah experience in 3 74, which indicates that it was not dependent on the return of Elijah for it to return, as the Mission people suppose. This is one important indication that the Spirit worked prior to Elijah and was/is not dependent on him being here, or the advent of the Parousia. The Mission says that Elijah's return beings/will bring back the power of the Holy Spirit, but I think it was here in 1970 and even before, re TEARS, which in my life anyhow before Elijah. That is slim proof, but it's something. I must tentitively say that the Spirit has been perpetually here; did not ever leave us; we just went blind, rather. I would really like to accept the view of the Mission, because were they right, then my experience would indicate that the Parousia is upon us (it may indicate that anyhow, if indeed Elijah came to me, et al; the other events in sequence). So they could still be right. But the case for the Parousia is strengthened if I could show that, as they say, the Holy Spirit has been absent throughout these many centuries (since nothing but the Holy Spirit could have achieved a biblical print-out in TEARS). This decision does not settle the matter against; but the alternative would have settled it for (the Parousia arriving now). . . . In 3 74 God (Sarapis, once called) undid determenism for me, undid my fate; He rules above the stars. Hence He gave me, his servant, longer life. Undid the strands of