must make. (three) the still clumbsy but on-the-right-path [?] cups which people are building using the [?] [?] [?] — which is concealed from their sight, wrapped up and put away; otherwise, they’d merely sketch or print it: capture the mere appearance [?] mere copy. This way, knowing that the Steuben cup exists, [?] must merely go by recall of it, and the result is that “A million paths,” so to speak, open as they seek different ways by which to capture the only glimpsed goal (or Platonic ideal). Well, I hazard this different thought: we are merely like (three) than (two). Thus we take quite different forms... proof we’re not merely copied. Then I remembered the Gnostic story of the creator angels copying man, but being unable to make their copies good enough; the copies wouldn’t come to life, and out of mercy God brought them to life. What we seem to have going is a system to promote the diversification of the ontology of Christ into as many Varient forms as can be produced (the “open market,” so to speak). The advantages are mainly this, that virtually anything, anyone or any object, can be built (three-system supre) until eventually, if the work goes right, it finally reaches Christ-point.” This would indicate, evidently, animals and men, then maybe the world with even inanimte objects in it. A total kingdom in the image of the King, and thus the sterility of mere copying (sketching) is abolished in favor of a time-consuming, laborious task, but one with extraordinary promise. Wow.Now I’m writing my own theological myths! Imagine the low-born and the base elements, and the unusual combinations (stones rejected, etc) which might result in successful Christpoints in many of the constructs! (This myth would equate the forces of nature with the creator angels or those who’re sketching, a step down from God, obviously, but doing HIs work The most compelling aspect of this print-vs-create myth is that what we experience as the reality of natura and ourselves in nature resmbles the theoratical model to a truly extraordinary degree: all the strife, the workshop quality, the endless labors, that the getting it wrong again and again...concerning which we've always asked, ”Why?” and gotten no satisfactory answer. But look: here are the results which could be a priori expected to accrue from this system we posit Christ the only-glimpsed model, and obtain the same benefits put forth in my story "Pay for the Printer." What's true for any one universe is true for all universes... “Sure werk hat mir gafallen.” (Dar Meister hat gesprochen. That which we wait for...we as creating angeks. Item: are we perhaps those very same creating angels, given the draught of Lethe, having forgotten why and virtually what...but still fashoning -- ourselves? From inside out, which stresses ontology again? Self-perfection? And we remember (anamnesis) when we succeed, or when God intervenas to halt us and say, “Your work pleases me." I think the miracle born out of pity (when the sketches failed to come to life originally) —- I think this gets done a lot. As in my case; I had reached a dead—end; the game was over for me. I had done my best and I had failed. Nonetheless, God out of compassion made use of me; the nest was adequate for the Light Being to bring an egg to, an egg of fire and light and brightness; thus that [typewriter crossout] miracle was rapeated, and the faulty “sketch” or "version" lifed(in Christ) anyhow. I had run out of time. Death in all sets was at hand. So I did not achieve it (by "good works" or good work), but was given it (by God’s grace). God didn't say, "Your work has been successful"; he said, "Your work pleases me," and then he made it [typewriter crossout] successful Himself. This dovetails with Tielhard's nation of all mankind moving along the route to the cross; we undergo His passion, but finally His transfiguration; add to this Pascals' ”All mankind can be viewad as a single selfsame man who perpetually learns from generation to generation" and you've got it. We are all tegethar an entity ("Alle Menschen werden brüder"). I saw this entity and knew myself to be a subsection of it, within it. So the whole universe rolls along, from one station of the cross to tne next (we are surely not in synch in time; we don’t arrive at it all together but rather like many runners). (Still "No man is an island," which means we all already partake of Him reaching it, as well as those others who have; the saints with long polws reaching down to assist us...those who are dead and are (up) there. We form a [typewriter crossout] corpora[?] body with them. It’s as if a problem-solving entity has set itself the task of finding out how many different solutions (paths, ways) yielded (ended at) the same result. This really could be a task assigned to just one section of the universe (as Peter Mann said); maybe only our world. This is maybe why we feel continually we're on trial; in a maze; sent here "for a definite purpose"; this is the time of labor, with a reward to come after (for those who “pass"). It's partly a guessing game; we are to develop a "correct" picture of something we aren’t --deliberately aren’t, for good reason-- allowed ever to see clearly, because as I say if we saw it clearly we'd simply copy, and all copies would be alike. The Neoplatonist structure of Plotinus goes: The One, who sends his first emanatino Nous (Intellect) to construct the universe. We can rise up into the eternal world or reality, of forms, to apprehend Nous. The forms are alive; collectively, they comprise Nous. Below them is Soul. We could perhaps equate the One with God; Nous with Christ as Pantocrator, but Soul would have to go. In any case, to so equate God with the One, Christ with Nous, would be to abolish their equality in the Trinity, and to turn toward the JWs beliefs. However, Christ is said to be the Mediator between God and man, and that view does seem to coincide with the structure of Plotinus; also, I read in "Wisdom" that wisdom is the first emanation of or from God, and if Wisdom equals Christ, then we do have the same general structure as Plotinus gives. I'm going to wing it and say that the Cosmic Christ, St. Sophia (Holy Wisdom) are identical with Plotinus' Nous: i.e. Lord of the Universe. Whom we can reach via the forms. But I just don't understand Soul at all; Soul acts in time, whereas Nous is eternal. I guess Soul is sort of like instinct, a Bergsonian elan vital. One question I haven't seen any answer to is, How does the Cosmic Christ after the Incarnation differ from his prior existence (as evidently St. Sophia)? Bigger? Stronger? But the pre-Incarnation Cosmic Christ created the universe; how much more powerful could he/she get? Anyhow, is the Cosmic Christ subject to time? Perhaps as with Nous in the system of Plato & Plotinus, it is a fixed constant; but nonetheless we have this whole momentum and drive to assimilate the sublunar space-time world to the supralunar world of God. Once the paradigm of Rome had been superimposed on the reality of 1974 I could see that it fitted perfectly -- also I could see that the world of TEARS equally applied to our world and to Rome; hence when the superimposition was gone my recognition of the congruency has continued. What was happening under Nixon was a worsening of the persecutory aspects --Christians in 60 A.D., anti-war dissidents in 1970-- and intervention was required & on the way if the modern Christian remnant was to be saved. What was done, though, was not done in 60 A.D., which is to say, the removal of the tyrant; so there has now been this decisive difference. It was the hope and prayer of the first century Christians that precisely this would happen; this is what the Jews hoped, too, but especially the Jewish Christians (and Zealots, including the Essenes); this time it did happen; which makes me this that the Rome Paradigm was them replaced (in the real world of forms) by another paradigm; perhaps the palm tree world. We are talking about deliverance from the oppressors. Since Rome was/is the adversary of Christianity (witness the beast in Revelation which equals Rome) then this is the triumph, long awaited, of Christianity. Since the cosmic Christ led the assault (as I know from my "theolepsy") then in what way is this not the Parousia and the battle described therein, as well as in Daniel -- the feet of clay thing? This task has been assigned with a large number of unknown. We have to figure out what, Why -- everything, even an, Is there a task at all? (And if so, what? And if what, then how?) I go back to my "Steuben cup" vs the mere printer copy, vs the crude but on the right path wooden cup (metaphor for the Grail?). There are different ways to do this; in my story I showed this to be logically the right. When done, the results will shine forth more than any other way; the less we hve to go on, the better w[e]'ll ultimately (!!!) do. The outcome will be good in direct proportion to the unknown-count. (For the reasons I gave and maybe others I don't know.) That's why there is such an abu[n]dence of obvious natural selection factors at work! "Survival of the fit" et al. Ah, so it is, on this multiplex assembly line. Small short insight: the wise old king on horseback seen in my TEARS dream -- it is he (graphically envisioned) who was later to take me over 3 74. I still don't know who he is, but this is He. This is how he looks. . . . Today (after reading in the LA Times where a psychic says there is another life form on Earth smarter than we are, but that it lives in the water "and has no hands") I decided to describe, without attempting to name, the entity which telepathically appraoched me in 3 74. Its most salient quality, when I went to enumerate all of them, seemed to be not its thinking (mentation) but its knowing; it knew everything...and I reported, to myself, how it seemed to know things & events & people from inside, out from outside (external facts), but seemed to sweep them out at the very heart. And then I realized that I had given an excellent description of the Paracletos which Jesus in "John" says God will send here as Comforter, Advocate, etc. Also, it finally came to me that the state of agitation and distress and perturbation I was in in 3 74 when it suddenly approached me with aid was exactly the state of agitation, distress and despair and perturbation --at the end of my rope, really-- I was in back in my high school physics class when I took the test that dealth with Archemides' principle. In both cases the need was the same: the acute despair and prayer petition on my part: need of an acture sort. The same small calm inner voice came both times, knowing everything and informing me. Rendering assistance of a particular sort: it knew the answers which I needed in order to survive. It knew and it told me, and then it departed. It was God I called on then, back in the mid[ ]40's. I'm sure it was He Who answered then; evidently now, too. All the trillions of written pages I've seen in sleep...I'm sure they're equivalent to the spoken answers I heard in my head in my high school physics class (where I was awake and so couldn't dream). This is information of