economny of these would be beautiful, since one would simply work backward from the "solution," i.e. the end as pure random given. "I am getting all back what I lost," the person would sigh gratefully, and see a Divine Plan, a Godish Hand in all this. Of further interest: he would be right. There is really no way this simple, economic system of enbewing an ordinary life with completeness could be accomplished without the agency of (a) deliberate design and (b) the ability to accomplish it by retrograde motion in time. What is to me of supreme interest is that the person involved --the subject-- would be able to detect the subtle but to him indubitably real hand of the Creator in the final section of his life -- although no one else could, and any one else could argue himself black in the face that no pattern was evident. The subject, all his life, would have carried these key engrammed-on external gestalts, slumbering always in his psyche; he would know, when he began to re-encounter them, what it signified (not that the end was near, but that the whole process was subsumed by intention, design, and a plan or Logos). These would be absolute signs along the trait that there was indeed and trail -- and it was one intended for him; he and it were isomorphic. Being a novelist I can appreciate how easily this could be done; the ordinary person would suppose that the tinkering to produce a wholeness would be done at the end (i.e. the final elements in time would be placed there to conform with the very early childhood ones), but of course it's the other way; at an early age certain gestalts would be stuck in, and at this point the child's worldview, his sense of reality, in fact his reality, would be so hazy that he would accept anything; there could be no rejection of any item as "out of context" or "not supposed to be there and hence unconvincing or suspicious in nature." God could st[u]ck a sardine can in the middle of the sky, and the 2-year-old would gaze at it with awe (as we would) but with total acceptance (which we would not). God could see to it that these key (and they need be only a few) engrammed-on items could be striking -- would leave a vivid impression, and a lasting (for obvious reasons) effect. The child, as he grew up, would find himself wondering, every so often, why the yellow blossoms of the Acacia plant seemed so significant to him and lingered in his memory tapes, after much else had dimmed...and then finally he would delight in re-encountering the Acacia plant, at the Lusitania Hotel, and marvel that he had someone "found his way home" or better, more accurately, "been led home." (In my life, this would be why I always remembered the name of my babysitter, Olive Holt, when the names of most teachers afterwards were forgotten. It was because that "name" in divided form would crop up in the Xerox letter, by accident -- it could to a certain vague but real extent be found there; I would see it in the Xerox letter and my mind would work in a retrograde way, which is the direction the retention was impressed at the time, when I was 4 years old, because it would come up later -- because that would clue me in, in 1974.) This is an example of a process which I saw in 3 74 as a major process in the universe: it plays its hand (so to speak) in such a non-linear was that the pattern is never visible untl the final sections or even section is lowered (or raised) into place -- one can't even tell, for a long time, maybe a lifetime, that there is/are pattern(s) at all. What is given is not given in sequence, anyhow not in causal sequence, or any 1,2,3,4 sequence. The significance, therefore, of any element early in the "game", which is to say, in life, cannot be assessed; one can dream at any time a dream the events and things of which although impressive and vivid admit to no understanding -- until the missing integers show up subsequently . So selective, so intelligent is the method of play, that every guess as to the meaning of a partial pattern is brought to ignominous ruin when the true (completed) pattern is visible, and one must hang on, and hang on, waiting for that last piece. Thus, things seem to turn into their opposites, or anyhow into what they were not, as an additional piece is added; and each gestalt is a subsection of a larger gestalt embracing several gestalts. We therefore can reason that if we watch the universe in its process, its continual creation, we cannot guess what shape it will assume when complete until it is complete -- it could turn from a short fat mean dull dry universe to a thrilling warm green hat-shaped one, with the additional of a single sly piece, and God Himself could show a complete visage which was quite different from the semblance up to then...this might provide a new clue as to "unreality" versus "reality": the latter is anything correct apprehended, which is to say, when it --I repeat it-- is complete; until then, no matter how scrupulously observed, it would be less than real; it would be illusion? A phantom? The not-real, anyhow. It would not really achieve is-ness or true being, but only have temporal (!!!) function or mode until then. (The "false work" or the universe, serving until final pieces are in, and Being or true is-ness, takes places, which could be Suddenly and Unexpectedly! A would be witnessed as a transformation, not a mere addition to, but a total transformation from being (not truly so, just existed in the mode of) one this into being (this time truly) another ! ! Ther[?]m : That which we call "illusion" or "not real" is simply that which is still incomplete. Not yet what it Is. There is alot of this. On all sides of us, and in us. You see, they couldn't keep the universe vacant and closed until it was finished; where were we supposed to live until then? (Like a new exhibit at Disneyland which isn't opened until finished, until complete.) We're living in an in-process place, because there is no where else for us to go; this is the only exhibit. I think I can now formulate an explanation for Parmenides' original problem expressed in his demonstration that he could prove that reality was not as it appeared (and hence had a veil or dokos over it). I can do this by asking the right question, which I don't think ever has been properly asked. I will do as Zeno did, as a kind of paradox q & A: Q: I hand you a jigsaw puzzle and tell you to assemble it. You begin to put the various pieces together, not knowing what the picture will be until you have finished, although I know. You work and work, and gradually a picture emerges from the assembled pieces. It is a face. It is the familiar face of Mickey Mouse. When you are one piece short --that is, you still have one piece left to put in place-- you exclain, "I know what the picture is! It is of Mickey Mouse!" Then you place the final piece where it goes. The puzzle is now complete, but now that you have added the final missing piece, you see that it is not a picture of Mickey Mouse but of Theodore Roosevelt. The question is: Was it always a picture of Theodore Roosevelt? Or was it a picture of Mickey Mouse up until you put the final piece in, and then it became a picture of Theodore Roosevelt? A: (This is harder than it might appear. Let's try it both ways.[)] Qualified hesitant answer, tentative answer: A. Well, suppose the final missing piece had been lost. Never put in place. Then it would have remained a picture of Mickey Mouse forever. So I say, until when and if that final piece was added -- I: But you were assembling a picture, not creating it. Someone else drew the picture, drew it of Theodore Roosevelt, then sawed it up into pieces for you to put back together. Whoever drew it intended it to be Theodore Roosevelt. You were always in error. You were as much in error one piece short and you were when you had no pieces assembled. "Mickey Mouse" was as much an error as saying it was "Marilyn Monroe." You are not and never were free to decide in the sense of choosing; you were only free to perceive. It had only to do with perception of what it was, an objective matter. Therefore to begin to reason that until the final piece was added it was a different picture than when the piece was added -- no, that is not so. It was the same picture or face, but not complete, and not to you recognizable. But that is your problem. After all it might have remained unrecognizable to you ever after you had assembled all the pieces (to a North Korean, perhaps). Or you might not have finished assembling, or assembled wrong, etc. In terms of Parmenides basic point about appearance versus substance, you could say that what we see looks like Mickey Mouse, but a priori we know (maybe it says so on the box the puzzle came in) that when complete, we will have a picture of Teddy Roosevelt. If, when it has been fully and correctly assembled, and it still looks to you, to me, to everyone, unlike Teddy Roosevelt and much like Mickey Mouse, then we can conclude there is an unexplainable gulf between what we "know to be there" and "what we in fact perceive." But this is another matter from that obtaining when we are even one piece short of completion and it looks like Mickey Mouse. Anyone familiar with gestalting will be able to explain that a partial gestalt may not resemble the full or actual gestalt, because we must fill in the missing section with a projected form-constituent. We have seen Mickey Mouse but in fact there is no Mickey Mouse, any more than when some one brings in a potato[e] which looks like Mickey Mouse. It is merely a potato[e] which has grown funny, and we project or gestalt it as Mickey Mouse -- the potato is not an incomplete picture; there is no missing piece to add, and no picture was intended, either or Mickey Mouse or anyone else. This is how the R[oh]rs[c]hach blots work; they intristically have no content; all is projected. If we ask, "Why do I see Mickey Mouse and not Teddy Roosevelt, when I know it should be Teddy Roosevelt?" I point it that there is a piece missing and that when it is added probably the discrepincy between what you see (MM) and what you should see (TR) will be abolished, and only the Gute-Forme TR will remain. Thus, the dokos will finally lift. When the development toward completion of this overall pattern is equated with evolution in general, it is evident that we do not worship this god, who is the Creator, but rather the God who enters and picks up the pieces allowed to drop to the workroom floor -- "The stone rejected by the builder shall be my cornerstone," as our God, Christ, put it. There is one God of the total section, the universe as entelechy, and a God of each discarded subsection, that it, too, in some miraculous way, will not perish. It is evident in what manner the universe --the developed completly evolved pattern-- will not perish, but what about those of us who were sacrificed or