systems, etc.) is that: between me and my environment (read establishment) there was a severe imbalance. If no God, Immanent Mind, Unbounded or Logos existed, the restitution of equilibrium between me and this environment would have had to be brought about by one or more of the objects which fill this universe -- me, or other people, etc., or visible forces. One or more of us would have had to act deliberately to bring about equilibrium. No one did; in fact, the imbalance was pushed further and further. What acted was the Immanent Mind which carries within it (the Container of all the objects) me and everyone else including my total environment. That this realm exists is not an object of knowledge to our society; it used to be called The Gods, in the Greek sense, not in the Hebrew sense (vide all studies thereon). Well, our society, inadequately informed on what the pre-Socratics knew, and the mystery religions and other Greek thinkers knew, continues on unaware of the forces which ultimately govern. I will astonish myself and say, not noos (which would make the universe a bunch of thoughts by the noos). I'd say -- as psyche to soma! A mysterious relationship. The macro (universe), with its psyche and what we see, all that we see, its soma; then each of us, the micro. Noos makes everything of one substance, which may appeal intellectually, but this is not what I saw...although I did see the "soma" become sort of cardboardish. Gee whizz. Psyche to soma, until the veil is totally lifted? Step one: we see soma and suppose it all. Step two: we get a glimpse of psyche and call it God. Step three: we see it's all noos. Maybe so. I got just a little past step two and a bit into three. But not enough to determine for it over two. My experience begins to make sense, logically, when one thinks of the universe as still there even though all the contents are gone, somehow or somewhere. The forces (laws) remain: that which govern(s). We are the acted-upon, which is what is meant by, "Beware of hubris." What possessed my also equally possessed the world around me, so unless that which was not alive (the universe) can suddenly be alive, which is not likely, then more probably it was a hightening effect both in me and outside me. It already was alive. I know I was. This was for both me and for my environment a threshold effect, or anyhow my perception thresholded. I say, It is all alive, and what we see is not only alive, it is alive through being infused by life as our body is alive through being infused by life. It is psyche to soma in both cases. We are talking about a vitalistic, not a mechanistic, view, and I saw it. I am sure of what I saw. Maybe by "possessed" it should always read, "awareness of being possessed," implying we are (the environment outside, each of us inside) possessed all the time but not aware of it in either direction. QED. In another sense, "being possessed" was being outside oneself, and outside the environment as well, at a third point, the Archimidean standpoint from which one could see both oneself and the environment as an interacting entity...but this does require "being outside." So it may not have been a coming into me, but a me going outside of me. I got at least as strong an impression that it was a vast body as that it was a vast mind. It certainly seemed to act, if signalling can be considering acting. Thinking is an action, an activity. I'm not completely away from the Hebrew idea of God, because it assigns total unboundedness to everything; there is no sense of law, which means, of harmonie of any sort. God does what he wishes; JHWH is a tribal god who has moods. The Greek ideas -- look at their insight into palintropos and palintonos; that alone...if JHWH is equal to Zeus, then okay, the Jews had that, they had Zeus. But look what else Greece had; the whole idea of lawful or regulated by the Unbounded; the kosmos within the Unbounded. Why need we obey a tribal deity when we can have all the thinking of the civilization of Greece? I have found more in Heraclitus and Permenides than in the whole of the Old Testament. All the O.T. has in it is monotheism, which they got from Iknaton. I read Iknaton's prayer. I know where Moses got what he got; he got it in Egypt, and those were unfair gods or god. The Greeks began to add moria and anake and justice and balance -- harmonie. What I experienced was the restitution of balance, and since it was on such a vast order I perceived the ultramundane origins of the forces at work. This was no whim of a deity; it was palantropos harmonie in motion -- the swing of the oscillation, and these forces were a comporate body or entity which was alive and which had intention, as I have; we were isomorphic, and that is that. In reading THE BACCHAE. The material about Dytherambus, taken by his father Zeus and placed in a "male womb" by Zeus and called by Zeus "Dytherambus," etc.; it is so like Firebright...what am I to think? And it was out of this, from the worship of Dionysos, that the entire Christian religion came. Here is the "male womb" which the solar spermatikos could enter; is not this the same myth, somehow? I mean, the same story or concept? Another kind of birth - a second birth? Dionysos was born of Semele, then taken by Zeus; after leaving the "male womb" on Zeus' thigh, Dytherambus or Dionysos would have experienced a second birth; i.e. be born again! And is even renamed. The resemblance to the story of Zagreus: where Zeus does everything possible to protect him. What is "psychologically" meant by this "male womb"? This second birth with a new name? The second birth is the motherless birth. But also this expresses a maternal quality of the Deity, His being protective, His taking on the entire role associated with the mother (and Hera being cruel and lethal). So that metaphorically (or "psychologically") it is shown that the Deity, God, can and does have all characteristics, that He is in fact not "He" as we understand "he" (i.e. Yang to the exclusion of Yin). He is They or both. The story of Deity as possessing all parental characteristics and escaping the limiting label of gender with the implied limitations; this is more sophisticated, this Dythrambus story, that would first appear. Zeus can do it all. Those Greek thinkers, or the culture as a whole, inspired perhaps by the Logos itself, was trying to get away from gender and sex-characteristics; have we anything in Judiasm or Christianity about Jehovah which is as sophisticated? No. We don't. This is a total being (also a total view). It shows, too, that to[o] take on divine characteristics one must take on the quality of totality. Dream about Dodger statium and low class Mexican type US celebrations of every sort; abrupt awakening and thought: I think we're (each of us is) a colony, like a colony of bees. A collection of loosely interrelated entities, which light up in patterns; game board style. Also, each of us is isomorphic. We're inside a great colony of bees, any number and combination of which can light up at any one time. Like cell -- in a battery. Any output (both each of us; and It). Clusters: each cell with a slightly different idea of what it'd be like; hence the otherwise inexplicable diversity and variety. We must be function in some very loose physical arrangement, but with a field exchange created, such as social insects can be assumed to possess; each of us it that field (vide acupuncture), and the Great Mind is made up of diverse and even discrete physical entities which form an exchange field capable of a vast variety of interconnections or firing sequences or patterns. Arrangements are by comingling and by inter-signalling. Intensity and threshold are major features. It's a micro-collective, a vast macro-collective. My "Dodgers stadium celebration" dream suggests that one idea can be presented to a vast collection of cells and each processes it in an individualistic way, giving it a slight modification; all cells share a common purpose and memory and form and indentity, but don't need to be mechanically linked. We and our environments form such interconnected cluster systems that mutually process information and alter it while exchanging it; we are all (humans) like a vast compound eye which shows a repetition of the motion of a single object but each cell reflecting slightly differently. Instead of saying, We are within a Great Mind (immanent mind) I would like to modify that and say, We are within a Grain Brain, made up of countless call as are out own (I mean many many cells, with an incredibly vast number of possible combinations of circuitry linkage). Whatever it is that it is doing, it may have parts, like our own brain (regions with functions associated thereto) or it may go on levels at different places, quantitative surges, etc. But there is a sort of "control room" part which can infuse and override "autonomic" functions; what we see is autonomic or reflexive brain-function except at crucial/exceptional times, when there is the equilivant to our "consciousness," or a rise in level of intention and awareness, of purpose (locally, I guess). Joseph Campball makes this startling point: the Indus civilization identified with the object of destiny, which was the sacrifice (it dies, like the moon, and was reborn again and again). This is obviously what Christ is, Zagreus and Adonis were, etc; they were the objects of destiny: destiny acted on them. If you identify with one of them you hope to be reborn. BUT the Aryan system -- they identified with the subject of destiny, "the fiery power by which the sacrifise is consumed." Identified with the dooer, not the doo-ee, you don't die and get reborn; there is one "identified with the latter moves to the realm of eternity by the way of a consummate mythic identification either with an all-consuming sun-, lighting-, or fire-god, or with some such abstraction, as for example, brahman, the pure subject (atman) or as in Buddhism the void." I looked this up because supra I had begun to see how like the brahman this all was...well, it is obvious that Form One is the subject, the dooer of destiny, and that a distinction is made by Campbell of primary importance. I got in with a fire deity, which means transcendence here and now (which I did/was done to). There is no doubt that I am into the Form One fiery god mythic identification, "moving to the realm of eternity" rather than a lunar-like cycle of death and rebirth (the wheel). Thus, I got outside of time entirely (a mystic, I guess, state), and not all that like Christianity, in which time fulfills. Well, then I will never find the answers in Christianity, although certainly many Pre-Socratic thoughts (Parmenides, et al) are valuable to me. (Q: Does the "Decod[e] N T" treat our god as a sun god? Yes, it does, and denies the "Christos" identification -- with good reason; thatis "lunar," a phase-rebirth deity...they are identifying our deity with brahmanism. I've just read Joseph Campbell on Patch, and I find what I had been [h]oping to find -- part of the black stone's text, which shows that indeed Ptath is [I]mmanent Mind but also a creative god, which means he gets his hands dirty, an improvement on noos merely thinking (of the Greeks, with their slave culture's haughty attitude toward the crafts). That dream I once had about the doctor in