other cultures who never knew of or heard of Christ (which explains my original obsession with the realization, my recognition of its overwhelming importance, that a priori I had discovered the forms of a religion, Christianity, which seemed impossible. "As if a native of South America had begun carving crucifixes," I kept saying, "and talking about Galgotha." Without having any way of ever having heard of Galgotha, etc. What a miracle -- how extraordinary, opening up a totally new view of the universe, that these forms and this knowledge could arise a priori in a human mind as a category of thought. Thus I have arrived at the same results, by the direct proof (it evidently was/is the Holy Spirit) and indirectly: what one would experience if the Holy Spirit descended and filled one, and I get identical results; also, I have now excluded everything else I can think of or have heard of. They key is in John, where he quotes Jesus saying that the Holy Spirit (the Comforter) will bring remembrance -- which for us means of a time 2000 years ago, in a province of Rome. Our world, an ice world of winter (like half-life in UBIK). The king dancing the dythramb among the furrow, in spring time -- I keep failing to grasp the transcendent meaning of this vision: this probably does not depict the material future for this world, but rather Christ the King rousing us, as in sleepers awake! from our ice world of the tomb, the grave, the furrow, half-consciousness is the Neoplatonist-Heraclitus sense...this is a Spring outside our space-time material system of things. It is the "other sun" which the ICC speaks of; the Sun of Rightousness with Healing in its wings. My vision in 2 75 was, then, of what is formally called "Salvation." Hence I kept seeing Santa Sophia (Christ, the Logos). Also, just as I saw grape vines twined around the little saint, I realize that my vision of the dancing king in the furrows in spring is a metamorphosis of the little saint: thin, like him, and pale and gentle; it is his spirit, I guess. Which would be why I would conceive of the king dancing to the dythramb; after all, I had already seen the vines twined around the little saint. I realized this when I saw him more recently in my dreams, sterner and older; perhaps eventually he will become the wise old king I saw in the dream in TEARS. . . . Regarding the M. Mission's contention that the Holy Spirit left around 150 AD -- this is not in accord with what Jesus said, about sending us another helper who would be with us always (or however it's put in John). Who will remain with you, and "it's better for you that I do leave so it can come." It is not reasonable that a Comforter would be sent, and arrive, and then either leave or be withdrawn. Why would God withdraw it? If temporary, it would be of little use; Christ stressed the value of it in terms of it abiding with us. This is all just to assign no worth to 2000 years of the Roman Catholic Church, the "dry period." I am finally led back, by logic and analysis and study as rigorous as that of Thomas Acquinas, to othodox Trinitarianism. . . . The main thing that I saw in 3 74 is that God is right here, immediately present; he never went away; he is immanent not transcendent, there is no dry period without him; "break the stick," etc., he is with us but we're occluded. The Kingdom is already, but invisible to us. . . . Reading all this religious literature I can see now that for everyone, God is simply the explanation of how the universe got here -- i.e. how it came into being; someone had to create it, the First Cause Uncaused which "set it spinning." Viewed this way (also, God called into existence as a concept this way, simply to explain how the universe came into being) there would be no reason to suppose Him to be here. For one thing, the absolute sunstantiality of this world is taken for granted. But all my life I've felt it is not, that something truly real lies behind it; thus over my entire adult life I have prepared myself to encounter an immanent God emerging from within this world. Viewed this way it is evident that without realizing it, I have always been seeking God within or behind the walls and objects, the surfaces of this world. My whole conception of the world --reality-- is radically different from that of other people. This is why for as long as I've known about Paraclete I expected him to somehow show up here, as a person -- as a seemingly ordinary piece of this world, looking like other actually ordinary pieces. This is my first realization of the connection between my years of radically epistomology and my experience of 3 74 et al. I kept looking beneath. I sensed that the ordinary concealed the extraordinary, and that the latter perhaps was alive, has volition, was more powerful than men (although I often supposed it to be malign); I sensed it camouflaging ordinary reality -- a crucial point! (Is not the Real Presence Camouflaged as ordinary bread and wine during communion?) Hence, I postulated it long before (decades before) I experienced it. The assumptions of other people perhaps preclude this authentic experience. As we know in science, our perconceptions determine the outcome. "God's in his heaven; all's right with the world." So they do not strive to see (as Castenada would put it). It is obvious, too, that for me the entire world and every thing in it had the potentiality for being transubstantiated, had I ever thought of it. Also, I long ago conceived of each person living in his own world or idios kosmos, so I can conceive without difficulty of the Kingdom of God having come for some genuinely, but still being invisible --not yet manifested to them-- to others. I therefore need never ask, Why did God go away? Or, When will He return? When will the Kingdom come? I have no reason to believe He ever went away. But we did fall away from perception (communication with) of Him, the great dialog, which must be based, for obvious reasons, on a perceptual and cognitive awareness that He is actually present. So what I've done (supra) is change the question from, How come I could experience God? to the question, How come other people can't? Which new version assumes my experience to be natural (however rare). What blocks or prevents others perhaps in their Worldview or presuppositions? Answer: plenty. As Joseph Campbell says about the Occident: "Only the dead see God." Lem may have noted and meant this when he spoke of me "finding in the gutter among the degenerate molecules a sacerdotal power buried for aoens." (Finding, I mean, in the trash of the gutter.) I trained my telescope (when the change came, via the Holy Spirit) down at the gutter instead of the the stars -- with outstanding results. Still, an extraordinarily important change from the status quo is indicated by the message, "Saint Sophia is going to be reborn again." God may be here, may never have left, but His wisdom, I would guess from this, will mount and prevail in the future. The schism between us and him --the fall-- will be ironed out. Perhaps the awareness, the experience, the dialog which I've had will become common to men. (Will my books have helped?) (UBIK, I guess, especially.) Back to Parmenides and the All behind the many (in St. Thomas, Jesus says, "I am the All."). . . The Logos, spinner of tomorrow, is most active in biological evolution, creating new organs of perception. . . The pyramid with the eye -- the eye through which the light body re-enters a human body; only one (Christ) was needed to start it. All that was needed was the first light body (being); this was created when the man-god Jesus was killed: the light body was released: this was the Second Comforter He promised them. In that spirit form he entered them at Pentercost, through the pineal or third eye in the form of some kind of light. This transformed each of them, in fulfillment of the "me in you, you in me" that He said. This way each became immortal; at this point each acquired fusion with the light body, and when his own physical body died, his released light body was free to re-enter a human being capable of receiving him. I imagine that special conditions were required by which a human became capable of receiving a light body. What is new in this realization is that the immortal light body returns, to a human body, by re-entering it through the third eye; i.e. it comes back here (possession by the Holy Spirit); hence Jesus said, "It is to your advantage that I leave, because only if I leave can the Second Comforter come." He, as light body, had to be released, by his death, and he knew this; this is why he knew he had to die and was necessary in his work of giving eternal life. Otherwise, He as God or He and God could bestow eternal life on men without the necessity of him, the son of God, dying tragically. It's possible rather than severa[l] light bodies more likely there is an aggregate light body with Christ as "the head." Also, the continuity of this progression back to mortal men might have ceased around 150 AD when the small elect Christian community was killed by the Romans. Hence their last memories would be of around 2000 years ago, their language Greek. This theory seems to explain not only everything which happened to me (the "bioplasmic life form" identified) but even the sequence, starting with the chromatic phosphenes; the Attic Greek, the awareness of ancient Rome; the dreams of antiquity, etc. We are talking about a light body 2000 years old which re-enters this way when either conditions are suitable or when it wishes to, and to whom/where it wishes to. What I experienced is not so much Christ as the fellowship of Christ: ie. the entire mystic corporate beind included the early apostles. A group entity with Him as the first source and head. I think now I have explained it with this vision I had of re-entry by the light being through the single (third) eye of wisdom of the pyramid. This puts a quite different interpretation on Jesus' promise to return; he meant, evidently, He would return as a light creature and re-enter them (as the Holy Spirit); this would be a true return by Him, the King -- King in the sense that he would rule (over them all, as their rightful king). This collective rule of them by him and through him, linking them all together, would be the mysterious Kingdom of God. . . I 100 AD or so the Holy Spirit didn't leave; men fell away; it is still here, but men can't see it; hence, blasphemy against the Holy Spirit is not to have faith that it, as promised by Christ, is here with us working invisible to our blinded eyes; this is the one unforgivable blasphemy because the work of God is being done by the Holy Spirit, and it requires and rewards our faith in its secrets Presence. We really cannot see any members of the Trinity now, including God or Christ. It is such groups as the Witnesses and the Mission who have fallen into apostacy (sp), to deny the Spirit, to believe that God would send the Comforter and then withdraw it from us. I had heard about the promise of the Comforter (the Paracletos)