to inscribe far-ranging patterns around us hitherto unsuspected, being partly in what was set partly in what was ground. How about a 3-dimensional moving color forming messages of construction and comfort? From a total relaxation (a giving up) of the automization of perception, the "model of the universe" each of us builds -- through weariness or despair or fear; it breaks down to reveal the koinos kosmos beneath, which to our surprise is like the Magic Garden. My contribution to Deikman's study of this is, We like to be able to recognize everything. To know (label) what it is. Our early textbooks teach us to do this (horse, cow, cat, mother). Once we have identified everything, then reality has passed away and we're in a world of the familiar, stuck there because we wanted it that way (it's frightening not to know where you are and what things are around you, when you're little). It's a form of scientific-magic; it depotentiates the menacing and the hostile by abolishing the unknown. The word (category, a sort of ersatz logos) replaces reality, as in TIME OUT OF JOINT; it's perceptual stereotyping. Lazy vision. The trouble is, sitting here for instance, I do know what each object is. I know its name. I know its purpose, what it does, etc. I can't unknow that this is a typewriter, this here my light, this, this over here the air conditioner. How am I going to get back -- regress-- to the Magic Kingdom ("Be as little children."). Well, switch from my left to right hemisphere, maybe. There are close-scrutiny techniques, of the visual mantra type (stare at one object for weeks). This at most, though, might provide methods or techniques for seeing what it there, beyond the semi-verbal model; there is still, upon having seen, the problem of conveying and comprehending it. I think we as a species really have "fallen, in that we are very cut off, from ma'at, from justice and order (and the voice of conscience telling us what is justice, what promotes order, what it truth); as Heraclitus asid, we are stumbling around asleep, unable to see the logos (that which ma'at through Ptah has built). . . . Parmenides' notion of the All and how it must be, contrasted to what we experience: he described it as radically symetric, which I understand as being the same everywhere. If this is so, then theoretically one could comprehend the structure of the whole upon any authentic encounter with it (perception of it), no matter how small the segment, sector, in time or space. This recalls to me my "three lives" dream in which I was first in an alternate world where I was famous and flew everywhere, and then very poor in a Mexican ot Italian town, and in the dream the fan-shape triune sections were extended to show that no matter where of how you took a core sample or segment or fragment, from it the extremes on each side could advance out fan-blade like, with a Tao always created in the center. Each partial life was generated into a state of triune completeness (twoo little; just right (balanced); too much). I sensed/watched the slimmest sample expand into what, in terms of universal constants, an entire world; I don't think you could cut it too small to exclude that spontaneous process of total regeneration of World. That means that the All is immediately palpable ("break a stick and there am I; and I am the All"), if viewed at all; I mean, if it is seen it is NOT SEEN PARTIALLY, IN AN IMPAIRED WAY ( as we always see reality). This is the opposite of the blind men with the elephant situation. Now, the implications of this if as I believe God is an immanent God is enormous -- in fact, this might account for what I experienced, because given immanence, then when you encounter Him in the alley you have encountered Him completely, just as much so as if you met Him in heaven, in the cylem. It is not like a portion of God (analogous to a hand or arm of one of us). Like Kozyrev's theory of time, the whole "thing" is projected from a single point. At any point where He is, He is totally and to the extent that He can be known He can be totally known. One does not experience a portion of God. This makes clear how His immanence works. How He can be everywhere but not necessarily everything. I wonder what's in my other dreams of equal value in exegesis. Anyhow, regarding this projection-from-every-point-of-the-complete All, then any glimpse of it (as I say) would be an encounter with its totality, and would by definition not be partial and therefore probably more than could be comprehended. No matter how gently filtered or muted, or revealed in progressive degress of emergent clarity, by the time the encounter was over, the mortal creature would be amazed. Later, he would find himself trying to depict an infinitude in ordinary words; which is to say, he would find that which he experienced to be inexhaustible. Probably he would keep trying, and wonder why. (i.e. why even if it lasted only a little while he can't completely describe it or explain it.) He would forever be trying to fully explicate (or explain at all) what he saw along the gutter here and there which shone, saw in a time-period of 3 minutes one day and is greater than the universe. Pute another way, it seems reasonable that if after 14 months of unending exegesis, reading, studying, pondering, etc., one has still failed to even begin to account for what one saw in those 3 minutes --when in fact more remains to explain and understand than ever-- then there is reason to believe the vision authentic. The fact that one can't say (explain or account for) may reveal more than if one could. That it would be the complete deity, even when scaled down to a micropoint, would explain the striking account of Elijah finally encountering God in the "still small voice" and not in larger more spectacular forms. Also, the ancient Hebrew priests declaring that the voice of God is like the cooing of doves. By the same token therefore I might be correct in supposing that the faint, distant, mild, composed voice I have heard is that of God Himself and not that of a demiurge, it not being necessary for Him to employ such just to scale Himself down. Some of the foolishness of doctrines diminishing the Trinity can be exposed by understanding this; obviously each Person or Member can be equal to God, although in a very real sense less (Christ was equal to God but God was greater than He; ordinary language doesn't apply here). What is meaningful is to understand that all of God is reconstructable from a single "bit" or expression or manifestation. I would think that in this fashion the omniscience of God is explained; how under these circumstances could there be signal loss or contamination? . . . Back earlier this year --well, when I got loaded this spring-- I saw the king dancing through the cornpatch and he was very young, virtually beardless. And then recently (May) I briefly glimpsed him again in hypnopompic state, and he was older, almost middle-aged, but still thin and pale. A little more beard. When I woke up I noticed for the first time that he is based on my ikon of the saint; the same pale features, the thinness...the saint metamorphosed into the king, his cardnal's cap turning into the royal crown. What I am wondering is, How long will it be before he is the Wise Old King with full white beard that I saw in 1970 in the dream I used in TEARS? The king as judge. Also, what associations, not yet here, will get him up mounted on horseback? . . . In thinking about the parable regarding the planting of the wheat, and then along comes the enemy who secretly sows tares. Christ said to wait and not pull up anything, wait until the wheat and the tares had fully grown; then they could be told apart, the tares pulled up and burned. Maybe he was speaking about an individual, not society, which is to say, what an individual is can best be determined after the actions and decisions which make up his life have taken place. In any case it is an important parable, because it points to our world and the time-span of either our lives or our whole world civilization as being a proving ground in which the tares versus wheat grow to visibility and can be distinguished -- and the wheat, or good ones saved, whereas otherwise the contamination will cause all to be lost (pulled up now). Thus this long time-span is a mercy by God, generated by His desire to save the "wheat" rather than destroy it along the the tares, which means that when we long for His intervention and wonder why it's taking so long, the answer may be in that parable; really, God is waiting for the two varieties to fully distinguish themselves so they can be separated (which Christ discusses frequently -- the sheep versus goats). Also, when discussing the sheep versus the goats, Jesus says that His sheep shall hear His voice and they will know its sound; they will respond to Him gladly. Could this be taken literally? Does one (who is His) one day hear His voice? Could that be the voice I have heard? Thinking that, another related thought comes to me. When the Xerox letter arrived, in a very real sense it was not I who recieved it; someone had replaced me, someone much more powerful, and holy, with enormous --if not infinite-- wisdom and power, who dealt with it, but also in a real sense took the shock, accepted the blow, as a surrogate for me, handling everything as if He were me; or, put another way, He replaced me; put another way, it wasn't -- what I am saying here is that when I consider the doctrine of vicarious suffering -- well, not that; actually, the doctrine of Christ dying for us, offering Himself as ransome for us: Christ dies in our place to save us. If the Xerox experience in 3 74 was a receiving of the mortal blow by me, then He replaced me (if it was indeed Christ) and this is not an atonement, not actually, but rather Him placing Himself in the spot instead; there is no implied guilt, only implied moral and perhaps even physical death, here, although I must admit that there may be aspect of sin and guilt which I can't discern. Well, this is as diffuse as anything I have ever thought...but I know what I think, here, for the first time; that is, I have always thought it to have been one of the Persons of God who took possession of me and dealt with the situation and thus extricated me, but I never consciously thought until now that Christ is said to so place Himself in our stead in lethal situations that threaten us. Ah; the word is sacrifice. "No greater love hath a man than that he give up his life for his friend," Christ said, speaking of the ultimate in agape. In role taking, so to speak (to cheapen it somewhat). This would be consistent with the most authoritative view of Christ's role as a sacrifice to redeem man, dying in his stead. For instance, I had the strong feeling that when Ralf died, it wasn't Ralf, but that the Savior had replaced Ralf and it was the Savior (the lamb) we saw die, there. Christ took the mortal blow delivered at Ralf; I believe I conjectured about Pinky as well; was it not the Savior we