undoubtedly because it deals with Paul. However, it was written by Luke, who also may have written "Romans." I am sitting here slowly perceiving the importance of this. First off, the stunning manifestation of theological material in TEARS is virtually all (all except for the dream) from "Acts." But the main point is that Luke was "the beloved physician," as Paul calls him, and a highly literate Greek writer. Also, in one recent dream, my attention was called to a large section of the Bible which when I looked up the page numbers was Luke's Gospel from the Sermon on the Mount to Christ at the Mount of Transfiguration. Also, my vision of the man or saint or angel informing me was of a Greek: he wore a toga and greaves. He carried a huge clasped book, which he held with both arms, affectionately. This wasn't Paul. A Greek physician and evangelist; one of the gospelists. The EB says that Luke was a darn good theologian and that he was into Christian prophecy. He was no mere chronocler of events. I've been looking over "Acts." It certainly is fluent. And he was a close friend of Paul; this fits my early dream in which "my friend Paul" is holding up a book of prophecy, now obviously sections of the Bible (specifically the New Testament.) If only I'd said plaintively to Father Rasch: "This man is a literate Greek, he's a physician and has something to do with 'Acts.'" On the spot, it'd have been put together then & there. You cannot get any more precise than that. A class with one member: St. Luke. Luke lived a lot in Syria. A palm tree country, like what I saw in 2 75. His beloved homeland. His concept of springtime. I'm certain that no other early great Christian (saint) was a physician; this distinguished St. Luke. Now, to return to contemplation of the personality which took me over 3 74. (The one who detested the aerosol sprays, etc.) That was St. Luke. Although I did not know who you were I thank you. "He found in heaven A friend," as Gray says. This was a meeting which I can't convey To anyone, this helping hand. Was it because I worried about Lorraine? Or lit the candles? Why you came I can understand a little; Why you left is another matter. The days are empty now: no friend speaks. The candles all are cold and dead And about the rest --her-- I know nothing. Days pass...will you return? I don't know how to write a poem to Saint Luke, but there it is, the best I can do. I just crazy-like thought of another significant allusion to "Acts" in TEARS -- if the eunuch in "Acts," the black man whom Philip meets and converts, is the same black man whom Buckman meets at the end of TEARS and embraces, then think of this: in TEARS blacks are sterilized after a couple has one child...so this black man should by law be ster[i]lized by now -- he has more than one child, though; by law he should be like the Ethopian, a eunuch, incapable of reproduction. And this permutation of the eunuch (in accord with the law in TEARS) takes place through Felix or translated (the steganographia revealed), is given the command: be fruitful, reproduce, multiply, which is what "felix" in Latin means. This is all a fantastic consistent code print-out, here, the names becoming command cyphers of a holy sort. It's as if we did a recipe, taking 1 black eunuch, add felix, which gives us the black man with, suddenly, against all law, 3 children! I see in this a closer parallel to "Acts" than I had even before; it comprises a potent, mystifying, highly charged reality, as if the Bible is not a book but alive; the Word is alive. In other words the black man whom Buckman meets is even more like the black man whom Philip meets than I had realized...or anyhow he ought to be, by law. A black eunuch! But obviously, if one studies the dynamics of the novel, one sees that through his dream Felix Buckman is converted to Christianity, and his koinos kosmos alters along with him, to abruptly produce the black man with 3 children -- a new world! The man is black, he is a eunuch, he is "embraced," he produces something in writing for Philip/Felix to see...it's a living system of some kind, and active. The greatest significance at the end of TEARS, though, is that all which was wrong is at last set right. The sterilized black is no longer restricted. Later, Tavener is found innocent (correctly). The repressive society fades away. The change is inaugerated by Buckman's dream of the company of saints on horseback; after that the change starts with him drawing the heart pierced by the arrow and giving it to the black man as a mute message (agape). . . . For TO SCARE THE DEAD: let it turn out to be St. Luke who shaministically possessed him (a bridge thus established between 70 AD and our present), and the protag eventually discovers, though this assimilated inner contact that St. Luke (and probably also the others of the original cadre of Christians, the inner circle of Christ's) is what we call a (are you ready?) a non-terrestrial, of magnificent power and authority and wisdom. I think plotwise the protag eventually learns/decides that originially such men as St. Luke were ordinary humans, "born of woman," etc., but became this -- through such possession of them by the Holy Spirit, which is to say their Master, Christ (who was not an ordinary human being). And the purpose of this elevation comes through now, since our planet has had it (ecology wise, due to our using up and destroying and polluting); this is a system to get some of us, as many as possible "translated" out of here and hence saved; this is the true meaning of "being saved," saved from the holocaust. This too is the meaning of the now-arriving Parousia. I might add that what gives the non-terrestriality of Luke away to the protag are, e.g., the dreams in which the protag experiences himself --and man in general-- as an animal among other animals, a sort of anthropological-biologist-naturalist viewpoint derived from Luke-within him. He obtains Luke's standpoint, and it is off earth. The other-end-of-the-telescope view. What St. Luke had, as "vibes," is a humorous attitude, a smiling, almost rollicking quality -- except that he has ferocious dedication & drive to the cause of truth and righteousness. Humor and zeal. And because of being a physician he has a tender healing quality. It's an invasion from the past, contrived in the future (the time-loop structure), from off earth, inside his (and other people's) head. It, the invader, just pops on inside him one day, and from then on it occupies the right hemisphere of his mind, which was just waiting on standby for this. (Peronality of it a little like Lord Running Clam.) Plot breakdown: Ch before taken over (possession). Then take over. Mystery as to who took him over, to solution. (Lots of research.) Social meaning: who else has been taken over? Work in concert. Opposition (who? The establishment?) Ch must decide where he stands: the "hallucinations" or estab. Ch decides for the Messiah, whom he encounters externally: another person taken over. Final section: reprise of ist century AD, Xtians vs Rome, but with different outcome foreordained. End: the pale white light (where no shadows are) comes on; it is the Parousia. Ships huge ones begin to land. (Ch debates all the issues I debated; e.g., Is it a spirit of a dead person? Is it a non-terrestrial? The Holy Spirit? Reincarnation? Major denouncement is when he realizes that i[t] is both --a non-t and the Holy Spirit, and I guess in a sense the spirit of a dead human-- rather than either-or. This exhaustion of categories of thought should be a major achievement in this novel. (Rephrased: the quality of answers depends on the questions put.) . . . I have now finally read Arthur C. Clarke's CHILDHOOD'S END. What I wanted to do was find out if any details resembled details of my 3 74 et al experience. Generally, no. All I can say it that his story is compatible with my experience; I mean, if my experience were so, his book could grow out of it; or, if his book were true, my experience could grow out of it. It is almost a make, but not quite. Still, it is closer than any other system -- if you view it as a system, and I think it is: a philosophy disguised as a novel...not really disguised, but more stated. One detail is right on: the ideas he expresses, rather cryptically, about time, that it is more complex than we realize, and then he spring on us the idea of memories about the future (reverse time). In this one respect a detail fits into exact, precise and major place. It isn't conclusive. But -- in a fuzzy way, my structure and his are identical, if you just blur or joggle them a little. They will harmonize. Of most value would be to take his novel and to approach my experience strictly in the kind of s-f terms he uses (where religious symbolism and experience are subsumed by modern s-f "non-terrestrial" explanations, rather than vice-versa). If I did this, I would say: 1) We are not only being watched; we are being controlled, but don't know it; they remain beyond our threshold of vision. 2) They work for a higher purpose, one we can't understand but which fits our concepts of spiritual, moral purposes. 3) We are instruments, therefore, of an invisible spiritual force which causes us to grow and develop in certain arranged directions. 4) Some of us are either part of their race or can be elevated to their level, as they work through these individuals. 5) The probabl[e] reason for their concealment is our evil qualities. We cannot be trusted, individually or connectively (man qua beast). 6) A critical moment has approached or is approaching; this is a unique period in their work, therefore in our use-purpose. 7) The extent of camouflage and delusion induced in us is extraordinary in amount and degree. I'm not sure these s-f concepts mean much. In terms of s-f yield, this is about it as far as what my 3 74 experience gives. This is why I reject an s-f type of explanation; a theological one yields so much more. The above simply do no explain. They are paltry, and no more than the convention of the moment. What is needed is a harmonization of theology and s-f without a reduction of the former to the latter, as Clarke does. It looks (what he does) like an improvement, but it is not. The devil "really" is a non-terrestrial race. You see? And yet, what is extraordinarily significant is that the two modes of interpretation which I hover most between are s-f and theology, which surely tells us something about s-f we otherwise might not know. The two must be related in some important way. "I've recovered some buried memories, of about two thousand years ago." "From a previous life?" "No, strangely, from this one." (Dialog for SCARE.) The dream in TEARS signifies: the return of the King (i.e. the Second Advent of Christ). The sentence, "St. Sophia will be reborn; she was not acceptable before," means exactly the same thing. Therefore, these sentences are in fact an explication of the dream; and the dream a visual graphic presentation of the sentences. Hence there is no need now to ask what the dream means; it has been explained. Anyhow, based on the Ancient of Days image in Daniel I was sure of this anyhow. But this removes any doubt