DJ talk show and disc program what I heard that I could not believe: a switch from music and chatter to programming, of us. This is true onset of my experience, the true shock: to wake up and hear my radio programming me in a vile way at night. Loren several years ago heard her radio doing that. I think we really heard it. Who it was, or why -- neither of us knows, but there was an obscure tyranny which fell, and this was part of it; it was invading our minds using modern sophisticated electronic subliminal thought control manipulative techniques. Probably it was a satellite over-ride, beamed directly to our sets, our receivers, with the voice of the DJ simulated; probably it was by the Soviets. That a girl so sane and responsible would have heart it, confirms what I have thought all this time. We got help, from outside, to throw all this into ruin. As in Ray Nelson's story "Eight O'clock in the Morning" we woke up -- "Sleepers Awake!" (And found the springtime had come.) The mirror opposite universe. It is not --repeat NOT-- another universe, but this one reflected. Thus as Parmenides said, Form Two is actually Form One (reflected, or seen in reverse, or seen backward or upside down or from outside). We have universe and -- "as seen by reflection in the bottom of a polished pan.) The most important realization of Parmenides: Yin is (or becomes) Yang. There must be a zone of interaction between Form One and Two giving rise to change and time. We should do as Parmenides says, we should expunge Form Two, which is the "moist" or reflected mirror opposite, and experience only the dry Form One; again, the Magdeburg hemispheres: to do this we need a fiery soul. It is a matter of the utmost importance, absolutely so, to discern why --or how-- we happen to see Form Two, this reflected mirror opposite universe, which is reversed or backward? Why this total bounce-back of signals which give rise to mere phenomena (lets try out this: a green object is actually every colour but green, etc.). We are bouncing signals off objects and receiving these rader-like blips in our head (eyes, ears). What we experience is what is bounced off, so to correctly apprehend our universe we must correct by totally reversing the totality of incoming signals (left is right, forwards is actually backward, big is little, inner is outer, and time good heavens, time is moving backward in relationship to our bounced-off Form two reflected experience of it. We are sounding the depths with many cats whiskers -- and taking the whiskers for what they sound or plumb) (the whiskers are actually art of the plumber the sounder, not the what-is-sounded, the true Other; we merely encounter ourself over and over again: the physionogmic fuckup). Another possibility , using the radar screen model: a false area, of repeated or echo signals which our sense apparatus monitors and doesn't factor out...almost due to a sort of perceptual laziness; it allows the true signals and the false echo signals to blend. This is grim and very frightening; these would be a ghost universe signal system; mimicking and resembling true signals, but serving no real purpose, such as an "actual" mirror Form Two Yin universe might. The crucial question: is Form Two just a ghost mimic signal system, or has it got a parity or ballast Yin Form Two function vis-a-vis Form One, the authentic signals? I.E. does it exist at all? I swear, it does not exist; there is no Form Two at all. It is a spurious universe which we don't discriminate out. Now, are we to reckon here on a corrupted superior percept system? Or a relatively primitive percept system unable for that reason (lack of sophistication) to discriminate? It was 2,400 years ago that Parmenides was able to factor Form Two out of true existence (denied it ontology existence), so in any case there's been no progress; we more deeply involved in Form Two than ever, more at its mercy, more barbaric in our worldview. And Empedocles assumed a drop down at his point. Dokos (Maya) is an echo universe which obscures the authentic (Form One) one. It is noise intruding on signal, or at best crosstalk. When I look back on those first days in 3 74 when I saw Tome around me, not Fullerton, and specifically the Rome of the period of Christ's time, and saw its angry military hostility, I was equally aware (and this is what I tend to forget) of my own identity standing in opposition to it; hence its hostility toward me -- the scurrying of its agents were specifically hostile toward me, and I had to work in stealth, e.g. in baptising Christopher et al. The other end of the dipole was my own new identity, not merely the "new" identity of my environment (Fullerton made into Rome); I had become a Christian and a very special kind, different from what I had been as Fullerton had been to Rome; I was a member of a secret group which Rome was dedicated to destroy: this made me part of the Fish sign secret society, killed on identification and disclosure. No sense can be made out of my seeing Fullerton turn into Rome until the other hemisphere of the Magdeburg jars is taken into account: what I had turned into. I can infer it from the hostility of my Roman environment (the ir leg, for instance,) but more so I can infer it from what I did (the baptism) and my knowledge of the original Christian practices. The change had been wrought in me; Fullerton metamorphosing into Rome came as a result of that. Thus, what I saw externally in terms of transformation ratifies what I knew from an inner awareness to be the case; the two fit perfectly. What was Rome of that period hostile to? The authentic early Christians. Also, I tend to forget that in addition to the secretiveness of my actions, due to my knowledge of what the Romans would do to me, was my anticipation of the Savior to come. Now, the Fish-Christians (i.e. the original authentic Christians) did not exist before Christ, nor had they the fish sign; thus, it was the Second Advent which I --we in our group-- anticipated. We as a small select body were already in existence, and our savior was evidently already gone (of course: the fish sign came from the sign the Romans placed on the cross above him as he died). There is no latitude in the measure of precision in my knowing what I had been transformed into, both by external observation of change, and inner. Therefore it is bootless to dwell on the question, How did Fullerton become Rome and what does it mean? Are we really in Rome and don't know it? Was there a time dysfunction? etc., because the answer is already there in the other Magdeburg hemisphere transformation; I need only look to the change that took place in myself to know the answer. It is only Rome, and Rome as persecuting enemy, if one is what I became. The Crucifixion, although a[n] historical event (circa 50 AD) is also in the Platonic world of archetypes always present, outside time, available as the cornerstone experience for someone changed like I was; when you think about it, my transformation would probably be merely one of psychological "Set" had I perceived externally a total transformation...and I should add here, not just the original Fullerton into Rome, but also God along the alley, and being able to read the steganographic codes in the Bible, to sense the Logos, everything else, the world-conflict. I was augmented in my faculties, as the original secret Christian body of men was. What is involved is a restoring, a new life which is the igniting by means of the penetrating of the solar spermatakos of what had lain dormant, asleep over two thousand, maybe five to ten thousand years; it could not wake itself up -- like the root or bulb called to by spring (by the healing warming Sun of R[l]ighteousness) it had to be summoned. If new birth or new life refers to a restoring (which it does) then at one time that Healing Sun was present and somehow withdrew, at which time the higher life in us fell asleep, in the darkness (vice the pineal body secreting the hormone melatonia, in darkness, which impedes the expansion, the growth, the coming into activity, of the latent form or entelechy). The very idea of "Wake up" implies winter time and the slumbering during winter time of all life. In some fashion, however, we once were awake and then fell asleep, which is what the Greeks meant by Lethe, by forgetfulness; forgetfulness is equated with falling asleep, and waking up with anamnesis. I guess the nourishing and feeding by the solar spermatika is understandable when one realizes that all life is "fed" by sunlight per se; this is an analog of that. It cannot wake unless fed; the first impulse rouses it from slumber, as when I felt that an Essene or someone holy who had been slumbering in me thousands of years and who possessed Sophia Pistis had awakened; the shock was of such enormity as to be beyond words to express; I can see why. I asked, Did I once live, then, and am reincarnated and now remember? No, I did not, as least not as an individual, the one born in 1928. What is shown here is the grid-like interpersonality of the Christ consciousness, that there is a kingship and a kingdom, each of us being in him and He in us. I awoke to the experience of having been there in a non material sense, beyond material space and time. I recalled no Latin, only Greek, because it is a Greek religion and a Greek spiritual rebirth experience; Rome was totally hostile to it (it came from Orpheus and Zagreus, etc). I awoke abruptly to find myself with my Savior, and then entered Fellowship with God (the dreams of the delighting void). Can it be said that this is the rebirth, accomplished by penetration of the Child by the solar spermatikos? Yes. Firebright, brought to life and sustained Greater intelligence for me, better health, longer life, even prosperity. A certain facility with life. But most of all I recall what I saw when I awakened: I saw my God, smiling in the sunlight of day. Once, during the years of the Terrible Separation, I saw Palmer Eldritch in the Sun -- I saw God backward, but sure enough, in the daytime sun: at high noon, and know him to be a god. THE THREE STIGMATA, if read properly (i.e. reversed) contains many clues as to the nature of God and to our relationship with him. I was motivated to flee, then, fearing what I saw, so vast was the breach then. It was definitely a true vision of God, but grown (to my blind sight) terrible, still, it was the beginning of my seeing; that I could see God at all, in the sun, showed that I was not entirely blind, but rather deranged. My 3 74 experiences are an outgrowth of my Palmer Eldritch experience of over ten years earlier. "Faith of Our Fathers" shows this, too; I knew Him to be real...but only in UBIK does he begin to appear as benign, especially then in MAZE OF DEATH. We were coming back together, as friends in the light-struck meadow or forest...the summertime to greet. The band of darkness which I and Laura saw passing across the sky on Good Friday, during the 3 hour period in which Christ is dead - i.e. in the tomb. It was real; we both saw it, and felt the powerful wind. But maybe it meant more that