their condition. I am not alone. This entity, whether as the [?] Greeks believed it is a shade of one who lived during the "Golden Age" (i.e. in my case Brasmus) or actually, Dionysos -- the fact remains that it is armed with total knowledge and total wisdom. It is indeed god-like, even if it was once a mortal (again eg Brasmus). Now it is not mortal; it is bonded to God just as it is bonded, evidently, to me (the mediator, as described). To lose contact with either me or with God would be for it to lose its role as mediator; it must link up at both ends, upper and lower. It is either divine or semi-divine; I certainly knew this about it at once. It partakes of God's vision; I knew this at once, hence I thought it might be Elijah. But Rollo May causes me to examine the fact that it is my will, the only will I have, and it is not me; it is superior to me, for which I rejoice. I think that the pure bubbling joy I felt several times (e.g. when I was loaded, when I heard it laughing, the whole springtime vision) indicates it to be Eros, who brought life, motion and joy to the world; certainly, when not acting as pure will (during the original crisis danger threat situation) it is joyful, even playful. Perhaps more important than it being my will (although that does maintain my life, especially in crisis), (and perhaps underlies all my writing, which is from my unconscious and involves my will, or rather it, its will) is the fact that it is my [G]round of being with whom I can engage in dialog. (Ala Buber.) I have touched my ontological nature, here. Nietzsche is right; the will is the ground of being. And the will is superpersonal or transcendent. I will never be able to view myself as I did before: the weak, puny mortal at the mercy of all the forces of his society & universe. It is evident that a tutulary god lies within, dormant maybe most of the time, but always in touch, always capable of being reached (as in prayer) or arising on his own when a threat to my autonomy lies ahead. He is a world-builder, a city maker. He is creativity. Obviously he is related to the logos, the meaningful structure of reality (as RM defines logos). This discovery (the will, Socrates' daimon) certainly explains both my relentless, almost maniacal drive in writing (daemon-driven) as well as where I get my ideas; i.e., that world which I write about again & again, one single long novel, as Ursula put it -- where does it exist? It is the Weltbild constructed by my daimon, which probably knows what new forms or views, new Weltbilder, lie ahead for us; it had its basis in the future and its view as a future view men will someday hold, as RM points out: it is not I who see what's coming but it. This explains the eerie precog element in my writing, like about Kathy in TEARS, that which Paul Wiliams has pointed out about many, many of my books (I note a lot of this in WE CAN BUILD YOU, for instance). Also, for me, it answers my over[hw]elming need to know how come there is so much of St. Paul in TEARS (names, for instance, events, even ideas). TEARS, for me, is certainly the most extraordinary in all respects -- even unto my long-term conviction that the MS, the publishing, were in jeopardy from invisible evil government forces seeking to repress it due to the ideals and views in it, what it reveals, in other words about this society. The daimon wrote it knowingly; for me unconscious, for him/it very superconscious. Thus, Socrates' daimon, as an explanation, knits everything together, including my very drive to write -- 23 years for openers, receiving back very little pay or rewards. . . . Each of the times I roused/raised/contacted the daimon in me, I did so through distraught intense prayer. And it answered and gave me this aid I needed, appropriate to each situation. That is the daimon talking to me (e.g. "And she shall see the sea.") This is what Socrates reported. But in 3 74 I entered a state of being which is not reported, except where I trace the words in the Gospels regarding the Kingdom of God. In 3 74 the daimon was not merely with me; it became me and me it. It merged with me. Put another way, I passed from this world into another world (as shown in the photo of me). That is not situational advice, or intervention; that is not even help; that is a becoming and a being, and the dreams I had showed I had indeed attained the most treasured state possible; i.e. the pearl of great price, for which one sells all he has to obtain. It was an absolute & ultimate state, unlike anything I'd ever experienced before. It was total. It did not inform me of one thing but of everything. It healed me. It revealed all to me, including how the universe works. It showed me the Beatific Vision, finally. After that, the daimon spoke to me still (e.g. about Santa Sophia). I can't believe that what I experienced could be anything other than what Jesus taught us to seek. And to desire above all else. Most distinctly, it was a second birth. Our of all this, however interpreted, I know that there is an eternal world, and that it is divine, that it can break through to assist us, that there are forces and entities in it which know everything. They are aware of our existence. What their names are I don't know. I hesitate to call them "supernatural," anyhow in relation to us they are: realms beyond our space-time universe. Of this there is no doubt whatsoever. Are names important I therefore know, from firsthand experience, what many have guessed, what many have hope of and faith in, without direct contact of experience. I am privileged. It was absolutely all good with no taint or trace of evil. The Grail, the Magic Spell of Good Friday -- the bells of transformation (Easter bells) -- all that was involved, at work in changing and contacting me. Informing me. I know that there is another world larger than this, in which this palpable one swims and is maintained (the Unbounded, I guess, of Parmenides). I believe it enters without our seeing, constantly. It is a total vital living energy moving, improving, changing and maintaining our world. What do names matter, Eros or Christ or Zagreus? I saw the complete rational meaningful structure of reality -- i.e. the logos itself. The Plan of our world and the living agency implementing it in the process of continual creation; I saw the continual creation taking place around me, the building by the creator and the Spirit, working in two directions, opposed. What could there possible be that I did not see? I saw at first the living presence, the Real Presence, in the alley...by the end I had risen to the Beatific Vision of God. It was granted to me; I didn't do it, I was given it, in a long process. What else is there? Even the language of the animals; also certain departed friends were present, like angels of knowledge; I even caught sight of my guide, brasmus. As to the daimon possessing me in 3 74 because I could be useful in pulling down the tyranny -- in point of fact it is certainly grandoise to believe I did anything important ([.]e.g. writing to Charles Wiggins, etc. After all, the daimon could have inspired Mr. Wiggins direct, with no need of my letters to him, etc., or the the Wall St. Journal. If I did do anything, it was prior to 3 74 -- for instance, TEARS -- I mean, in my professional writing in general, like in my Vancouver speech. So if I did do any work in the "vinyard of the lord," with social import, it had been done before and came to me in 3 74. In any case, the amount of aid to me (as in extricating me from the Xerox pincers, that threat to my autonomy, plus the COINTELPRO threat) -- the aid to me was enormous, and completely out of proportion to what I rendered in social aid. What I received was most of the thing; so I assume, thinking about the relative proportion here of aid to me, and aid I rendered under the dominion/inspiration of the spirit as of 3 74 and after -- it was certainly the main goal of the daimon to assist me; I was not valuable; I was just in a desperate situation. It was my need, not any fancied ability I had. Any worth to the spirit. Despite the fact that 74 was a crucial period, in which the tyranny foil, despite what I said in my UK speech about the spirit moving to overthrow the tyranny -- I don't think that was why it came to me. The danger from the Xerox conglomerate was solely to me; a private matter, whereas the Nixon thing was public. Social action was not the intent of the daimon; I was not a soldier thrown into a crucial battle between God and Satan. However, once inspired, I was given the assistance I needed to attack my own foes on both the left and right; I attacked them not because they were evil but because both were menacing me. The common denominator between the Xerox thing and COINTELPRO was the plight, the bind, they'd put me in; crushed inbetween, with no place to go, and no one to turn to. Thus in reading Roll[y] May's book I have ruled out (in my own mind) any possibility that my 3 74 experience was spurious or somehow engineered by human persons or groups; it was what it seemed to be. Rollo May traces it back to Attic Greece and he himself affirms it as a major source of human viability, unrecognized as it has been for centuries. It is the anti-Thanatos force per se. The source of all life, however named. But what I wonder, having experienced this and come to certify it by ancient and now modern authority -- why doesn't it occur more often? How strange, that God through some mediating demiurge can revivify any given human being, at his will, and yet until I read Rollo May's account of Socrates' daimon, I had found not a single other account of exactly what I had had since high school physics' class; not one other anywhere, in any reference book. How could it remain unknown? This implies God uses it sparingly; it is virtually nonexistent, or anyhow non-reported. The only thing I can think of offhand is this: 3 different sources indicate that this daimon, under another name, ceased to be present in men's lives around 100 AD: Gibbon says that the Christians lost the actual power; the International Community of Christ agreed; the witnesses say so, too, or maybe it's the Megiddo Mission people; anyhow, since this may well be the Christ-consciousness or Holy Spirit thing, then perhaps the human being at this end must do something, and has forgotten how to do it or even that it can be done (vide the Int. Community of Christ). God waits for us to do an initiating act. Or, the Holy Spirit (the power) was withdrawn, and the dry period of nearly 2000 has taken place, without contact between man and God. If this is [?] perhaps the Spirit has returned, which is what I did feel, especially I felt that Elijah had come. Either way, it has been gone for 2000 years, either because God withdrew the Holy Spirit