God will send here as Comforter, Advocate, etc. Also, it finally came to me that the state of agitation and distress and perturbation I was in in 3 74 when it suddenly approached me with aid was exactly the state of agitation, distress and despair and perturbation --at the end of my rope, really-- I was in back in my high school physics class when I took the test that dealth with Archemides' principle. In both cases the need was the same: the acute despair and prayer petition on my part: need of an acture sort. The same small calm inner voice came both times, knowing everything and informing me. Rendering assistance of a particular sort: it knew the answers which I needed in order to survive. It knew and it told me, and then it departed. It was God I called on then, back in the mid[ ]40's. I'm sure it was He Who answered then; evidently now, too. All the trillions of written pages I've seen in sleep...I'm sure they're equivalent to the spoken answers I heard in my head in my high school physics class (where I was awake and so couldn't dream). This is information of the highest kind, from the ultimate source: the S[p]irit of Truth, as Jesus explained it. "Who sweeps out and knows even the heart of the Father." Mainly it gave me absolutely correct information (and insight) plus the zeal to put into action Handlungstreie based on that knowledge. Also, it seems likely that my preview of Fullerton (dream for 8 hours while awake back in 1971 of "Mexico") plus the TEARS dream, both of which had permanent effects on me, came from this source; there has been one source throughout and I think this is the historic name for it, and historic promise. Here are 4 examples of absolute for sure intervention. Maybe there have been others I never was aware of. Between example 1 (high school) and 3 74 lies 30 years -- a huge gap, most of my life in fact. I ask, What about the horse dream in Canada? Looks: again a horse; the TEARS dream involves a posse of horses. The Vancouver dream --the horse attempting to leap the house, which was the Point Reyes house, where the TEARS dream took place, attempting and failing that told me something obscure but overwhelming. "I have had a dream like no other dream I ever had," I wrote my mother. "The oracle," Hericlitus wrote, "does not answer yes or no; he gives a sign." Also, the in-cage-under-Huston-Astro-Dome dream had flying horses in it...this horse as sign for death. The adversary, maybe? Fate? Destiny? An analysis of TEARS shows the KKK type posse[e] which comes to kill Taverner to be the militant vigilante arm of the police state of which Buckman is the high official, the judge or whatever. Maybe there is some information here: the police state in TEARS, if it equals the police state actually extant c. 1971, probably has truly employed, and hence the real police state probably has employed, such terrorists, even perhaps the klan per se. Or the novel is a revelation about our world, does this tell us who murdered our leaders (Catholics and blacks) (the klan did), and in the service or say or hire of what? Of the police. That is the relationship shown in the novel: the posse agent of the state. Can this total analogy be transferred? Klan used by the COINTELPRO people to[o] kill our leaders one after another, as a vigilante? Maybe this is the message, the revealed message, in TEARS. There was also a message about the eternal world (outside time and space), but the space-time message is as above. . . . . Today I read the JW's booklet on the Logos and God. They successfully analyze away the doctrine of the Trinity (by making use exclusively of John) and replace it with a God-Logos, or Father-Son two entity system...which, when I finished, resembled my own experiences and revelations much more than the Trinity Doctrine. What is also amazing is that virtually everything they say about the Father-Logos is right out of the concept of faith in Egypt: the heart (mind) and tongue (word) of the gods, and also the architect of the universe! It is only the names that are changed. In John, the single deity is divided into heart (God the Father who created his First Born, the Logos) and then after that the Logos created everything else. God created his son and gave him the power to give life, same as He (God) had; passed, then, from Jehova to his Son and from his Son to us, to the world. So it is the Logos or Son with whom we deal and whom we encounter; evidently He, the Logos, created our world for God. (Using the plan in God's mind, which I guess is immanent mind.) Christ, the giver of life. Thought: back 20 pages, where Joseph Campbell says, "You can view God as being every thing or every where." If everywhere, then we have Ubik again, who is everywhere. Must see which I settled on, where or thing. Hope it was where. (Ho on: Greek for I AM, a title of God. The Logos is the agency of creation, but creation is continual, still going on; hence the Logos must still be present, guiding, giving life, informing. Moving it, us, toward the finish: the Kingdom of God, at which point -- well, creation I guess has been completed. Either that, or else the Logos, as creator, "set us spinning" and now moves backward in time from the end, arranging the direction so it will end correctly (thus the Logos would be back again, but coming from the completion-end this way, retrograde in time). (Seen as the Holy Spirit as it does that; the Logos split, divided against itself into the two players of the game??? Logos as the dialectic, and as The Secret Partnership. Logos as the two men working a two-man saw: [i]scillation back and forth -- palintropos harmonie. . . . I didn't enter the Kingdom of God by moving forward in time; I entered it by remembering (anamnesis). This is very important, this return in order to enter: remembering that I am or was in it already, and so hence must be new. Also, in John (I think 14:25 or 26) Jesus says that the Holy Spirit will cause "them to have remembrance of me and what I have said." The Holy Spirit brings us to Christ and hence to His Kingdom, by uniting us with him, evidently either outside of time, but anyhow remembering him. And our relationship to Him. (The Spirit of Truth discerns the future; the Holy Spirit recalls to us, teaches us, about the past.) My whole view is not that someday we will find the Kingdom but that we had it and lost it; maybe it was overthrown and the Rightful King killed, etc. "The overthrown kingdom, to be restored," as the M[M?]ission people say. That is the message. The King has returned. Once more he is here! . . . Oh, yes; I heard the voice one other time: "And she shall see the sea," which was probably back around 1968/9, no later. As I wrote Phil Parmer, I knew it could not be my own thoughts or voice. I see now that beyond doubt that voice was the "physics test" voice and the one from 3 74 on. Again, it came as a result of agonizing despair on my part, and a need to know something, to understand; it brought relief and help and comfort. But: I do think Elijah came to me back in 3 74. And now I read in the M[M?]ission book the the "Kingdom of God" that indeed a vision or iron is a vision of Rome (of Daniel). But I wasn't back in Rome; on the contrary, Rome was here now. It is the Kingdom of God versus the empire(s) of man. Rome is the last of the 4 empires. We're there now, although the names have changed; Imperial America is the Western Empire; USSR the Eastern. After the disintegration of this comes the Kingdom; I think the first steps began last year. Now we see the US empire collapse in earnest, the distant provinces are falling and becoming small national states. The great image --statue-- in "Daniel" had been smashed with the uncut rock and is collapsing into fragments mingled and scattered. Bits, from earlier strata, such as the gold fish, surface and bring anamnesis. We will be ruled again by the rightful king, our Divine Father. (His son will rule; this will be after the 6th "day" of continual creation has ended; then, on the 7th, Christ rules, God's son, Our King.) . . . I had an initial complex insight today that it is just as easy to think of the future pushing the present into the past as to think of the past generating the present and moving toward the future; since we don't remember the future the way we do the past we don't discern these "heavy" event weighing on the present and forcing the present into an[n]ihilation, into the past. What our minds do is link everything in a sort of string, one after another, in the order in which we encounter them. Thus, if we reach into a fishbowl of numbered slips randomly distributed, we will write down as a linear sequence the numbers we draw. In whatever order or non-order we encounter event (experience them) our memory will arrange them on this linear track, as if they happened that way. Actually, they didn't happen (were not arranged) that way but only encountered that way. But, having lined everything up, we imagine the past in this orderly line, which is readily translated i[nt]o a causal string because so arranged it has that look to it. Eventually in this way we create in our heads an enormous part pressing inexorably against the present to create the events of the future. But suppose we imagine everything in the present like a stage set and actors for the next scene. These latter, dimly discerned, will inexorable push everything on the stage off eventually. It is not the prior act but the next act which exerts the force on the present. Also, if as Dr. NK say, time is energy entering a material system, perhaps it enters from the future -- is the future; i.e., time has more charge, more force in the future, drains out into the spacial reality of the present, and at last disipates down into the drain-esc slot which is the used up past. This is a disturbing new view but oddly enough it coincides with my dream experiences, my precognition of events moving this way from the future; I feel them inexorably approaching, not generated from the present, but somehow already there but not yet visible. If they are somehow "there" already, and we encounter them successfully (the [M?]indkowski block universe; events are all already there, but we have to encounter them successfully) then this view might be a correct view of time and causality. The reason (again) why we feel the past to be real but not the future is simply that we have experienced the past and recall it; memory bits lie in our brain tissue, but this is not true of the future. However, I have never experienced Bombay India and I have San Francisco; but the latter in reality is no more real than the former. (For myself, I would guess that we have, as the Hopis believed, two realities only: that which is manifest, and that which is in the process of manifesting. The former is the present; the latter is our future, sort of rising up from within, from potent to actual. This can be re[s]presented spacially in terms of rings, concentric, of