obvious, so obvious that one overlooks it, is that the Logos qua Jesus was bound by the limitations and laws binding all men, and could not do anything "cosmic," either for his friends or for himself. It is equally obvious that the "Second Comforter" is another form of himself, but, being released by the above laws and limitations, could render aid on an unlimited basis, in ways that are transcendent and supernatural, and not the mere "magician's tricks" which Jesus was required to do, merely to show his divinity. What I see now, from reading "The Wisdom of Solomon" is simply that St. Sophia entered human form and during this time lost the various capacities (or some of them) which she had possessed as a world-builder and maintainer; it was essential that His/Her time incarnate be brief, which is exactly what Jesus says to his descriples, comparing his pain to that of childbirth. So there was Santa Sophia ranging the world, then limited to the human form, then released after the crucifixion -- to become what? There is mention in "The Wisdom of Solomon" of St. Sophia coming to good and holy men and inspiring them such as to make clear an evident similarity if not identity between the Holy Spirit (and receiving the Holy Spirit) and receiving St. Sophia. But there may be a difference. St. Sophia, prior to the incarnation, may, as is said, have been limited to coming to very special certain men, a very few saints and holy men, excluding the mass of mankind. Once, however, she had enduring and entered earthly life as we men do, then there would be no circumscription as above; she would be able, as the Holy Spirit, to range within every human soul. The crucifixion and resurrection was a demonstration of exactly what the writer (first century B.C.) claimed for Saint Sophia, that she conferred immortality. The Logos or St. Sophia or the Holy Spirit is the key to immortality, but that is only a means (i.e. immortality) the end being to bring man closer to God. This is almost universally overlooked. Where are we going to live while immortal? In Southern California? What is meant by "immortality" must be, as Henry Vaughn figured, "to life somehow with or within or a part of God; there can be no figures in white robes; those are messengers, not departed spirits. What the whole thing is about is to draw man back into union with God; that is the ultimate goal. The means required the incarnation, because although Santa Sophia could temporarily inspire certain men, evidently she was a far-ranging plasmatic demiurge which could not be bonded to what are called "fallen" or "sinful" men. It is precisely these men whom Christ lived with, and who became available to the post-incarnation spirit which formerly (according to my theory) could not suffuse or infuse anyone but special --which is to say, a very few-- men. Once incarnated, the mystic body of her/him/it could transubstantiate this entire material world, and us as portions of it, making use of all substances here, without regard to their special piety (see Luther, on Christianity as the religion of the unfit, the unworthy, and the very damned."). Two common Christianity theories which probably are false are: (1) God, seeing man suffering, came here to suffer with us because he loved us so much and he couldn't stand seeing us suffer. Response: The fallacy is that God has the power to end our suffering, and that would have been a better way. (2) Christ suffered, and since he was God, then we should submit to our suffering because even God suffered and went through all this. Response: This doesn't wash because many human cultures don't know that God came here and suffered and had to endure all this, and some know and don't believe, and don't see how it helps anyhow (supra) Conclusion: Christ did not come here to suffer. His suffering was also not for the purpose of ending or easing ours, because it didn't and doesn't. His suffering was a price he had to pay in coming here, just as we have to pay it. We dwell on this too much. He must have had a purpose that had nothing to do with human suffering, because his coming here had no effect on it one way or another, and that is the plain fact. Whatever purpose was worked remains invisible to us, and probably beyond our comprehension. He probably altered the ontology of the world, or at least widened crucially the power which our assisting spirit Santa Sophia has to offer. This, however, remains a damned world. He did not take the curse off it. (3) A good argument is that the wisdom books (e.g. "The Wisdom of Solomon") state that St. Sophia could confer immortality, but the incarnation actually proved it. The Logos used itself as a demonstration, as a guinea pig. It resurrected itself, under the most adverse, even dreadful conditions. For the early Christians, the message or meaning was probably clear: what had been claimed in the scriptures had now been proven. They could turn to those scriptures and know that they told the truth, probably not only in that regard but in all regars, although that would be the most vital to them. Two things must be remembered: Christianity was a Greek mystery religion, and the purpose of Greek mystery religions (at that stage) was not to confer immortality, but to reveal it and then utilize it as a means to union with God. The line in Muller's poem about death, "Die noch keiner kam zuruck" is wrong because the Logos or Santa Sophia or the Holy Spirit simply arranged its own birth on Earth, lived as men lived, died as men die, covered all bases, made clear both its divinity and its humanity (it was woman-born and material) and then returned in a ubiquitous plasmatic transcendent body, which Thomas couldn't recognize because the "body" of the Logos does not resemble ours. That is an anthropomorphism. However, nowhere in all this was a promise that our corruptible bodies would be immortal. We had to put on other bodies; this was Paul's secret, there are other bodies, or another kind. This transformation, from the first to the second, will not slowly take place but will be a sudden transformation. We are sown in the grave as seeds, as Christ said, and will rise in collective glory. In this, he gives up an invaluable clue, that our incorruptible bodies will be a mystical common body, the plasmatic body of Christ Himself; we will be joined with him. Creed Christians seem to have no understanding of their own Scriptures. This is not personal immortality but immortality in the sense of returning to God, who is at the same time available to us and possibly even moving toward us as we move toward him. It is within his power to infuse this world; I know because I saw it. He can for any man in an instant transform this material, substantial dead world into his own living organic composite body, of which everything, "living" and "dead" is a portion. There is no time-lapse in this process so I assume it exists outside of time. He merely makes it available to this or that man as he sees fit; it is the removal of the blinders, and the man sees where he really is. A point which Father Rasch made was that God achieves a victory created out of, or brought out of, defeat, as in the crucifixion. I can understand this, because Christ, as the Messiah, was the rightful king and had hat his disposal all the armies of heaven to seize his kingly throne to govern earth (of Dionysos in THE BACCHAE, in contrast). All I ask, though, is what the victory which was brought of this defeat? If Christ had not died, then our and his immortality --and the truth-- of the scriptures would not have been demonstrated. By "winning and defeating him," the prince of the earth proved that Jesus was who he said he was, and that the promise was true. Wasn't this a larger victory that a[n] earthly victory of physical power? We have the entry of the artificer into the artifact. Or, as in the Sufi saying, "The workman is invisible within the workshop." "Out of evil God brings forth, at last, good." This may have been the two-player contest I saw, the two contending moral forces. I did see that the power of evil was or appeared always greater and took that initiative, but that it lost due to what I realize just now (!) was Santa Sophia knowing exactly how Justice (good or God) should play its cards, so as to resolve everything in the situation in a good way. I saw that she had a perfect & absolute knowledge of what moves to make when; it was definitely St. Sophia, having as the basic "talent" by which she played this knowledge; by this she made her plays (and so moving, i.e. making moves, that they appeared intrinsically evil or contributing to evil, so as not to be moving toward a resolution to good; her pattern of play was not comprehensible to anyone but to her!) But this means something terribly important: St. Sophia is in constant contention with another, antagonistic power, which is iron, or evil; thus, she is not the only force here, though she may have made this world originally. She contends with an adversary who is our adversary, for us. And she always win, in each play of the game. What is this adversary and how did it get here? It is a basic power, as in yin and yang, or with Empedocles; especially it is like the war between the Sons of Darkness and the Sons of Light; it is, above all, a war. I read now that the Passover celebrates the Exodus -- i.e. the Jews leaving Egypt and slavery. Lamb's blood was smeared on their doors to show they were God's children. I also read that "Yahwen" is the causative form of the Hebrew vern to be and means, "He Who Creates" (brings into being). It tells us the nature of (this) Deity. Knowing that name enabled Moses to understand that this God was sovereign over (one) nature and (two) nations. You know, the damn plagues show Yahweh as a nature god, all right: frogs and bugs, etc. He (Yahweh) assailed Egypt with naturalistic events. Understand this: He assailt Egypt, the State, from outside, from the realm of nature. (Yahweh, remember, had manifested Himself to Moses out of the desert in the burning bush. The outsider god!) The "Moses" TV program sees Yahweh pitted against the state, to destroy it & its slavery; also it describes him, incredibly, as "the dancing god," and, "the god of the young"! The parting of the waters of the Sea of Reeds (called Red Sea by mistaken now) is also a nature-god event...I'm convinced; qed. Dionysos, again. Yahweh had delivered the Hebrews, so he had a claim on them, for them to do his will; this was a fealty oath of obedience between a superior (lord) and vassal. A contractual relationship, not slavery. What God gives, then, is love and care; he asks back subordination to fulfilling His will (which is reasonable indeed!). "He was concerned to protect the powerless Hebrews." This His rules enjoins --requires-- us to protect the weak & helpless. "And guarantee justice for them." This is the Covenant. (Plus else.) "To regulate the civil rights of the community." Rule by law -- what we here now need most desperately! This is the essence of worship of Yahweh. I just can't get over this that I saw (the TV "Moses" program episode dealing with the plagues and then their leaving Egypt): (one) The situation obtaining was one of slavery. (two) Yahweh, from nature-outside