and know him to be a god. THE THREE STIGMATA, if read properly (i.e. reversed) contains many clues as to the nature of God and to our relationship with him. I was motivated to flee, then, fearing what I saw, so vast was the breach then. It was definitely a true vision of God, but grown (to my blind sight) terrible, still, it was the beginning of my seeing; that I could see God at all, in the sun, showed that I was not entirely blind, but rather deranged. My 3 74 experiences are an outgrowth of my Palmer Eldritch experience of over ten years earlier. "Faith of Our Fathers" shows this, too; I knew Him to be real...but only in UBIK does he begin to appear as benign, especially then in MAZE OF DEATH. We were coming back together, as friends in the light-struck meadow or forest...the summertime to greet. The band of darkness which I and Laura saw passing across the sky on Good Friday, during the 3 hour period in which Christ is dead - i.e. in the tomb. It was real; we both saw it, and felt the powerful wind. But maybe it meant more that I realized; vide the "Decoded N.T." where they speak of Jesus crying out, "Eli, Eli," meaning "My power, my power" has gone because the sun has gone down (out). This darkness described in the Bible, and referred to in the "Decoded" is what Laura and I saw; what did it mean? That He was dead. That the light was gone. Now, take Doris' notion that maybe a time dysfunction had taken place that day; suddenly (the day of the Crucifixion) suddenly it was sundown and suddenly (way ahead of schedule) He was dead. There was a connection. I knew, when I saw that band of darkness travelling across the sky, that it was related to his death; this fits in perfectly with the "Decoded" theory that He got his power from the sun. What, then, in view of what the "Decoded" as well as the time dysfunction theory -- what did I see what what did it mean? No universe at all? Night had taken place at midday, exactly as on the day of the Crucifixion? I really saw night happen at midday...so, logically, there could be the opposite: light (and hence Christ's source of power, and Christ alive) during our regular darkness, at night...would this, then, be another mirror-opposite time dysfunction? If/when this happens? Christ never dead or gone or in the thrall (bonds) of death, in the tomb? When He is risen for us all? No "band of darkness" even when there is no sun...because Laura and I saw this while the sun shone (early afternoon, on a cloudless day). Not the physical sun that day had done out (had it, as in an eclipse, I wouldn't have been anything), but the other sun, the Sun of Righteousness, without realizing it. That is why I saw "Palmer Eldritch" in the sun, even thought I was afraid (Palmer means pilgrim to the Holy Land, which I didn't know. Palm leaves, Santa Sofia, etc). But more: what Laura and I saw must have been what Jesus himself, on the cross, saw: the Other Sun had gone out (time dysfunction). We saw what we saw. And He died, because of that darkness. When Laura and I saw that certainly not Laura and not me either could have understood the significance of what we saw; I mean, this is not faked, because for us to see that rushing band of darkness, and lacking on back our parts the highly sophisticated knowledge I now have, we did not see it because we "expected" to see it. That was around 1962. It has taken 13 or so years for me to understand what that meant, which certifies to the genuineness of the experience. Then indeed, as related in the Bible, the sun did go out that day on Calvery. The sun went out. Then, as in 1962. This proves the connection between Christ or anyhow Christ's power or origin and the sun, as stated in the "Decoded." I am witness to what must consist of a valid (scientifically valid) proof of this. And, just as Isa had the book dream and healing dream here, Laura was witness with me then. In each case a daughter of mine was witness, without comprehension ("a little child shall lead them," because it can't fake it). This news (in Psy Today) about the pineal body being a light-receiving organ or gland is so exciting to me because it means that the chromatic phosphene source I experienced did not merely go to the light-sensitive part of my brain, but also to my pineal gland. Since the pineal gland is the "third eye" actually, scientifically speaking, as the Hindus believed, this is thrilling (and helps explain my dreams of the three-eyed people, also ratifying their significance and ratiofying that indeed the pressure experienced as phosphene activity did in fact travel to my pineal) anyhow, its function, as the Ency Brit says, "its obscure," but it is connected with springtime, with instinctive actions, and with total endocrine encoded metaprogramming. My brain saw the phosphene activity and was dazzled and delighted; however, probably as far as the brain itself went, it ended there. Not so for my pineal body; it responded (which is what it does; see article in Psy Today) to what it received from the optic nerve, accepting it not as entertainment but as signal. (Disinhibiting, no doubt.) Probably all melatonia production (for openers) was halted, it being an inhibiting secretion. I guess I saw the "Other Sun," which shone at nighttime, when the physical sun isn't there. It was a deliberate signal from the Sun of Righteousness, in the night, a dazzling display of its kind of light (a fire-like light, much like chromatic fire), and it tripped the pineal into things buried in our morphology for thousands of years, which the physical daytime sun doesn't trip (more that abolishing the production of melatonia and histomine, etc.). This chromatic Other Sun fire light would cause firing (sic) in the pineal body which constituted the true, absolute, ultimate purpose of that body, and place my total mind-body organism into its true, absolute, ultimate Being state. Here, I am not saying anything new about what happened, only about how it was done. But it emphasizes that the cause was external, and deliberate ("Grace of God"). And again ratifies the "Decoded N T" theory of what Xtianity was all about -- what they were after, and shows there is indeed a "Sun of Righteousness" capable of shining at night, or day if it wished, but not, repeat not, our physical sun and its variety of light. Nurturing. I am not, rather than merely being nurtured (by the Earth, etc.) but nurturing Firebright within me (a Yinnish matter: hence this is why I got K'un as my trigram, K'un and Tui, both female). This is the normal growth-line of a[n] organism: it is born, and must, as an incomplete, ungrown infant, be nurtured. Gradually, as it grows, it moves toward nurturing rather than being nurtured; final entelechy completion would be for it to nurture, be a parent. This is logically visible in all higher organisms. (We call this "giving" rather than "receiving." What the Gospels stress when they repeat the concept of giving in so many ways is nurturing, which is giving. The parent (mother or female) gives of her own body in this. The reason the Gospels emphasize the female values is not for receptivity alone (which is the first step, before implantation) but after the reception of the seed, then the nurturing. So long as one takes, one is not full grown, and certainly not yet a parent (of the Spiritual, Immortal body within). One becomes the "mother" and God Himself is the Father. And does the protecting, as one sees on the visible plane, in a family. The "receiving of the Holy Spirit" at Pentercost, in Acts, probably is this reception to the pineal body by this different light. What travels to the brain itself is only a by-product "Aurora" display. The conduit is the optic nerve, the eye the receptor percept organs, but the message is to the pineal body, not the brain. Generally, photon light messages travel to brain-reception; but as the Psy Today article shows, some are "intended" for the pineal body (springtime). One could speculate that this is the purpose of human beings: Why We Are Here -- to serve as the recipient "female" "mothers" for the implantations of the solar spermatika, the divine seeds. Curiously, this would bear on Doris' point about the item in Catholic Agitator that Jesus' healing activities were not only primary, it was that which most crucially angered the Romans. I asked her, "Why the hell would healing these bodies for us be a primary act on His part, especially since these bodies will die anyhow; they're healed, but they aren't made into anything but what they are, i.e. they aren't immortal." Well, if these bodies are to serve as the "wombs" for the solar spermatika, then healing such a body would be "pre natal care," and certainly logically crucial. Doris and I both agreed that even without knowing precisely why healing these bodies was primary it did show that there was some vast importance to our physical lives here. Healing us would be a logical continuation of creating us in physical form in the first place; it is a stage, but now I am thinking that it is a "launch stage," a platform --I hate to say host situation, and "host" isn't right because the divine seed and the human "mother" bond into a duplex entity which is not in accord with the meaning of "host." (A baby is not a parasite in the strict sense, only when one views it in a value sense; in which case all children are parasites to their parents, and anyone in need is a parasite on the rich, etc.) (And the sick to the healthy; any outstretched hand...which brings us back to Gospel symbolism.) God is the Father; the select mortal (human) male or female is the mother, into whose spirit the seed is placed; but the human (or so Christ assured us) has plenty to gain: she/he/it isn't discarded as the seed grows, because it is a Light Body which involves eternally the human mother. Carrying "her" with it when the rotting fruit decays (dies). This is the only way our physical body can become a fruit containing a seed; otherwise it is only a flower: pretty, but temporary, ephemeral. It does not give birth (except to other ephemeral flowers, a procession of them), missing their true purpose. It doesn't seem to me that it's just speculation that it was my pineal gland to which the primary message went, and which was primarily stimulated; because: (one) the dreams of three eyed people, with the third eye being the Hindu 3rd all seeing eye of enlightenment dead-center in the forehead. And (two) the pineal gland is affected by light, according to Psy Today, in early springtime, at the vernal equinox or just before...probably it can be computed at the precise time (March 18) (1974) that I experiences the chromatic progressions. However, this still leaves the issue of, Where did all the information (e.g. written) come from? Disinhibited (i.e. this was all engrammed inside, in my entelechy, but held back, blocked by the melatonia, the GABA fluid, etc? Just in there waiting? Or did it enter me along with the seed? (Pre-natal instructions! No wonder I felt myself to be under the guidance of Asklepios -- and dreamed of doctors! And got primarily medial/healing advice, which goes with what Christ himself offered, for the same reason What, though, took possession of me, which seemed like Elijah (if not truly Elijah)? I guess it was