changed into a new world. These are symbols of renewal for our world, related to Spring. They are precog images of how it is going to be for us here, on what has become a depleted worn-out old world: rebirth. These are all clues, many of them, as to what it's going to be like: the future is seeping back to me in dreams. And I dream often of green grass and moisture...like a park or garden. If only I could figure out -- And so to bed. But as to the lack of proper spiritual refurbishing in me...perhaps we have too clear an attitude toward pious transformations as being the ones He wishes in us. Perhaps these are our standards for the very pure; after all, He would retain the individual, I think, and not force us all into one proper mold. I have been changed, but not in all ways; I have been improved, but not according to human standards. I can only hope I am obeying His will and not my own. I do not conform to my own views of goodness, but maybe I do to His. Let me recall to myself that when the change occured in me back in 3 20 74 I identified the superimposed (new) personality as that of a very early, absolutely authentic Christian, possibly, as I comprehended them to have been, an Essene. This was at a time when I was in no way into religion or theology. Hence, now that it matters so much to me, this original judgement returns to mind to reassure me. I knew what this new personality consisted of then; surely it has not died within me, surely not. Also, I meant to note that regarding the Megiddo Mission's analysis of what you have to go through to be "saved," they are speaking against the facile, "I've found Jesus and so am saved," crowd, and are pointing out that unless one has gone through all these many stages there is no reason why one should assume he's been saved. That is their point, to decry the conviction of having achieved salvation. But I say, these are the very stages of process of transformation through which I have gone and, for all I know, am still going. From the start I identified it as Christian, and identified the Holy Spirit...although it is fascinating to go back over my original writing (starting around July of last year, less than one full year's worth) and see how it grows day by day what exactly came upon me, so wonderfully, what it truly signified. I am so amused and enchanted to find myself writing about possibly having been an involuntary and unknowing participant in a Soviet telepath long-range-transmission experiment! What a powerfully convincing account mine is, for the outcome I now hold to, that it passed through the Savior. I did not come to certainty readily or easily; it has been long, and every viable possibility has been explored -- Dr. NK's time theory, just to name one. Out of all this what a great testimony, what a witness to the truth, has been fashioned. It sort of pleases me. The manner in which the palintropos/tonos harmonie (equilibrium) was re-established shows me that what is called the Tao is in fact a sentient entity, noos-like or psyche-like, directing design something on the order of Will, to accomplish growth ends. There is therefore not just the endless turning of the cycles of the wheel, as in Taosim, but, it seems to me, a total process at work which appears to be progressive; it is very possible that rather than merely returning things to a status quo which is perpetual it is working toward the fulfillment of a Logos or Plan in the sense of continual creation in linear time. Maybe not. Maybe self-renewal is the goal: the ultimate in homeostasis. But given the kind of personality it exhibited to me, the love it felt, the concern and kindness -- I go back to the concept of entelechy, and imagine to myself that the red and gold Logos activity which I saw, the future reaching briskly into the past to obtain pieces to continually assemble into its jigsaw puzzle-like structure...that was a developing blueprint gestalt, which eventually would include everything, make use of everything. This doesn't seem cyclic. It literally plundered the past (present); obviously, then, it wasn't merely repeating it. What a thrill to experience the palintropos/tonos maintenance and restoration of harmonie, just in itself, as a philosophical matter, without reference to religion! To witness universal forces of the highest possible order move into the parabolic return...necessary, inevitable, relentless: ma'at herself, having judged: order, truth and justice all together, imposed against disorder (chaos). Now I know by my own experience that beyond the bounded, the space-time universe which our normal senses, our science, deals with, there is the Unbounded which shapes it, normally concealed from us: deus absconditus and stunning to behold. My mystic comprehension last night -- not that I gathered up into one explanation all I'd seen and figured out, but that I had seen and figured out such grandeur. It could be an important observation or insight to say that I did not have a religious mystical experience, with God -- as such; I encountered or discerned or perceived or experienced (assimilated the Dinge-an-sich in totality) which we call the universe, and found it to be alive, wise, active (Vast Active Living Intelligence System) and supporting to life, such as ours. Only by degrees --and the process of elimination-- did I come at last to call this "God." I did so because what I experienced is customarily called that and nothing else, except perhaps Immanent Mind; however, this is more than mind, it also being active (like Ptath the artificer). Thus I arrived at the idea that I had found God along lines which did not involve me flying to easy concepts or solutions. In a very real sense I started at the beginning of thought, without preconceptions or expectations, and invented, so to speak, the categories I used, had to use, and wound up with. I think had no one preceded me in this I would still have arrived at these conclusions; I mean, had there been no human knowledge of God or gods, or had I never heard of this (e.g. born into a totally atheistic society with totally suppression of news of God actually or in terms of historical belief), I would then be coming to my people to tell them that He Lives. It turned out to be an experience of/with God because He exists. Did He not, I still would have had the experience of the universe, in any case. "Total awareness" means to experience God, I have found. The two are the same. It is a God of love (agape, in fact); He cares what becomes of us: this is His typical form of love, concernedness. To return to Heinrich Zimmer's "Magdeburg hemispheres," probably if not certainly, my perceptions of the outside universe cleared up and became lucid and total because my inner world, my psyche, cleared up and became lucid and a total unity: like outer, inner; like inner, outer. In Jungian terms I abruptly integrated the contents of my mind, with spectacular results (hence all the dreams about alchemy and the Greek period). (I got down to archetypes of the collective unconsciousness, to the very bottom.) This is the road; this is how you do it, total integration. This is the road to God, withdrawing all projections, reconciling the opposites, release of all libido. Transformation from ego to true self. BUT -- How did I accomplish that, while lying in my room listening to bubblegum rock, with no outside help (sic: none?)? Spontaneous psychic integration, the goal of analytical psychology. I went on the journey into the unconscious, which Jung and John Wier Perry describe (period before the graphics). (Resembling the Bardo Thodol.) Perhaps it could be properly said, as I sometimes think, that my psychotic journey began in 1970 in earnest that day I kept playing the Paul McCartney record over & over, when Nancy & Isa left. I had been "neurotic" until that day, but starting that day I suffered a collapse mentally, and descended into the world of dreams and nightmare and half-sleep, through which I moved only partically conscious...yes, this indeed is so, is so, and must never be forgotten in understanding this: I was on this journey from mid-1970 up until 3 74, when I returned from out of the depths, into bright day light, integrated and whole, for the first time in my life, carrying back up with me the pearl of great price -- thus showing John Perry to have been right. During those years I lived among huge archetypical projections of a collective sort; yet, it is so. What a world of daemons and so forth that was -- the -- Four years in that strange underwater world...from shock and grief, wandering like a shade over the landscape, among shadows. Also, it must be realized that the journey part (1970/74) was characterized by acute primitivism of outlook on my part, the mystique thing Levy-Broul talks about (I think I'M talking about schizophrenia, here, not manic depression). But this indicates that the 3 74 experience, which was re-entry, is non-psychotic, a healed experience, and the withdrawn projections indicate a sophisticated non-primitive viewpoint or functioning. As Jung says re Meister Eckehart, by withdrawing my projections I experienced God psychologically, as an inner event not entangled with external objects, but purely so: authentically. Put another way, starting with the chromatic graphics, I evolved up through 2000 years of human history-evolution-psychological-growth. Thus a very archaic personality came awake in me, suddenly, which is to say, the adult I had never been in all my life. Buried deep in my collective unconscious all these years, it possessed spiritual and practical wisdom acquired from the archetypes. Therefore I say this new personality or person was created from the deepest levels of my psyche, a child or rather new man from the collective experience and wisdom of the race, and has an incontestable superiority over my original ego self. This fits the description of "born again" as certainly as could be. From madness to sanity and a new, better self. I think I should feel free to attribute the blind man to see: it shows God's love. Certainly I did not heal myself, and it is hard to rationalize that it somehow was spontaneous, which is to say, uncaused. I would know, wouldn't I? I heard the voice of my "physician," did I not, both in dreams and while awake? Given that there is a physician, who else could this physician be (Asklepios was an avatar of Him). . . . I remember: one of the most vivid and hard to understand parts of my 3 74 experience had to do with my craving a certain kind of damp in the air, a fog or moisture, a dew, or a light rain. . .I used to go out onto the patio at night and sit looking up at the stars. It was as if I yearned for a high, wet climate from somewhere else that I had been familiar with. This is something I never had any real theory for, this experience with moisture; I used to take cold showers, letting the cold water go over my face and head, all over me, something I'd never done before (I always had liked warm showers); it was cold water specifically that I craved. Now I read about malqosh, the "latter rain" mentioned in the Bible a number of times. "The rain before the harvest," is also is called. This is the time, the fall of this rain, "when the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped." The Mission says that this rain