any change at all. In answer to the q: what will one find in the greater (non space-time) universe that one doesn't find here? The a: all the events & things which comprise reality that haven't come into being (i.e. entered time, become present) yet, and I think, too, all that has passed away. Time is like a cheese slicer cutting like a thin wire through an enormous cheese. "A point with one eternity behind it and another ahead." One of the most difficult things about this to understand is that outside of the space-time universe things are (one) less real (they have no 3-D substantiality, and don't move; aren't animated, yet) and (two) are more real, (i.e. are alive as part of the Immanent Mind, although lacking space-time qualities). This gave rise in my head to the sense of this world being a fabrication, like the projection of movie film in 3-D onto a screen. . .now I can see why I drew that erroneous (basically) conclusion. Always with each new insight in this I must reask: did I see another universe, or rather our own differently? Now I would tentatively say: what we normally see is a segment of the universe which is not representative. I saw beyond this segment and all which I saw confirmed that what we see (the advancing cheese-cutting wire) is indeed not representative -- for instance, we don't see God; there is one major example. In a sense we are seeing the movement (through time esp) of the universe, and not the universe itself. It is sort of like its respiration, its breathing. But we cannot see what breathes, or even that it is something breating at all. . . . UBIK is indeed close to Dr. NK's time theory in that it views time implicitly as an active & vital force driving things along, and that when this positive (sic) forces fails, then things regress back along its axis. Time is viewed in the novel as an energy, really, which weakens for them all and can't be maintained. Time as elan vital. UBIK, too, it related to my 3 74 vision in that I saw a retrograde force at work, which is like the way things regress in the novel. Therefore there if a relation between Dr. NK's time theory and UBIK and my experience in 3 74, but it is still murky to me; but it is there. "They decay backward" is an expression of "they advance forward," which is not to see the forward motion as toward entropy, but rather its decay backward. Time, for all that we see, is negantropic. The key to all this may not be timelessness but rather systole (forward motion) and dystole (retrograde); i.e. the breathing of the organism, in and out, or forward in time and backward. Harmonie is maintained by the oscillation (palontropos). This then is why that aspect of what I saw --retrograde time-- is of primary importance. I saw the balance of the cycle, and hence discerned the organism which does this in-out, forward-backward breathing. Linear time, like autonomic breathing, evidently sui generis obscures the presence of God (v. UBIK). Its constant regular motion "contains all" in a way which washes over all qualities of the Brahmin itself (the organism). Put another way, this autonomic breathing serves God's purposes as agent of God, so nothing else need be visible. It is God regularly distributed and hence not visible to our neglectful eyes, which seeing a uniformity cannot discern feature; it cannot extract because ground and pattern are for all purposes identical (to us, anyhow; to our visual mechanisms). This brings up camouflage as an item once more; it is an automatic camouflage, this regularity of breathing. Linear time, then, is God At Work On Creation. God's Activity (which is the Logos). Now, since systole and dystole are opposites (reversals) of each other, then maybe what we have here in this breathing terminology is another expression of "Form One and Form Two," which are mirror opposites of each other -- and also at the time I saw the regressive (retro) time I realized that I'd been "seeing the universe backward." A mirror opposite. Thus I must have gone from seeing the customary form or function to seeing the one concealed -- reality beneath appearance, so to speak; all this makes sense in terms of my experience, what seemed diverse aspects or properties then I can now see as one single event: the sudden encounter with the other form. (I assign to that other form the qualities of eternal, benevolent, and wise.) I suddenly get the impression that true or total reality is a loop going in two --opposite-- directions in time simultaneously. They are laminated, pasted one over the other (my god; my twin drive clock-ball mechanism, each rotor going in a direction opposite to the other!!!!!!). Thus stasis is achieved. These are the cycles of the universe; it ends on begins to reverse itself, but not so as to wipe out its previous achieved forward cycle; it then loops back invisible to us on the forward mode. Otherwise there would be a cancellation of reality, rather than balance. But, I think, this opposite-moving reality affects ours! We are laminated to it, and influenced by it even though we can't see it (maybe this is how precognition works). Behind our forward is an invisible retracting world. Which is a form-completing force for our world. This intrusion (thrusting forward into visibility) of the reverse-moving reality is what we see in UBIK!!! When the surface forward for any reason declines, so as to expose it. It is precisely in this reverse flow that the missing integers of meaning exist, which when added to what we (forward) see makes sense out of our world -- and which not seen, keep out of reach that completeness, that wholeness, that making sense out of our world -- and which not seen, keep out of our reach that completeness, that wholeness, that making sense. These are the lacking parts from here and there, found only on the reverse band of the loop; these would give answers to our "Why?s". My god, this is a fantastic balance system! These twin drives with their confluence which I saw in a dream! (But by the third eye of enlightenment we are able to discern this other-directional flow, and so can comprehend at last what we see, since what we see is now complete.) Without the third eye processes experienced or seen backward do not add up at all, but are mere chaos to us, in our half-blind state. The I CHING makes it clear that there is a secret backward motion in time, through which eternity is achieved, perfection and eternity. Permanence, due to a balancing of the sine wave of the forward moving time-reality. What isn't here is there; what is here isn't there; the total is always complete. This fits into Taoism well, and Christian ideas of humbling oneself (transformation into opposites). What looms large here is tiny there and vice versa. All that is lost (spilled) here is gathered up there. However, the universe is always simultaneously moving in two (time) directions or modes at once; if the forward mode were ever to reverse itself, then the reverse direction would take the system backtracking parallel to what it had swept out previously. Thus for it to oscillate alternately would be automatically to achieve a simultaneity of motions, which is what I saw.