the peace and safety of those cartons of my childhood... God has brought me at last to safety and a realization, at last, of safety, the safety I yearned for and did not have even then (5 years old). Viewed another way perhaps it can be said that I have been brought safely into the fold, after straying all over the landscape. Either way we are talking about the same place. I feel a great peace now, at last, for the first time in my life. This whole period, including 3 74, has been arduous; I had to work hard and hustle after my illumination (3 74), right on down through the months, these 14 months, writing on this as I am doing, reading and researching and writing and meditating in order to understand. I believe I've worn myself out more with this thanwith any previous writing, any novel or group of novels. I have educated myself regarding my experience. Gone to school over it. What does it add up to (at this point in my knowledge)? I passed through the narrow gate in mid-74, and now I am told that He will come back for the world itself, fairly soon. Thus an individual experience will be made/is being made into a common or group or collective or objective experience by our people in general. As with other questions, the answer to the question, Is it subjective & individual or objective & general is, Both. It's the way sheep enter their Corral. One by one until the entire flock is in. The "both" qualities of attaining the Kingdom of God is perhaps indicated when Jesus says, "Some of you will not taste death until you have attained the Kingdom of Heaven." (paraphrase. Meaning anyhow: some of you will attain it before you die. Some after you die, by my inference of his meaning anyhow; but evident is, It must arrive to different people at different times. Also, you can die after attaining it -- your physical body decay get sick and die, at least.) This is how I interpret this important passage. . . . Some information by the Megiddo Mission people, as to the steps necessary before you can enter the Kingdom of God: "Jesus answered and said unto him, 'Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a man be born again ("from above") he cannot see the Kingdom of God.'" To which they comment, "To be born of the Spirit, of our Mother the Truth," etc, based on James 1:18: In the spiritual we are begotten "by the word of truth, then there must be a growth unto perfection, and lastly the Spirit birth." Jesus also said, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the Kingdom of God." It would appear from this that the first the spirit comes, from above, which is a sort of fire, and then there is paligge: new birth, the renewal of life, the resurrection. "He according to his mercy has saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing the Holy Spirit, which he shed (sic) on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior." (Titus 3:4-6.) I understand by this: as you are you can't pass from this life or world or reality into the Kingdom of God. You must be changed first, by the Divine Fire, which is related to the Spirit of Truth. There are a number of steps having to do with purification by a sort of smelting or cleansing process, a change made first before anything can happen. It is a long complex and even arduous process beginning with the being born again, from above, by the Spirit. Water, too, doesn't mean water in the normal regular sense. The Mission people say: "Obviously, before any man or woman can enter the Kingdom of Heaven there must be a change from fleshy, mortal creatures to immortal beings." They add, "This obviously can't occur until after Christ's coming." Either (1) they are wrong; or (2) I haven't been changed; or (3) Christ has returned -- see "St. Sophia" and "the Buddha is" etc., if (3) is argued. Most likely, though, they are wrong (1), but this does make we venture to wonder, as often before, if maybe (3) has/is indeed here: surely the greatest possible question imaginable. It certainly seems reasonable to assume that it can't happen until He returns. If I were to go and declare that I had been changed (in Paul's sense: "Behold! I tell you a sacred secret; we must all be changed," Etc), then if anyone believed me --if-- they would say, "The Time prophesized has come." I guess I must be wrong, except if I am wrong, that I am changed, then what did happen that should so resemble it and unfold in correct order and yield the results attributed? Q: How does my 3 74 experience, going up to date differ from what was prophesized? Compare the two. Contrast them. Write an essay on the difference. As I see it: Answer: no difference, except that I can't fly, which the Mission seems to think is a necessary spinoff, without which we must deny it happened. But this is from their treatsie on the Holy Spirit and they are out to deny its presence. I don't think I have to fly physically, like angels. Will it do if I find myself in sleep and in ASC generally in other places at other times, and have visions of events happening elsewhere or elsewhere and to come? I sort of get around like the wind, coming and going in an invisible way...like my dream of fleeing from the VC and winding up in a relocation refugee camp with no money; I even had the proper accent ("Cen't you see what's heppinin?" and so forth; very convincing, and maybe this is what Christ meant about coming and going like the wind, where no one could tell where you went or came from, after the Spirit drenched you). Put another way, the complicated scenario they put forth (which is probably correct) tends to validate my 3 74 experience as precisely that: the attaining of the Kingdom. This is the way to put it: "What do you have to do to enter the Kingdom of Heaven?" and then the list which follows conforms to the list one would draw, in sequence, of what I experienced, back before that, too, to the distress --lost-- period which ran on months if not years. What I went through both bad (before 3 74) and good (3 74 on) had to be gone through, like an enormous spiritual transcendental car wash -- a human being refurbishing system, so complex as to beggar description, beginning with the dreams of the flying monsters with horses necks (dragons) and then picking up in distinctness with the chromatic flash-out graphics, the latter night being, if any section can be so said to be, the moment when the Spirit began to pour out onto and into me. The beginning, in other words, of the New. Up to then it had been nothing but various aspects of me perishing -- dying. The rebirth began with the graphics; the turning-point in the parabolic orbit had begun. I was re-entering life, as new life re-entered me: "from above." The thing about all this is that if it is said to me, severely, "You have to do (experience, go through) a lot to enter the Kingdom of Heaven; you can't do it like you are; you've got to be very much changed, and receive the Spirit," etc., I can say, "I know." (Or I think I know. I hope I know. I hope I don't just have hubris about this. I hope I'm not just boasting. If I am I'm sorry.) I think, though, really, what is convincing about it when I view it objectively it that, remembering back, I was geniunely broken down, stripped down, torn down to my skeletal plating, like an insect who has woven a cacoon, and then I passed through months of uniquely and actually unimaginable rebuilding processes, all adventitious to me, improving and teaching me, altering me --well, the "possession" part alone remade me in the most fundamental way indeed-- and clearly as completely remaking me as can be conceived. (1) I believed I was someone else. (2) From another time period. (3) Dead centuries ago and reborn. (4) A holy Christian person (5) I spoke Attic Greek somewhat and remembered Rome. (6) I wanted a new name and trimmed my beard. (7) All my interests and habits changed -- instantly. (8) My linguistic idiosyncracies altered permanently. (9) Even the way I margined my pages changed. (10) I wrote people I'd never written before. (11) I join religious organizations I'd never heard of. (12) All my political alliances of a lifetime changed totally. (13) I called cats "she" and dogs "he." Ergo: He who was alive died, and someone else lives now in me, replacing me. (14) I talk to and am talked to by God. Well, what more can you ask out of a transformed person? I know the future and things beyond my senses, but I'll skip that because I am not sure if that counts. (15) I stopped drinking wine and drank beer. (16) I knew that airosol sprays were lethal; likewise cigarettes. (17) I could discern evil and could tell what was true. (18) My spelling is unchanged. (To give some continuity.) (19) I recovered from most of my quasi-physical ailments. (20) Most of my time since I spend studying theology. (21) The level of my intelligence is increased -- this includes reading retention, speed, and abstract thinking. (22) My depth perception is improved. (23) Mental operations which baffled me are now easy (i.e. mental blocks now seem gone). (24) My psychological projections are withdrawn. The only problem is, I am in no customary sense -- maybe in no sense whatsoever-- spiritualized or exalted. In fact I seen even more mean and irratible than before. True, I do not hit anybody, but my language remains gunjy and I am crabby and domineering; my personality defects are unaltered. In the accepted sense I am not a better person. I may be healthier (maybe not that; vide the blood pressure). But I am not a good person, even though my emotions and moods are better under control. Maybe I just have a long way to go, yet. . . . I have a sudden new thought about "Vinland" and "Portugese States of America" et al. No one is coming here to a New World, and we are not going (i.e. space flight) to a New World, but this world will be changed into a new world. These are symbols of renewal for our world, related to Spring. They are precog images of how it is going to be for us here, on what has become a depleted worn-out old world: rebirth. These are all clues, many of them, as to what it's going to be like: the future is seeping back to me in dreams. And I dream often of green grass and moisture...like a park or garden. If only I could figure out -- And so to bed. But as to the lack of proper spiritual refurbishing in me...perhaps we have too clear an attitude toward pious transformations as being the ones He wishes in us. Perhaps these are our standards for the very pure; after all, He would retain the individual, I think, and not force us all into one proper mold. I have been changed, but not in all ways; I have been improved, but not according to human standards. I can only hope I am obeying His will and not my own. I do not conform to my own views of goodness, but maybe I do to His. Let me recall to myself that when the change