of them), missing their true purpose. It doesn't seem to me that it's just speculation that it was my pineal gland to which the primary message went, and which was primarily stimulated; because: (one) the dreams of three eyed people, with the third eye being the Hindu 3rd all seeing eye of enlightenment dead-center in the forehead. And (two) the pineal gland is affected by light, according to Psy Today, in early springtime, at the vernal equinox or just before...probably it can be computed at the precise time (March 18) (1974) that I experiences the chromatic progressions. However, this still leaves the issue of, Where did all the information (e.g. written) come from? Disinhibited (i.e. this was all engrammed inside, in my entelechy, but held back, blocked by the melatonia, the GABA fluid, etc? Just in there waiting? Or did it enter me along with the seed? (Pre-natal instructions! No wonder I felt myself to be under the guidance of Asklepios -- and dreamed of doctors! And got primarily medial/healing advice, which goes with what Christ himself offered, for the same reason What, though, took possession of me, which seemed like Elijah (if not truly Elijah)? I guess it was the Father; certainly it was not the seed. A form of the Father: the Holy Spirit, which, recall, made Mary pregnant, which brought conception to her; she conceived by the Holy Spirit and gave birth to the Logos; and yet, the Logos in a sense impregnated her; I guess the macroLogos this way achieves its micropresence here. Locally. However, against this is set my experience of anamnesis, the neoplatonistic recovery of memory of divinity already there. I did not acquire it abruptly; I recalled it. In reconciling this with Christianity, I was restored. To the former state I had lost (the myth of Adam, the Fall). In the Parousia, there is the Restoration of all things, specifically, man is restored to his intended, divine state. The Second Birth (born again or saved, found after having been lost) Is it food for a seed already there? A seed which was never germinated? Been fed? ("Your ancestors ate manna in the desert and they are all dead; I give you bread of eternal life." This implies it is more a kind of food in the sunlight, packets of nourishment. But I think the mystery has to do with what I experienced as suddenly being back 2000 years in Rome, being in another space-time. It shows that we do not understand the nature of time. If a new seed, from without, were implanted, why (like Empedocles) would we remember? But we do. Here, we're dealing with the "divine spark," like that which is in us because our ancestors, the Titans, ate the infant Zagreus. The divine spark is the same as the logos spermatika. The spark or seed, being an immortal being, is not subject to time. The kind of transtemporal experience which I had is impossible to a being which is mortal and hence subject to time; as the Brit 3 says, mortality and being in thrall to time are identical. If a spermos logos were implanted from without, and then fed, I think the person would suddenly find himself no longer bounded by time (and also not bounded by space, but this would be a lesser release). It is time which grinds down and brings death. The divine seed being immortal would transcend time, and what I experienced (because of the nature of time, which is not known to me) would be the sort of natural result of the sudden release from thrall to it. I would imagine a time dysfunction; actually, it would more accurately be that I had become an entity not bound by time. I would think, "Something is wrong with time; I am no longer in Fullerton in 1974 but 2000 years back in the past, in Rom[e]." The change, though, was in me. No one else felt anything, anamnesis, recovery of memory, is a projection (in the Jungian sense) outward, upon the person receiving immortality (i.e. freedom from the thrall of time). THIS WOULD EXPLAIN WHY THERE ARE NO INTERVENING MEMORIES, AND WHY I KNEW IT WASN'T A REINCARNATION TYPE MEMORY, OF A FORMER LIFE. THAT I ONCE HAD BEEN IN ROME CIRCA 70 AD AND SUDDENLY REMEMBERED IT. Rome and Fullerton were fused, as if the element of time were withdrawn. I didn't remember; I was there. (At two points, A and B simultaneously; vide Dr NK's "universe projected from a single point," etc. This can't be understood unless time is understood. We are freed -- from what? What is time? It may be that Dr. NK is wrong, and that time is a 4th dimensional space imperfectly perceived; I was freed from time, and this shows that indeed I had been Reborn immortal, but I do not understand that which I was freed from (time). What I should do is try to infer the nature of time from what I experienced ("anamnesis") when freed from it. It became unreal (I remembered at least 2000 years back; Restoration took place; there was retrieval of data, etc.). What we experience as lost --things moving into the past-- those things ceased to be lost. Those things which had passed out of sight (moving from the present to the past and hence gone forever, destroyed) were again there, again real, not destroyed. This is intimately bound up with immortality, the rebirth, the freedom back upward from the Fall. The continual perishing (including that of myself) was abolished -- but not only of myself, but of everything. The world-and-I together were retrieved, as if no destroying process had obliterated us ("Death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory?"). Is this a waking up? ("Look! I tell you a sacred secret: we shall not all sleep," etc.) Here, "sleep" equals a loss of full consciousness in which perception of all-which-was is lost, and we cease to see it and imagine it destroyed & abolished. The transient quality of things, the loss of them into the past, is a diminution of perception, a visual-perceptive loss; we cease to be able to track or follow their movements to another place (the past is another place which we can't see, being partly blind; in the "Decoded" it says, "He now could --an angel?-- see only things very close to himself, and nothing which was far away." I.e.; he could only see that point which is the immediate present. Those two vast eternities, which contain everything, the past and the future, were no longer visible (the 3rd eye had shut). And this would be why the gift of prophecy (second sight) is so basic to the restitution of ones full faculties, and associated with Men of God. Prophecy: seeing into. The past is within things (as in UBIK). Again, the onion rings universe. Where is the past? Within what we see, at the hearts. All reality is like some great Indian burial garbage mound, like layer or accretions, at Troy, successive. Not being but "below." Contained. Like in the 3 pages I sent Angus. Palimpset. Well, if the past is within what we see (smaller concentric rings, constricted) perhaps one can reason that the future consists of larger rings that that which makes up our perceptual present; vide Plotinus. The next concentric ring of emanation would be the future...strange. Which we reach toward, and which recoprically reaches down to assist us (as I inferred about the "space people": they're from the past, to give help. Angels. They would come to us in dream-time, with visions of what is ahead, and this is why dreams are prophetic. And less dense, less constricted that the daytime Now ring. Recall in "Autofac" how the automatic factory creates seeds of itself to survive through; this is what a seed is for; I had carefully studied the purpose of seeds. Well, the divine seed is so that I (and not merely my species) can survive, the death of my physical body; when the autofac was destroyed, the seed lived on and grew. Thus, the factory was immortal. It replicated itself and so escaped destruction. One could assume, I guess, that the divine seed is in every one of us, but remains dormant (crypto morphosis); it is never fed, and this feeding comes to the pineal body via sunlight. So there is no implantation. I myself, I felt something (Firebright) was implanted. I had visions of Firebright's heavenly parents. That sounds like more that celestial food. Which do we have, a quickening, an awakening, or an implantation? The parables about the seeds sown...they don't make it certain (some sown on barren soil, some on rock, some on good soil, etc.) If one had had a dormant seed all ones life, and it had never stirred, come to life at all, and then a shaft of fire-light from the Sun of Righteousness cause it to come to life for the first time, one might sense an implantation from outside; something which was not oneself. (Sasha must feel that way, with her little new unborn kittens inside her. "They came from outside." But in fact they were fertilized from outside. Okay, fertilization is what takes place: it isn't a seed such as a plant has, but an egg such as a human woman ovulates, and a cosmic spermatika fertilizes it; a zygote is produced. Firebright is a combining. Here would be the crucial distinction between Neoplatonism and Gnosticism, which I feel so strongly about: the former is sort of self-fertilizing, parthonogenesis, so to speak, but in Gnosticism you have the idea that the Savior is absolutely necessary, so we have here the idea that something entirely from outside one is necessary, it comes along (God's grace) and if it doesn't come, then there is no zygote, no Firebright, no seed, no immortality. I always felt Gnosticism was correct over Neoplatonism; viewed this way, it is evident why. The Neoplatonist knows what happened, in a basic way, but he feels he did it by himself: up by his own bootstraps. A personal achievement. I guess this is a failure to know about the "birds and the bees," as the "Decoded N T" points out. How are babies born? By thinking about it, or by copulating? Let's be realistic; it takes a union, always true in higher forms, of which we are one. This is why the "Dec N T" can so plainly declare that no meditation, no prayer, no affirmation of belief, is going to do it. It is done to us, not by us. All each of us can do is accept -- i.e. receive. You are to be "meek," i.e. Yinnish, humble, receptive, but what overpowers you (the father!) is fierce, like Elijah, seeking justice and truth, powerful, definitely Yanglish, and the not-you. Just the opposite. Possession by the God (vide Virgil describing Appollo taking over the Sibyl. You may be masculine to other humans, but to Him you are feminine, passive. Now, the Mynaeds of Dionysos did not seem to believe (read know) that a permanent fertilization, acquisition took place, but the Orphics certainly did; here lies a vast distinction! The being-overpowered leaves something forever, but after the beatific vision, the Firebright Second Birth, what is born, lives on, eternally. What a jump from the mere Dionysian frenzy to Orphism and beyond, to Christianity! What a realization of the value of being possessed! This borders on the Sufi: becoming God. One does "become" God while he possesses you, but then he leaves. But -- well, it's like poor Leda. Vide Yeat's poem. But look at the progeny: Helen of Troy. Well, I have certainly (through Doris' help) made a distinction between two opposite sequential states; my experience began when I was "listening for very weak signals to transduce," which was meekness (I got it right, picked up paw talk, etc), and then came the chromatic fire. That was