on an archetypal quality, in that he was the ursurper king ruling in the rightful king's place, like King Pentheus (and Claudius in "Hamlet".) His overthrow is an archetypal, not incidental, victory for the rightful king, the ursurper being the "Prince of this World," the Herod figure. Just like King Pentheus he sought to imprison in innocent, but instead imprisoned the figure of the Rightful King in some form, and was deposed. Thus in 3 74 I saw the iron prison the ursurper had built around us and recognized it as Rome; also in 2 75 after he had been deposed I saw springtime seep in, replacing it, which indicates to me that now the Rightful King can come toward us & speak to us more clearly, unhindered. And sure enough, subsequent to my seeing that springtime world (2 75) the imperial empire, its provinces, have slipped away without a fight. I.e.: THE WAR ENDED. There is no way, in considering these images, to fail how they pertain to Christ and the salvation story. I don't think Dionysos or any of the others is described as a king -- only Christ; and anyhow the king image relates it to the TEARS dream, which is surely the "Ancient of Days," and image of Christ. I note, too, that what is not a fertility symbol, but a rebirth symbol. The "solitary" life which both Christ and Paul speak of as an affliction, are in contrast to the ear of corn in which all grains are together in corporate life; it was an ear of corn that was help up at Elysius, to demonstrate the mystery: I think the mystery is, the solitary grain(s) will be sown, then will grow again in corporate life, a corporate body of which Christ is the head. Paul in 1 Cor makes it perfectly clear that resurrection is in a spiritual body as opposed to the prior physical body; as in Neoplatonism, we can expect to ascend on to a spiritual physical body; as in Neoplatonism, we can expect to ascend on to a spiritual "next ring" universe in a spiritual, non-physical, immortal body, leaving this one behind; it grows out of this one after this one is died and buried, as with the grain of wheat/corn in the furrow: what comes next is different; it is a complete misunderstanding to expect --or even want-- the orignially physical "solitary" inferior body back ever again; it is metamorphosis which we are talking about; Paul in 1 Cor makes this perfectly clear. The incorruptable body is not a physical body, like this only eternal, but a spiritual body. Death is regarded as a doorway, with something better on the other side, exactly like the doorway I saw in 3 & 4 74, like a Greek pylon, with the moonlight and clear water beyond, which was everywhere, here and there, that I looked. A study of the other mystery religions (all based on the dying lunar god Osiris) shows this. Of all the things (visions) I saw, none is more significant than the pylon or arch like doorway with the Greek water & nighttime island scene, so beautiful and peaceful on the other side. That was not a transformed view of this world (as with the iron ring and later spring time & Santa Sophia the building), that was a doorway to another world for sure. It wasn't to death; death was the doorway, the passage, with life beyond. It was a rather narrow entrance-way. (When did I see that doorway? It must have either been after my shoulder surgery, or led into that period, because just after Pinky died I remember seeing him, all healthy and full-chested, squeezed through the doorway looking into this world at us.) (It just occurs to me that the doorway always had the proportions of the Golden Rectangle.) (And at first I saw it as a geometric drawing of the Golden Rectangle complete with Greek-letter markings at corners, etc. . .at that point not yet projected into the world, found there as doorway and 3-D, but "in my 3rd eye or inner mind's eye" not yet fused with the landscape; later, whenever I say it, I actually picked out the Golden Rectangle in the real world, discerned it, but saw it as a doorway, and saw the lovely quiet peaceful world on the other side, waiting. Thinking about it now I realized that the discernment of this Golden Rectangle doorway within the real world here and there was on the identical order of the iron ring, God in the trash of the alley, everything else, especially equal to seeing Springtime in 2 75; it was a major event, and not to be ignored or forgotten; it was another transformation of the landscape, another vision of the next world of the New Creation. Offhand I'd say its message was, One can get from here (this world) to there, which is to say, to the Spiritual Universe. It's immediately at hand, if we could but see it. That which is seen through the doorway is not superimposed on our world but lies beyond it. For instance, it is nighttime there. (Although midday here.) I'm sure it's "on the Other Side," and you would have to die to get there; after all, Pinky, after his death, immediately after, looking back into this world from there. It is another place, another time entirely. I don't think it's the Kingdom of God; I think everything else I experienced is. If it is indeed a glimpse through the doorway into the Next World, then the Next World (for me anyhow) is very much like Minoan Greece, like the Agean and Crete (where many of my first visionary dreams were set). (Also, where Zagreus/Dionysos came from.) All the straightjohn uptight rigid description and attitudes by the Christians about it are just so much a row of swords to protect it; once inside it's lovely. You can sit down on a Grecian bench and relax in the cool of the evening. Jesus said specifically, "My Kingdom is not of this world." The Witnesses and the Megiddo Mission et al are latter-day Jews, proclaiming an eventual earthly kingdom and Messiah; this Pariousia are their topic because it ushers in this earthly kingdom of perfection and nonaging and death. This is just what the Jews anticipated, under the King, too. I have been misled by the JW and the MMission into this latter-day secularism of a Jewish sort; no wonder they deny Christ's divinity and equality with God! (And denegrate the Holy Spirit.) It is the Old Testament element seen so much in Protestatism. An earthly kingdom! This is what Christ specifically denied -- being the king of it or establishing it, and Paul's words in 1 Cor about the physical body first, then the spiritual body, plus a reading of the mystery religions in general makes it absolutely clear that, along Neoplatonist lines, it speaks of another spiritual life after this; the Kingdom of God here being within us as an inner experience (Just as mine was.) No one else saw the transformation around me, as I did. They didn't see the Ring of Iron and Rome when it was that, nor the springtime. Nor the doorway, which is to the spiritual kingdom beyond the grave. The whole Parousia is always coming, alwaying impinging -- in fact, I experienced each part, in sequence, of it; I ought to know this! Things --of which it is one, the most important in fact-- are equally inner and personal, not experienced or seen by others; hence, remain mysteries. (And concealed.) Now I think, Yes, I did go through all these events, some terrifying, the final ones wonderful; I must indeed have gone through judgement, which is why my parvor nocturnis is now gone. First they squared me up to make me ready, and then on that Sunday night when it grew light, and I prayed -- that was Judgement Day: Dies Irea, Dies Illa, for me. Seeing spring the next year (2 75) proves I am waiting for the Parousia in vain. Indeed, it did come "like a thief in the night." It lit up the darkness indeed! (Pinky, as an avatar of Christ, evidently took the blow; i.e. died for me, my sins.) Perhaps the response to the Xerox letter, and all the acts which followed, was Armageddon, and the slaying of the guilty by righteous judgment & anger. So that they were put to rest forever. (Abolished.) That Xerox letter fight was the famous battle. (For me.) (In which evil perished.) It raged from at least March (perhaps earlier) in 1974 through June, with Peter Fittings recent letter an indication of recognition of defeat. Judgment didn't come for me until August or Sept; I was in my splint. Gosh, the books were opened! If the TEARS dream is included, it began back then, even. The battle centered around the Xerox letter and attacking the U.S. domestic tyranny, along with it, as one. I call this all personal and subjective and just for me, but -- I still see how the old tyrannt was like Pentheus. . . .it had some objectivity. Well, it came either for me alone, or for the world; but in any case it came, as the 2 75 vision of spring shows. There is no Parousia to anticipate, now. This brings up the final words, about St. Sophia being reborn; wouldn't this be the final stage of the Parousia, to which it works up to stage by stage: the return of the rule of God's Wisdom on Earth (the rightful king?). Now, though, can it be said to have been "just in my head," or "a personal & subjective salvation or experience," when the world's most powerful man (Nixon) fell, the imperial possessions later on fell; the war finally ended? And now the domestic police tyranny is being revealed, plus assassination plots, etc; justice is at work against them. My personal, subjective salvation certainly got synchronized well with world-history of a uniquely apocalyptical sort. We even had those strange energy, food, etc. shortages, like the 4 horsemen. Well, the events didn't pass unnoticed; what passed unnoticed was the spiritual significance. Or origin, if you will. Who engineered them that is. That they happened is recognized, including their secular or this-world importance. I guess that when St. Sophia is born again, that, also, will be noticed, but accepted in a secular fashion (regarded as very good, like the other events such as the war ending). It will be husked in a physical form. Maybe only a few persons got resurrected; only those who'd experienced the Kingdom before death. . .perhaps one of them was reborn in me, as in my novel TO SCARE THE DEAD; so that also took place. The 1400 years of creed Christianity produced nothing. It really is a coincidence. . .for example, the day I went into surgery (the only real surgery I've ever had) was the day Nixon announced his resignation speech; it was over. I was peeing into a bottle. God breached time & entered history, to take a hand; but, in leaving, he leaves behind his divine wisdom (in some form) to rule; it won't go back to what it had been for thousands of years. That is the significance of the Santa Sophia message. In other words, He will not allow that tyranny et al to happen again, that lawlessness. Perhaps invisibly, we will be ruled or anyhow it will be with us again -- the wisdom of God. Another coincidence is that the US secret police intelligence program CHAOS against anti-war people ended exactly as my religion experience began: mid-March 1974, perhaps forever. My fear of years duration lifted. But at the time (since CHAOS was concealed from public knowledge, and illegal) I of course didn't know why. As I had sensed someone watching me always, I suddenly sensed no one watching