has never arrived, which is to say, touched down at one point only. (i.e. at one instant.) From fatigue I've failed to put down a lot. But the descending Moth exhibits in model form how an entity or universe outside time enters one confined by linear time. It is a throughout matter -- i.e. throughout in the lesser, linear universe, as if the whole landscape is light-spattered. It took me over 12 hours to realize that the descending Moth, like a hollow Japanese paper lantern, was actually a ship landing, a huge one. This was the ultimate vision for me, this great light-giving ship identified in the dream only as the "Moth," which I guess is its individual name. Thus I am enabled to conceive what up to this point I couldn't conceive, the way the "Kingdom" enters our world, the relationship it has to our world constantly, etc. (Those two are the same: how it enters and its constant relationship.) (It is a constant entering, as the EB macro says, but I couldn't conceive this. Now I can.) The maximum linear-time entry point has already been fixed, and entry has begun ("the loading had begun"). We are experiencing or feeling or encountering its effects! As if in the periphery of light-spatter on the time landscape. The outskirts of it, but still, particles of light (illumination) are falling now. Man is now illuminated, even though he died before maximum entry (saturation) is reached. It is still real: not a sign of a coming event, but the first light spattering of that event itself! One is aware inwardly; this is primarily an inner landscape (so much for the latter-day Jewish Messiahists such as the Watchtower Society. "My Kingdom is not of this world," Jesus said, and He meant it. The light as expressed in landscape form in the dream is what the Quakers refer to as the Inner Illuminating Light.) (This comes direct to each individual, which such organizations as the Watchtower Society can't accept or recognize.) The light was not like sunlight. It was that which I saw light up the bedroom that Sunday night before Pinky died; it was the raising, I think, that night of the veil of limitation (on me). This was frightening to me, because I rightly associated it with approaching death. I guess this means that when/as we die, we begin to see what formerly was concealed to us, or from us, and the shock is great, since we have, all our lives, been trading (doing business) with evil. The first things seen as negative, and what is worse, we've been part of this negative reality, which, as Tagmoi realized, is an actual evil, not merely a view point evil. It is basically self-awareness: self as part of this and now disclosed (to a higher eye). It is the ultimate fulfillment of paranoaic vision. . .my evil inside is seen! This is universally experienced as the Day of Wrath, and rightly so. "Oh dreadful day!" "Oh wretched me, to be here on this day!" Etc. There was nothing inappropriate in my reaction. But what was even more amazing was the following morning when I was unnaturally up and about at 7:00am, and felt the spirit (of 3 74) back in me again. This time I asked its name. It said it represented what it called "The Nameless God," that it itself was the Virgin, but not the Christian Virgin, rather the Roman one, which is Astraea. (I looked it up in Virgil.) This time, for the first time, she, Astraea, answered my questions as I put them; I was not passive but active. I asked what they would do as judgement, since Astraea, the Virgin or Virgo, is the Immortal of Justice. She told me candidly that they would condemn, by fire, those who have despoiled the Earth, and she cited such matters as the defoleation in Viet Nam. I was overjoyed to know that the destroyers of Earth would themselves suffer fire as judgement, so I tend to be skeptical about this whole experience, viewing is as wish-fulfillment rather than truly receptive; nonetheless that day my blood pressure, when taken, was normal for the first time, fantastic proof of the subjective concept at 7 that morning that now everything was okay. The arrival of Virgo that day was certainly to coincide with the blood pressure taking, to help me in what had become a terrifying vital matter. I have throughout the year wondered how in any real sense I could claim or imagine myself as healed when my blood pressure was in fact even more elevated. The spirit returned as a calming spirit, a tranquil spirit of ma'at like balance and harmony. Out of that day's combined experiences I felt the most intense relief & joy, which is easy to fathom. Now as I write this I feel it revive in me, a true uprising of joy. I attribute both my physical repair and the psychological state of ease (which the nurse noticed) I experienced as coming directly from heavenly intervention; no shit. Truly I had faltered, being afraid to go to get the b.p. reading any more. But that day I was changed, and by that adventitious entity which had entered me in 3 74. And then the next day I found the Stone Poney lp I longed for so badly. . .there it was again, reissued after 4 of 5 years. (Maybe my letter to Capitol helped do it!) Since then (this is a diary now) I've dreamed some pre-cog dreams (big breasted Tzarina, broken phone with Tessa trying to fix it, a vast attempt by the Russian nobility to set up shop in another continent, obviously a paradigm for the CP), and then last night very strange dreams in which I read a book, again large and serious, about economics -- the economics of the German Social Democrat movement, starting post WW 1. The 2 person game I saw: life is a series of triumphing, with the triumphings coming after --hence over-- prior defeats. First there is a defeat; then a triumphing over it (the second player wins over him who played first). Again & again player one serves up bad scenes/events; again & again player two triumphs. He who laughs last laughs best; it is the final victory where true victory is achieved, precisely because it is the final one. . . . The "Moses" TV program was so like my own visions; "The God of salvation versus slavery," Moses speaking to Egypt. My visions consisted of these two bipolarizations: first the iron ring of slavery, which is what must be overthrown, or has been (a state of it), very much like what Moses was doing then, and inspired in a similar way. Also, viewing the statements of God from within the burning bush (Moses asks what His name is and is told, "I am that which I am") were so like what "the Elohim" told me, they not having a name, too; they being Him, I think. It all can be easily understood without eloborate theological subtlities -- in fact it can better be understood in terms of Moses' monotheism. The elaborations only hinder understanding, they being manmade. It is the Creator, but not in His James-James guise; creation already exists; now he makes economical minimal adjustments; he would not tread down or destroy his own creation; to do so, as Spinoza showed, would be indications of weakness and error in his part in the design; the design is correct; these are "course line" adjustments, not wiping out designs but perfecting them, completing them into the final days of creation. . . . Idea for TO SCARE THE DEAD. Dreams, but not about the past as are the dreams in PETER PROUD; rather, they are like the dreams about the approaching Spaniards by the Aztecs -- visions of the future. Like the Moth dream, which is a dream about the arrival of a ship, and s-f in style. (This was used in CLANS somewhat, when Ledebur had visions about the ship arriving.) Pre-cog dreams. The cities he dreams himself in are futuristic -- from the next century! Also -- my MBS script, later made into a minor short story, where the guy had a phobia from an event in the future -- why can't I expand on this story idea, here? Make a novel use of it? Man who remembers the future rather than the past -- the psychiatrist setting, even. Autobiographical. . .even unto my experience which caused me to summon Mr. Kelly: experiencing disinhibiting stimuli before they arrived (in normal sequence and interval). Beforehand, as mere word and/or light signals to us. Now, having read the EB macro article on time, I know that what I saw were events up the manifold ahead before they had entered linear time; before they had "popped into existence ahead of us." I saw them in less than time reality but still in sequence, like the next film reel still in the can, not yet projected. Only as the future enters the present does it get projected into (obviously) this space-time continuum which we experience. Thus of course I saw it "reduced" to mere words & light signals; it hadn't entered either time or space, only had sequence. Didn't look real (substantial). The Mindkowski block universe. . .I verified it without knowing in the slightest what I was experiencing. It's exactly like that time when I was a little kid on the ranch and saw inside the dead hen, saw the eggs, very small and flat, which she was going to lay each day later on. . .and maybe this boyhood scene could start To scare the dead. Now, the question about the Mindkowski block universe is really the q: is the space-time universe everything, or is it bounded by another universe outside of space and time at least as we conceive them (where, for instance, future events exist "now"). My experience answers this. Future events do exist "now," in an unbounded universe surrounding our space-time continuum. This larger universe is indeed the other universe of the Neoplatonists which I felt I'd encountered; I now finally scientifically define and identify it. It is evident that I experienced the other superior extra space-time universe by means of encountering events before they entered our matrix. I somehow assimilated material from the future, which by definition lies outside space time. But into the future was not the only direction of my experience, so I can't reduce it to that extension, extension in that direction. All this makes me conjecture whether or not rather than it coming here, did I not go there? This would explain why no one else saw what I saw; saw any change at all. In answer to the q: what will one find in the greater (non space-time) universe that one doesn't find here? The a: all the events & things which comprise reality that haven't come into being (i.e. entered time, become present) yet, and I think, too, all that has passed away. Time is like a cheese slicer cutting like a thin wire through an enormous cheese. "A point with one eternity behind it and another ahead." One of the most difficult things about this to understand is that outside of the space-time universe things are (one) less real (they have no 3-D substantiality, and don't move; aren't animated, yet) and (two) are more real, (i.e. are alive as part of the Immanent Mind, although lacking space-time qualities). This gave rise in my head to the sense of this world being a fabrication, like the projection of movie film in 3-D onto a screen. . .now I can see why I drew that erroneous (basically) conclusion. Always with each new insight in this I must reask: did I see another universe, or rather our own differently? Now I would tentatively say: what we normally see is a segment