past -- i.e. what had been lost. Again, I refer to the quality of lineal time to accumulate as it advances up the manifold. Restoration would be a taking away! Just as when one restores a piece of furniture to its original --true-- wood by stripping away layers of varnish; under them the authentic wood remains. We do call this "restoring." Perhaps the ultimate & absolute Restoration (rather than merely a partial one, but rather the one) would be an abrupt stripping away of all layers back to 2000 years ago: to the time when Christ was alive, not to the Crucifixion as I was thinking, but to the restoration of Him. The Crucifixion was the taking away of him. My experience contained an awareness of a savior about to come, which would be both a restoration (first advent) and the ful[l]fil[]ment (Second Advent). A collapse of time, the 2000 year interval between His going and His return, tel[li]scoped into a single point. Like when as one train leaves a station "another" appears at once. I never after that "found" myself in daytime in an earlier moment, such as Crete, but recalled them in dreams; those were the foundations of Christianity. The Rome-Christ period was actually there and actually experienced during full wakefulness, as present. Yet, it was still now. But now He has returned. I was now and yet superimposed Rome of 2000 years ago: 1974 Fullerton and Rome c 45. I gather that what I experienced were the two advents unified, with time abolished. It made Rome Fullerton and Fullerton Rome; it made 45 AD 1974 AD and 1974 AD 45 AD. This certainly would explain why I knew that neither reincarnation or time-travel per se were involved. It was a time dysfunction but of a crucial sort, that prophecyed in the Bible: the Parousia, an expression (experience) of it, a demonstation of the nature of the Parousia in which it abolishes or ends time, or perhaps, when God enters time from outside time, which is to say, from Eternity; surely that's a time dysfunction, although you might not be able to fathom why it happened. But I guess this is what you experience when God abolishes time; when the Parousia arrives. In connection with this, I wasn't just back in Rome; I was aware of two portions (not aspects, but divisions): the Roman army/police -- and the hurrying semi-invisible Christian underground, the fish Christian who were illegal and whom the Romans (part one) were after, to destroy. Gosh, if I were merely transported back to Rome via a time dysfunction I might gaze at great buildings and watch crowds, having no awareness of the fish Christians or the Roman ir leg. So this was not only Rome, or Rome as such; it was Rome viewed as the Apostles must have viewed it; it was a very precise and special view, and I was one of those fish Christians. I am happy to say that in this apocolyptic experience, I was indubitably one of those Christians, and our Savior was anticipated momentarily (later in the year I had the "Santa Sophia" dream, bearing this out without the Roman experience, that is, the Second Advent for sure, for us). The "Dec N T" says that this time Christ won't appear in the form of one single man (as he did as Jesus before), because if he does, then they'll get him again and it'll be a failure again; therefore, as I understand it, this is what all this solar spermatika, the seeds, etc. talk has to do with; there will be many implantations, of persons already alive and walking around "at their regular tasks," and the births will be plural, and inside peoples' heads, and not out of a womb, as with Mary's. Gee, I finally understood it. There will be no one Savior born this time, but a different system. Vide St. Teresa of Avilia. "Now, Christ has no body but yours." Is before (at the First Advent) implantation will be done by the same spirit, the Holy Spirit, supra, and the same issue will occur: the Son, which explains Jesus' cryptic remarks about where the Kingdom would be (not here, not there, and Christ not here, not there). But: in you and among you. Yes indeed! Kingship, then, within given persons; the assumption of rule (this duplex personality) within various persons; this is the Second Advent, and not a mere anticipation, a la Elijah. This is the Second Coming itself, this Firebright implantations. I mean, these, not this. My God -- what happened to me (sic: to me) in 3 74 was the Second Advent, one of them, anyhow. Guess who Firebright is, viewed this way. This now resolves one mystery (mystery to me, anyhow): the relationship between Elijah and the Holy Spirit. What Malachi said would come back was the Spirit of Elijah (if you read about Elisha this is clear). Surely it wasn't the physical man. The Spirit of Elijah is the Old Testament Hebrew concept for the Christian Holy Spirit (remember, the Jews were absolute monotheists). We then are discussing possession by Elijah and possession by God in the form of the Holy spirit; it is the same thing. Now Malachi talks about God ending Elijah; read, "The Father will send the Holy Spirit," and this refining and purifying process is to make the human temple (body-mind) ready for the implantation. I must reassign dates on the Parousia, then, and the more correct ones probably coincide with that of the Inter. Community of Christ's: in March 1974, when the Holy Spirit (or if you wish to speak of it this way, Elijah) poured itself into me, possessed me, this wasn't the beginning of it all except for me; as Malachi says, the Spirit of Elijah will come first, before Christ, so I was possessed by the Spirit of Elijah, it did come first, but we are talking about microsystems rather than the world as a single totality: a conspicuous event for everyone to witness. What first hits is Elijah. Malachi is of course correct. Out of this event, Christ (or Christ-consciousness, to stress the modern more correct view) comes about as issue. My assault on all the tyrannies, left and right, represent for me a micorvesion of the war; I on a microscale engaged in ferocious war against both left and right, on my own, not as part of a conspicuous army, but I was, and it was real nonetheless. The war took place and the outcome was as prophesyed in the Bible: God's victory, and the Evil One cast down into the dust (dethroned, his power taken away.) Now we see in South East Asia, this year, at precisely the same time of the cycle, in spring, the external imperial empire of the Prince of This World fall. What happened with me in 3 74 also illustrates one of the most astounding predictions: "The dead shall be raised incorruptible." If you study my internal insight, that an Essene (i.e. Christian of the very earliest period), for example as I express it in my novel plot, TO SCARE THE DEAD, you find precisely that. I was convinced that within me a man who had slumbered 2000 years had awakened, and that he was a sophisticated Essene-Christian. Is this not "The dead shall be raised" and evidently incorruptible? I ask, When does this event occur? Paul has told us. This is what we are waiting for: the graves to open. Of course, their old actual bodies didn't reappear. My experience is that of how indeed it was accomplished (right hemisphere, or whatever). The dead shall join the living...for judgment and, of judged yes, then for everlasting life. (Recall my dream where I saw my name in the great hotel register, thereupon knowing that I could stay there.) Yes, the Book of Life has been opened; the seals are broken. All my early dreams of that! Yet, I appear ordinary; thus Christ (one of Him) is concealed within me. I feared the "Romans," which is to say, a repetition of what happened before...good lord, was that the fear which our dear Savior Jesus felt, his hear, his dread at capture and death? Yes, as Tielhard de Chardin says, our species relives His passion; I felt his fear, experienced his Stations, His suffering. But then was reborn, after that Bardol Thodol death. Anamnesis: re-enactment, with victory! And all of us directed --coordinated-- by the Logos, the Plan. We, as one body, with Christ the head...my question, Why do I be ordinary now if this all be true? is answered by: He must be concealed. He is cryptemorphosis, within me. I have kept supposeing that what happened in me was somehow premature or accidental. No to both. /// I have been made incorruptible, but, like Paul, like all of them, I retain physical affliction and infirmities, and will so, to the end of this physical body. For Paul it was some sort of "marks or scars," maybe impaired eye-sight; for me, the hypertension and vertigo, etc. But still, see, the mortal mother remains; hence affliction is not abolished; the Light Creature is not yet released (as I experienced in my 'void' dreams, of the beatific vision, the glade, the Tyger and forest). No wonder I feel it is springtime. Gee whizz, Christ (Jesus) was immortal, the Savior, in fact, but they tormented and killed him. As long as he was in the mortal body they could hurt him as readily as any man. Just to spell it out: "Santa Sophia" and "Firebright" are one and the same. My whole God is identified with a vitilizing (or revitalizing) life-giving principle, like the orgone, like springtime...and the adversary (e.g. Marxism) is envisioned as mechanical, hollow-eyed, without life. God is a vitalistic force, like Drietsch's entelechy, etc. This is like my division between the Human and the Android. With God, in the form of Christ, as the exemplar Human. The complete human. This beats the Greek idea of God as Mind which does nothing but think. Or know. How is it to know, if there is nothing to know? I conceive of it as a builder, an artificer, who creates, in conformity to its Plan: the Logos (I conceive of Logos and blueprint of something to be actualized). The Greek prejudice against the manual arts/the mere crafts prevented them from seeing this quality of God. He is both building and He is perfecting what He has already built. He animates it, infuses it. Ursula accuses me of getting away from "Taoistic balance" when I get into Christianity. The Logos and balance (of Fr. 51 of Hericlitus) are intimitely connected, with the Logos implementing balance or harmony everywhere, it being the Plan. It is hard to imagine the Logos out of balance. Also, when conditions on our world were out of balance, it was the Logos which brought what we experienced as relief, but which, on a supraterrestrial scale, was probably a restitution of harmonie. Also, there is my "Rhipidon" fan dream of the left-right-with the center as God's balanced perfection in any situation (and the material in "Decoded" about Satan as the unreal to left and to right. I was reading about the analogy of the kosmoi to animals (each to an animal), which in its latter stages run down or got old, like an animal, and formed cycles, and suddenly it came to me how like the Hindu idea this is, the ideas of cycles, and it seemed to me for sure that this is what has happened, rather than a mere pushing-forward too much of one of the opposites (to create, in Anaxamander's sense, injustice) but the true end of a running-down, wearing-out cycle. What happens then is perhaps a revitalization of the high-entropic kosmos (what must be realized is that the kosmos is smaller than the universe, or anyhow that the Unbounded lies outside it and imparts laws