by god; (2) that Christianity was involved; (3) which means that Christianity secretly has had to do, always, with being possessed by god, like other mystery religions (which is what Ted Sturgeon says in his novel about Venus). It is all tied together by what Meister Eckehart says about God being born is your soul which is the actual Kingdom of God. Everything else is secondary to this, and probably subsidiary, such as the anamnesis, etc. Eckehart confirms this. . . . The Eb's article on "Monotheism" says: "Monotheism presumes two entities: God and the universe. But God's relationship to the universe is not merely that of prime mover. He still approaches it, and the manifestations of his continual activity toward it are expressed in history," I am paraphrasing; I guess it means in historical events and certain trends or directions which the flow of history takes. It doesn't have to be all history, but (1) He does manifest himself to us still and (2) we find that in what we call "history" and (3) certain historical events can be said to be manifestations of God or from God. This does not mean that we can discern which events are from him, or which trends, but if the premises are true, then they do exist. I now recall my vivid discernment in 3 74, when I saw not only Rome around me but the brisk rushing of the Christian underground as they arranged certain things to happen, specifically the fall of the tyranny. I must have seen exactly what the EB article is talking about. Most important, this Christian underground had just lost the Savior but anticipated his imminent return; they were preparing for it. Put another way, their activities, which would include the overthrow of the tyranny, was in preparation for the Savior's return; it is all of one piece, with His return as the goal. The activity of God in history, then, would seem (from what I saw during that short interval of revelation) to be preparing the way of the Lord through the overthrowing of the tyranny. Perhaps it was to preserve the earth from nuclear holocaust, since we now know that the tyrannt was insane during that time. And he was, after all, the most powerful man on earth, which means the most powerful man in history -- hence the most dangerous. If any one man could be said to have had the power and authority to destroy the earth, it was that poor evil deranged man, now safely out of the path of historic events and all earthly power. The other night the thought came to me, "The first of the old prophecies are beginning to take place," or words to that effect (check supra). If I were to assume that we are entering the Parousia, which could well be, but on an undisclosed time-scale, then I would characterize this interval, from my own actions, feelings and stance, my own intuitions and sense of what is, Parousia or not -- this interval seems subjectively to me to be one of firm, even harsh, preparing for combat. I sense no love at this time, no reaching out to forgive or understand or embrace. I sense muffled drums, and a mysterious movement, a coming and going leading to a settling in position, as if places are being taken, sides drawn, positions, stations, occupied, probably for a battle. Maybe Elijah was indeed here. Now I am back, in my 14-month study of this, to where I began. Someone was here, rushing powerfully through my life, our lives, our world. Something has begun; it started with that fierce zealous spirit and evidently ended with, "The Buddha is in the park," which is to say, "Unto us a child is born." I have a continual feeling that I am on one specific side in this; I have chosen, or have been chosen. The last thoughts which came to me were, "Rest. You'll be guided when the time comes." I sense myself waiting. Days pass. Nothing happens. But I am waiting and feeling restless, really waiting in the true sense. Not just passing time. This time-period has a clear quality of being a time of waiting, rather than mere emptiness, as if things had fallen through, evaporated or gone wrong. What lies ahead? I sort of sense myself as a samuri, now. Hard and stern, much less sympathetic or bathetic. My dream recently of carefully returning the bulging purse, bulging with coins, and finding that it belonged to "Je BORG," and that "BORG" was close, she was close...she is close by, the figure which has been with me from the start of this: just out of sight. In addition, it is possible that my enormously strong subjective intuition --if not perception-- that I personally was drawn into history by the Divine Power is equally accurate. Surely this is one way by which that Power operates: seizing upon individuals here and there to perform in concert an action which will have permanent consequences generally, which is to say in the arena of history. As I keep saying, I feel retrospectively that TEARS and very likely FROLIX 8 were both engineered subliminally, carrying in encoded or stenographic form material from the Logos or Godhead concerning the Logos or Godhead, as a tiny part of some general historic communications pattern; I think that shortly after TEARS was released, for me the subliminal became thresholded into consciousness, and so forth into 3 74. That is, put psychologically, I could not continue to thrust outside of awareness these extraordinary items in my books and in my life, but had to face them without averting my recognition. I was in the midst, as an active participant, of something enormous and frightening and dangerous, but very thrilling; and the direction, as well as instructions, upon which I acted, lay in the area of what people call the "supernatural." I think under the hidden direction of the Logos I did my part and then had to fight like hell to survive the backlash. But to play a role in history under such a Guidance -- what greater joy could there be than to have had that, even if briefly? The greatest pleasure for the greatest reason; it is not the extent or importance of what I did but that I did it under that Guidance and to have been made fully aware of that by the Guidance itself: a gracious act toward me, and probably not necessary; it must have been given from love. My overwhelming intuition at that time that I was, and had been, playing a small but real role in history, was probably accurate because at that time I had an absolute insight into the way everything linked up and functioned together, which is the mystic insight per excellence. I should assume, though, that my vision of my role is only meaningful in the mystical frame of reference, as contrasted to the everyday in which objects are discrete and there is no total unity. What I had is common to mystical experience, basically. But it was legitimate and real and I should hang onto it (I am). Equally real was my awareness of fighting off an absolutely evil entity intent on zapping me once and for all -- and real, too, the sense that I had lured it to destruction, assisted it in falling into its own snare. All of these perceptions were legitimate and accurate; they were disclosed to me partly to assist me in extricating myself from that danger and partly, I do believe, as a kind of reward to me, inasmuch as I had over the past years lost so much. In effect I had lost virtually all my material possessions, but I had gained my soul, if by soul you mean consciousness of ones own identity and purpose for living and reason for acting, and the ultimate disposition to which one would go. It became a sensible life in the midst of shambles, fear and chaos. A million chips, bits, fragments and broken pieces lay around on all sides in great heaps, but in the center (as if the Tao itself) I had discovered a disclosed form: my own reality, in the hands of the God who said once, "I will never fail thee; I will never foresake thee." The most beautiful passages of the Scriptures became clear to me and pertained to me and my life, during all this, which in itself is a gift beyond compare. I conversed with the Scriptures, as if I was in colloquy with a friend. Once, opening it at random for comfort, I put my finger on: "Tell him that Elijah is close by!" I count Elijah as one of my closest friends; it is a good news to know that he is close by. But again, that bespeaks the surfacing of the fulfillment of the first of the ancient prophecies, which is of extraordinary importance, if it is so. Last night (June 2nd) I had a blissful truly mystical experience, which is probably the first one I've had in the strict sense, inasmuch as it was a state, an ASC, with vast understanding and comprehension as to how everything fitted together, but lacking any and all adventitious percept-system experience, as I had in 3 74 and 2 75. However, had I never had anything else, it alone (last night) would have dignified my life immeasurably. How to record it verbally, though, I don't know. It linked it all up. That's a lot. At basic realization: my 3 74 experience --the intervention by God in the world-- was not an anomaly, except in terms of my experience of it. That is to say, it was a natural, regular event, which I had just never seen before; however, it always goes on, went on, will go on forever. It is the perpetual re-establishment of equilibrium and harmony, relating to the Tao and to ma'at. Primarily, I began by realising that along the lines of Parmenides when he denied the testimony of his senses as regards to what is (in actuality, what exists), I realized that: (1) There is no visual (sense-organ) evidence of God at work anywhere in the world. (2) I must either deny that God, then, is at work in the world, or I must deny the evidence of my senses. I had been thinking about the Megiddo Mission people denying that the Holy Spirit is with us or had been for the last 1500 years, on the grounds that the world is obviously evil and in the hands of evil. It is true that the world so appears. From the evidence of our senses, God has abandoned us (which is what they really are saying). We are lacking Him and His assistance. I therefore took the couse, last night, of denying the testimony of my senses, and said: God is at work in the world but below the surface; so that evil, although empirically evident, is not actually in control as it appears to be. Further, I realized, a discernment past superficial reality shows evil to be or anyhow at one time in the past (prior to 8 94) to have been in the saddle in a much deeper way than it allowed us to see; in other words, evil masked its own power, the more to control and enslave us. So at first step, a penetration into the heart of reality showed it even more evil, or in the control of evil, than did mere superficial analysis. However, below the ring of iron around us (Rome, as the metaphor goes), I saw that God had breached, penetrated, and in fact made hollow this evil, and turned it into a shell by something transforming it from within, into its opposite...which made me recall Taoism, and I think it was Empedocles -- one of the pre-Socratics, he or Hericlitus, I suppose, the point being