alone as explanation would account for the absolute grief I felt in the dream; Montazuma's sister's grief. Q: What do "Portuguese States of America, Cabrillo, Walloon, Vinland & the TEARS dream have in common?" A: my god, early explorers (add "the scouts coming in," too.) In all this, to decode one must ask, What does this term resemble? I'm dreaming about the very early explorers -- in fact, those who absolutely were the first. Vinland and that Ronoake Island thing, that first English colony. John Smith or whatever. Also, possibly add Albemuth as made out of Nova Albion or New England (a very early name dropped). With azimuth! A term used in navigation! And the "al" suggesting a star -- navigation by means of fixed stars. Also, the "Lampson" dream in which I saw below a navigational map of the inland bay area, as if from above, with a marking circle, like a satellite map. . . . March 1974: I reached reunion with the Father. Today 5 31 75 I had a dream in which I was a child again back in the '30s; at an old-fashioned table I say with other people, and a man gave me a bowl of cereal. I saw that He was the Savior, and I began to cry with ecstatic joy. When I woke up I took a couple hours and managed to reconstruct the meaning of this dream. When I was very small, Christ fed me His Real Presence in the typical host-form: cereal (i.e. bread). I took Him into me back then, and, as in the parables of the mustard seed and the leavening, He grew within me. Later on, in adult life, I felt a growing need to nourish other people, esp. to feed them (in '74 we sent $400 for famine relief, for example). That which was given to me grew in me and began to yield fruit, or expression in my giving nourishment; I became by degrees the Man who had fed me as a child. Viewed this way, my 3 74 experience is not something dropped on me from outside, due to the "painted in the corner" need-situation I was in, but in fact the pay-off of a life time process or growth. It was the culmination of something alive and advancing inside me; in 3 74 I made it or reached it, re-union with the Father, which is to say, Christ as Mediator restored me to the Father (I didn't achieve it but was brought to it). Thus both Christ and the Father were present: Christ within me, leading me to the Father. This explain the long-term intimations I have had about being moved along toward a pay-off destiny (e.g. the dream in Canada wherein Kathy and everyone else take off their masks, finally, and Kathy says, "Now it all can be explained to you, what it was all about."). I was moving by degrees, step by step, toward the encounter with the dark-haired girl at the door with the gold fish-sign necklace. I assume that when I acted as the Savior and gave an analogous bowl of cereal to someone that I set a similar process in motion in him or her, too; thus, Christ delivers us, spreading Himself out through us by means of this "unauthorized" communion with His Real Body. Christ's role as mediator is now clear to me. A man, such as I, could never on his own find his way back to union with God. Therefore God Himself initiates the reunion, and it is God as Christ who acts to lead a man, myself in this case, along the difficult, long, narrow, confusing path to final redemption; to the right conclusion, which I experienced. A man's tragic difficulty does not being as a situation at any given moment in his life; he is born into it: separation from God. Thus Christ begins to lead a man back from the start; intervention began in my life long ago -- in fact as many of my dreams showed, in early childhood the groundwork was laid down; He was already active. 3 74 was not the difficulty but the pay-off. The last step before resurrection (finding immortality) was the death in the tomb, which I experienced during those many sleepless nights. This is what Teilhard de Chardin said; each man as Christ; the entire species working its way along the stations of the Cross, which is also what Claudia Hambro says in CONFESSIONS when she says she can feel the crown of thorns. "Christ didn't die for us; he was an example which each of us must follow, and suffer as he did to attain what he attained," as she put it to Jack Isidore (paraphrase). No man can die --atone-- for your sins. You must atone yourself, following him as model; he is the guide, the mediator, not a sacrifice. Christ was not --repeat not-- a sacrifice, but the first immortal man, showing us the path to immortality. How He did it, His steps, is how we must do it individually and collectively. "Now you grieve but later you will rejoice," he told them. What I experienced is precisely the Long Dark Night of the Soul as depicted. As I look back, there really is no natural explanation of my prolonged, intense fear; I'd been in worse spots before and not felt that. Now I am sure, looking back, that a supernatural or religious element was at work in me, moving toward fruition. Again, psalm 116 (?). I could feel the coffin around me in the night, and then the darkness of the night was broken by the chromatic flash-cut phosphene graphics: light and form breaking through me from a long way off, the expression of a Vast Mind thinking intentionally toward me, with me in mind. My fear went away, and, 14 months later, he never returned. . . . Jung re Meister Eckhardt: God is born in the human soul -- comes forth from it, and the Kingdom of God is the human soul (totality of the unconscious). It all happens inside, Eckhardt said in 1245 (circa). Libido is withdrawn (projections withdrawn) from outside objects; God ceases to be found in objects, but rather in the unconscious. This withdrawing of all projections is precisely and exactly what happened with me in 3 74. A total reversal. I am on sure ground vis-a-vis Jung, here. God as autonomous entity of the unconscious, i.e. the soul or born our of the soul. Not capable of being assimilated into the conscious mind. The Divine Birth -- in the soul of a given man! (I understand Eckhardt to say that therefore God is dependent on me; that I give birth to him, somehow. Firebright, then? That which is mortal --man-- gives birth to that which is immortal: God. First comes man; then comes God, not the other way. This makes sense. The inferior evolves (so to speak) into the superior, mortal to immortal. Man to God. But, I add, then that God travels, reaches, back through time to before creation, and He creates or gives birth to it. God antedates man, who then antedates God. Systole, diastole. The rhythm of the universe, in time.) It is impossible of me to deny or ignore the fact that I have done what Meister Eckhardt describes. Esp. as explained by Jung. Jung makes it clear that to experience God inwardly, as Eckhardt describes and as I did, is to experience him psychologically, which is modern and sophisticated rather than primitive. This was the new way which Eckhardt outlined back in his 13th century period, the idea of God born from man's soul and in a certain real sense dependent on man (as distinguished from the Godhead). It could be said that I had been primitive before my experience, in that I projected a great deal outwardly; but withdrew all these in 3 74 in a rather short swift interval. God was not introjected by me or incorporated, but rather released. Eckhardt also says that when God is born in our soul you cease to experience the (mere) world outside, but that God replaces it; I experienced this, too, finding Him in me, and equally myself in the center of Him. Christ's description (Me in you and you in Me) is thus fulfilled, which points to what is called "Christ consciousness" of the Kingdom of Heaven, not the Holy Spirit as such. Echkardt also speaks of this happening to a man who has misstepped (vertreten, as I recall); God, then, corrects the mis-swing of the man and brings him back to the Tao or Logos. This, then, is the macro/micro/macro schema that I drew, with God as the great macro; then myself the micro; then a fragment of the macro, of God, inside me at the very exact certain specific center (concentric rings). God is at the deepest heart or ring or level inside, and also outside everywhere; He replaces the world, resembling it as if He had transubstantiated --infused Himself-- into everything, connecting all things into the One. The macro Godhead would be the Brahmin; the inner "macro" would be the Atman. This Divine birth, though, I believe, is quite different from the Child being born in the mind, which has to do with a new self, with psychic integration; instead of giving birth to a child, one gives birth to what resembles the Wise Old Man (its nearest archetype). The birth, not of the son, but of the Father! That this divine birth took place in me spotaneously, without my knowing about it, trying for it, having any wisdom or knowledge or practicing any techniques -- this is important, showing its unquenchable aspects. What good did it do the Romans to kill people and burn their writing, if this can occur now spontaneously, with no trans-cultural link of any sort...especially if, as in my case, after the event occurs, the transcultural link is generated ad hoc, a priori, noetically, etc? God lived once; He died, or rather He slept; He slept in us. The human soul is the image of God (Eckhardt); out of this image, God is reconstructed, reconstituted, printed back out: the original reborn from its image. (Crypte --- morphosis, etc). The sleeping or dormant form within is God Himself, like Ptath in Van Vogt's novel, THE BOOK OF PTATH. We are all sleeping avatars of God, with amnesia. The human soul: DNA coding for God!!! But man does not reconstruct God out of this "DNA" coding; God reconstitutes Himself Himself. (Adventitious to the human being whole soul it is.) The man cannot say, "I am God," or "I have become/turned into God." Rather, God flashpointed him to make use of him to become Himself once more, an event in micro, in space-time. The mortal human only anticipates, as a lower life form, the Form to come. This is all a 4 billion year evolutionary process on Earth. God is the outcome, the backward teleological purpose of it all. In my James-James dream, Kathy represents the last step it can go causually; for the next step to occur (from man the mortal to God the immortal) someone adventitious (the scouts) must come here, from non-Earth, outside, etc. They relieve the tension (pressure) on the incumbent form, the human being, by a transmutation of him, rather than a "higher species" born from a physical womb. It will somehow resemble a healing or therapeutic act, an integration or curing (from madness to sanity, sickness to pure health), of the organism, man, qua man. Lead into gold, in the mystical Alchemical terms. One clearcut indication that this is indeed the next step up is its informational homeostasis: it is self-informing, as no creature ever was before. Thus it/he can't be cut off from knowing, as were our ancestors. To be self-informing it must transcend its own experience (which means its own life); this is an index of immortality