intelligence, of another species, looking down at us from a distance above, like research scientists looking down at creatures in an artificial maze? It still does not compute; I still don't have it. There is no reason why in leaping up the ladder of evolution one should find himself hearing his thoughts in Attic[k] Greek, or hearing thoughts not his own in any language. There is still this dialog with the Holy Other, and still the mystery, Why Attic Greek? This points so to the past, to the time of Socrates. To his daimon -- there, I said it; my daimon, maybe all of them, are his, specifically his, a Greek-speaking (originally) one. Attic Greece is somehow the core, the matrix, for all this -- WHY? "Christianity is a Greek religion" (Int Community of Christ) "The guardian daimon is a Greek idea" (Rollo May) "The highest point of civilization was Attic Greece" (fact) The first person known to have experienced anamnesis was Empedocles, who was a Greek circa 400 BC. The Greeks had the Oracle at Delphi, and looked ahead thousands of years into time. Our philosophy comes from Greece, our basic ideas. ..Adds up to nothing.. Aha: Erasmus, my guide, was the greatest Greek scholar of the most-medieval (i.e. post ancient, then) world. Clue?? Because the Holy Other is a mind which reverts fondly to Attic Greek, and Attic Greek is a human language/invention; the gods don't speak Greek, men do. And daimons were later on thought to be great men from the Golden Age, acting, like Virgil to Dante, as guides from above. I guess, though, that Dionysos & Zagreus spoke Greek...anyhow, since I know no Greek, it is evident that another will or volitional entity entered my mind and joined with it, at one time (3 74) taking control entirely, both in terms of perception but in viewpoint and action. The Holy Spirit is said to be able to do all these things, including the medical advice or healing. Perhaps it and Socrates' daimon are one and the same. Therefore it is not correct to say, "It was a th[ru]st upward or forward by me," but rather, "It was a joining to me of an entity aventitious," the plasmic life form I insisted on from the very start. In connection with this, what if the Megiddo Mission's contention of its absence since the first century AD were correct? Then it is back; Elijah, too, is here. These are the times the prophets prophecized. However, back to the early Reformers mention is made of possession by the Holy Spirit. And it inspires the writer; certainly by the internal evidence in TEARS it is the Holy Spirit. 1122 1127 . . . "The meaningful structure of reality" (the logos, according to Rollo May). In 3 74 I saw, not the surface or face of reality, but its structure; hence, I did indeed see the logos. I saw how every single thing linked up and functioned with everything else to form a sort of organism or living mechanism. I saw it in motion, too, through time; I saw its totality changing, and I saw the X and Y forces competing against each other at the two-player game-mechanism of that change. . . . Paul Tillish once said that you can see the Fall written on the faces on (the) animals. What I see on their faces, and in their manner, now, it the expression of the Actual Presence; am I to assume that I read right, as Tillich read a former message equally right? "Break a stick, break open a rock, and there I am," as Thoman quotes Him. (Pinky, Ralph, Misty -- I don't read "Fall," I read "Restoration.") Ah! He is infusing (transubstantiating) the world more and more! Ontologically, as in the Mass (therefore, from within: "Break a stick," etc.; He is within it. What I sense most is a motion (wind) and a glimmer (light). Did the Fall (setback, breakdown of communication twixt us and God) occur at the Mycenian Epoch? All growth and progress cease? (The Golden Age.) . . . The logos as meaningful structure of reality never went away. We (as H[eri]clitus describes) fell away from it into our idios kosmos, which is the Fall. We can't see the logos. Hence, the logos must, so to speak, come after us, following us, i.e. is born as a man here and speaks to us; calling us to be His sheep, he leads us back into relatedness with him as meaningful structure of reality; i.e. we enter the Kingdom of God. However, he came and we killed him and thus fell back away again. Now he is returning. We can't find Him; He must come to us; this indicates how blind we have become. Only when the logos talks to us outright do we become aware of it. Also, "meaningful structure of reality" equals "God's Wisdom" (Santa Sophia), which tells us a lot about the universe. "They are like people asleep/people in a dream," which might be the same as "with eyes closed" or "blind"! I am sure that in my case (3 74) I apprehended the logos because the logos actively caused me to; this would be The Savior intervening to render aid. The dying on the cross served to show us the absolute love He feels for us, and so was necessary, to get the message across to us. "No man hath greater love..." That which I saw (3 74) and that which I see (like 2 75 and now on the faces of animals: the sights of the Real Presence) can't be discerned by men except the logos-as-Savior-born-in-the-flesh makes it possible. That is why He could truthfully say the He was/is The Way, and The Way is narrow (you won't ever discern the logos without passing through Him as door, which is probably the pi pylon doorway I saw). Having, through Him, apprehended the logos or meaningful structure of reality, one is then within that struct[re]: not viewing it from outside, as a spectator, but finding it on all sides (as I did). Hence it can be said, One is within the Kingdom; that is to say, all reality is transformed (more accurately, all reality can be seen as transformed) and since our world now is part of "all Reality," one can be here and yet there, too. After all, as I said, the logos is here. It has not departed (if it did, reality would decompose) but rather we have become blind or asleep. This possibility is what Christ meant when he spoke of the Kingdom being within yet around or among, but not visible to them even so, that it had already come. The idea of the Kingdom coming is more the idea of a manifesting into the totally manifest, which it is not; the externals, available to empirical vision, remain untouched; God's will is not yet fulfilled. Therefore I conceive this as a reciprocal two way motion, through Christ the Mediator: we are made to see; it rises from within, from manifesting to manifest, gaining "clarity." What those able to see would see would be the first faint glimmerings. Did I go into psalm 116? I saw the meaningful structure of reality (the logos), and there was constant change in it (everything around me) because it is ALIVE and possess activity because it possesses mind. We ask, Why do we experience time (i.e. change)? And the answer is, This living reality is evolving -- perfecting itself. We're within it so I guess we are a subpart of it, also alive and also changing --evolving-- toward completion; it is a great entelechy. "I am the breath of my Creator, and as He inhales and exhales, I live." (PKD 1967, in Latin, under LSD). The systole, d[ia]stole in-out breathing is what we experience perhaps as the interaction of expansion and contaction, which is also what is meant by the oscillations of palintropos harmonie. These two movements could give rise to an objectification into Form One and Two, or the X and Y forces of the ICC, or Yin (contraction) and Yang (expansion or inhalation). If indeed we are within a living breathing (in the sense of inhaling, exhaling) creature, no wonder we have such cyclic expansions and contractions of the universe; the universe, right now, is inhaling! Or, the expansion is its growth. What we experience are its constant rhythms. We as a species have fallen below the level (threshold) of consciousness; i.e. into "darkness"; it would like to rouse us to consciousness again, and hence has dispatched an incarnation of itself, to nag us, to arouse us to conscious awareness. We, as a portion of it, have fallen asleep somehow. All metaphors addressed to us as to our ignorance, our fallen state, our being in darkness -- they all are correct. It flashes signals to us, but we aren't aware; we respond beneath the threshold of awareness, unconsciously. The description of the travail of the psalmist of psalm 116 is so like what mine was that I can't help thinking that it is almost certain that help came to me because of my distress, as depicted in the psalm. In that case, it is not so much what I was useful for, and perhap I was given a more primary picture of God and the universe than, say, if I had experienced the Beatific Vision as a mystic etc. This relates all the way back to the Old Testament. I can imagine having that experience as a Jew, a pre-Christian Jew; maybe that is why when the "spirit" was in me I was so fierce -- like Elijah; maybe that is why I felt it was in fact Elijah. It was an Old Testament personality. This is important. Everything should pertain to God in these matters anyhow, lest we find ourselves in polythiesm. "From whence commeth my help? It commeth from the Lord God," etc., to quote another psalm. This is the basis of it all. No wonder I appended the name "Elohim" to what poured into me to assist me. Perhaps I had the right term from the start. As I previously conjectured, the white haired old King, so wise and stern, on his horse leading the posse in the TEARS dream -- perhaps He is the same entity who took me over in 3 74; I got a pre-vision of what was to come: help from on high. This would fit. But this year (2 75) -- maybe now I am seeing the Son more, the dythramb dancing, etc. I am evolving forward. Since I was aware of the total entity (Immanent Mind) perhaps it was the total entity (Immanent Mind or God) who assisted me. This fits, too, with the evolution of my dream-visions into the Beatific Vision (of God). To quote psalm 116: "The death of his servants is precious to God," meaning that He takes note and offers help (according to the JWitnesses, he sends down "a wall of fire to protect his beleagered servant which is invisible to those attem[pt]ing to destroy him." Those enemies are dealth with --destroyed-- by the power of the Lamb. Yet, the personality which entered me was different from the personality I experienced in the Beatific Vision; the latter was God; I think the former was Elijah. If Elijah did live in into the Essene Community, then he lived until around 100 AD for sure, which would fit in (i.e. my experiencing Rome of 100 AD), and be very like my novel TO SCARE THE DEAD. Also, Elijah (of Malachi) would give news of the Savior to come. He would have the zeal and fierceness; also, he would be puritanical (e.g. regarding smoking, etc.; a puritan). I still do not quite understand the Greek words, but they came later; there must have been a progression, then, to Christianity (a Greek religion). . . . After over one full year of