is fierce, like Elijah, seeking justice and truth, powerful, definitely Yanglish, and the not-you. Just the opposite. Possession by the God (vide Virgil describing Appollo taking over the Sibyl. You may be masculine to other humans, but to Him you are feminine, passive. Now, the Mynaeds of Dionysos did not seem to believe (read know) that a permanent fertilization, acquisition took place, but the Orphics certainly did; here lies a vast distinction! The being-overpowered leaves something forever, but after the beatific vision, the Firebright Second Birth, what is born, lives on, eternally. What a jump from the mere Dionysian frenzy to Orphism and beyond, to Christianity! What a realization of the value of being possessed! This borders on the Sufi: becoming God. One does "become" God while he possesses you, but then he leaves. But -- well, it's like poor Leda. Vide Yeat's poem. But look at the progeny: Helen of Troy. Well, I have certainly (through Doris' help) made a distinction between two opposite sequential states; my experience began when I was "listening for very weak signals to transduce," which was meekness (I got it right, picked up paw talk, etc), and then came the chromatic fire. That was when I received God or God's Power or Spirit, the Yang upon me-as-Yin. Possession of me by the God took place, as Ted Sturgeon says in VENUS PLUS X or whatever, this being what was really sought at the Feast of Agape. No wonder they say, as Doris points our, God is love! Wow, He sure is! It is a (ahem) mating (again vide Yeat's poem "Leda and the Swan.") But that was one year ago -- over a year ago. Actual possession lasted days, weeks, slowly drained off; no more than a couple weeks, the electrostatic life form gradually drained off. But Firebright remained; the dreams remain right up to now; contact (Fellowship) with God remains. Spring is the mating season. As Psy Today says, it's based all the way up to cosmic influences (sidereal). All synchronized. By following all the admonitions of the Gospels, one literally courted the great masculine Father deity so that he literally possessed the Christian. From this (receiving the Holy Spirit, as they put it euph[e]mistically) they got various powers: healing, prophecy, ability to discern, and were made Righteous, which I experienced as a thirst for Truth and Justice and going the right thing. "Gifts of the Spirit," yes, but those who were possesses were also the "First fruits of the harvest," which meant that they gained something permanent; this would correspond with my being back in Rome; i.e. escaping the thrall producing death -- hence, freedom, release, from the power of death. Certainly, of all the various gifts, this would matter the most. I myself experienced reality on an inner ontological basis (assimilating objects themselves rather than mere phenomena), saw the structure of the universe (Logos or Plan), have and still retain fellowship --contact-- with God, which is to say, knowledge of him. I didn't just get the power to heal; I was healed. I walked with God and communed with him (along the alley that day, also in trances and dreams). I knew the true state of things (the tyranny) and what to do. But to dream of Crete or dream of Rome is a lot difference than that perios when I was there; when for me time was abolished. This is what I mean when I say, The power of the world over me was broken. It got that cardboard fake quality. Now it is clear about the Father-Son (JHWH-Christ) relatinship (Zeus-Zagreus). The Holy Spirit, a form God the Father takes, impregnates (the person receives it) and Christ consciousness is born (in Mary's case, Jesus Christ physically born from her womb, she being made with child by the Holy Spirit). Out of this union comes Christ. The father is God. The impregnating spirit is the Holy Spirit. (Does Christ grow up to be Jehovah? Why hasn't anyone ever asked that before? Or like him? I think he can be like him or even be him.) Where is the Logos in all this? The outcome of possession by the deity is Logos relatedness, in the sense Hericlitus meant. One (the receiving one) is brought into conformity with it, while the Christ within, Firebright, grows. The former mere moral human, full of sin (sickness and insanity) is consumed by the growing Christ, moves toward him, toward the Logos, with it as exemplar and outcome: as perfected form. The Logos is the plan and information which leads to that completion, a process begun by the Holy Spirit initially. This makes of the Trinity a great biological organism in its several stages or phases: father-son is obvious, with the holy spirit bringing about the production of the son, using the human as "mother." (Just as Mary was used; she is the exemplar for that.) God gets from where He is to produce Christ (as many as God wishes, all of which probably share one "body," one "mind," which is transpersonal) via the activity of the Holy Spirit. Certainly the distinctions between God the Father and Christ the Son are clear (Zeur to Zagreus), but then someone asks, "How does the father produce the song? By binary fission? By parthonogenesis, which would make Him a Her?" Answer: as Holy Spirit her very Yanglishly uses one of us, which makes the human race the bride, not of Christ, but of God. (Hence the strange bride and bridegroom imagery in the church --"Wenn kommst du mein Heil? Ich komme dein Teil," etc., which I knew was erotic but which I couldn't understand. It has passed down to us in a typically garbled form. The Som is not the bridegroom; He is the issue. God is the Groom; Man is the Bride. Thus, we mere perishing mortals are brought up to participate in an act of biological or anyhow metabiological reproduction of an immortal and very superior electrostatic deity-race, and gain immesurably from this act; if never involved in this, we mere mortals perish in the most miserable and pointless fashion, just as the Bible says. The odd part is, the text of the New Testament really has got it all there, if you just get the proper slant on it, which we don't get, the sort of biological, reproductive, live-form, springtime, mating thing...it's there, but for some wild weird reason we utterly reject and cast out as unholy and suggestion of the erotic...except in the odd idea of Bride and Bridegroom, Christ and the Church. This is a case of almost being right, but the not-quite bit is a razor's edge bit, separating us absolutely. We get just to the edge of grasping it...but as the "Decoded N T" says, it isn't an intellectual thing anyhow; "grasping it" doesn't do it, any more than reading about the sexual act among cats produces cats. It's the old confusion between banana and the word banana. (Philosophy.) Reading about being seized by the Holy Spirit and believing that the HS exists and that it can do it, and that immortality therefrom is possible, through Christ, doesn't produce it in you. Too bad, but as the "Dec N T" says, no universe ever worked any other way. This is what I've meant by "cargo cult." (It's interesting how in my novel MAZE OF DEATH I wrote about a society where the communication and I guess by inference reproduction of God to his Son did take place routinely; anyhow there were a lot of Walkers-on-Earth bopping around, which is what this is supposed to achieve. I guess you could say, the total family is, God (JHWH), his impregnating self which comes to man (the Holy Spirit, sent by God) (as Christ said), and if Christ is the Son, the issue, it's pretty obvious that we humans are the mother; we're all Mary right now, until we receive an inner, Light-body transformation, into what they call Christ Consciousness. Our completion/perfection is not here on this Earth, but after our physical body perishes ("If a grain of wheat remain solitary, not sown then it --" etc. Well, [i] guess [i] got it. Albemuth: the star of Bethlehem, which I kept gazing up, seeking. Point of His (HS) origin? Maybe I'm missing one major point (certainly one disputed in early Christianity): Christ, although God is His father, has/had a human mother; so Christ while remaining God's true son, is a halfbreed. This certainly removes any "host" or "use" aspect from this, and returns us to the Zeus-Leda paradigm. And it certainly would make Christ different from His father, since Christ partakes (equally?) of our race. Half God, half man. God fused with us, in holy union. We lifted up...this seems exactly what the Bible says about Jesus Christ. Then, upon physical death, the transient earthly body is shed, and He becomes all Light, since only that part survives; thus, as Firebright and I fuse, then we are together half human (my part) half god (His part; except that Firebright more accurately is half of me, half of God -- I am to him as Mary was to Jesus. Did she survive in Christ's immortality? We progressive Christians are certain that out of the HS penetrating one of us, the human lives on after his physical, temporary body dies; that which is the union (the [f]irebright) carries him along; this does with the victory over time which I have already experienced, the onion rings, layers, as in UBIK; if my offspring is immortal, I am immortal, since any offspring of mine (Firebright, not Christopher) contains me, ala UBIK, and in my Rome-within-Fullerton experience (where is the past? Inside the present). "The father achieves immortality through his offspring." This is true, but only if the offspring is immortal. Firebright is, since he has a celestial Father. In one sense Firebright is within me; in another (looking ahead, past the tyranny of time) I am within him. "The child is father to the man." What will survive of me is what is worthy, I guess, and a sort of consciousness, but yoked in duplex or multiplex with the Savior, who is/will be each and all of us. There was another entity in me, all right: thinking away in Attic Greek. (the [l]ogos?) (the father?) (Firebright?) (The Holy Spirit? Probably the HS. But it proves one was; and, as Apollo made the sibyl do this and that, it made me do this and that. Perhaps, when the Moment of Restoration comes (which could work equally for all men at once --collectively-- or for one individual here and another there, or even visible to just one) the accretional laters of their/his reality would simply be removed, stripped away, to reveal the past -- i.e. what had been lost. Again, I refer to the quality of lineal time to accumulate as it advances up the manifold. Restoration would be a taking away! Just as when one restores a piece of furniture to its original --true-- wood by stripping away layers of varnish; under them the authentic wood remains. We do call this "restoring." Perhaps the ultimate & absolute Restoration (rather than merely a partial one, but rather the one) would be an abrupt stripping away of all layers back to 2000 years ago: to the time when Christ was alive, not to the Crucifixion as I was thinking, but to the restoration of Him. The Crucifixion was the taking away of him. My experience contained an awareness of a savior about to come, which would be both a restoration (first advent) and the ful[l]fil[]ment (Second Advent). A collapse of time, the 2000 year interval between His going and His return, tel[li]scoped into a single point. Like when as one train leaves a station "another" appears at once. I never after that "found" myself in daytime in an earlier moment, such as Crete, but recalled them in dreams; those were the foundations of