with the evolution of my dream-visions into the Beatific Vision (of God). To quote psalm 116: "The death of his servants is precious to God," meaning that He takes note and offers help (according to the JWitnesses, he sends down "a wall of fire to protect his beleagered servant which is invisible to those attem[pt]ing to destroy him." Those enemies are dealth with --destroyed-- by the power of the Lamb. Yet, the personality which entered me was different from the personality I experienced in the Beatific Vision; the latter was God; I think the former was Elijah. If Elijah did live in into the Essene Community, then he lived until around 100 AD for sure, which would fit in (i.e. my experiencing Rome of 100 AD), and be very like my novel TO SCARE THE DEAD. Also, Elijah (of Malachi) would give news of the Savior to come. He would have the zeal and fierceness; also, he would be puritanical (e.g. regarding smoking, etc.; a puritan). I still do not quite understand the Greek words, but they came later; there must have been a progression, then, to Christianity (a Greek religion). . . . After over one full year of research & study I find I can't make any meaningful distinction (i.e. distinguish one from the other) between (one) the Grace of God; (two) visitation by the Holy Spirit; (three) Christ consciousness. It may be that triune division is meaningless as far as the human mind is concerned; i.e. beyond its reach. Thus in the end I am led back to the reality & experience of God, in one "form" or another, but certainly the holy supernatural, which is to say God. God's grace seems to equal God's Saving Knowledge or Word: which is identical with the Divinely-Inspired Scriptures, not written by men but through men by the Spirit. Anyhow, the Megiddo Church people define God's saving knowledge: "Through God's diving favor or grace, through His munificence or goodness, we have the opportunity to work for eternal life. Through His Word He has informed us of His existence, of His creative ability, of the vast scope of His universe, and of the unspeakable rewards that He had prepared for His worthy children. All of these benefits are undeniable evidences of His grace or favor to us." This aptly describes my 3 74 experience. As does a chrismatic visitation by the Holy Spirit. As does the ICC description of Christ Consciousness or Christ Force or the Logos. I am led back to monotheism. What happened to me was described (and available) in psalm 116, before Christ. This is not necessarily bad, not at all; mainly, what I finally must realize, with no possibility of error, considering that I followed up every possibility, even paranoid ones and occult ones and ESP ones, (e.g. reincarnation), is that I have, following the experience, established by my reasoning, my ordinary normal powers, that it was God who assisted me and changed me; there is no other possibility, under any reasonable definition of God. For myself, beyond any possibility of error doubt, I have established the reality of the Ultimate, the All, in transcendent from, although perhaps Immanent and Transcendent both; everywhere but not everything, etc. Had I never heard of God, never heard any theology or religion discussed, had no reference books, etc., out of this total experience, lasting in all about one year, I could for a certainty derive a more or less complete understanding of God; I would then have "discovered" God (for example if I lived in a culture which had no concept of God or any supernatural agency), and I would, like one of the ancient prophets of the Old Testament, have to go before my people and preach to them the living reality of God, and further, inform them of His nature. But He appears to be so much as depicted by the Bible that this is unnecessary for me to do. In the end, I find I have not really found something new; but I have certainly found Him, as He has been described for 3000 years. What happened in 3 74 shows clearly the "Thy will not my will be done" aspect of Him -- that is, His will replaced mine, as well as His knowledge. God, as artificer, has enormous building will, so that He is not mere knowing (mind) but acting -- bringing things to the completion He desires. It is very clear to me now that Christ is the road bu which we are brought to God; I understand the difference. The Jesus freaks have confounded God and Christ, virtually worshipping Christ as a God. But Christ is a "by means of" to God. I can now declare on my own testimony (experience) the reality and nature of God, which means in a small way I am of the class called prophets (people who could so declare). I have had independent experience & knowledge, corroborating our sacred scriptures. I believe the extraordinary (ETI) individuals I dreamed of are what are called angels -- immortal spiritual (extra dimensional) being, superior to us. I have seen the spiritual kingdom in which they live. Most of all I have seen our God come to the rescue of one of those serving him when that person, myself, was in acute distress and could turn nowhere and to no one. (psalm 116.) The promise given in the Bible was fulfilled. ("The death of one of his servants is precious to the Lord God.") God is wise; God is good; God is loving; God is powerful, and, as Elijah said, "God is angry with the wicked every day." My work of over one year was worth it. By means of it I can understand my experience and know what it is. "Saint Sophia will be reborn." This is God's promise to us. His Holy Wisdom will return to govern our world. That promise could be more important? We are herewith assured of salvation -- that our world will be saved before it's destroyed. I used to think, How come God doesn't talk to us like he used to in the Bible? He does. If I were to go out into the world with a message, based on this 14 months of colloquy with God, it would be that Santa Sophia will be reborn, she not having been acceptable before, as God told me; this would be the good news as it was given to me. So I would have a wonderful positive message, rather than one of gloom and doom. I sort of said this in my U.K. speech as well as the Arcade Comics piece, small as they were. Maybe I can say it again and better and more fully in TO SCARE THE DEAD. "Hear ye, Israel. Hear what the Lord of saying." This is the same news which appears apocalyptically and ominously (or rather frighteningly) in the dream in TEARS; this, too, is the news in the dancing Spring King and the dythramb. Would this be the Parousia? The dream in TEARS suggests it, as did all my dreams of large open books. Also, "The Buddha is in the park." I see now that always (back to the dream in 1970) it has been one single message in various forms, each more clear. The final one was about the park, meaning He is born. My final vision was the one of pale starlight growing brighter, the animals in the fields (cows and sheep, etc.) seeing the very tall man with the staff approaching: the Good Shepherd, whom they can see. This sounds like the Nativity Scene! The bright Star which s[h]one when He was born. Are the animals aware first, before we realize? This would seem to be what I see. (The second sentence, "She was not acceptable before" is important; it shows that God's Wisdom and Will have been excluded up until this new "birth" on our world; they haven't been dominant. But will soon be, or anyhow will be before we perish.) The ruling monad is going to pre-empt the atonomy of this segment. Now, viewed this way, that a message, the same message, was passed on to me repeatedly, the Attic Greek can be viewed as an essential ingredient; as a constituent in the carrier, it demonstrates that the material was not an autoproduction; it came from somewhere outside my own psyche; this indelibly stamps the material as non-psychotic or not a fantasy. I did not produce it, although my own mind may have shaped it. Therefore the Greek was essential to establish veracity of the message. Attic Greek served perfectly; it was something I did not know, could not have know, but could translate; whereas Hebrew, for instance, might have passed as mere gibberish or scribble. The linking, too, of even one fragment of the Greek to the Bible, as was done with the "kai hypsilon," to Romans, is of crucial importance, as with the finding of material derived somehow from Paul's "Acts" in TEARS. (I believe it was "Acts," anyhow one of Paul's works.) Yes, it was Acts, a relatively short section from the Bible; and then Romans comes next, also a relatively short section. When one considers the origin of the New Testament --dictated by the Holy Spirit to men-- then this fits together. Also, my ability during that time to see in brief flashes other events and places which I could confirm, plus the pre-cognition in dreams, was probably to bolster my realization, perhaps later, that I was indeed receiving in-coming information and hence the message was authentic, both in content and in origin. I was in Rome (c. 100 AD) but I was among Greek-speaking people. This makes sense. In that area, the Levant, they were still part of the Hellenistic World and so wrote & spoke Greek. I had erroneously been supposing that the spoke/written language of that time would of couse be Latin. Then in 2 75 I did see the Levant for sure. In 3 74 I saw the hurrying secret Christians underground, at their work; they of a proven certainty at least wrote in Greek, and I think spoke Greek; yes, I'm sure. So this adds up: what I saw, and then later what in my head I heard. Yes, the fish sign, composed out of Greek letters and into a Greek word, proves it. I was back, auditorily as well as visually, among the apostles and early followers. And such dreams as "my friend Paul" holding up a prophetic galleyproof text: in which I was mentioned! And "Santa Sophia will be reborn, etc." was what they were into; the Savior has been born once already (obviously, since the Christian fish underground, them, existed); but I recall that I knew they were anticipating him returning, which is to say, Santa Sophia. This was what all their activity was in preparation for. This was their hope and their expectation: the Second Advent. So this is all of a piece. But, I believe, the voice I heard was not a voice from them but rather to them (to us?). This is the news I have; this is the news they had. We are linked together, and with us our two time-space periods. Li[n]ked by that anticipation (and that voice). Whoever it speaks to, and delivers that message, is somehow made one with them, outside time and space and all distances. This Christian underground much itself lie outside of time, like that which it awaits. . . . Re; TO SCARE THE DEAD. A character based on Jim Pike (with quite another name). Based on firsthand knowledge I had of his private life, e.g. with Maren in the Tenderloin, and the kind of man he was. This could be a major, if not the major character; but it would not be he who would have the Experience; that would be had by another, perhaps after this fine bishop person