bring back the power of the Holy Spirit, but I think it was here in 1970 and even before, re TEARS, which in my life anyhow before Elijah. That is slim proof, but it's something. I must tentitively say that the Spirit has been perpetually here; did not ever leave us; we just went blind, rather. I would really like to accept the view of the Mission, because were they right, then my experience would indicate that the Parousia is upon us (it may indicate that anyhow, if indeed Elijah came to me, et al; the other events in sequence). So they could still be right. But the case for the Parousia is strengthened if I could show that, as they say, the Holy Spirit has been absent throughout these many centuries (since nothing but the Holy Spirit could have achieved a biblical print-out in TEARS). This decision does not settle the matter against; but the alternative would have settled it for (the Parousia arriving now). . . . In 3 74 God (Sarapis, once called) undid determenism for me, undid my fate; He rules above the stars. Hence He gave me, his servant, longer life. Undid the strands of Moiria. (Saparis is Osiris; also equated with Dionysos, Pluto and Zeus.) See vol 12 p. 783, top right, EB, macro. "Ubren Sternanzelt muss ein lieber Vatter wohnen," who assisted me to overcome the anakie or fate closing in around me. "Sarapis could save his servant from illness and prolong his life. He took his servant from the sphere of determinism and gave him liberty." EB continues, "This foreshadowed Christian grace." . . . Jane Harrison: "Apollo the god of constancy; Dionysos the god of metamorphosis (!!!). Also the god of joy. I guessed he metamorphosed into the laughing Erasmus. Also: The Father & Son are one; e.g. Zeus and Zagreus. Guess what this implies re Christianity. I say, Dionysos is the deus abscontitus par excellence!!! And, under various nom de plumes, He lives! (Or nom de vive, or guerre). JH says, "Dionysos came first humbly, was exorcised and expelled, but will return with overwhelming power & magic, to triumph." He is the unaccepted god, the immigrant god, the outsider god, expelled, but will come back again stronger and larger, and will prevail (esp over those who expelled him). How much I have lived the outcast life, drawn to other outcasts (e.g. at X-Kalay and in Marin County in 1971) that Dionysos associated himself with, being sympathetic, being one himself (v. life of Jesus). Wow, he (Jesus-Zagreus) could have destroyed them any time he wanted. Outcast equals straggler (from the flock). Riddles, always riddles; the god with a sense of humor. His main riddle: "What's my name?" and then it's acted out graphically, in visual no-words form. Because, perhaps, of what Plato said about the supreme value of the search itself (on our part, to arrive at wisdom/understanding). (Dionysos' wine cup is the grail.) Historically, Dionysos (under all his names) broke the back of astrology: of the fixed immutable rule by the stars over men, and whatever evil influences they have on us. Plato believed that beyond the eighth sphere, the fixed stars, ruled the divine -- perhaps it was up to this that I was looking back in 3 74, where Sarapis is: "He rules over the stars." Now, as to the two-person game I saw. Could determinism have been one player, that which set up growingly more "iron" situations, but blocked by "intervention" from Sarapis? That is to say, the juggernaut of causal force, cause and effect, periodically aborted by the God? Its plots untied, unravled, freeing the person(s) caught? Sarapis, our Protector, playing his card(s) against determinism again and again (determinism equalling James-James?)? It seems to me that most essentially this is a victory for and by life over inexorable machinery which surely equals death. This is exactly what is meant in the Bible by, "He makes intercession" (for us). I.E. God's grace. This overcoming Ananke is precisely what the Olympian Greek gods could not do -- hence they proved useless, and the god who successfully intervened, but secretly, and then "ran," wasn't visible doing it, he can be relied on, even though they won't let him sit with them (Dionysos et al his other names). The outsider god. If I understand my dream about Ananke correctly, then my Ananke is to decline into depression; so the help the God would give me would be vitality and cheerfulness and vigor, and the capacity to act. (I.e. Freude.) His gift to me: mirth. But in 3 74 I had to and did break actual existential chains. It is obvious at a glance that in this game Sarapis represents teleological purposes versus reason or cause. It also would constitute a planning, living, sentient entity versus a mechanistic system which was totally blind, in which case it would represent wisdom versus force or energy or power. I seems to me that the bipolarities here are more meaningful than any I've come across (e.g. Taoism, Zoroastrianism, etc) ever before, and typically Greek: enslavement to Ananke versus freedom. Also, it is less subjective than good versus evil; it is more real; it can be defined objectively. Something is presupposed which other systems (e.g. Christian) don't presuppose but which is very real: the limitations and enslavement of our mechanistically determined heritage to the past. From this system the Christian concept of God's grace can be viewed in a way which makes it much more meaningful. The Antagonist can be much better viewed. This is surely one of the great moments in this exegesis of mine. It has certainly been a disservice to us to have lost sight of this bipolarity, here. The concept "God's grace" is meaningless to us because the concept "Ananke" has been lost. How can we appreciate God's efforts --and Plan-- to extricate us if we have no concept of what we are being extricated from? It seems odd that this bipolarity has been so forgotten; does society perhaps have a vested interest in obscuring it? Because viewed this way, God is on the side of human freedom and evil is on the side of enslavement -- which has been my own dualism for some time now. Seen thus, God could be viewed as acting in history progressively (in stages or steps) to unfetter us. This fits in exactly with what I saw the fish-Christians doing in 3 74 at the time I could see. The tyranny could be regarded as a blind machine from the past, a form of inherited determinism, without life. So this bipolarity fits several of my percept visions. It links them. Life, growth, freedom versus death, mechanical repetition, enslavement. Also, this somewhat fits my "Human versus the android," the dark-haired girl versus the mantis. . . . It's obvious that Elijah was a "mystery god," sending 2 fifths of his spirit back to Elisha, and not dying but being "taken up to heaven." Another metamorphosis of the "Dionysos" paradigm. Also it is quite evident that the Paracletos, the Holy Spirit descending on the apostles at Pentercost -- that is like Dionysos' spirit infusing the Bacchoi, his followers (only where the Bacchos gone?). The Holy Spirit is the spirit of the god returning. . .but the god himself (Bacchos) is not reborn (yet) at another place, under another name and somewhat changed (evolved, as from Dionysos to Orpheus to Jesus). . . . Orphism must have been a revealed religion; the Orphic hymns were thought divinely inspired (like, later, the Bible). This concept for us is completely incomprehensible; we're sure a man or men wrote them. But if the Bible is revealed or semi-revealed, why not the Orphic hymns? I get the impression that from Thoth on (who was all revealed wisdom, sic) the mystery religions hinged around revealed writing, inc. Christianity. Well, among all else, I somehow (3 74 and on for months) tripped a print-out of the paradigm, the reality, of these follia -- these written or printed (sic) pages, myself. Not only in dreams & quasi-dreams but in TEARS if not earlier written work, unknowingly then. (For example, now that I read J Harrison further I note what appears to be an influence on FROLIX 8 of the Dionysos-King Pentheus story). (With Lars Provoni and Eric Cordon as avatars of Dionysos & the Stranger respectively). What is the overall tale which my writing tells? The story of the ill-treated stranger who returns in full force? Maybe, after a long period of silence, God (et al) is/are dictating another, new revealed religion, a next step of progressive revealing & unfolding His Plan (Logos) to us. I don't see much yet in what's been revealed to me that differs from Christian eschatology. Except Jesus equals Zeus-Zagreus, maybe, which could be reasoned out, as done already by Harrison & Durant, to name two. Actually God could reveal that all these mystery Gods (inc. Elijah) are metamorphoses of the same entity as new information, as a sort of wrap-up to show His ubiquity, which we hadn't suspected. Here we perhaps learn something quite startling about the essence that nature of our deity. . . . 3 ages: Age of the Father; of the Son; now the Age of the Spirit, "which rules men from within." (circa 1600 AD). . . . I cannot reconcile what my 5 senses tell me with what was revealed to me in 3 74, but since at that time, 3 74, I underwent what Jung calls psychic integration (e.g. withdrawal of projections, and experience of symbols of transformation such as Alchemical ones) I can assume reasonable that the quited different view of that experience is, of the two, the higher one, the correct one, the one to go with. I must reject the testimony of my senses, knowing and remembering better. . . . In semi-dream I saw myself, wearing a brown military type of uniform, resisting what seemed to be the establishment. Afterwards I finally identified the uniform; it was a scout uniform, which recalls to me the dream (James-James) of the scouts, so dressed, coming in. This dream held forth that uniform, too, as that of a soldier, although unarmed, but disciplined; a Christian soldier? . . . The article in the EB macro on "Christian Mysticism" makes it adundantly clear that the Holy Spirit has been continually here. Also, that my 3 74 experience falls within the recognized body of Christian Mysticism. The only problem has been my own ignorance. Since this may be called the third age, "The Age of the Spirit," these experiences probably are on the increase (for example, Protestantism seems based on them; they grow in number from 1600 on, right up to T.S. Elliot.) (In fact Protestantism really makes no sense unless there is an abiding informing inner spirit of some kind.) Scouts: uniformed soldiers who don't carry weapons or injure anyhow -- and who are absolutely moral. A graphic emblem for soldiers of Christ, which I didn't flash on re the James-James dream; also identified with children; i.e. the newborn man and also The First Begotten Son. And Rommel was part of the von Stauffenberg Bomb Plot against Hitler. . . . St. Sophia -- Sophianism: my Vancouver speech (the third stage in human civilization ahead (first Earth Mother; then masculine Solar Deities; next, as in a pieta, the mother holding the son, them ruling together). A feminine universe which hold us in her arms -- Saint Sophia. The world spirit of wisdom (perhaps ma'at as well?). This is who has been speaking to me (Sadasa Ulna, etc). She is the fourth member of the quarternity (formerly trinity). Present at creation -- maybe is the Logos? Mediatress between God & man. Embraces the Son (who is also the Holy Spirit). I predicted her appearance, her amination of the universe, in my Vancouver speech. Immanent in the universe now. A living universe that's feminine. Co-ruler