prophetic vision. Ah! "The four horsemen of the apocolypse! Mounted warriors serving God, dealing out plague & death! "Pass over," then, implies that one is part of an elect group, those which God has selected (and hence not afflicted or destroyed). I sense that it could never become a universal celebration, inasmuch as they were passed over by something out to get those not passed over; I mean, something did pass over, going elsewhere. God will get someone, a majority in fact. This is where the realization of being the chosen people comes from. One is changed by this realization. God has delt out death to others, but life to us. Our freedom is more important to him, justice for us is more important to him, than their lives. It must by intrinsic definition be a minority experience and realization. It must. Were a Christian to have it, he would regard himself as among the company of the elect in the sense of the saved, the vital remnant spared by God at the time of the apocalypse. First he would be relieved and joyous, but gradually the fuller implications -- what it pointed to for his future -- would come to his mind and flower. It would tell him indubitably what his destiny would be. It would not be a temporary sparing, a reprieve. After all, I am not a Jew. The only Christian experience I can relate this to is being chosen as part of the saintly or saved elect, and the destroying angel directly to divine judgment on the Dies Irae. I have been delivered as the Israelites were by the God who delivered them, and from much the same thing, and He handled the slave tyranny here in much the same way. I think Pinky died because for me to see the angel of death etc. it was necessary for the angel of death to actually be there, which he was (Pinky did die very soon, in 4 days). I was not told about the destroying angel; I was aware of him. I was not told I was passed over; I was passed over. In essence it seems to me that everything which happened, plus everything I figured out about what happened in the following months, indicate, more than they indicate anything else, that I was placed under God's protection. This is the core of it. Expressed in purely Christian terms, I was granted an extreme amount of grace during a crisis. Put in a Jewish way, my enemies were destroyed when they had about netted me. I therefore construe myself to ba a servant of God, having received from Him what He extends to His servants; I believe without knowing it I must have served Him faithfully in some way. God kept his part of the covenant which I did not even know existed. What relationship my experience bears to the Parousia can be seen when it is realized that the main event in the Parousia (literally the arrival of the King) is the breaching of time by God, His entering, which is exactly what happened to me down at my individual level, invisible to others. Also, there were calamities and afflictions against society, regarded by others as naturally caused where I think He assailed the establishment with them, as he had done with the Egyptians long ago. This is not the end of the world, though, not the end-time. The events in Egypt at Moses' time were not end-time either; his experience shows that God can converse, there can be an epiphany and assistance, even plagues, but this still isn't end-time. I don't know what to make of it, since what I saw did deal with all society, maybe even the world but is not the Parousia evidently; this isn't predicted?? They were waiting (the Apostles) for Christ to return. This was not that, not at all. As I said in previous pages, though, perhaps the Kingdom which Christ spoke of did come for me ("It, the Kingdom of God, is within you"). In my case I think the specific nature of my situation resembled that of the Israelites, in that I was about to fall into a kind of slavery, a sort of entrapment by God is the best explanation. It was not that I was in trouble, but also the kind of trouble -- why I was in it, who was doing it and why, what it consisted of. However: my limited experience, unshared by others, shows that God can breach time and does do so; the Parousia could take place where he to will for all men what I individually experienced. It is only a q. of degree. Of extensiveness. I received, in my behalf, a demonstration of His power, and also a revelation of His activity in the world, which we can't normally see. The destroying angel plague in "Exodus" shows that God is perfectly able to deal out death, when necessary, to break a slave state and free the innocent victims. This is precisely what TEARS is about; it is a slave state, and God (the wise old king on horseback) deals out --stipulates-- death; after that, the iron ring is broken and life (identified by Felix, the ukase from God given in "Genesis") returns. My whole structure, due to learning about the origins of the pass over, is immesurably strengthened, and my conviction grows! Rome, Babylon, Egypt: conditions of captivity (jeez: I even have the pornochord [?] item, "Go down, Moses," an actual although unintentionally meaningful --like all the Biblical items in TEARS-- in TEARS. Embarrasing, but in a way interesting; I hope I'm forgiven.) I find that "Go down, Moses, means for Moses to leave the desert and go down into Egypt to free his people. Well, the world of TEARS is Rome, is our world; and the first paradigm we find in the Bible is Egypt, plus the paradigm as to how God goes about freeing a captive people when their enslaving rulers won't be fair. The destroying angel comes at the end of the sequence of God-directed assaults (plagues) on the enslaving rulers. God would/did not use the ultimate weapon, the destroying angel, until the milder, lesser plagues failed; I can therefore assume that in August 1974 when I perceived the presence of the destroying angel that lesser plagues which I hadn't seen (but I had, supra omnia) had assailed the enslaving rulers of our society. I can retroactively validate, then, that my intuitions that God was pulling down the enslavers (I had that right from the start, from 3 74 on) were indeed correct. Also, that as late as August 1974 victory over oppression was not sufficient. . . . If I am going to systematically list all the elements in TEARS which are revelation (i.e. from scripture) (and I've tried to do this, supra supra) I think I missed the foremost element: when Felix Buckman hugs the black man it is the "kiss" or hug of the feast of agape, the cardinal moment of the authentic service of rememberance (he who is kissed or hugged, who is Anyman is of course Jesus). Also, it is evident from the text that the unknown (stranger) black man somehow it identified with Taverner, and it must be recalled that Felix Buckman partook earlier in the novel of a meal with Taverner, which was an odd thing for him/them to do. To back up this hug as cardinal moment of the now-suppressed original sacrament, consider the drawing which Buckman made prior to hugging the black man, and passed to him: the heart pierced by the arrow; which beyond doubt is a wordless graphic rendering of the idea of love (agape). It was the embrace of life. As witnessed the sudden sundering of the one-child-to-each-black-couple law. My very recent book dream, the masterpiece novel gummed into the encyclopedea -- it refers to such as the above novel cum covert message, as well as UBIK, etc. I'm beginning to think this most recent dream did not carry the message: Write such a book. But rather: You did write such books (with the gospel reassembled from trashy bits, as Lem put it). (So as to get past the Soviet Marxist materialist censors.) "There are other sheep whom I must bring in," as Christ said. This dream told me not what to do but explained to me what I have been doing. I, so fashionable to Marxists both in the West & East -- I, unknown even to myself, carrying the gospel to them in a form acceptable to them. I wonder, now that (3 74) it was explained to me, if I could do it, now being self-conscious and deliberate and doing it myself per se; maybe my work is done, successfully. I was finally told what I had done: the sheep in wolf's clothing, so to speak. As my Vancouver dream, in which Kathy and all of them took off their masks and said, "Now we can finally explain it all to you," it was in 3 74 finally all explained to me. Looks to me offhand as if UBIK was freighted the best. Maybe now I can rest. It's interesting -- you can flatout outfront tell a Marxist that my work is theological in nature (as I did Fitting etal, and also Claudia), and it doesn't register, as if I never even said it. "He doesn't comprehend his own work," as one of them said. Not only can't they see it unaided, they can't see it aided. Yet I am positive that on some level (right hem?) they are absorbing it; ah yes: subliminally!! I think this is why so many of my dreams --plus my intuitions themselves about my 3 74 experience-- contained elements pertaining to the USSR. Paranoiacally, I had it backward; they weren't influencing my thoughts, but I theirs (via my stories, novels, speeches, letters, oral discourse!!). Lord -- I think when they see the cross I wear, or read theological elements --find them in my writing, they think I am "one of them," but adding these as a sort of disguise to fit into capitalistic Christian Western society; my golly, they have it backward, but it's layer under layer; the bottom which (spreading the gospel to the Soviets) was unknown even to me. Until it was revealed to me in 3 74. Probably the most severe assault delivered in my work is against materialism as such, in my probing into the illusory nature of apparent reality...but surely this is a prime assault against the Enemy, against Marxism as one form of it. I just discovered that for 15 months I've labored in error as to who wrote "Acts." I had the idea it was Paul, undoubtedly because it deals with Paul. However, it was written by Luke, who also may have written "Romans." I am sitting here slowly perceiving the importance of this. First off, the stunning manifestation of theological material in TEARS is virtually all (all except for the dream) from "Acts." But the main point is that Luke was "the beloved physician," as Paul calls him, and a highly literate Greek writer. Also, in one recent dream, my attention was called to a large section of the Bible which when I looked up the page numbers was Luke's Gospel from the Sermon on the Mount to Christ at the Mount of Transfiguration. Also, my vision of the man or saint or angel informing me was of a Greek: he wore a toga and greaves. He carried a huge clasped book, which he held with both arms, affectionately. This wasn't Paul. A Greek physician and evangelist; one of the gospelists. The EB says that Luke was a darn good theologian and that he was into Christian prophecy. He was no mere chronocler of events. I've been looking over "Acts." It certainly is fluent. And he was a close friend of Paul; this fits my