but oddly enough it coincides with my dream experiences, my precognition of events moving this way from the future; I feel them inexorably approaching, not generated from the present, but somehow already there but not yet visible. If they are somehow "there" already, and we encounter them successfully (the [M?]indkowski block universe; events are all already there, but we have to encounter them successfully) then this view might be a correct view of time and causality. The reason (again) why we feel the past to be real but not the future is simply that we have experienced the past and recall it; memory bits lie in our brain tissue, but this is not true of the future. However, I have never experienced Bombay India and I have San Francisco; but the latter in reality is no more real than the former. (For myself, I would guess that we have, as the Hopis believed, two realities only: that which is manifest, and that which is in the process of manifesting. The former is the present; the latter is our future, sort of rising up from within, from potent to actual. This can be re[s]presented spacially in terms of rings, concentric, of actualization, ala Plotinus.) . . . Eureka! I've been reading Rollo May's LOVE AND WILL. He describes Eros, the spirit of life, mediator between men and gods, partaking of the human & the divine; it is the elan vital of Bergson, Dionysos, it is especially Socrates daimon -- this is the voice I hear; this is what "possessed" me in 3 74. But an overwhelming intruiging mystery present itself: Socrates was Greek; Eros is a Greek myth; Dionysos was a Greek god; if Eros (as RM says) is not an actual entity, then how come I heard words in Attic Greek and it, the daimon, thought in Attic Greek? This both confirms and yet adds more mystery, pins it down for sure and yet -- the coincidence (Greek speaking) is too great; it must indicate something -- a vital clue beyond all other clues!!!!!! Rollo May can't really sa[y] what Socrates' daimon "is," only that it is real -- esp. for all creative men; warns of something which will take away one's a[u]to[n]o[m]y...leads one into the right relationships -- to cause on to meet certain persons (in my case eg Tessa); knows the future, is renewing, every point in detail; the inner voice which is not mere conscience, with which one can have colloquy. Is the voice of nature; is also the voice of history and historic change (!!!); it caused Socrates to become a gadfly against the state and to defy the court... [???] it, it is real, it is what took me over & which spoke to me in my physics test, etc. But what is it? Why would my daimon speak in Attic Greek same as Socrates'? Same daimon? Same voice, not his versus mine? We all have the same one and it's Attic Greek (it has a local habitation and a name?). The mystery becomes vitally wild, here. Can't be Christ; Socrates lived before Christ; likewise the Paracletos. Who, then? Whoever talked to Socrates inside his head, warned him and inspired him and guided him, it's doing it for me, too, but that doesn't tell me who or what it is "really." "You know the disease you had last year? Well, you have it again." Recognition without identification. This is 2400 years later; it's still talking -- to me, at least. Also I guess to Goethe (of RM's book). In a way this makes sense (my voice talking attic Greek) since (sic) it's the daimon of Socrates, who was Greek; I mean, it looks like it dovetails; it's logical...but on a deeper level, although it "fits," really, the mystery deepens. "Of course it lapsed into Attic Greek. After all, that's the language it used when it talked to Socrates." As Dr. Bear said, "Why Greek, and not, say, Hebrew?" Well, here is the answer. I guess (chuckle chuckle, very nervously. This is mind-blowing. This must mean something, everything. And validated by today's foremost psychiatrist. But -- but -- Most of all, its fighting for new social forms to come, destroying the social forms which are, in Socrates' case especially, and hence regarded (he being regarded by Athens) as a bad man. Recall I was saying, "I was given the same trial as Socrates: for corrupting the youth. Told to get out of Narin County or die. I chose to leave." Ach Gott, what am I to make of this? Wo bin ich? If Rollo May were here he'd say in alarm, "Oh no, you can talk to a daimon, but not to Socrates' daimon specifically! You don't understand!" RM marvelously describes it[s] relatedness to the future, to final causes -- rather than being pushed causally by the past -- he's got it all down! Also, those creative persons inspired by it are the vanguard of society, building values for the future which will take root later. Eros is the anthesis of Thabatos: death. Eros created all life, motion and joy in the first place; before Eros emerged, "noting strirred or moved or lived" (Hesiod). Also as Angus Taylor shows, my philosophy is thorough-going Platonistic! In all my books and stories! Of Ubik and the first new revision of Plato's forms; look what Patrice said! It fits together. What does it? Who am I? So many parallels. Just how much "data" from Athens never died? Most important and significant of all: in 3 74 when I was taken over, I had a totally new worldview and it was absolutely the sum total of the highest Greek worldview, an absolutely flawless recap of all the Athenian et al philosophers did: I retrieved it utterly!!!! Now, in view of what Rollo May says, well, then is it not the spirit of Athens, then, which is Apollo Himself? I think Socrates daimon is Apollo, the city builder. This is a civic god. (Which brings in Delphi at once!) Apollo and Dionysos: another secret partnership (like Thoth and Set, Horus and Set, whatever). (Behind the scenes, in the eternal world.) I think that was Apollo I saw (when I heard "kai hypsilon"). Socrates: since he was a danger to the state, for what he preached, they sought a charge to try him on. Esp he taught the youth: to question. Dia-logos (logos: Meaningful structure of reality) RM: He met God and wrestled with him (Jacob) and became a better man -- but was maimed (i.e. crippled). The creative person, RM means here also by God, Elohim, or angel, he means Eros or daimon. Does Christ equal Eros? Under a new name? The god of life, opposed to Thanatos? Who, at the beginning, created all life, motion and joy...(Hesiod). "Eros, the god of love, emerged to create the Earth. Before, all was silent, bare, and motionless. Now all was life, joy, and motion." --Early Greek myth. Is this Christ, God's First-Born Son, present on the Day of Creation? This isn't god; this is the mediator between mortality and immortality. ("They are both.") Know thyself, meaning, know you are only a man, and what you do you do by me. I'm not much compared with the [e]lohim. I really indeed was possessed by something which was not me, and the proof of that is that it talked to me, in coloquy, and in Greek. You can't really have a diolog with yourself. Especially is one half of it is in a language you don't know a word of. Tessa points out that RM's description of the duplex relationship between the mortal man and the daimon in him who is immortal is like when Christ spoke of being in the man and the man (follower, I mean) in Him, forever, a mutual relationship; and Christ is a mediator, a spirit, like Eros. More evidence that this is indeed that same thing, these two or even these at all. . . All the daimons of everyone who ever lived are one single collective daimon, one entity, much like Jung's collective unconscious; except that as RM says, the[y] involve something of nature and of history external to each and all psyches of human minds; and reach up to the divine, as he says. . . Not only is the demiurge (daimon) immortal but it contains wrapped up in it recollection of prior, perhaps all prior human culture forms, inventions and achievements; viz: Attic Greek is a human invention, as is geometry, and all else it recalled to me in my head. These are the long-ago products of human minds who were in duplex diolog. With the daimon then; thus as it travels on, it carries with it all that they have done, and hence their immortality is thus achieved. This is very much a confirmation of Aristotle's idea (mentioned in Dante) of three distinct human souls in each person, two of which are mortal (as I recall the vegetable & animal) and then one which is immortal, which is pure thought that delights in philosophy and contemplative wisdom, etc. Possibly, since what the daimon brought to me in anamnesis was memory of notable ideas and thoughts of Attic Greece, only this soul is retained by the daimon, carried off out of the dying mortal man; just as when we tape record what we hear on the radio we do not tape record everything, we record just what we consider to have an enduring value. Thus, the spirit brought me no trivia of that time period, but its "third soul" sophia-like concepts. To clarify, then, each of us is not immortal, but partly immortal; parts do die off and wither away with the body, but one part retained by the daimon as it leaves the duplex dialo[n]g fusion goes on into the collective demiurge, forever. . . . Meaning RM about the Will. It was not that my will was replaced by another or another's, but that my passive, willness, learned-helplessness was replaced by a Will, but not mine; from the unconscious, whatever and wherever that is...also, it not only decisively chose, but it chose and [?] before the danger (which had to be responded to) arrived; which alone disclosed its supernatural quality. That this will was in me but not mem that it came "trailing clouds of glory," that it was as the daimon of the Greeks is described --an indwelling guardian deity or mediator between man and the gods-- shows me my own nature: that although I don't have any true will, there resides in me a very powerful true will and it acts to preserve, guard and protect me; so I am very [?] as possible. Certainly few men know this about themselves, and their condition. I am not alone. This entity, whether as the [?] Greeks believed it is a shade of one who lived during the "Golden Age" (i.e. in my case Brasmus) or actually, Dionysos -- the fact remains that it is armed with total knowledge and total wisdom. It is indeed god-like, even if it was once a mortal (again eg Brasmus). Now it is not mortal; it is bonded to God just as it is bonded, evidently, to me (the mediator, as described). To lose contact with either me or with God would be for it to lose its role as mediator; it must link up at both ends, upper and lower. It is either divine or semi-divine; I certainly knew this about it at once. It partakes of God's vision; I knew this at once, hence I thought it might be Elijah. But Rollo May causes me to examine the fact that it is my will, the only will I have, and it is not me; it is superior to me, for which I rejoice. I think that the pure bubbling joy I felt several times (e.g. when I was loaded, when I heard it laughing, the whole