got in with a fire deity, which means transcendence here and now (which I did/was done to). There is no doubt that I am into the Form One fiery god mythic identification, "moving to the realm of eternity" rather than a lunar-like cycle of death and rebirth (the wheel). Thus, I got outside of time entirely (a mystic, I guess, state), and not all that like Christianity, in which time fulfills. Well, then I will never find the answers in Christianity, although certainly many Pre-Socratic thoughts (Parmenides, et al) are valuable to me. (Q: Does the "Decod[e] N T" treat our god as a sun god? Yes, it does, and denies the "Christos" identification -- with good reason; thatis "lunar," a phase-rebirth deity...they are identifying our deity with brahmanism. I've just read Joseph Campbell on Patch, and I find what I had been [h]oping to find -- part of the black stone's text, which shows that indeed Ptath is [I]mmanent Mind but also a creative god, which means he gets his hands dirty, an improvement on noos merely thinking (of the Greeks, with their slave culture's haughty attitude toward the crafts). That dream I once had about the doctor in his white jacket and trousers appearing again and again...how much he looked the way Ptath is represented (wrapped in white linen). The whole universe is Ptath's body which Ptath infuses as ka; look at this, though: "Mighty and great is Ptah, who rendered power to the gods and their kas: through his heart, by which Horus became Ptah; and through his tongue, by which Thot[h] became Ptah." This is 2,000 years before India. "The whole pantheon, as well as the world, thus becomes organically assimilated to the cosmic body of the creator." Also, Ptah did it by speaking the word (the tongue). This anticipates the Logos doctrine. Heart is creative intent; tongue utters or expresses, gives voice to (I'll bet ka and voice and breath are closely identified). Joseph Campbell flatour says the the Occident believes in a transcendent god (above creation) and the Orient an immanent god who is here now (name your own subtheory). In that case I parted company with everyone in the West except (one) certain Presocratics and (two) Spinoza, who thinks very early Hebrews thought this, whi[ch] is possible but to me not important. The only reconcilitation I can imagine for me vis-a-vis the West would be to think that God had been above (transcendent) but the linkage is now so repaired that He is immediately accessable, which means that the Kingdom is here. (Maybe this is so.) How can I believe He will descend in/on/under a cloud if I know Him to be here, that in fact He never left? For palintropos h. to exist, time must exist (since it is in oscillation or sequence form). Insofar as this kind of balance (Yang-Yin alternation) is taken as real, time is real, but as soon as palintonos h. is viewed, we are in another world where time is absolutely not real, but for a certainly an illusion. Joseph Campbell, writing about Egypt, says that the great secret of the pharohs was that they were "Master of the Twin Opposed Gods," Horace and Seth, whose strife in the temporal world is absolutely real, but that "The Secret of the Two Partners," "was a reference to the hidden understanding of the two gods, who, though they appear to be implacable enemies, are of one mind behind the scenes...mythologically representing the inevitable dialectic of temporality, where all things appear in pairs, Horus and Seth are forever in confli[e]ct; whereas in the sphere of eternity, beyond the veil of time and space, where there is no duality, they are at one; death and life are at one; all is peace." (p81.) It looks to me as if Ptah, the creator, has stretched a masterful canvas which can be read in two directions: within time we can read palinthropos, and in terms of orthogonal directions, a static direction, one of completion or outside time, we can see it stretched like the lyre, in palintonos harmonie: the real secret being that Ptah can achieve both, and the real secret being that Ptah can achieve both, and the real secret is not that the opposites are reconciled behind the scenes, but that they are reconciled and not reconciled, that palintropos and palintonos are both real (Hussey keeps trying to decide which of the two Heraclitus must mean; "a thing is either A or not-A." The secret behind the secret is that you think you have to choose, but you can have both as real. It is not truly written that one must be false if the other is true. (if time is real, then it is not an illusion; if time is an illusion then it is not real. These are verbal games.) Say, I'll try an interpretation of fr 51: if the palintnos h. is alligned (balanced) properly -- you get this correct first, or primarily, then (as a result; it allows you to in sequence) you can go and get a palintropos oscillation; you can play the darn thing if and only if it's strung right first. So the advance up the manifold of time (movement into sequence) indicates that the palintonos h. is okay, and we can move into temporal oscillation, the palintropos. Time is not generated by the -tonos being gotten right, but more allowed to happen; otherwise the ma'at (Egyptian for truth, order, justice) will just all fall down into chaos and there will be no -tropos; it won't work. That makes -tonos the Unbounded; -tropos the kosmos. Also, -tonos, on a lyre, is orthogonal to -tropos, the direction of force and motion is which it, the strings, are played. When -tonos is achieved perfectly, it looks like nothing at all so much as nothing at all...we are deceived by the perfection of this equilibrium in the Unbounded, like cats who think cans of Catfood generate themselves... Since Heraclitus was aware that opposites are not just contained in an entity but are actually identical, he must have realized that the two "opposite" views of harmonie expression in his fragments were in themselves identical, ultimately. Not just contained in the universe both so to speak two views of the same reality. Joseph Campbell absolutely divides the Occidental religious view and experience off from what I had and hold: immanent God. Either (if I accept his view as historically correct) either I then admit to an "Oriental" religious experience-view, and detach myself from the West, or I leave it open, saying: as of March 1974 God was immanent, that is, not transcendent over the universe but coming up from within in; prior to that I can say nothing. I must leave the door open for the possibility of an Occidental transcendent God who has now manifested himself; at this point I have no clear technique for distinguishing which it is. From a pragmatic standpoint, maybe it is not important, or not very important; what is important is that He is now in the linkage situation; i.e. as Campbell puts it, "You don't have to be dead to see God." or "see God now" if it is a now. Maybe when God entered time He entered time in all directions and sort of fanned out, as if secretly there always but "silent," i.e. camouflaged (so we didn't, couldn't, notice). My linkage had lasted over one full year, which is not typical of a mystical experience, even a good Yoga Eastern one; it has all the hallmarks of being firmly in place. It is somewhat long to be construed as an episode or state (as was my Erasmus state an altered state for sure; this has too much durability, stability; well, this then would, oddly, tend to point very very slightly but genuinely toward a manifestation of a transcendent God, rather than immanent all the time, this durability, because nobody gets a durable communication. They commune for a very brief Augenblick. This appears to be an objectively altered condition or vis-a-vis dialog situation, which is manifestation of the transcendent, not immanence. Has it happened, then, that "The Lord of Hosts shall --has-- suddenly come to His temple"? Maybe so, and is now immanent. (Q: Is He every thing or everywhere? You're supposed to ask that about immanence. I'd say, like the ka body; within or capable of infusing: pouring himself into. Look into Sanskrit root for create: to pour out oneself. Now I've really got it, a very great clue. In "Acts," Paul says, that at Pentercost when the Holy Spirit descends over the desciples, and they talk in tongues, "everyone supposed them to be drunk." Now, you add this to in Eurypides' THE BACCHAE where it says that when Dionysos possesses you, you talk in prophecy. Prophecy is one of the gifts of the Holy Spirit, and being drunk is what the followers of Dionysos were said to be, or actually were; intoxication -- the Gospel "Acts" itself points to this being one & the same experience: prophecy, madness or drunkenness or high -- but in the Levant, they hadn't heard about Dionysos (or said they hadn't), and the mainland Greeks in 400 BC hadn't heard of the Holy Spirit. It's just a matter of putting together the two pieces of the puzzle. The golden ringletedhaired stranger...whom they bind and put in prison, who offers no resistance...but who can and does call on (the) God, Dionysos. The "womanish" stranger: "Evidently you never wrestled anyone," says King Pentheus, who is obviously Pilate/Herod. (A little like HAMLET, too: the bad old king reigns, but there is this somewhat mad youth who speaks in riddles & prophecies, eliptically, because he knows what the rest don't, which is either the truth about the past (a murder, ill[l]egal reign) or about the future (doom coming for the evil king). I am lying in bed here and I am musing, "God can simulated the inanimate. Or rather, God can pretend to be anything he wants, any part of His creation. He can replace any part, be it." And then it came to me what you call this; you call it the Miracle of Transubstantiation. This is exactly what is believed to take place in the host, during the Communion. Exactly and precisely. What I saw that day in the alley and everything else I saw, God "immanent," I have for over one full year tried on my own to develop the concept of transsubstantiation. Well, it was not wasted time because what I did was prove the reality of the miracle of the Mass, and finally I pinned this down in terms of nomenclature and description. I just saw it on a wider scale; also, I did see it. I did see it. I saw it; the world as "this is my body and this is my blood. I am here." No wonder my tiny mind has juddered under the weight of trying to understand. This is the holy of holies, the miracle of miracles. I would like to add that my description (and memory) of what Pinky did in trying to heal me (lying on m[e] transversally) I now learn Elijah did to help restore the widow's sonx. I guess the votive candle and the little saint helped. God consecrated reality right & left around me: miracle of miracles. I understand. Credo. I have had in this one very small clue, but absolute: the sound of the bells, the Osterglochen. Christ arisen! The bells of Easter. This delineates it beyond....the sound of the healing bells which mean transformation (as in "Parsifal"). The wound closed. But only One, Christ, ever spoke through the Osterglochen. (And it was at that time of the year, too.) So it was a vision. I must never forget the bells. (I wrote of God manifesting himself in transsubstantiation; but of course it is Christ. This now causes me naturally to wonder,