What is needed is a harmonization of theology and s-f without a reduction of the former to the latter, as Clarke does. It looks (what he does) like an improvement, but it is not. The devil "really" is a non-terrestrial race. You see? And yet, what is extraordinarily significant is that the two modes of interpretation which I hover most between are s-f and theology, which surely tells us something about s-f we otherwise might not know. The two must be related in some important way. "I've recovered some buried memories, of about two thousand years ago." "From a previous life?" "No, strangely, from this one." (Dialog for SCARE.) The dream in TEARS signifies: the return of the King (i.e. the Second Advent of Christ). The sentence, "St. Sophia will be reborn; she was not acceptable before," means exactly the same thing. Therefore, these sentences are in fact an explication of the dream; and the dream a visual graphic presentation of the sentences. Hence there is no need now to ask what the dream means; it has been explained. Anyhow, based on the Ancient of Days image in Daniel I was sure of this anyhow. But this removes any doubt as to the dream; and the sentences are self-explanatory anyhow. And then "the Buddha is in the park" is a further redundancy. These constitute essential redundancies for the purpose of insuring that the message gets through; we us[e] the same principles in our communication. The expression of God's creative force is visible as the universe itself; but His wisdom is concealed within it, as the still small voice, not visible and barely audible. Otherwise --jacked up futher-- it would thwart the power. It must accompany it without damaging it; thus it inspires us to minute adjustments. . . . The James-James dream: at the end, the scouts coming in resembling the Afrika Corps -- their standards & cycles, etc. I've been wondering, Why like the Afrika Corps? Aha: originially one time while looking at the Greek letters forming the fish sign I saw one as a plam tree, same as in the Afrika Corps insignia. Later, I learned that the mus[h]room was called "the small palm tree," but most important: the palm trees I saw in my vision and them again around Santa Sophia -- my vision of the Lavant; i.e. of Christ reborn. So "The Afrika Corps Scouts" smoothly-rapidly entering at the end of my dream are symbols of Christ (via the fish letters; via Santa Sophia, via the mushroom cult). Also, the standards were square, and -- aha! Resembled godseyes. (Plus, too, the burned palm branches used with oil to inscribe the sign of the cross on the forehead on Palm Sunday.) (A godseye is woven around a wooden cross.) So I guess James-James is the creator; the scouts, whom I ask for medical assistance from -- which is to say, I address them as physician or thereputi, healer -- i.e. the Savior. "Rette mich, Jesu." (Help equals save.) . . . If our universe is a mirror reflection or shadow of another more real universe behind it, then probably we --each of us and us collectively are shadows or reflections of something like what Henry Vaughn saw: as a ring of pure light wheeling endlessly. Our immortality is a rising back up to ourself, a rejoining or refinding. A recollection and regaining. We are split off from it right now, as if emitted. Plato's metaphor of the cave seemed to assume that each of us was absolutely real; it was only the outer or outside world that was a shadow. But each of our individual lives is an event in this shadow world, and therefore must have an ontologically actual counterpart beyond it. An experience like my 3/20/74 experience might then be seen as a temporary but real recontact and experience with, a sudden regained knowledge of this actual self-entity and of its world, rather than this one: self and world both, and both real(er). I can't think why this isn't realized, that any given person is an object of knowledge, an event or fact in this world same as a tree or billboard, and if there is an archetypal real world of forms, he has his corresponding real self-form there, the archetype of himself, his essence. The model had regarded us as actual audience-members in a picture theater watching a celluloid show and taking it as real; but how did all of us real people get here? And if we all are real, then for any given one of us, the entire species with all its members dead and alive both are not parts of the celluloid film adventure but of the superactual (i.e. beyond the cave: outside). And our primary environment is, after all, the others of our species -- other persons. By Plato's model it is only the scenery, not the characters (actors) who are fake. How important is scenery? We're not in the hologram; we ourselves are hologramatic. . . . We seem to be confined within a metal prison, but something vital has secretly penetrated the enclosing ring around us and fires assistance and advice to us in the form of video and audio signals. Neither the prison ring is visible to us nor the signal system which emerge as if from cores drilled through the metal; they're in color. Thus, our prison was breached a long time ago. Help is here, but we still remain here within the prison; we aren't yet free. I take it that the camouflaged invisibility of the signals is to keep the creator of the prison from knowing that help is here for us. The drilled out "tubes" through the prison wall to us can't be discerned; they blend perfectly, as if alive (the signals too seem alive). It is like the penetrating roots of a plant (!!!) which over the centuries have grown through rock or concrete. These root tips come through and into here, the enclosed open space where we're kept, and then they burst into colored changing light patterns which register on us subliminally. The core tubes are at right angles to the prison walls. They are possibl[y] very long -- light years long. The first great well-kept secret is that we are slaves, in prison. The second, that help has quietly breached through the walls to inform us. To teach us how to lift the siege -- what to do and when. Really, all it can do is inform teach and educate us; it has no power. The prison builders have all the power. In the James-James dream, the scouts coming in through all the many doors: penetrating the wall, so to speak, of the building which we were all in, thousands of us. And I told them we needed medical assistance. Perhaps their help is passing or will pass from information only to their actual presence here (as referred to by the St. Sophia news). In the dream they were decidedly motorized (modern technology?). They came at a point when I felt desperate over our medical situation. Maybe that actual time has now arrived (in my life, anyhow). . . . In the dream, James-James is amazingly like a magician, who is dazzling us with his act. What kind of Creator is this? Certainly the magician element is there, a madness-genius blend, as in the cartoon of people watching the magician and one person finally whispers to another, "Personally I think he's just drunk." Probably my dream is based on part on that cartoon. Is this our true Creator, or rather is this maybe someone dazzling us with the evolution (atom to ziggy-baby to Kathy appears to be evolution), but the cost exacted belies his legitimacy. Maybe he is a false Creator, a Klingsor the magician who has [c]rept in a replaced the real Creator. He appears to be God, probably alleges himself to be, but as in the Apostasy, is not. We need help; we must break the spell, break away, stop him! We must call attention to the harm/hurt/injury he is inflicting. Also, in addition to spellbinding us and dazzling us, a magician (at least in the West) produces illusions; and the Garden of Klingsor I associate with illusion, probably correctly: illusion, lies and deceit. As Tessa says, the force working this world may not be the Creator, may not be legitimate. But of course poses as He. We don't have ma'at in our world; we have disorder. This proves that the Law-giver, the true Ruler and Lord and Judge, is not here. The magician holds the whole stage, around which everyone sits; the scouts enter entirely from outside the building. . . . My 3 74 experience: I was inside the Immanent Mind. As in a womb? Not mere analogy, perhaps. Made to grow. Both within the parent organism and also isomorphic with it, but much smaller and less developed. We are in God; moving toward comphrehension, which requires further growth/development. We are like the nymph or larva stage of mosqu[i]toes. Hence my dreams about the Pond. Again -- Wachet auf. . . . In glancing over CONFESSIONS again; I am astounded at the similarity between what Claudia Hambro (Connie Wheeler) says and what I would say/have said/intended to say regarding my 3 74 experience. As before I simply cannot account for this, except to note that it tends to indicate that (1) Connie and I are sick in the same way; or (2) this proves she was right after all and what she said was true, as impossible as it sounded to me in 58 or 59; or (3) my 3 74 experience was in some way a surfacing to consciousness in my mind of what Connie has said and what I had written -- and forgotten consciously. To me most interesting of all is Claudia Hambro saying the SEBs (superior evolved beings from outer space) would contact those whom they intended to save directly, but telepathy; which is to say, if there was anything to what Connie said, then some people would eventually get contacted telepathically by SEBs, and perhaps this is precisely what happened to me 16 or so years later (i.e. 3 74). There is even the healing surgery and implanting mentioned. Perhaps Connie, being part of the same culture as me, and having the same metal concepts and I have to interpret her experience, drew the same picture: a fusion of Christian eschatology and saucer people, that being all the concepts available to us. . . . Tiny but intriguing thought: my TEARS dream is quite like the pre-cog dreams of the Aztecs before Cortez landed: men on horseback in armor (robes). Points to an invasion, by the "gods," as they believed. This alone as explanation would account for the absolute grief I felt in the dream; Montazuma's sister's grief. Q: What do "Portuguese States of America, Cabrillo, Walloon, Vinland & the TEARS dream have in common?" A: my god, early explorers (add "the scouts coming in," too.) In all this, to decode one must ask, What does this term resemble? I'm dreaming about the very early explorers -- in fact, those who absolutely were the first. Vinland and that Ronoake Island thing, that first English colony. John Smith or whatever. Also, possibly add Albemuth as made out of Nova Albion or New England (a very early name dropped). With azimuth! A term used in navigation! And the "al" suggesting a star -- navigation by means of fixed stars. Also, the "Lampson" dream in which I saw below a navigational map of the inland bay area, as if from above, with a marking circle, like a satellite map. . . . March 1974: I reached reunion with the Father. Today 5 31 75 I had a dream in which I was a child again back in the '30s; at an old-fashioned table I say with other people, and a man gave me a