the brutal oppressors and word-denyers. And if indeed it is The Good News shagged on by, in a least-expected place, it is specifically that in fact the Parousia are beginning: this is Christus Judicator. If the Brit 3 article is correct, though, this is the only way the Kingdom is going to come, the only way any of the events of the Parousia are going to come; that means my experience is not anticipatory, since there is in truth no emperical change going to be visible, which can be subjected to test (it can't be shown to be here or not to be here, is the point the Brit 3 article makes; it is elusive). It is a sort of secret kingdom in which one can live without appearing to live there, although one himself, he would know. And if this Brit 3 view is true, then this has always been the case, and the Kingship may have begun arriving for persons on an individual basis at the time X in the past -- time X being any moment after the Crucifixion. We are waiting for something which does not exist in time as we understand existing in time; it can be both here and not here simultaneously (vide supra about palintropos and -tonos, transcending the dipole thinking). The Parousia partake in -- no wait; no the palin(s) but the Secret Partnership, where Horus and Seth are not absolute antagonists "behind the scenes," Joe Campbell's book. The same with this. Within visible lineal time the Kingship hasn't come, and maybe never will (equal to Horus and Seth being implacable opponents); the Kingship has arrived is equal to "behind the scenes, in eternity: the Secret Partnership. In rereading the Brit 3 article on "Jesus Christ" I'm reminded that although the Second Advent is of Christ, what Jesus taught was the coming Kingship of God, not of Himself, the His Father would rule here, whereas now, God does not; Satan does (vide esp John). This could mean, Rule inside person-by-person, I guess. But the mystical corporate body which we enter is that of Christ; and Easter is connected with Christ, very specifically; I stand more toward that, a mysterious euch[e]ristic identity with the Real Presence of the Savior: a joining with Christ, esp Christ as Logos, first born son of God. But then the void dreams I had: the beatific vision of God. They are not that separable. If you attain union with Christ you certainly have reached God, and perhaps since Christ is the Path, this is how we do in fact reach God: brought to God, at last, carried there by Christ who rescues us (individually for sure; this is certain: Christ rescues on an individual basis). Christ, then, as the guide (Pinky, e.g.). Leading to the Kingship of God, to where God is. If God is not here, then I am taken there to where God is, led there, assisted and helped, on a journey (yes, I am sure of that; my guru as silent guide; the search as for the Grail). When I compare "Hamlet," "The Bacchae," and the Gospel which tell of Jesus' life, I get a single impression, one story underlying all, but not that visible until all 3 are compared. It is the story of a kingdom where reg[n]icide took place; the throne is occupied by a ursurper; now the rightful heir has returned (the stranger, Hamlet, Jesus), and holds no power, but speaks in strange riddle. The brutal ursurpacious ruler has him imprisoned and possibly killed; nonetheless the young stranger has acquainted us with the true, secret facts: we are not to give out allegiance to the brutal pretender king, that one day the rightful King will return (the right King is the young stranger's "Father"), and that this kingdom will be a divine one because the rightful King is divine. The story cannot be hushed up; what the monarch fears the most is the release of this truth for people to know. Exactly when the rightful divine King will return is uncertain. Perhaps the young stranger will grow up and return himself, no longer a beardless youth, but stern and wise, a true king (like the Ancient of Days). (My dream in TEARS.) The world must fall into two caps: the pretended and his brutal worldly followers, with their tyranny and lies, and, on the other side, those whom the rightful King will free, those who will know him for the rightful King, and await his coming. In reading Helen Wadell's THE DESERT FATHERS -- from her definition it is sure that I experienced eternity ("the other night," that is, in 3 74 and maybe again in 2 75). (Eternity during an interval very short; thus polarized against mere infinity, as with an extension of a line.) I have experienced what Jesus predicted: the change from one aeon to the next; and the next is rightful kingship, an improvement, a lifting of thrall by a[n] ursurper, somehow connected with C[h]ronos, Father Time (maybe the game of dr[o]ughts is ending; vide Heraclitus: the old child God, Chronos, playing a game of draughts in defined --regulated-- moves. That is the aeon which is ending; I saw that game, too, the player and counterplayer. This fulfills what Zoroaster foresaw: the end of the two-Person game, finally, in a victory of justice, truth, regulation, for ma'at; for Form One; for Light. This is the period Jesus, Paul and John compared to birthpangs, a laboring of bring forth; the whole universe and each sorrowing man being in such labor and pain...but if he could see the issue ahead! The Christian is he thinks of this world now, with its ursurpacious rule, feels bad; if he thinks of the rightful kingdom coming, he feels good -- thinks I mean of the future. But I say, this future is materializing, rising up as if a second new archetypal aeon "slide" were being projected: springtime. We can thus being to sense it lift now and rejoice now. (There may be a h[y]steresis lag in our sense perceptions; we don't see what is, but what was X time-length ago.) Another thing I saw, which I must not forget, is that I saw that I had been seeing the universe backward, esp. in time; which I finally decided meant that I was seeing "the reflection, as in the bottom of a polished metal pan," but had begun to see the Real Universe, which of course is reversed from the mere cave image. Thus, the picture is of winter; the slide itself the reverse: springtime (vide the trigram wheel of opposites). In Dante's schema: if it is winter here, it is springtime there in the Real World. I suddenly[s] see it very clearly: (one) the grave (two) the furrow (three) those in cold-pac hearing Runciter. There are all three actually one: asleep, seeds buried during winter, half-alive. All one, to be wakened to (full or real) life, which is Spring, the calling by Spring to those in winter. Wachet Auf, once more, but I see the identity of the 3 above. And it's so clear to me, now. And: (four) What happened to me in 3 74 growing to 3 75. The identity of all 4 above. I see this from what I wrote to Claudia, and in my [UX?] speech, esp. the Ornstein letter. "Those dead, in their graves, who will not all sleep" is a metaphor about us; we shall not all sleep (in a form of death or half-life), but we --we!-- shall awake[n]. It is a waking up, at being called (born again). "For that mortal man must put on immortality." It is conferred on him. Not achieved. The Corn King who I saw dancing silently --to the dythramb-- along the rows of new corn...the furrows; he shakes the sacred rattle; it is at us; it us ourselves who lie asleep under the soil, in winter; he is Spring. and the sound --and what I see-- we see and we hear; through the pineal gland, I guess; and wake up. It is for us that he comes. I guess (by this metaphor, if it is a metaphor) in 3 74 I germinated, the second stage began, and I reached up toward the Light. My whole vision of Spring and the Corn King is, then, a sort of entering a parable of Jesus', a vision of His Epiphany; it is He, then, who I saw back earlier this year: the slender beardless (nearly) king. The other night I realized that if what I experienced was the specific miracle which we call "Trans[s]ubstantiation," then not only were various objects (in the gutter, etc) around me changed, as are the species of the mass (the articles?), but so was I; the epiphany took place inside me as well as around me (maybe inside me primarily; anyhow it was me made as the wafer and wine are made: changed ontologically, although the accidents remaining unchanged). And is this not exactly what the transformation in the articles of the mass intended to accomplish? Similar transformation --trans[s]ubstan[tia]tion-- in the celebrant? Is this not why he ingests them, rather than just contemplates them and the miracle outside? Jesus: "Do this in memory of me." (The communion.) This is what is called "Anamnesis." It is also anamnesis which I experienced (in Plato's sense.) But I experienced Christian anamnesis, which is both what the euchrist does, and what Christ asked of us: in memory. And thus I came to acquire memory -- of 45 AD specifially. This does fit in with the view that it was transubstantiation which took place, in me and around me, this anamnesis; if the miracle of transubstantiation occurred, then one would remember 45 AD Rome, et al. Tesse points out to me that (in a dream) I was shown that "Jesus" is stenographia for "Zagreus-Zeus," so to remember Jesus is to remember Zagreus-Zeus. This fits with the fact that in 400 BC Empedocles had the experience of anamnesis, which is the Zagreus one: that inside each of us is a spark of the god (whom our ancestors consumed somehow.) In other words, by the time of Jesus there was already a great deal to remember. Anamnesis equals total anamnesis, which means "all the way to the beginning or foundation," and not just partially; still, for a Christian which we hold to began there -- but was yoked to what lay back before it (Christ was present on the day of Creation, remember; in John, "Before the lightening, I am.") Anamnesis would mean, "Nothing is concealed any longer, from the beginning," which also implies everything lost has been restored (a wider definition of memory, but emphasizing not merely to gain but to regain). (Not rise, but rise back.) It seems to me that anamnesis (actually experienced, with perceptual awareness of the Real Presence, etc.) must be the last stage or nearly so in a long chain which is ultrapersonal. It must mean --not that I am unusual-- but that the Parousia have indeed begun. Anamnesis such as mine must be the pay-off stage. What follows now is immediately tied to it (see "Message," the adversities which shape, the fruits of the harvest shaped, etc.). ("Message" suggests that God selects those who have proved fit, who have survived a lot. I have felt I underwent a lot, like Prince Tamino in "The Magic Flute," and that if I survived (chose well) then finally (vide my dream in Vancouver) the darkness would lift and I would understand...but this would only come at the end; when it was all over. I also believed that the Dark-Haired Girl would show up, at the end; either her or death. The Messenger. What I experienced was not so much an acausal timelessness, but cause operating along "spacial" lines, that is, simultaneous causes, rather than moving along before-after temporal lines. It is as if I saw causes, mutually interacting, manifest (the jungle