spontaneously; it is God teaching us and informing us. If conscience can be regarded as a historical, social force (esp. connected with the Reformers and toleration and freedom) then my 3 74 experience consisted of conscience changing over to the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit advancing out into the realm of social action, in which the right of conscience was rightfully supposed to be; for the Holy Spirit to do that is to throw into the balance of social action against despotic society (identified with "the prince of this world") an ultimate force; conscience is shown then as a forerunner of a force more powerful because as well as moral knowledge it also carries knowledge of what is true (and what is mere lie). Conscience alone might dictate that I act (refuse to kill Vie[t]namese) but in no way does/did it provide me with any assistance of any sort. Not so with its more complete form, the Holy Spirit. The relationship between them reminds me of that between the First Advent (the lamb who is sacrificed) and the Second: the Powerful Judge who overthrows what is evil. The two instances of Holy Spirit as conscience in my own case which come to mind would be, first: when I was tormenting the beetle as a child and suddenly understood; and second: about the burning up Jap and later the napalm bombing. What I note now that at least these instances are actually cases of an agape awareness, which would be in accord with the loving nature of the Holy Spirit. What a triumph and a joy it would be to establish a relationship between the Holy Spirit and certain clear expressions of inner conscience especially concerned with the suffering of other creatures -- what a terrific triune linkage! Terrific? (sp) The Friends distinguish conscience from the Inward Light, the latter being God in man, evidently addressing him or anyhow illuminating him; probably they distinguish it from mere social deposit. My experience certainly indicates that the basic Protestant idea that God speaks directly to man though the Holy Spirit is correct (in contrast to the handed-down-by-the-priest idea), and in particular the Friends would seem to be correct, as regards their concepts of the Inward Light and the Seed. The evolution of religion from God Above to God With Us to God Within Us is obvious, but what I see too is the social-historical meaning, inasmuch as it certainly is going to basically affect future societies, this internalization of God (as we withdraw our projections, perhaps). Every man will carry a bit of God inside him, like a walkie-talkie (and much much more). He will be conscious of this, both in himself and by empathy and analogy in others. Surely, if all goes well, less will be handed down to the people progressively more and more; and the people will take their destinies in their own hands (but that is only if unobstructed; yet, that should be their fight: if God is within each man, then the enemy of man is any top-heavy system claiming a monopoly on truth and dispensing it downward). Why eventually will laws be necessary at all? I foresee a godly anarchy. No authority here on earth will have to tell any man what to do, or even educate him; the Logos will do that -- link him up. A truly egalitatian society should result. Again I foresee and applaud the arising of the new people I described in my Vancouver speech; this internal radio set will educate and regulate them on an individual basis, and coordinate them, and make possible functionally (the how) what I saw coming ahead. A certain kind of superhuman could result -- what I saw in Kathy: you cannot lie to such a person, or coerce them, etc. This at first will be a frightening (to us) person, as if a sociopath (and may be so in transistional phases). The directness is so inner that it cannot be appealed to; nor are the values derived from society, esp. the establishment. It is always "the sound of distant --deep within-- drummers." Therefore such a person will present to us a deep enigma. Their motivations (why? How derived?). What gives them the verification of ratification they need...they will, like Kathy, have a deaf (to us, to our pleas and complaints) quality. Presumably Kathy represented an incomplete type, because her lying indicated a fundamental lack of authenticity. Still, the potential seemed to me to be there. The beginning, as I described. I think perhaps she was relying on an inner voice (Light) which she could not as yet clearly hear -- she was still experimenting. Most indicative was her rebellion against society and her unwillingness to be hampered. Also, she had fashioned her values sui generis, which is what this is all about. Despite all rational objections, I can best envision the new persons when I think of Kathy and Stephanie, seeing as how society had no real role in fashioning them. Something in each must have. All I could do at the time was view externals and wonder. A new level of homeostasis, maybe; containing the source of knowledge as well as wisdom. Manufacturing what one knows -- which is to say, manufacturing ones world...but out of koinos bits to that it is linked to the koinos; one invents what is the common heritage of value for all the world (e.g. Attic Greek culture). All ones ideas are a priori instead of empirical; but it is the empirical testing which is a testing of the "accidents," not the ontology or heart. (I.e. knowledge derived through the five senses -- mere phenomenology, worthless.) In a priori fashion one discerns to the heart, pieces to it by some kind of analog computing in the right hemisphere. Ones internal a priori ideas match the outer world, analog style, which is where geometry as envisioned by the Attic Greeks failed, since it sort of didn't. But this does. I sit in a closed room and a priori, not using my five senses, I fashion an analog of the world, based on structural concepts and ideas (the Logos, as RM defines it: the meaningful structure of reality). I can do this because I am isomorphic to the brains of all other men; hence a priori I can fashion Shakespeare's plays and Beethoven's symphonies, if I dig deep and correctly!!! All thought-concepts are common property (the collective unconsciousness becomes conscious!!) Without proof of this Inward Light there could be no rational justification for anarchy. With proof (as I have) there is no rational excuse to maintain any sort of centralization of power; no state of any sort, as we conceive it. We will be linked anyhow. We cannot not be. The social implications are beyond calculation, for good. Is this perhaps the Kingdom of God prophesized? Behind the scenes, invisible to us, we have continued to move closer to it constantly, throughout 2000 years at least which seemed sterile of forward growth; but -- we did not know (a) in what way it would come; (b) what is would be like! How could we calculate momentum toward it knowing as little as we did about it? Perhaps we are very close now. Perhaps a sign of its proximity will be a growing difficulty by the authorities throughout the world in governing. And a positive decentralization of power and authority. The causes may be dreadful, intrinsically (breakdowns, etc); but, unrecognized, they would lead to excellent results, someday. . . This would have enormous important for characterization in TO SCARE THE DEAD. . . If I had to account "rationally" for the Inward Voice (Holy Spirit) I could offer Dr. Buck's duplex mind which appears with cosmic consciousness, and link it to the Ornstein two-brain material: the appositional mind. Outside of this, with the addition of the Bergson notion of the brain as transformer (and maybe including the pineal) I would be defenseless in rational argument. But all these are within reason, plus Jung's collective repository. My right h. emerges when my left has painted itself into a desperate corner and its rat-like linear thinking has bogged down, leaving a vacuum. Every time in my life that I've heard the spirit it's been when my normal (linear) thinking had exasperated & exhausted itself -- reached its end without results, but each time, results were still absolutely necessary. This alone makes a circumstantial case for locating the spirit, the Inward Light, in the right hemisphere (I suppose). Normal habitual cognative processes must be tried fully and fail. This would by why under routine & ordinary conditions I don't hear it and am cut off from it. But this only tells me where it can be localized in terms of brain morphology. As an appositional other brain, not my own, it still -- well, how does it come to think in Attic Greek, and make use of technical terms such as syntonic? My original diagram showed a piece of the macrocosmos within the microcosmos, but that was more a metaphor and poetry. Also, if my right hemisphere can do this, why does it do it only when I am under duress? Why isn't there bilateral parity? What an improvement that would be. Is it a new organ just starting to come on, as Dr. Bucke believed (i.e. the next step upward in human evolution)? Maybe so. In regards to such persons as Kathy, she certainly was deficient in left hemisphere prowess; almost an idiot in terms of language use. The pure intellectual ability was aborted in her habitually, leaving a vacuum into which perhaps her right hemisphere flowed; and also, maybe (and Rick suggested) she fucked up her left h. with dope. "The old Adam, sinful and full of pride, must be destroyed in order that the second birth can take place; the ego must go." Does this perhaps mean the left hemisphere and the self-system in it? It must somehow die -- which is exactly what I felt happening to me, or to mine, back in 3 74, a psychological death (following all the stations of the cross, and ending in rebirth of a totally new and greater kind). How possibly could a lesser, minor, inferior portion (half) of the total mind be habitually turned outward to the world, and a wiser, older part, devoted to truth, in possession of innmeasurable knowledge, holy and calm -- how could that part remain suppressed virtually forever? Just from a functional standpoint it's hard to understand, unless its time is coming, as Dr. Bucke thought. This, in addition to, How did it form? How did it form and why isn't it used? It doesn't seem to be a social product, or limited to this time & this space. I wonder if it is a self-system, an ego, at all. It is not another self, even a better one; it is absolute it all that it knows, does and especially in all that it is (its ontology is perfected). I don't really see it in process, in becoming, and more than I see it making mistakes and learning thereby. It has no infancy and no senility. Also, it is ma'at, I just realized. The absolute judge; I am sure of it; I can tell; mostly by its voice. What it does most of all is weigh. Law (proportion), truth and justice. Joseph Campbell identifies ma'a[t] with dharma and tao, also the will of heaven. It ma'at can speak --be personified and "alive"-- then we have advanced out of the Chinese idea of tao and into something like the Christian concept of God. . . In 3 74; the abolishment of time for me shows that mythic identification (with the god or goddess) did take place; of Joseph Campbell p 54 (?). For me, back to the Last Supper (which identifies the "god" as the Holy Spirit, but also the Will of Heaven when it speaks). "It is a