and I must see the blood and pass over you, and the plague will not come on you as a ruination, when I strike at the land of Egypt," i.e. when he came as the destroying angel, the angel of death, and slew the first born; and so began Passover; and thus I experienced it that night in the bedroom, that Sunday (sic!) night, when the pale white light which cast no shadow, where there was no plce to hide, came on, and I knew then that the angel of death had come; and I prayed my head off frantically for hours in terror; and that night in sleep I dreamed of a gun being fired and a deer-like animal wounded in a ditch, a woman; and a few days later Pinky (the little pink sheep) died of cancer. The angel passed over (me, us except that he took Pinky, the lamb-sacrifice). 14: "And this day must serve as a memorial for you, and you must celebrate it as a festival to Jahweh throughout your generations." Later we are to say when someone asks the meaning of the festival of Passover: "It is the sacrifice of the passover to Jahweh, who passed over the houses of the sons of Israel in Egypt when he plagued the Egyptians, but he delivered our houses." (27). 12:29 tells us that Jahweh struck every Egyptian house a[nd] killed the firstborn in the middle of the night: midnight. Wow. I rest my testimony; that night was that night. I have been wrong to connect that ultra-extraordinary experience with the Parousia, with Judgment Day; it was a remanifestiation of the first passover by God, which means a sparing of the innocent at the time He was getting the enslavers. The date, for me, was in August 1974. It was the same month Nixon resigned. I might add that the killing of the firstborn was the last of the plagues God afflicted Egypt with. Golly, it wasn't long thereafter that ol' Nixon almost croaked in the hospital at Longbeach... This proves that my whole experience was an experience of the Epiphany at Passover, step by step (the first as with Moses was the epiphany in the desert, for me, from the desert wind; the fire or burning being the phosphene activity), going through the stages which freed Israel, and which freed our people now: I say, knowing this about the derivation and meaning of pass over proves that indeed God was afflicting the establishment here and finally pulling it down (I would go so far as to point to Nixon's phlebitis as a "plague," also the breast cancers, etc). (Energy crisis, too, et al). I stood as a modern day Israelite in slavery. It seems plausible to me that the slain lamb's blood smeared on the doors of the Israelites' houses meant: "The innocent live here; do not injure them, but spare them." Isn't this reasonable? Yes. (I had put up a nativity scene Xmas card on my front door before this happened, by the way.) My god, he slew Pinky in a sense in a real sense our firstborn...no, Pinky was not our firstborn; Christopher is; so Pinky was, indeed, a surrogate, which is to say, the Paschal lamb. And thus I dreamed the words Cantata 4. Which deals with this. But God ordained Passover to be an annual festival of celebration: that one was spared; that one had been made free (Exodus); and I guess lastly if at all that the destroying angel got one's enemies. It is a festival of celebration, thanksgiving and joy: we have been delivered (from slavery & death and the fear of death). Did I experience a re-enactment of the original pass over by the destroying angel, or an actual reoccurence of it? The latter, since Pinky did die; it was not an anamnesis celebration. This is important, to determine this; if it was only a replay --a memory thing that rolled in my head, or an enternity date outside of time, not an actual current event in our space-time world-- then the tyranny, the modern slavery equal to Egypt's, was untouched. It was only a head trip on my part. Pinky's death proves it wasn't a head trip. I had no idea he was even sick. Maybe he hadn't been. The destroying angel was there that Sunday night in our bedroom. But I suppose I could be wrong; it could have been a re-enactment, playing the role of the Paschal lamb. This, if true, would point to Pinky as already being more than a mere cat/animal, which I was convinced of anyhow; in any case, I had encountered the Deity for sure back in March, and there unfolded for me, supra, as I say, the very steps (or some of them) unfolded for Moses, ending with the final most dreadful plague, the destroying angel at the tyrant's throats, and then - FREIHEIT! As with the Israelites, their deliverance didn't take place easily or over night. Lord, I will never hear the word "passover" again with the same quietude born of ignorance as to its meaning and origination. But what this "make" on the destroying angel Sunday night event does it show that: (one) I have always been right to identify this with Passover, and I wonder how I got started doing that, since Easter comes simultaneously. Because of Elijah? I guess so. That's all I knew; Elijah comes each Passover. Ach; there was death present at the first pass over, and there was death present at the Crucifixion. (Easter.) This is extraordinary. In Hebrews it talks about the second (new) covenant sealed with blood, replacing the first one (achieved twixt God and Moses). At the first pass over, God spared the innocent and killed the guilty (wicked). At the Crucifixion, the ultimately good and innocent man died, the guilty did him not, as well as being spared. All reversed! Christ equals, then, - 6 - those who died at the first pass over, which is the firstborn of the Egyptians. Amazing. What does it mean? He was the sacrifice, and a voluntary one. Now has there been a third passover situation, with Pinky et al as the sacrifice? Has a new colloquy, a third, begun between God and man, hence we can expect a third covenant now? Something to do with the ecosphere and animals? I personally know who sacrificed himself this time and it was my poor cat. My cat, though, already transfigured into a spiritual being (I stick to this). But also, the bells (sic) which I heard are more like Easter bells; perhaps it was a total experience of the first pass over end then, so to speak, the second, Christianity's. I say this: the dying (lunar god); he is the one who died on the cross, but he is not who died at the first pass over. I say this: My experience was very Jewish. Hmmm...and this ratifies it, this I've learned about Moses. However, consider: at the first pass over God delivered man from slavery to freedom; at the second event, the crucifixion, nothing happened of a social sort like this; frankly, from a social action standpoint it was a total failure. And in 1974, we had a destruction of the slave state and emancipation, like the [excised] Israelites obtained via Moses from Jahweh -- from the father, who can accomplish this (to son cannot; he can't even extricat himself). Ah! The the King is here, not the son ([excised] represented in THE BACCHAE as the stranger, which is to say, the high priest of the [excised] god or the messenger who preceeds him). It is the King, it is Yahweh; or else it is the King, it is Christ elevated to the power position he failed to use or have in Biblical times. God's power has breached the state. But this is a definition of the Parousia! Which may by why I mistook the pale light as an indication of the arrival of the Dies Irae! Wrath! Whichever it is, it is majesty and power; and according to Catholic doctrine, where power predominates, it is God, not Christ not the Holy Spirit. This was God. Jesus just mingles and they get him. But he was supposed to return with power. Returning (the Second Advent) he would be older, and changed and resemble the Father. It is interesting that both Yahweh and Christ, for totally different reasons, are "vernal equinox" deities: the former because of the [excised] Exodus deliverance, the latter because of the cycle of the lunar-grain god. So, via Passover/Easter, they are related. (Nisan 14 and on.) Via Passover/ Easter, then, there is made a relationship between the lunar-grain god who is killed (which includes Zagreus & Dionysos etc) and Yahweh, who adds to this impression by being a nature god. But He (Yahweh) is not a nature god who dies & is reborn; he is totally constant. "I am what I am." Perhaps when, for instance, we see Zagreus we fail to see that standing (so to speak) behind him his [is?] a greater figure: his father. The lunar-grain god is a "son"; there is also one such as Yahweh. If Dionysos et al are grain gods, there is also the one who created the grain & sustains it in the first place: the father of it and its god. We see the grain, and its cycle, but we do not see the immanent creatorgod who created it and maintains it; he is invisible. We do not suspect his existence because we take the universe per se for granted; he is so great that truly he is everywhere. This is the ultimate God. Oh yes; on that Sunday night of the pale white light -- I knew that it (the angel of death) was, specifically and exactly overhead. To it, we were on a plain below, a landscape. It was passing over us. - 7 - Let us turn now to the dream in TEARS. The wise old king, who obviously is God, leads a posse for the purpose of having the man sealed up inside the shed killed. Was this a vision of the impending death to be delt out by God to the wicked one(s)? I.E.: the man in the shed who shrieked would equal the firstborn of the Egyptians. This would tie in the dream in TEARS with my 3 74 Passover experience, now that I understand passover as when God once dealt out death as a final attack to create freedom. It is God the stern judge; it is Dies Irae. Or is it? The shriek of the man sealed up in darkness, the whine of the dog -- it may be related, two aspects of one prophetic vision. Ah! "The four horsemen of the apocolypse! Mounted warriors serving God, dealing out plague & death! "Pass over," then, implies that one is part of an elect group, those which God has selected (and hence not afflicted or destroyed). I sense that it could never become a universal celebration, inasmuch as they were passed over by something out to get those not passed over; I mean, something did pass over, going elsewhere. God will get someone, a majority in fact. This is where the realization of being the chosen people comes from. One is changed by this realization. God has delt out death to others, but life to us. Our freedom is more important to him, justice for us is more important to him, than their lives. It must by intrinsic definition be a minority experience and realization. It must. Were a Christian to have it, he would regard himself as among the company of the elect in the sense of the saved, the vital remnant spared by God at the time of the apocalypse. First he would be relieved and joyous, but gradually the fuller implications -- what it pointed to for his future -- would come