a man, but the God himself, Christ -- then during the interval I was possessed or whatever it was, likewise I was no longer myself, but as I've said (supra) transubstantiation; in which case, it was not I who did what was done, not the man any longer; I was done through. What I did (the mythic or ritualistic significance) may never be known to me; for one thing, if the whole matter was a sort of "service," I can't see that outlines at all, so as to distinguish the total nature either, as well as the specific (i.e. by specific: the arrival at last of The Letter, and the repudiation of it). This is not a ritual familiar to me (as say the eucharists is). . . . Back to Osiris: if, during the rise and mass, it could be shown to the celebrants that the dead god had indeed come back --that is, he manifested himself to them during the ritual-- then there was a basis for the celebrants regarding themselves as candidates for a return (resurrection) after their death. This would be true of Christianity, Christ being the exemplar (death & then resurrection), repeated within the experential framework of the later celebrant (outside time). Identification with the dead & reborn god would be a matter of the utmost importance, since it would assure the personal immortality. Not that Osiris lives but that I live...therefore the particular name of the god is not important, but rather the experience of his manifestation (after it is known for sure that he died). In these religions, great emphasis would be paid to his death, to insure that fact being established. Experiencing union with a dead and reborn god is much more personally significant than union with a god or a god as such, which is merely a mystic state, no more than an ASC; it may prove god exists, but we knew that anyhow; what does that tell us about our own fate? He must have been born here and lived here; he must have died --preferably dramatically slain in a cruel and unfair way to emphasize his vulnerability-- and then not the immediate testimony right afterward of his resurrection, but rather the actual experience of Him during the mass of a contemporanous nature by each celebrant. I imagine the Fish-Christians ran around whispering excitedly to each other the thrilling news, "He lives!" based not on what 300 people saw one day, but on what they experienced during the feast of agape; I can even imagine the "300 witnesses" testimony as a cover, when they were pressed for an explanation of why they said what they said. And yet it's really all there in John. The strangest idea, though, of all that comes to me is to envision a group of followers who have the authentic holy-possession experience which I had...and then retrospectively they cast back to try to figure out who it was -- exactly the way I did; I decided it was Jim Pike because he was a holy man who I had known who recently died; the early Christians would assume, but the same logic, that it was Jesus. In each case the individuals would trace it back to the first reasonably likely personal, real or mythical. In my thinking here I'm reversing what is the customary causual flow writers assume, theirs being that the post mortem experience is manufactured to fulfill the wishes of the followers; i.e. the connective chain works in temporal sequence. My question now, when you consider before Christianity were the other Greek mystery religions and before that Tammuz and Adonis and especially Osiris in Egypt -- can we be sure these different religious groups are experiencing different entities -- or rather isn't it just the names which differ? And if it is all one entity which holy-possesses all of them, under a variety of names (call it Jim Pike, Jesus or Osiris), then what in actuality is this holy spirit who has distinct human but transfigured personality (in my case, if not Jim Pike then who?). Maybe a demiurge or mediating spirit which has no copula possibility; i.e. no intrinsic name, such as we have? Maybe -- after 14 months all I really know is that I don't know anything except that it happened to me, and what I saw during that short time was real. That's not much to come down from the mountain with, for the edification of my people. Maybe there just is no common language between our space-time universe and the Eternal World, or common concepts; or ours just don't really apply. The best and clearest part, though, is that evidently it happened in response to my painted-in-the-corner desperation, which tells me that the forces or entity(ies) were assisting me out of agape; and, the news which it finally worked up to (St. Sophia) is of utmost worth, of unparalleled good (of what? Paralleled maybe?). Perhaps this is true, that we have come to the end of an Aeon of Sorrows (about 2000 years); and what I heard is an angel announcement, the announcement ("your young men shall have visions and your old men shall dream dreams"). This fits with my 2 75 vision of the new springtime, which was visually identified with the structure Santa Sophia, out there among the palm trees in the hot sun. And finally, "The Buddha is in the park" makes it universal, as a message, and no parochrial. It is a message of universal redemption and hope and help for mankind -- for the echosphere in general, if I understand my dreams about animals and polluted lakes. I can see where it is an enormous task, really beyond our ability, when we (I mean religious leaders, those actually into forming religions and subsects) struggle with such a titanic fiery wind from another universe, a far vaster reality in all respects...trying to codify it, put it into linguistic categories, trying to figure it out, cope with the enormous paradoxed which effortlessly transcend and defy human reason -- priests from the time of the Cro-Magnon through Sumer, Egypt, the Greek mystery religions, on down to Calvin and Luther and Tillich -- we're all getting massive headaches and sitting up all night trying and trying to explain to ourselves and to write it down coherently...the secular world supposes that religion is a fake and a snare and we've got nothing to offer but a lot of flak talk, but in fact the reality behind the words is so far removed from what we can comprehend that our problem is really trying to reduce it and make our kind of sense out of it, and always failing, failing and never giving up, knowing what it means but never being able to get it right, never, never, always seeing something new or previously unseen, always understanding it better, giving up and then starting over, getting closer and closer; wondering if we were meant to try this. But it's a way of remembering what happened. Of recalling it. The prolonged, arduous work shows that something happened. As they say in modern semantics and philosophy: the word "banana" points to something which we call a banana but isn't, because "banana" is the word, not the thing pointed to. In this case the disparity between the words and the thing pointed to are probably the greatest possible. In 14 months I've found that my experience fits every description of personal mystic religious experience and none, every specific religion and none: each system or explanation works as well as any other, but none really is congruent; there is always a part left over, and in the night that small unexplained part or fact grows like the mustard seed or the leaven until it is the whole loaf or landscape by morning. It's as if the experience itself were alive. If I were going to pick one tantalizing aspect I can't account for, and would give an arm and a leg to do so, it is that when my experience began I had the acute impression, absolutely real and unshakable, that I had been seeing the universe backward all my life, or somehow insideout, which is also the same as backward -- reversed, going in the "wrong way," which means that I had suddenly begun to see it not just going in the opposite direction, but correctly, at last. It wasn't just time alone going in reverse; it was like instead of being inside a sphere-like universe, I was now outside on the skin. Inside was outside, the future was controlling the past, the smallest least valuable objects assumed tremendous importance, there was solemn and vital information in near-silence. And then I read in the Gospel of Thomas where Christ says something like, "The Kingdom will come when the outer is the inner, the bigger the smaller, the man the woman," etc., except he says, "the image the image," as if that is the one constant. Maybe it's a Jungian psychological reversal of all functions and aspects of the psyche, the not-I becoming the I, etc. But -- "random" juxtopositions of writing produced meaningful --God-sent, in fact-- information. "The stone rejected by the builder," maybe, whatever that means. (The meaningless became meaningful, esp. in arrangement; and the ultimate, found in much mystical writing: the void and God were found together, as if God, when as last experienced, turned out to be nothing, which is like what Erigina used to say: Literally, God is not. Maybe we have our entire set-ground system wrong; every feature we extract through isolated scrutiny (as important) is really background, and vice versa. But you can't overcome this by switching your focus to what you'd considered background before; it is in the self-creating (deciding on) of set that the error lies. We select (or are trained to select) set. Maybe this is primarily a basic shift in the visual system whereby the whole set-ground discrimination ends and a new or different kind of sight obtains. No attempt is made at any level in the eye-brain mechanism to extract features; ground and set and allowed to blend, and then reality itself, without our making a preconceived programmed trained habitual effort, is allowed to swim around until certain facets or linking regularities in it intrinsically, not projected by us or sought for, not discriminated by our brains but actually there, register us ultra-real. These might be regarded as patterns, I guess. Some thread of recognition might call them to our attention, some forgotten memory; we recognize a friend. Lie a creature with compound eyes, maybe we trace movement as such. Or utilize paralaxis and extract only that which has true depth; or rely on color formations. The last, color, could act to inscribe far-ranging patterns around us hitherto unsuspected, being partly in what was set partly in what was ground. How about a 3-dimensional moving color forming messages of construction and comfort? From a total relaxation (a giving up) of the automization of perception, the "model of the universe" each of us builds -- through weariness or despair or fear; it breaks down to reveal the koinos kosmos beneath, which to our surprise is like the Magic Garden. My contribution to Deikman's study of this is, We like to be able to recognize everything. To know (label) what it is. Our early textbooks teach us to do this (horse, cow, cat, mother). Once we have identified everything, then reality has passed away and we're in a world of the familiar, stuck there because we wanted it that way (it's frightening not to know where you are and what things are around you, when you're little). It's a form of scientific-magic; it depotentiates the menacing and the hostile by abolishing the unknown. The word (category, a sort of ersatz logos) replaces reality, as in TIME OUT OF JOINT; it's perceptual stereotyping. Lazy vision. The trouble is, sitting here for instance, I do