TO SCARE THE DEAD; so that also took place. The 1400 years of creed Christianity produced nothing. It really is a coincidence. . .for example, the day I went into surgery (the only real surgery I've ever had) was the day Nixon announced his resignation speech; it was over. I was peeing into a bottle. God breached time & entered history, to take a hand; but, in leaving, he leaves behind his divine wisdom (in some form) to rule; it won't go back to what it had been for thousands of years. That is the significance of the Santa Sophia message. In other words, He will not allow that tyranny et al to happen again, that lawlessness. Perhaps invisibly, we will be ruled or anyhow it will be with us again -- the wisdom of God. Another coincidence is that the US secret police intelligence program CHAOS against anti-war people ended exactly as my religion experience began: mid-March 1974, perhaps forever. My fear of years duration lifted. But at the time (since CHAOS was concealed from public knowledge, and illegal) I of course didn't know why. As I had sensed someone watching me always, I suddenly sensed no one watching me, and wasn't afraid to talk or to walk the streets any more. How did I know? I felt the oppressive curtain lift. . .and next door, the empty apartment finally rented! Just too too close (mid March) and too too much to be coincidence. The latter half of March 74 was the precise time of the great counter-attack; it was then or never. But my visions pointed to something beyond this world; that no matter how much this world is transformed for the better, another better world, a spiritual Unity with God remains there for us, as the ultimate goal (as for the Neoplatonists). In the long piece which I mailed to Ursula I stressed the uncanny resemblance between UBIK and my experiences: being contacted "by a friend who had died." I attributed the writing to him, too (as in the novel). The friend, though, wasn't Jim Pike but Jesus Christ, I think. I describe it (as I wrote in the piece) and then it happens to me. Well, that isn't Jim Pike. UBIK was written before his death. It has a universality, and anyhow the last ad for UBIK tells us what it's about; it makes clear that Ubik is God -- actually Christ (before such was I am). The resemblance to UBIK was so striking and so great that there had to be a reason, which is to say a common root underlying both -- and I knew it without being able to explain it. Certainly Jim Pike didn't explain it. Also, there is another element in UBIK which I noticed in my 3 74 experience: the regression of things, i.e. things moving backward in time. (I don't think until now I noted both these themes as being in UBIK as well as in my 3 74 experience.) Thus the resemblance is even more startling and meaningful than I noted in the piece I sent Ursula. Surely in some fashion the same experience is taking place. Well, in the book, they are dead and experiencing the supernatural or spiritual or next or other universe/world. That I hit on the form-regression implies to me, right now, that the Holy Spirit (which moves backward in time) underwrote the book in some way, to cause me to insert that element. But I possessed no conscious concept or knowledge of Christianity which would have permitted me to depict is so essentially. Furrow, grave, cold-pac. This was a much later copula on my part. This is how it takes place, as in the book with them, stripped of the particularities of time & place. If one extrapolates, one has it -- proof: my 3 74 experience! As I say (supra) someone must call to you, a departed concerned boss or friend after you die; who else could that be but Christ? Only I heard his voice now, which is to say, as the Caris people say, in some fashion we are dead already now (spiritually dead, I guess). We are in cold-pac, I guess. This is why after the Ursula piece I dreamed whole scenes from UBIK. Of course, what I ask is, Is there any possibility that we are in a mutually hallucinated world, like the people in UBIK, a fake world, and that we are dead/have died, like them? After all, I did see this world as somehow cardboard, an illusion (vide Parmenides); is that the implication of what I saw? The womb-like place around us/me, with all the light-color signals, and word-signals being flashed to me? Are they trying to revive me, and for a moment I came to, then sank back? I think they roused me deliberately temporarily, not with the try to make it permanent at least then; I had work to do; it was a crisis, special situation "the trumpet's loud clamour doth call us to arms!"). What I was inside, like a great living whale, must have been Brahmin. . . . I kept dreaming of us as animals in a stagnant pond, interpreting this as our planet. But suppose it's not our planet, but our entire space-time universe, viewed from the next (Neoplatonist type) one? The "helium-filled balloons," then, which rise -- those are our souls. This is also the next stage in our evolution. But the pond has become so stagnant, now; few "balloons" rise. It is sad. . . . We must be an early stage in a life-form which metamorphoses into higher space-time continu[?] These dreams/visions weren't ETI viewpoint, but religious in nature, a religious insight into our condition. Maybe it is at the bottom of the pond that we hear his voice. I think what those dreams/visions consist of, is you can develope a working (total) view based on them alone, but everything which religion deals with -- our situation, etc. It's all in there somewhere. We're not so much "dead" or half-dead but half-alive -- exactly as it's called in UBIK, but working the other way: the missing part has never been alive; it lies ahead, not behind us. We weren't deprived of it. We didn't have it once. We are yet to have it, are working toward it, being drawn, called (as by the elan vital of evolution, of life) toward (upward toward) it. A newt after all is "alive," but it is only part of the life it will eventually achieve (if all goes well). As Paul says, the physical body (which we have) comes first; then the spiritual (which we don't have, which Christ gives us). My gosh, we are being grown here (in this pond), and aided (on all sides, which is what I saw). The Battle of Armageddon must occur before Christ returns (which I believe is what is signified by "Santa Sophia reborn" and by the TEARS dream). From Elijah and what he does (vide), then the battle. In my opinion, the world (via the battle) is being changed now to make way for "Santa Sophia" to be reborn, so I haven't lived through that part. I.E. I haven't seen Christ reborn yet, just heard the news and seen the vision of the dancing King in his springtime -- but I don't think he is here yet. Still, I did see it/him. I just don't know. . .either I have been "Born Again" into the Kingdom of Heaven, through Christ; or I have been made ready by Elijah in preparation for the Second Advent. Well, what I myself heard was, "Santa Sophia will --" etc., which suggests the Second Advent. That's the message I personally got. And there do seem to be great historical Armageddon-like changes on the earth, for all men, which doesn't fit the "Born Again" theory, not at all. Also, my visions of springtime & the dancing king and the ring of iron -- they all suggest the actual transformation of the world. (The Parousia.) Anyhow, people who are "Born Again" don't experience what I did. The reconcilliation (there is one) would be if the Parousia like the Kingdom of God itself come purely on an individual basis, and hence a true & authentic being "Born Again" entail not just entering the Kingdom of God, but also the other events in the Parousia. . .this interpretation is possible. I think what it is, it illustrates the answer to the problem, How about the unfortunate people who die before Christ returns? Answer: they have the experience I have had. They get it ahead of time, the whole thing, in each person's individual idios kosmos. (I.e. If you're not going to live until the Parousia arrives, it'll be brought to you, ahead of time, so to speak.) My experience indicates how a basic, chronic problem is overcome regarding Christian experience with the Final Things; certainly the early Christians wondered about this, what if they died before the Day of Judgment, and they all did; and this, what happened to me, is what was given to them (happened to them). I think this explains it. I guess in 3 74 my time had sort of run out; my string had been run out all the way. . .which is exactly how I felt about it subjectively. By this I mean mainly not the Day of Judgement, but His return, which they all expected soon. . .I guess it was soon for them (as stragglers, so the speak; he turned back, into time, for them. . .perhaps came back from the far end of time for them -- was this the spirit I saw moving retrograde in time, then? Him coming this way, in this case for me?) . . . The Bible says, "Except a man be born again (i.e. 'born from above,' or baptized by the Holy Spirit) he cannot enter the Kingdom of God." I am sure this happened to me, and perhaps more. A second birth, achieved by the Holy Spirit coming down to me; I'm sure it was that. This would create a Second Adam or New Man (in the old language, "free of sin," which is to say, "free of the sting of death," which means he --I-- can inherit eternal life). The problem in the world is not evil it is death. . . . In Aristotle the one sould of the 3 which is immortal is the one which seeks to know (seeks sophia). "My divine children, whom I am preparing." (dream) The Moth, which in descending can be viewed as progressively illuminating every sector of the landscape (past present and future) simultaneously. Its light is white like moonbeams. It is always getting closer but it has never arrived, which is to say, touched down at one point only. (i.e. at one instant.) From fatigue I've failed to put down a lot. But the descending Moth exhibits in model form how an entity or universe outside time enters one confined by linear time. It is a throughout matter -- i.e. throughout in the lesser, linear universe, as if the whole landscape is light-spattered. It took me over 12 hours to realize that the descending Moth, like a hollow Japanese paper lantern, was actually a ship landing, a huge one. This was the ultimate vision for me, this great light-giving ship identified in the dream only as the "Moth," which I guess is its individual name. Thus I am enabled to conceive what up to this point I couldn't conceive, the way the "Kingdom" enters our world, the relationship it has to our world constantly, etc. (Those two are the same: how it enters and its constant relationship.) (It is a constant entering, as the EB macro says, but I couldn't conceive this. Now I can.) The maximum linear-time entry point has already been fixed, and entry has begun ("the loading had begun"). We are experiencing or