This is how the R[oh]rs[c]hach blots work; they intristically have no content; all is projected. If we ask, "Why do I see Mickey Mouse and not Teddy Roosevelt, when I know it should be Teddy Roosevelt?" I point it that there is a piece missing and that when it is added probably the discrepincy between what you see (MM) and what you should see (TR) will be abolished, and only the Gute-Forme TR will remain. Thus, the dokos will finally lift. When the development toward completion of this overall pattern is equated with evolution in general, it is evident that we do not worship this god, who is the Creator, but rather the God who enters and picks up the pieces allowed to drop to the workroom floor -- "The stone rejected by the builder shall be my cornerstone," as our God, Christ, put it. There is one God of the total section, the universe as entelechy, and a God of each discarded subsection, that it, too, in some miraculous way, will not perish. It is evident in what manner the universe --the developed completly evolved pattern-- will not perish, but what about those of us who were sacrificed or lost out along the way? The principle of "those who did not make it" is a major principle and includes many. My dream of the man who created life from the atom, to the comic strip baby to Kathy -- that procession was the universe moving toward completion, and this ruthless march forward injured a bystander, casualties were involved: the lamb, specifically, as represented in the dream as Tessa, who needed medical assistance from the good scouts who were coming in to the vast building. We seek help, but the Creator is concerned with the total structure, not with the rejected bits; if there were only this God and not Christ, what a juggernaut the cosmos would be. We would all perish, ant-like, in the service of the final gestalt or pattern (Darwin et al believed in just such a world). But we seek another God, that of the defeated and powerless. When first the vision of Christ as the God who goes along invisibly behind the flock and picks up those who can't keep up, who fall - this at first seems like a small matter, from a nonethical standpoint; how vital a principle is illustrated here? But if the universe is still in process, if continual creation is going on, then maybe "the lambs who could not keep up" represent every one and every thing sacrificed along the route of creation; it might include all of us, since it is possible that all of us will not make it into the final completed pattern. We really have nowhere to go for help but to Christ. NB: The difference between Ghosticism and Neoplatonism is basically that (one) the Neoplatonists believed you could achieve it yourself, whereas (two) the Gnostics believed that the Redeemer did it for you. I think that (two) the Gnostics are correct; it is not something which you acheive, but which (as God's Grace) is sent to you. . . I finally tied it all up: the phosphene graphics were exactly like the Auroras. Probably I thought of this already, but the significance escaped me. Pattern or blueprint -- the Logos. The Aurora is energy, in the ionosphere, is plasmic, and is involved with solar flares: is radiation. It acted as a cathode ray tube with my optic nerve as screen. . . On the "Decoded New Testament": It agrees with my experiences of the whole last year. They say it comes via the sun; the sun acts as a transducer (so to speak) between Creator and visible universe, a sort of nexus. There is the solar spermatikos, which impregnate men's souls, which enter us as divine immortal seeds. (One to a person.) That would make God the father; is the human being, then, merely the host for this, for Firebright, as I understand to call mine? Or am I the other parent? (The second birth of the New Testament.) It is also me born again; the second birth is mine; so I am a parent, not merely a host. We have here a true duplex entity, not a parasite. I merge with and gradually, by degrees, become Firebright, who is growing. I --physically speaking-- can get sick and be killed; not so Firebright (the karmic body, so-called). You can't make this happen. God does it. How exciting, and yet I knew all this, from Firebright (i.e. the Logos, the microLogos). . . "The Decoded N.T." shows that there are others like me, and they know who and what they are, and have joined together. There is nothing I know that they don't. This answers one of my most pressing questions; the answer is Yes. This whole thing is really real. That I was given this...crucial stations, I suppose, which fan out in all directions (of my London "speech"). But I did see what they haven't said: the absolute purposefulness of everything, and the retrograde method of making it all work to a point. What happened to me (Firebright) had a certain history -- if you read backward along linear time: my works and my life, in oddly contrasting ways, make the experience although in no sense predictable, at least sensible. . . . In discussion with Loren Cavit: what I saw in 3 74 may not have been "Seeing the universe backward, reversed, etc." but I may have in fact seen a mirror opposite universe, reversed, with time naturally travelling backward...and processes reversed, so that (this is hard to phrase) these processes blend with forward moving processes in our own universe, and in that fashion so seen signify nothing to us; but when seen correctly (i.e. reversed, in their true mirror opposite universe) these drab processes attain great meaning and can be identified by us as for instance the Logos at work. Forward-moving, the work of the Logos is undistinguished and appears to lead nowhere; but we are mis-perceiving as a part of our universe what is really a vital factor in the mirror opposite universe. This is why I kept exclaiming that I was seeing time moving backward, but, more importantly, why I exclaimed with conviction, "I have been seeing the mirror universe backward," and why I felt suddenly I had seen the universe pulled inside out -- and reversed (and why I felt we had always seen just a mirror image of reality, a reflection -- and hence reversed. The true universe is the reverse of ours; the "mirror opposite" is somehow more real, more true; ours is a mere picture of it. The mirror opposite universe is the actual universe: essence versus phenomena. This would well express the relationship between dokos or maya or phenomena and reality; the former are a picture of a mirror opposite actual universe. It is not instantly possible to figure out what each item in our universe would look like if reversed; simple notions (backwards, going the other way, etc.) are inadequate. Like writing held up to the mirror in our world; if we hold up "mirror writing" suddenly we can read what had been unreadable. What was chaos (blur) becomes cosmos (in focus), simply by reversing it; processes, i.e. which made no sense now make sense. We are attempting to formulate theories about processes we see running "backward," but rather more precisely "reversed," or like, "inside-out." No wonder the universe seems weird to us. This is the mystery secret of like Christianity (real xtianity). It would be a[n] error to say this mirror opposite universe is invisible in another dimension -- it is visible to us, to our senses, but like a monochromatic person, we blend it with our forward-moving processes, not discriminating it out. We must turn our monovectoral (unidirectional flow-perception) into two perceptions showing both directions visually. We see these processes backwards; but we see them, and they are all "gray," i.e. the color of the picture universe: forward-linear. If one were to abruptly (for the first time) see processes flowing in a reversed time way, and be able to recognized them at once, and see them as coherent, this would be excellent proof that these process were now being seen properly; i.e. in accord with their actual direction of development. Otherwise, one would expect the person to be confused for a very long period, to be able to make nothing out clearly. Were he to see famous entities such as the Logos and know them for what they were, almost at once -- this would indicate very much as to the more correct view here than the forward (picture) one he'd been experiencing. (Even if he knew nothing of Parmenides' proof of the dokos.) It's a simple, "Now it makes more sense...viewed this way." A resolution of a picture is its own proof of its own correct resolution: when the picture swims into clarity and focus and one can tell, at last, what it is...the visage of God, in my case. That makes of reality a sort of code, which we kept running through (like a tape) different ways, until finally we thought to reverse it (which doesn't merely mean backward but maybe inside out; x cf tape processes where a tape can be played inside out, not merely reversed). We are not stabilizing what we experience correctly; if enlightenment comes as soon as we run it "inside out," which is also automatically in a reversed way, then it is evident that our senses should be striving to do this; or anyhow to pick up the picture of the universe and the mirror opposite as well; and certainly not blending them into one signal. Messages are arriving in red and green and we are monochromatic; the resulting blur makes little sense. At this point I would make this guess: that the universe is not running backward and we see it forward; if that were so, we would have recorrected our impressions of it; I think that there are two flows, and we see both as running forward, which is not true. There is perhaps the main flow, or the more powerful flow, which does run forward; but there is a subtle, mild, mirror opposite running inside out and reversed, and it seems to be a sort of intelligence capable of affecting our forward flow, in crucial ways. That is my summation: the mirror opposite universe is a weak, living, intelligent mind which alters the configuration of reality in its backward-moving time flow so as to benefit our total flow, which is to say, the forward one we normally see. . . [x] A final note: Loren Cavit heard late one night on a DJ talk show and disc program what I heard that I could not believe: a switch from music and chatter to programming, of us. This is true onset of my experience, the true shock: to wake up and hear my radio programming me in a vile way at night. Loren several years ago heard her radio doing that. I think we really heard it. Who it was, or why -- neither of us knows, but there was an obscure tyranny which fell, and this was part of it; it was invading our minds using modern sophisticated electronic subliminal thought control manipulative techniques. Probably it was a satellite over-ride, beamed directly to our sets, our receivers, with the voice of the DJ simulated; probably it was by the Soviets. That a girl so sane and responsible would have heart it, confirms what I have thought all this time. We got help, from outside, to throw all this into ruin. As in Ray Nelson's story "Eight O'clock in the Morning" we woke up -- "Sleepers Awake!" (And found the springtime had come.) The mirror opposite universe. It is not --repeat NOT-- another universe, but this one reflected. Thus as Parmenides said, Form