followed and am free to run and run) are reassurances that my improved state is permanent. I just had a thought: when the words came to me, "Santa Sophia is going to be reborn; she was not acceptable before," I interpreted this 'Santa Sophia' to refer to the Christos, making use of the concept in John of Christ being the Logos. But in fact, uninterpreted, what I heard simply states that the "Wisdom of God," which is the Firstborn Son of God, or the Logos, or the Word, will be reborn -- not the Christ, although that may be true; it's an additional interpretation, however, and may have misled me. It is the Logos which is back for sure, according to those words that I heard, and the emphasis should be on that. What is more striking would be Logos...born which seems now to have referred me back to "Logos spermatika," the fertilizing or creating Logos, and to the entire doctrine of the "Dec N T" and Philo's ideas, without necessarily involving the Messiah (another concept entirely; the Persians had the Logo spermatikos, for example). I certainly should consider this view first. I assumed that Santa Sophia reborn meant Christ because the anticipation of His rebirth is so vast in us...but now I think I let an unquestioned thought take over, when the more accurate was available to me already, but buried (this is what the "Dec N T" is into, this rebirth of/by the Logos seeds). (And is related to Christ.) This certainly would be equal to what the "D[e]c N T" calls, "God breaking his long silence." As I understand the Logos, it is both the agency by which God created the universe, the building plan or blueprint thereof, and the word by which the creator, the Unbounded, communicates with Man; it is also within the macrocosm and in each of us as microcosmoi. It does not save us after we fall, as Christ does, but on the other hand, he didn't create the universe. In any case it is the median between God and Man expressed as thought or wisdom ([S]ophia). Perhaps it is what I view as immanent Mind: God purely as that which thinks more accurately is the Logos (if not, then what is the Logos? How do they differ? God also creates, but the Logos does that. The Logos is God active, I guess.) Anyhow, this has been recast by God. The silence is broken. And I felt it that day when the first light (this year, 1975) up by the palm trees and the post office, the first springtime, must have struck my pineal body deep within me (Kathy: Santa Sophia as woman) alas, in the grass). It began to happen this spring, perhaps. . . Here is something hard to express, but important. Going back to Plato and Neoplatonists. If the soul remembered each life, and if there is reincarnation, and if the soul acquired wisdom each time around, THEN what I experienced (anamnesis) is exactly the breadth and magnitude of wisdom commensurate with these many live, and of the quality which this and only this wisdom -- acquired this long, laborious way-- could consist of, could have gathered. What I saw (space and time), what I understood (how the universe worked), my total awareness, is exactly understood commensurate with the Platonist and Neoplatonism (and Pythagorian) idea of rising each time, rising but forgetting, and the value of anamnesis, the removal of amnesis. What was remembered was the wisdom and understanding that was the aggerate of all these lives, and proportionate thereto (consider how many...perhaps thousands). Nothing else really was retained (although the dreams show local details sufficiently). But of all that I understood, a union with God by means of the Logos meant most to me. To rise up, assisted by the Logos. The double action: reaching up/reaching down. The Guide (Erasmus). qed I think that my seeing the Levant in Feb 1975 is as important, although less striking, as my seeing Rome in March 1974. In both cases, the thrall of time was removed, disclosing the eternal world, in Dante's sense. A transition had been made in that world (it is hard for someone unacquainted with Medieval thought to understand progression in eternity, but the basis would be a progression or procession of Platonic archetypes[.] The archetype in March 1974 was Rome and Iron and Slavery, with a corresponding need to fight for freedom, truth and justice; however, a year later, a year in our world, disclosed a tremendous movement in the eternal world: with the thrall of time removed, we saw the freer world of Justinian, with its palm branched waving, the same palm I see in the Greek letters of the FISH sign and which I associated with the mushroom. The scene had shifted from Rome, or anyhow Roman rule, to the legitimate elements of the Middle East: the building of temples (I saw the post office as such), and people lounging around...it was a vast improvement, and a moving forward hundreds of years. It was also crucially different, a different archetype imprinting from beneath (the way trigrams print out, only they are purely rotary, and there are just 8 of them). Is it possible that orthogonal time is archetypal in the sense of the way the trigrams underlie and progress? Orthogonal time would not progress by increments (clock time), but move from type to type. What is interesting, for me, is that both these "dysfunctions" are into Roman times: the first circa 100 AD, the second circa 500 AD. Then if you include when I was loaded, you're into 1450 AD (Erasmus), but that is different. Anyhow 400 years in the Real World (Eternal World) changed -- "passed" is the wrong verb. These are like scene changes for a play. They take place outside of the drama, and one gives way entirely to the next, to which it bears no logical or intrinsic relationship (a road gives way to a city building, for instance; time and place both are transformed, and there is no causal progression, like the road slowly becoming the city building). Which brings up my "schlockmeister" movie dream: our world as a set, of valleys and rivers and trees, which the schlockmeisters have polluted, and how angry the "owner of the property" is. They, the director, cameraman, producer, were to do His property, and look at the schlock job they're doing; hence his ire. The first time, in 3 74, the pure springtime was tainted by the ring of iron; but in 75 it was gone! And so I felt pure springtime those days, and marvelled much. But -- the instincts (and certainly what were fired at me as signals were what, when animals recieve them, we call instincts) the instincts that appear in springtime are those connected with the vast cycle of reproduction, of mating and giving birth. For me it was a metabirth, or spiritual, but the timing of these instincts is further proof (indication, maybe) of their nature. Also, they were mixed with survival instincts of a metanature, but leading ultimately to reproduction, arising out of my survival; that is, I survived (and had the instincts for that, first) that I could reproduce in a spiritual or meta fashion. Survival-to-reproduce-to-survive is normally a closed system, which baffles us as to what is means and what is ends; but in this, the reproduction is the goal, since it is higher; this was not a closed cycle. What was born (Firebright) was not a mere replica of what had formerly survived (me). Perhaps Firebright was formed in 75; it was in 75 that I had the "Saint Sophia" experience, for personal life; but this was followed gently and easily in 75 by the Saint Sophia Second Birth, the non-defensive metasystems. I think there was no taint of personal survival and the meta instincts therefore in 75, but in 74 certainly of primary need were the instincts for my survival, defensive in nature; this explains the ferocity I felt, the awareness of combat, of an antagonist. None of that in 75; in springtime when the pineal body was reignited, only the St. Sophia cycle remained, and was pleasurable, as reproduction should be. It is always necessary that an organism survive intrinsically if it is to reproduce. If Firebright was to be born --the young beardless king-- in 75 I had to live on into 75; this required the warrior instincts of 74, which were successful. "The trumpet's loud clamor doth call us to arms," for 74; then for 75 the Purcell "St. Cecelia's Day Ode." I guess combat comes before mating, and the worthy survive and reproduce, and thus the species is strengthened; the dynamics which we see here with, say, deer, are the same for the metaworlds; if I had not proved capable of survival, I would not have had a chance to give birth to Firebright, the young king of springtime: the root and the star. Certainly during spring 74 I was personally aware of my need to survive, and that the Logos was assisting me to do this. I don't recall any strong sense of the spermatika, except theoretically; that I was achieving, by surviving, not temporary life, but somehow eternal life. But the remaining part of that came this spring...no wonder they wanted to strengthen me physically, "in this world." Also, what I experienced was ad Adjustment, in terms of the palintonos, and palintropos harmonie systems. The great entity which we call God, Immanent Mind being better a term, adjusted imbalances at that time, and this started up a lot of signalling. Probably I was part of a palintropos change, an oscillation outward (expanding) with what had been in the Taoist sense "too filled up," also the Greek sense (hubris) forced back, made Yinnish, retractile; this contributed to maintaining the total palintonos harmonie of the Universe/Mind. I was made into an active (Yangish) station of that change, and felt it, felt the signals coming to me; this is what appeared to be --or was-- possession by the God or Elijah, also divine intervention (to restore harmonie). Of course this is a constant process, but usually I am not a part of it in that sense, being shifted from retractile (Yinnish) so abruptly on signals; this served the purposes of justice (to aid me) and of justice (to deal out defeat to the haughty, whoever they were). A whole subsystem in the total universe must have started firing abruptly -- just as my brain did when I took the w.s. vitamins. Where this gave me the unique chance to see that the universe is not the sum total of all the objects in it, but the laws governing it (the harmonie systems, etc.) is that: between me and my environment (read establishment) there was a severe imbalance. If no God, Immanent Mind, Unbounded or Logos existed, the restitution of equilibrium between me and this environment would have had to be brought about by one or more of the objects which fill this universe -- me, or other people, etc., or visible forces. One or more of us would have had to act deliberately to bring about equilibrium. No one did; in fact, the imbalance was pushed further and further. What acted was the Immanent Mind which carries within it (the Container of all the objects) me and everyone else including my total environment. That this realm exists is not an object of knowledge to our society; it used to be called The Gods, in the Greek sense, not in the Hebrew sense (vide all studies thereon). Well, our society, inadequately informed on what the pre-Socratics knew, and the mystery religions and other Greek thinkers knew, continues on unaware of the forces which ultimately govern. I will astonish myself and say, not noos (which would make the universe a bunch of thoughts by the noos). I'd say -- as psyche to soma!