are saying). We are lacking Him and His assistance. I therefore took the couse, last night, of denying the testimony of my senses, and said: God is at work in the world but below the surface; so that evil, although empirically evident, is not actually in control as it appears to be. Further, I realized, a discernment past superficial reality shows evil to be or anyhow at one time in the past (prior to 8 94) to have been in the saddle in a much deeper way than it allowed us to see; in other words, evil masked its own power, the more to control and enslave us. So at first step, a penetration into the heart of reality showed it even more evil, or in the control of evil, than did mere superficial analysis. However, below the ring of iron around us (Rome, as the metaphor goes), I saw that God had breached, penetrated, and in fact made hollow this evil, and turned it into a shell by something transforming it from within, into its opposite...which made me recall Taoism, and I think it was Empedocles -- one of the pre-Socratics, he or Hericlitus, I suppose, the point being that one of them had argued that any quality contains its opposite within it and will be transformed into it (yin into yang, etc.) if pressed far enough. What this then yielded to in my thinking was the concepts of palintropos and palintonos, the whole "trampoline" structure of reality in which there is balance and equilibrium established as a regular matter of course. What I had done last night in effect was changing my view from seeing what happened in 3 74 as a miracle to an occurance of law, in the sense of ma'at and even of science, as a regularity ("for every action there if an equal and opposite reaction," etc). In other words, what happened in 3 74 always happens or put another way had to happen and will therefore happen again, can be counted on to happen again, given the circumstances. In a sense therefore it was not supernatural, nor an invasion of normal order, at least not as I have conceived it all along. However, it was Divine intervention and deliberate. I think now about Spinoza's analysis of miracles. This is the real fabric of reality. What I saw was an extreme example, as the long New Yorker 6-part piece on the Constitutional Crisis discloses. There was an extreme action, hence an extreme reaction (the parabola effect). I was there and saw it happen: everything in me and around me start its return journey. The turning point came, and Retreat (to go to the I CHING) transformed --I mean was transformed by the Immanent Mind-- into Advance. I conceive of this in Tao-istic and Greek terms: Tao and Mind together, like a sentient, thinking, loving Tao; which is I think ma'at. 3 74 was indeed a special, even unique occasion, but only in degree (and in that I got to see it, for some reason). (It doesn't matter why I got to see it; I did and that is that.) Hence my acute feeling that the end of a long roll of film had a new roll, a very different roll, had been inserted. The parabola effect, carrying me with it. I must have made myself, or anyhow been, very receptive (Yinnish) to the forces active in the universe at that moment. When hex 36 changed to some other good one, I was carried along. I must have, as the Taoists or Zen people, somebody anyhow, says, made myself empty (wu). For hours last night I had in a blissful trance, sensing the capacity of the universe to rebound, its elasticity. You can't break it; it will regain its "shape" after any deformity sets in. Probably this is connected to the vision I had to the two-person game at work: move and counter-move would be action and reaction, a reaciton to restore wholeness, harmony and balance. Too, a vast law of karma is involved --and disclosed-- here. I do not need personally to react to everything; the universe will do much of that (which provides a basis for understanding Christ's ethical system; when you're hit you don't hit back, but rather you let this universal ma'at or Tao do it for you). Really, for Christ's ethical system to work one must presuppose some universal system of recompense (which He does), much like this; it is important to recall that ma'at is judge of the dead, with her feather weighed in the scales against the deceased's heart. Having experience this blissful mystical understanding of it all, everything I've been into from 3 74 to now, I am thinking, Perhaps I can infer that the Parousia are not here in any universal or objective sense; but surely for me, as an individual, the entire sequence of depicted events came -- and in the order described. Which causes me to ask, If as Meister Eckehart says, the Kingdom of God is within the Soul of each person (i.e. an entirely individual, inner event) then is not the entire realm of the Parousia, all of it, within the inner individual soul of one person-at-a-time? But if so, then why do not other people report my experience as theirs? Over 2000 years there is no individual report like mine, except perhaps Eckehart? Well, no matter how I cut it I will have trouble explaining some parts. It is possible that in some way, or for some reason, I somehow (this is heavy) died but did not die. Vide the photo of me. I passed by degrees across to the other side, and then returned, reborn. Let me assert as a possibility this: that as Teilhard de Chardim says --mankind following Christ as a species along through the stations of the cross-- I went through the vicarious experience of the Passion... or was it vicarious? It was real. That all took place, had to take place, to usher in 3 74, the rebirth. As Hoyt Axton says, "Most people want to fly to heaven, they're not willing to climb." In an effort to understand how this parabolic reverse-direction comes about I turn to the I CHING (by memory, alas) about the "seeds of the future being buried in the present." Always, the seeds, concealed, of the future are here now, if we had a method of discerning them, which could mean set-ground discrimination; anyhow, I am at this moment in sudden wild ecstacy, because viewed this way such "Logos material," as I've called it as the dream in TEARS, plus Prelude's song "After the Goldrush" are very likely --wow!!!!!-- such seeds of the future emerging as fragments of that impending, cohering future, now. This would set them apart from all the objects and contituents which are purely part of the present. How extraordinary it would be to all at once see (would you believe in a special illuminated red and gold shimmer of color???) these seeds wherever you looked. You would be seeing tomorrow! It would enthrall you, as it time had moved backward: the future building itself here and now. You might then manage to discern the shape of future things, the pattern emerging. (Or you might not.) Well, then by this token, what I have seen indicates the Parousia, so we are back to it as an objective forthcoming event! There is a great mystery about the Kingdom of God, as to where it is, and the Parousia in general; it is in you, but also among you, and it is invisible but actual. He must mean it is transpersonal. When you participate (yes, that is it); you enter it -- did He not use this key word? You enter it; therefore it already exists before you and outside you, which indicates objective existence (contrast, "I entered sadness," a state of mind). It is real and it is there; one by one we enter it, or we don't. We cross over and enter, leg by our shepherd. In response to the sound (sic) of his voice (sic). A place of safety and peace, where we remain with Him. We find our way to it (recall my vivid experience in 3 or 4 74 in seeing a pylon or archway with a silvery moon-lit world beyond, and Greek letters -- silence. I could pass through the gate and enter that world beyond; I could see it clearly, first here, then there, now over there, glowing and waiting, open to me. Not in any one spot but glimpsed again and again! That was no subjective state; that was a perception of something real which others couldn't see; a set-ground gestalting. I discerned the doorway repeatedly; it was multilocated and authentic. Not omnipresent but multipresent. The Secret Kingdom, hidden. I moment of fear touches me; did I then fail to pass through that gate and enter it? I think I passed through, because after seeing it (that was quite early along) I then had the holy waste & voice dreams, or visions, visionary trance experiences, where I was with God; that came later, I'm sure; yes, that was later, after the Carmel dream which ushered it in. So I did enter. Now I notice a distinction between "St. Sophia will be reborn," on the one hand, plus other similar material (the Buddha in the park; the Prelude song; the dream in TEARS; these all point to a future event which consists of the Second Advent (I speak plainly, here). Christ's return, the Return of the King -- contrasted to my experiences which are my own individual present, not future, finding the Kingdom of God. The former is for the world; the second an individual matter, a sequence of Parousia through which I individually passed. This is to divide up, for the first time, this all into two categories, of the objective and general; the subjective and individual, both real and interrelated so, so very much so, that up to right now I'd melded them together and viewed them (wrongly) as identical. But they are distinct, although related. My entry into the Kingdom came first, then I perceived such news as the dream in TEARS and Prelude's song; then finally at the end herald voice information came to me auditorily, needing no interpretation. I can say, These came because I myself, I had entered (I hope it's okay to say that). We have an orderly meaningful sequence of events here. They cannot be rearranged in any old fashion ato pleasure or random. When I was little I used to haul out big wooden cartons and boxes to play inside of...it is as if, through the pylon gate, I found my way back to the peace and safety of those cartons of my childhood... God has brought me at last to safety and a realization, at last, of safety, the safety I yearned for and did not have even then (5 years old). Viewed another way perhaps it can be said that I have been brought safely into the fold, after straying all over the landscape. Either way we are talking about the same place. I feel a great peace now, at last, for the first time in my life. This whole period, including 3 74, has been arduous; I had to work hard and hustle after my illumination (3 74), right on down through the months, these 14 months, writing on this as I am doing, reading and researching and writing and meditating in order to understand. I believe I've worn myself out more with this thanwith any previous writing, any novel or group of novels. I have educated myself regarding my experience. Gone to school over it. What does it add up to (at this point in my knowledge)? I passed through the narrow gate in mid-74, and now I am told that He will come back for the world itself, fairly