to give way to the Age of Gold. And the fish sign I saw was made of gold. And I saw around me a prison, a magnet like ring, of iron. Undoubtedly the alchemical meta(crypte)morphosis worked in the human (lead to gold) contains a key to this transformation cycle of all society, of earth itself. After my own transformation, done via gold (the fish wrought in gold) I had a ferocity about --a maniacal antipithy toward-- lead in particular, base metals secondarily, but certainly a sense that lead was a poison, destroyer of life, killer of health (the dream: "The bichlorides are a very poisonous poison" suggests the alchemical symbol or reality of lead as poison was there in my head -- Albert Magnus, Simon Magnus, et al. I saw the world under the vector-aspect of gold, and I saw the former point or filter color presenting me with the departing base metal, the oncoming gold. It certainly shows that the alchemists were seeking a symbolic transmutation of psyche or maybe noös, not metal qua metal (which Jung and AMORC have pointed out). That something equal to turning lead to gold can happen in the person, in his mind -- this is certainly extraordinary, and makes the upfront alchemist's story (lead to gold) an allegory of man's progress spiritually (again the magic of the mystery religions). So in considering what happened, how it happened, who (if anyone) arranged it and what for, the alchemists and what they actually were up to must be considered. This could have been a spontaneous process in me, in which I obtained that very lead-to-gold transmutation sought for by the alchemists...that they sought this is certain; that they found it is speculation. I am sure many of them did undergo this crypte morphis, invisible to the outside. It is possible that I did it alone (the experimentation with the ortho molecular vitamins and so forth being my "alchemical experiments"), but it is also possible that a Redeemer caused it adventitiously (Gnosticism versus Neoplatonism). The spontaneousness of it would indicate that, like any true chemical reaction, it is not reversable. I think that the first dream being the baby's cereal box with the "the bichlorides are" etc on it indicates an external Grace assistance or intervention; I was and am being told by someone else...which the AI system of Albert Magnus maybe was. (The problem solving question answering head.) The absolute height of wisdom and the goal of its search would be this computer AI system...which is exactly what I'm hooked into, as of 3 74. This was what you got when you were transmuted, this linking up with the infra galactic info grid. It all fits. "Talking head" equals AI teletype sender-receiver. (My "Portuguese States of America" dream is typical. I dreamed all manner of explicit alchemical symbols (the homonculus, the retorts interwoven...flask of Hermes, the fish, etc.), out of Jung's description of the self in the process of psychic integration experiencing noetically these prior consciously arrived at symbols (prior in terms of centuries -- thus his theory of the Collective Unconscious, that such symbols could arise in a modern man who did not know them, who had no way of knowing them -- like me with the Greek. But this is only a beginning; it only shows that the various strata of the past are retained --taped, or engrammed-- in each of us' minds. What are the limits to this knowledge? How far can one go in this process of transformation? Far indeed, a long journey which, as with the two arcs, brings one back to one's starting point (which is why I saw Rome; that was the prior intersection.