February 29, 1975 Dear Henry, I had worked out beyond any reasonable doubt evidence that the ancient deity Dionysos had infused me and made me his back in March of last year. In an article to be printed in England, in a book, I was going to reveal this. However, I have discovered that I have been tricked. It is not the ancient Phrygian god of the vinetree, but Erasmus pretending to be Dionysos. My problem now is that I have toiled in vain in order that Erasmus have his little joke. To his credit, he was delighted when I abruptly guessed that it was him and not Dionysos. Still, after I had enjoyed realization of the clues which Erasmus had left along the way (all of them puns, double puns, and which I always saw solemn and heavy meaning in -- the wrong meaning leading me astray), I discovered that there are in the universe always layers below layers, and that the universe resembles nothing so much as an onion the innermost layer of which is also the outer. For instance, perhaps it filled Dionysos with mirth to pretend to be Erasmus. Would not the god of mirth get off on that? Maybe it is Dionysos pretending to be Erasmus pretending to be Dionysos. Maybe they are the same. I present you with the sort of evidence which deep within the heavy books I read seemed to indicate vast truths undisclosed to most men; viz.: In a dream I was shown that the word "Jesus" is a code, a word made up and not a name at all; those reading the text who knew (the Quamran men, for instance) would see "ZEUS" and "ZAGREUS" combined into the integer "JESUS". It is a substitution code, I think they call it. These idle games of Erasmus, however, had grown stale to me once it was revealed how I'd been taken in by my own proclivity for profundity...however, as I went to get a spelling right for this letter, I found these remarkably similar textual passages: "...I am the root and scion of David, the bright morning star." (REVELATION 22:16, Jesus describing himself.) "Of all the trees that are He hath his flock, and feedeth root by root, The Joy-god Dionysos, the pure star That shines amid the gathering of the fruit." (In Pindar, a favorite of Plutarch.) Jane Harrison in her PROLEGOMENA TO THE STUDY OF GREEK RELIGION, discusses the notion that Dionysos was the same as the ancient Greek philosophical principle of moisture, which makes me recall that the Egyptian god of death was in more precise terms the god of desiccation, the god Set or Sit. Here in the one short stanza of Pindar we have flock, we have trees, we have in addition to these two major symbols of Jesus, terms by which all the exoteri recognize him yet, two more inner terms: the root and the star. Dionysos appeared to the Greeks in vegetable form (root, tree, vine) and animal form (bull). He could influx himself into a human being and be him or her as well, as you and I know. What are names? This is the god of in-toxification, taking in poisons in a quantity small enough not to kill you but large enough for you to be lifted up to see outside space and time, and to come into a relaitonship with those vast powers who run the universe. And then later, "...He is drunken with music, not with wine." (Jane Harrision.) By stealthy degrees Dionysos became Zagreus and then Orpheus. The trouble with Jesus is that he isn't musical. I guess they could use lipsynch, but the fact is, Jesus is Orpheus, and Christianity is the next mirthful dodge which the Loving Dodger has worked on us, those whom he loves. I have this vision of Him: much like the Hurdy-Gurdy Man: I see Him invisible to us behind us as the flock moves on, and I see small stragglers and old stragglers and stupid stragglers and sick stragglers and stragglers in general who have given up hope or lost energy and have given up to perish as the flock or pack or herd or culture or race marches on, without a look back. And sparkling with light and silently, He emerges and without breaking stride gathers up all the stragglers. Since the flock never looks back or turns back it never sees Him. This is why Luther accurately called our God the "God of the very desperate." This is why the image of the flock and the lamb which has wandered off appear in our sacred writings, and others which refer to this archtypal rescue in stealth. Because of course if the flock knew, they'd stop trudging along and just stand or go back. They're not to know. Now, did Dionysos let me know this because he has taken me, or did Erasmus whisper this to me in dreams because he was such a wise Christian divine and had his own theories, and I'm fronting for him? I know I'm fronting for someone. God or wise old man. With warm personal regards, Phil Dick 1405 Cameo Lane #4 Fullerton, Calif 92631 (N. of Disneyland) Entropy equals disorder. The universe is moving toward entropy. Therefore the universe is moving toward disorder. Forms are order. That which is moving toward form, or completion of form, is moving against disorder or against entropy. Therefore since the [univer] is moving toward disorder (away from form, in lineal time) then that which is moving toward form is moving in an orthogonal or even possible opposite direction from the universe --as such-- and is picking up heat as well as form; i.e. moving toward less disorder, hence more energy. It cannot be that to move toward completion of form is to move toward disorder; hence movement toward form means to gain life, or energy. (V. Kozyrev's theory of left spin as life or energy gaining, right as losing, and that our universe is left spin hence must be moving, ala Bergson, toward energy acquiring, not losing, toward form.) "Growth time" (movement of an entelechy toward completion) must be orthogonal to "decay time," or "wheel spinning time," even if our senses can't sort out these two times at work before us, in us and around us. Some sections (subparts) of the universe are moving backward, then, despite our occluded vision of a single forward lineal stream. We have a monovision in a sense. Blending two signals which should be discriminated. When we do discriminate, we perceive a general forward flow (to decay) but within it a backward flow (v Hericlitus fr 51; the key retractile pulling back oscillation of the bow and lyre). I think they are both present now, and may always be/have been, but we are generally occluded: i.e. one-eyed. It seems unlikely that the retrograde form completing heat-energy gathering time I briefly discerned was there only as so long as I discerned it, and then it departed; is it much more likely, if not certain, that it was there before, and is there now, but that I fell back into monotemporal vision once more. I would be like a blind person who [open] seeing for the first time imagined that the objects were brought into being by his seeing them. No, I saw what I saw because of the [recripocal] tug: the existence of the two times forced me into perceiving them (that which is perceived precedes perception, certainly an axion of reason). If we watched a speeded-up film of a form developing, we would easily discern the latent form within it (which means entelechy, really) press outward into actualization; we would sense it within, and then we would see the inner pressure finally unfold and die away, leaving the completed form without internal energy. Then we would watch decay and disorder begin. (For example, a rose bud developing.) A force, internal, a plan, unfolds energetically, then reaches equilibrium and stasis, then the force dwindles away, becomes feeble, and the completed form is at the mercy, forever, of external forces which formerly the entelechy pressed outward against so effectively. One form of energy (within, growth) has waned, and forces moving toward disorder now prevail. Maybe, if we could discern it, there were two times "visible" or anyhow present. What I noticed most was the total isomorphic relatedness between me and my environment, which I realized to be an animate and concerned entity guiding me by an endless series of engaging signals -- engaging with internal systems of my own; so I was and therefore am still, although the isomorphic relatedness is now invisible to me; it must be there yet, that envolving, living world of kindness and guidance on every side: I move along a narrow path well-marked with signs that I notice and respond to even though in a sense I do not (consciously) any more notice; they still guide me, just as well, like a gutter pipe directs rain water without the water being conscious of it. The "Whale's Mouth" sign of intersecting arcs, which I viewed as representing curved time and curved space -- if each arc represents a form of time (one of them lineal time, the other orthogoal or hyper-time) then this sign could be thought of [a] representing a single previous intersection (in our past) at which the two times came together (around 100 AD), and then each went its own way...but as they were moving in arcs, it was inevitable, by the laws of geometry, that eventually they would once more intersect, perhaps 2000 years or so later (i.e. very soon). These also would represent the two hemispheres of the brain, any human's brain, once before linked, then soaring off orthogonally, but fated by immutable laws to come together again. It's possible that the Christian fish sign concealed these two geometric arcs, intentionally; the arcs would show that the unique event of Christ's First Coming was beyond any doubt to be followed by the second coming or intersection; this was conveyed and concealed and revealed all at once by the fish sign, making sense, too, out of there being both a first and second coming; the arc opened after the first, and each line seemed to separate from the other farther and farther (heaven and earth splitting futher and further apart) but a keen trained eye could discern in this simple drawing the return together lying inevitably ahead; the Promise was ad hoc true. Put another way, when viewed in this geometrical fashion, there was no way by which the Second Coming (together in time) could be averted. No force, delusion, lies or guile or threats could prevent it eventually coming (see Virgil's 4th Eclogue: The Age of Iron to give way to the Age of Gold. And the fish sign I saw was made of gold. And I saw around me a prison, a magnet like ring, of iron. Undoubtedly the alchemical meta(crypte)morphosis worked in the human (lead to gold) contains a key to this transformation cycle of all society, of earth itself. After my own transformation, done via gold (the fish wrought in gold) I had a ferocity about --a maniacal antipithy toward-- lead in particular, base metals secondarily, but certainly a sense that lead was a poison, destroyer of life, killer of health (the dream: "The bichlorides are a very poisonous poison" suggests the alchemical symbol or reality of lead as poison was there in my head -- Albert Magnus, Simon Magnus, et al. I saw the world under the vector-aspect of gold, and I saw the former point or filter color presenting me with the departing base metal, the oncoming gold. It certainly shows that the alchemists were seeking a symbolic transmutation of psyche or maybe noös, not metal qua metal (which Jung and AMORC have pointed out). That something equal to turning lead to gold can happen in the person, in his mind --