the album notes for “Don Pasquale” and at the end the conductor had added a note: five string of cat gut, like a stave. It was a final hello from Pinky who was Tony Boucher; in the dram the album was an old 78 one, a favorite of Tony’s. Tony or Pinky, I guess names don’t count, was a lousy hunter all his life. One time he caught a gopher and came up our apartment stairs with it. He put it on his dish, where he was fed, and the gopher ran off. Tony felt that things belonged in their place, an obsessively orderly person; his books were arranged the same way – each book in its exact place. He should have tolerated more chaos in the universe. However, he recaught the gopher and ate it. Tony, or Pinky, was my guide; he taught me to write, and he stayed with me when I was sick back in 1972 and 1973. That’s why my wife Tessa brought him over, because I had pneumonia and needed help and we had no money for a doctor (I think now in that regard I was lucky; he would have told me I had a bruised rib). Pinky used to lie on my body in a transversal fashion, which mystified me, until I realized that he was trying to figure out which part of me was sick. He knew it was just one part, around the middle of my body. He did his best and I recovered but he did not. That was my friend. Handwritten in PKD’s hand: To A & B P 4 (A) Most cats fear the clattering arrival of the grabagemen each week, but Pinky really more detested them than feared them. He hit out under our bed about half an hour before we heard them coming every Monday. He didn’t show fear; we just saw the two unwinking green eyes under the bed where he waited the garbagemen out. There was no PInky, just the eyes, waiting them out, the Bastards. (B) Four nights before Pinky died, before we knew he had cancer – I started to say, before he had been diagnosed as having a bruised rib – he and Tessa and I were lying in the bedroom on the bed, and I saw a uniform pale light slowly fill the room. I thought the angel of death had come for me and I beganb to pray in Latin: “Tremens factos sum ego, et timeo,” and so forth; Tessa gritted her teeth but Pinky sat there, front feet tucked under him, impassive. I knew there was no place to hide, like under the bed. Death can find you under the bed; everyone knows that, even little kids. And it looks bad. It never occurred to me that death was coming for anyone but me, which shows my attitude. I saw us all as painted ducks, on a painted sea, and thought of the Arab 13th century poem about “Once he will miss, twice he miss/ All the world’s one level plain for him on which he hunts for flowers.” We were as conspicuous as – well, anyhow finally I gave up praying, but I remember in particular I kept crying out, “Mors stupebit et natura,” Which I thought meant that death stood stupefied, as if in surprise (as in, “I was stupefied to lean that my car had been towed away.” It means just standing there impotently. That is not what Merriam-Webster 3 says, but it is what I say). Pinky never noticed the pale light; he seemed awake, but dozing. I think he was humming to himself. Later when I slept, toward morning I dreamed a disturbing dream: the report of a gun being fired close to my ear: a shotgun blast, and when I looked I saw a woman lying dying. I went for aid, but got onto some kind of one of those electric trolley busses by mistake, along with 3 Gestapo agents (I dream that a lot). We rode around forever while I tried vainly to short-circuit the power cables of the bus, or trolley car, whatever it was; without avail. The Gestapo agents seemed confident and read newspapers and smoked. They knew they had me. Tuffy ooo Oy Zsssay yyhh Yi I love ye8 you NOTE:::::: YE::: Tuffy, you are the sweetest person north of here. I hope you are okay. Are you okay? I love you. Signed, Furry The one power of linear time is: it is accumulative; It scoops up the successive rings of experience, and By its very nature, unique, causes the superImposition of those rings to grow clearer, as they Register and re-register, often years apart. Dreams Help us see these identifies of rings (for superImposition the analog or right hem computer)