Dear Tony, Enclosed is the piece I’ve been working my ass off for The Real World. I’m glad you liked Tessa’s poem, and that as you say you’re going to publish it in the next issue, but that sort of puts pressure on me to come through – I’ve been on this piece like as of today 7:30 a.m. at the typewriter. You asked for “short.” What is short? I kept it short, I hope short enough. I offer you two possibilities if you wish to cut it: (one) Just make cuts where you can or wish. I trust you, but I’ll week genuine tears because I kept it terse anyhow as it is. (two) Okay – on my MS page 6: you could end the piece after line 10. (Final printed sentence: “That was my friend.”) But it’s a different piece this way, with the Day of Wrath scene missing; much limiteder, more milder. I proofed like mad on this, as you’ll see, to cut down on your work. On author to editor grammar query; you’ll note. Glad you and Paul potlacked eached other into getting tubby. I feel everyone should eat lunch forever and get tubbier and tubbier. Did I really tell you I was a reincarnation of Winnie-there-Pooh? But he’s not dead! So how can that be? I must have made it up I do that, on occasion. Yes, CONFESSIONS OF A CRAP ARTIST is a fine novel, and I think Paul and David know what they are doing. I shorten the form by which I refer to my novels in business letters, and in conversations (e.g. FLOW MY TEARS, THE POLICEMAN SAID becomes TEARS; and of course DO ANDROIDS DREAM OF ELECTRIC SHEEP? Is referred to back and forth by me and my agent et al as SHEEP or sometimes, in error, ANDROIDS. I know find myself saying, however, caught in a matrix of my own devising: “I sure think CRAP is wonderful. I’m positive that CRAP will excite the literary market in New York.” Tessa says in her raspy way, “Try calling it CONFESSIONS.” But that’s too long. Let me know if you are going to use this piece I wrote; if you don’t, I will get you. With warm personal regards. Philip K. Dick 1405 Cameo Lane #4 Fullerton, Calif 92631, USA Handwritten notes in PKD’s hand: A Light struck meadow for Tony Hiss & the Real World. Hark! Each tree its silence breaks – Nicholas Brody 1692 When I met Theodore Surgeon, who wrote MORE THAN HUMAN, this good man said to me right off, “What sort of universe is it that causes a man like Tony Boucher to die of cancer?” I had been wondering the same thing ever since Tony Boucher died. So had Ted Sturgeon, although he didn’t expect me to give an answer. He just wanted to show me what he – Ted Sturgeon – was like. I’ve found I can do that, too; let people know about me by asking that. It shows that I cared a lot about one of the warmest people who ever lived. Tony was warm and at the same time when he stood in the midst of a group of people, seat came out of his forehead from fear. Nobody ever wrote that about him but it’s true. He was terrified all the time. He told me so once, not in so many words. He loved people, but one time I met him on the electric train going to be opera and he was scared. He was music critic and he did reviewing for the New York Times and edited a magazine and wrote novels and stories. But he was scared to take a drive across town. Tony loved the universe and the universe frightened him, and I think I know where his head was at. A lot of people who are timid are that way because they love too much. They’re afraid it’ll all fall through. Naturally, it did with Tony. He died in middle-age. Now, I ask you, what good did it do him to be scared? He used to carry his rare old 78 records to radio station KPFA every week wrapping them up in a towel so they wouldn’t get broken. One time I decided to give Tony all my rare opera and vocal records, just plain give plain give them to him as a gift of my loving him. I phoned him up. “got Tisne Lemnitz records and Gerhard Husch,” I told him. Tony replied shyly, “They are my idols.” We was a Roman Catholic – the only one we knew – and that was a strong statement. Before I could get the records to him he was dead. “I feel tired half the day,” he had added. “I can’t work as much as I used to. I think I’m sick.” I explained I had the same thing. That was eight or so years ago. The doctor told him he had a bruised rib and taped it up. Someday I will meet that doctor on the street. Tony got bad advice from everyone who could talk. We used to play poker. Tony loved opera and poker and science fiction and mystery stories. He had a little writing class – this was after he was famous and edited F&SF – and he charged on dollar a night when you showed up. He read your whole manuscript. He told you how rotten it was, and you sent away and wrote something good. I never figured out how he accomplished that. Criticisim like that is supposed to crush you. “Maybe it’s because when Tony reads your story it’s like he’s reading it in Latin,” somebody said. A whole dollar it cost. He taught me to write, and my first sale was to him. I still can remember that nobody understood the story but him, even after it was printed. Now it’s in a college-level s-f course manual put out by Ginn and Company. There’s only about 300 words to the story. After the printing of the story, Ginn and Company prints an impromptu discussion I had with a high school class about the story. All the kids understand the story. It’s about how a dog sees garbagemen coming to steal the precious food that the family stores up every day until the heavily constructed repository is full and then these Roogs come and steal the food just when it’s ripe and perfect. The dog tries to warn the family, but it’s always early in the morning and his barking just annoys them. The story ends when the family decides they have to get rid of the dog, due to his barking, at which point one of the Roogs or garbagemen says to the dog, “We’ll be back to get the people pretty soon.” I never could understand why no one but Tony Boucher could understand the story (I sent it to him in 1951). I guess in those days my view of garbagemen was not shared universally, and now in 1971 when the high school class discussed it with me, I guess it is. “But garbagemen don’t eat people,” a lady editor pointed out to me in 1952. I had trouble answering that. Something comes and eats up people who are sleeping in tranquility. Like Tony. Something got him. I think the dog, who cried “Roog. Roog,” was trying to warn me and Tony. I got the warning and escaped – for a while, anyhow – but Tony stayed at his post. You see, when you’re so scared of the universe (or Roogs, if you will) to stay at your post takes courage the kind they can’t write about because (one) they don’t know how and (two) they didn’t notice in the first place, except maybe Ted Sturgeon, with all his own love, and his total lack of fear. He must have known how scared Tony was, and to be that scared and for the Roogs to get you – it’s so symmetric, isn’t it. However, Tony is still alive, I discovered last year. My cat had begun to behave in an odd way, keeping watch over me in a quiet fashion, and I saw that he had changed. This was after he ran away and came back, wild and dirty, crapping on the rug in fear; we took him to the vet and the vet calmed him down and healed him. After that Pinky had what I call a spiritual quality, except that he wouldn’t eat meat. He would tremble whenever we tried to feed it to him. For five months he’d been lost, living in the gutter, seeing god knows what; I wish I knew. Anyhow when he was changed – in the twinkling of an eye; that is, while at the vet – he wouldn’t ever do anything cruel. Yet I knew Pinky was afraid, because once I almost shut the refrigerator door on him and he did a 3 cushion bank shot of himself off the walls to escape, and clocked a velocity unusual for a pink sheep thing that usually just sat and gazed ahead. Pinky had trouble breathing because of his heavy fur and what they call hairballs. Tony had asthma terribly and needed it cold. Pinky would sit by the door to get the cold air from under the crack, and struggle to breathe. I will not write a teaser article here; Pinky died of cancer suddenly; he was three years old; very young for a cat. It was totally unexpected. The vet diagnosed it as something else. I hadn’t realized Pinky was Tony Boucher, served up by the universe again, until I had this dream about Tony the Tiger – the cereal box character who offers you cocoa puffs. In my dream I stood at the one end of a light-struck glade, and at the other a great tiger came out slowly, with delight, and I knew we were together again, Tony the Tiger and me. My joy was unbounded. When I woke up I tried to think who I knew named Tony. I had other strange experiences after Pink died. I dreamed about “Mrs. Donlevy” who was incredibly tall – I could see only her feet and ankles – and she was serving me a place of milk on the back porch ? there was a vacant lot where I could roam at will, forever. It was ? Elysian Vacant Lot, which the Greeks believed in, but just my size. Also, the day Pinky died, at the vet’s, that evening as I stood in the bathroom I felt my wife put her hand on my shoulder, firmly, to console me. Turning, I saw no one. I also dreamed this dream: I had the album notes for “Don Pasquale” and at the end the conductor had added a note: five string of cat gut, like a stave. It was a final hello from Pinky who was Tony Boucher; in the dram the album was an old 78 one, a favorite of Tony’s. Tony or Pinky, I guess names don’t count, was a lousy hunter all his life. One time he caught a gopher and came up our apartment stairs with it. He put it on his dish, where he was fed, and the gopher ran off. Tony felt that things belonged in their place, an obsessively orderly person; his books were arranged the same way – each book in its exact place. He should have tolerated more chaos in the universe. However, he recaught the gopher and ate it. Tony, or Pinky, was my guide; he taught me to write, and he stayed with me when I was sick back in 1972 and 1973. That’s why my wife Tessa brought him over, because I had pneumonia and needed help and we had no money for a doctor (I think now in that regard I was lucky; he would have told me I had